[{"Title":"An interesting take on personal justice","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"111 out of 136 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Perhaps Death Wish is unquestionably the best vigilante film ever made. It's not the action-packed thrill-fest that movies like Kill Bill or The Punisher seek to be, instead it's a haunting, sometimes intoxicating look at our society's views on justice.Charles Bronson is Paul Kersey, a New York architect whose wife is killed by a group of muggers ransacking their apartment, an attack that also leaves his daughter catatonic. The killers are never caught, and Kersey is left shattered.He takes a job working for a land developer in New Mexico to get his mind off his troubles, and while there his long dormant fascination with guns is renewed when his client Ames Jainchill (Stuart Margolin) shows off his personal collection and lets him crack some shots off. He also witnesses a live reenactment of an Old West shootout, where frontier justice was administered at the end of the gun.Kersey soon arrives back in New York, livened up a bit from his visit and ready to resume his life. But the streets are still filled with thugs, and Kersey knows that Manhattan is not the best place to be at night. He discovers that Jainchill has given him a .32 revolver as a present, and subsequently uses it to kill a man trying to mug him. Kersey soon realizes the cathartic release of enacting vigilante revenge as the media reports his killings and other private citizens take action, all while police officer Frank Ochoa (Vincent Gardenia) leads a task force to capture the vigilante and stop future violence.Death Wish was a product of its day -- a Nixon-era knee jerk reaction to rampant crime that turned out to be quite a hit. But to dismiss it simply as that would be to deny the film its true power. It asks the question of whether or not vigilantism can be used as a social good, and just how can a citizen properly defend himself from criminal attacks. More importantly, to the movie's credit it does introduce the downside of vigilantism, with Ochoa worrying that people will be whipped into such a frenzy that they'll start attacking anyone who looks suspicious.The movie does play it safe when it comes to Kersey's victims however. Every one of them is clearly a mugger, threatening his life or just wanting his money. But the movie does enter into ambiguous territory by looking at the actual actions Kersey takes. At first he just stumbles into traps set up by muggers or happens on a crime taking place; later on the other hand it's clear that he's actually inviting attacks by making himself a target. And the self-defense aspect of his actions becomes equally cloudy when he kills muggers that are already fleeing. He wants to punish them for their crimes, which itself can be morally troubling.But to understand Death Wish you had to understand the times. Murder rates were very high in New York City, and many muggers had little problem killing their victims. The criminals in the film are not overly sympathetic either, most of them clearly hippies or other social undesirables, probably hooked on drugs from their free love days and now stuck in the bitter reality of narcotic dependency now that the good times are over. It's hard to feel sorry for someone willing to kill you just for a couple hours worth of pleasure. I'm sure the movie's audiences in New York, and probably across the country, enjoyed living out their revenge fantasies vicariously through Kersey.It should be said that Bronson, normally criticized as a wooden actor, gives a remarkably strong performance. This may be due to his friendship with director Michael Winner, who also helmed several of his other films. But it's probably due to the fact that the movie was not written as an action hero vehicle, and because of this the story demanded a character more grounded in reality. Kersey is not a superhero -- he's just one man trying to make a difference in the world.Also, he's not all there, either. The movie makes it clear that Kersey is a little deranged as well, and one wonders just how far he might go to do what he thinks is right. The sequels were more interested in making him out to be an infallible crusader against evil, abandoning any pretext of social commentary and just offering body counts, but here at least the movie shows that someone willing to go on a shooting spree isn't quite right in the head, regardless of the guilt of his victims.Supporting roles are excellent as well. A very young Jeff Goldblum nails his performance as one of the muggers who invades Kersey's apartment, immediately scary and repellent. Gardenia is a nice foil for Bronson, making Ochoa an intelligent officer not unsympathetic to Kersey's crusade, especially when he sees how the crime rate plummets following the killings. Christopher Guest, who would go on to star in hit mockumentaries like This is Spinal Tap, Best in Show and A Mighty Wind has a small but memorable role as a police officer towards the end of the movie. In fact, everyone does a good job.Ultimately, your enjoyment of Death Wish will probably rely both on your politics and views toward crime. It's a movie where the critic is judged based on his review, which is just as well I suppose. It's at once fascinating, and still very timely.Nine out of ten stars. Bronson's best solo movie and certainly a very thought-provoking piece, which is lost on both people who only want to watch it for the mugger killings and those who just dismiss it a fascist trash. "},{"Title":"Classic Remedy For Instant Satisfaction","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"51 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I guess by now you could call this movie a classic. It would meet most definitions. It was so popular that it spawned a number of sequels, but they just got dumb and dumber. This is one of the most famous revenge movies ever made and still stands up today.This was a very, very simple story and it panders to our base instincts which is probably why it was so successful. Most people want justice, and they want it now....which is what this movie preaches. At the time, the movie was shocking. If it came out today, it wouldn't have nearly the impact. However, the early scene of the mother and daughter raped and killed is still horrifying. That will never change.The story then slows down as we see the transformation of the husband, from conscientious objector to vigilante. When Charles Bronson hits the streets, the film picks up big-time. The movie also ends on a very satisfying note. "},{"Title":"A compulsive and controversial revenge drama!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"44 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Michael Winner's provocative film is slightly more intelligent and much more insidious than Richard Fleisher's 'Mr.Majestyk.'Charles Bronson is a Manhattan middle-aged architect who was at work's one day, when three brutal punks invade his Riverside Drive apartment and attack his loving wife and happily wed daughter... The wife was beating to death and the daughter savagely sexually assaulted, and sent traumatized into a near-vegetable state... To escape the oppressive urban environment, Bronson goes to Tucson, Arizona on business, and gets the gun code of the Old West imprinted on his mind... He was given a .32 pistol as a going away present by a gun-loving millionaire... Back in New York, Bronson carries one night his gift, and kills the first mugger who was molesting him... The first one was the hardest! Then he discovers he likes it... He begins deliberately to tempt muggers, whether in an alley, on a subway train, or in a park... and that he mechanically guns them down... The police couldn't identify him... This made him the 'avenging angel,' a true phantom 'one-man crusade.' In the eyes of the public, Bronson became a national figure&#151;the vigilante... The authorities were worried sick about the example he was setting... His actions seemed to be giving others new attitudes toward crime in the streets...When Inspector Ochoa (Vincent Gardenia) identifies the mysterious vigilante, he was immediately ordered to scare him off... The police commissioner asks him to quit, to desist, to go away, to stop!If you have never seen Bronson in action by sundown, 'Death Wish' is the one to see... Final comment Rarely have I found myself so caught between my own gut reactions and intellectual reservations... I wish (with many here) to touch an exposed nerve in fearful Mexico, particularly of its muggers, thugs, kidnappers, and rapists, who (as in this film) could be easily eliminated if every upright, middle-class, middle-aged citizen got himself a weapon and used it at least one time a week... We are tired of being frightened, endangered and ripped-off daily... If the law is fighting a losing battle against the criminal element and can't protect innocent people, then maybe someone else should... It is very important that we know how to protect ourselves within the law... "},{"Title":"Urban Battleground","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"57 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson was already a major movie star in 1974 in Europe and a top action actor in the USA but it was Death Wish released that year that made him the super star that he became. What's so unusual is that in the movie Death Wish he played a man who was a pacifist all of his life, he served in the Korean War as a conscientious objector, who then turned into the vigilante executioner! A role which Bronson has become known for and identified with more then any of the scores of actions roles that he made during his long film career.Bronson as well as director Michael Winner and writer Brian Garfield touched a raw nerve in Death Wish with the American people in big cities under siege like no other movie ever did before and, now some 30 years later, after. Since Death Wish there must have been made over a hundred films with it's theme but none had the impact that Death Wish with Charles Bronson had. A group of tugs get Joanna Kersey's, Hope Lange, address from a delivery slip of a local grocery store and acting as if their delivering her groceries break into Joanna's apartment and savagely attack her and beat and rape her daughter Carol, Kathleen Tolan. Paul Kersey, Charles Bronson, comes home to learn that his wife and daughter are in the hospital rushes over to see how they are. Kersey finds out that his wife is dead and his daughter is mentally destroyed and needs to be institutionalized for life. The whole world around Paul Kersey falls apart like a house of cards and he's left alone with everything that he loved dead or as good as dead. Some time later going to Arizona to do his job as a land developer for his firm in NYC he's given a .32 handgun as a gift by the person that he worked for Ames Janichill, Stuart Margolis, for the great job that he did for him.One night back home in New York City taking a stroll in the park with the gun on him Kersey is accosted by a local junkie who pulls a handgun on him but Kersey draws first and shoots and kills him. Sick at first over what he did, killed a human being, Kersey like a wild beast from the jungle tasting blood for the fist time begins to roam the streets of New York at night for prey. A vengeful Kersey goes out looking for criminals to put out of commission, like those who killed and raped his wife and daughter, as some kind of revenge and retribution against them. In the process Kersey puts the criminals of the city of New York into a state of absolute terror and panic. In his guerrilla-like actions Kersey knocks off some dozen of them sending the the city's crime rate falling as much as 70%! All this with the ineffective, in stopping crime, police being more interested in stopping The Vigilante then stopping the criminals! The movie Death Wish hit a raw nerve with the public as well as the local politicians and police because it showed how, in the movie at least, one man with a gun and knowing how to use it can make a difference when it comes to stopping crime. The story is not that unlikely as those against it would want the public to believe. There's been many times when average people took to protecting themselves, with firearms, and did a much better job then the police; which is just what Paul Kersey did in the movie. That may have been one of the reasons that those in authority were so much against the film. When Bernie Goetz in December 1984 gunned down four muggers, much like Charles Bronson did in the movie Death Wish, who tried to attack him in the New York subway crime dropped a lot more then if one hundred policemen were put on the trains. Nobody can doubt now that Charles Bronson's Death Wish was not only a major milestone in films about urban crime but also a major milestone in what the public thinks about crime and what's best to do to stop it. "},{"Title":"Highly compelling","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"31 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Over the course of a career that has spanned nearly fifty years, action star Charles Bronson has appeared in dozens of films. Among them, the one that he is best remembered for is Death Wish, an urban drama that has practically defined his career. He plays Paul Kersey, a liberal, mild-mannered architect whose family falls victim to violent crime. One fateful afternoon, he is shocked to hear the dreadful news his wife has been murdered, his daughter brutally raped. What's more, the police are unable to apprehend the perpetuators. Feeling stunned and helpless, Kersey decides to take the law into his own hands--and the subsequent publicity galvanizes New York City. It isn't long before the police are hot on his heels. The ultimate consequences promise to be drastic.Death Wish was a highly controversial film when initially released. At the time, major cities were facing a deadly crime epidemic, and this film tapped into the fears and unspoken desires of many viewers, giving them a chance to live out their secret fantasies. Critics on the Left lambasted its politics on crime, and even some on the Right felt it went too far. One could find much to complain about from an ideological standpoint. One could point out that the film is manipulative and heavy-handed (the attack on Kersey's family comes right after his co-worker tells him he's a bleeding-heart liberal). Yet, it is undeniably compelling; one of these movies that makes you wonder, what if this happened to me? In light of the later, inferior sequels, it is fascinating to see how the character came to be, how he made the transition from law-abiding man to cold-blooded vigilante. It is not an easy transition to make by any means--after his first kill, he breaks down and vomits the moment he reaches home. Yet, as his kills (each is very suspensefully handled) occur with greater frequency, we get the sinking feeling that he has reached a point of no return. Indeed, he narrowly eludes capture on at least two occasions, and there is the certainty that it is only a matter of time before the law will catch up with him.Bronson is highly effective here; while not one of the great actors, he has a very strong screen presence. The audience is on his side every step of the way, rooting for him even as he strays onto the wrong side of the law. Surely, he is entitled to justice, but at what point does his vengeance outweigh his grievances? Vincent Gardenia is effective as the police detective assigned to his case. He grudgingly admires Kersey's resolve, although he is sworn to put a stop to the killings. The manner in which this is resolved is creative, though its plausibility is less than certain. The film is also noticeable for an early appearance by Jeff Goldblum as a slimy thug. However, Steven Keats is somewhat ineffectual as Bronson's son-in-law (he just sorta got on my nerves). In the years to come, this film would be followed by an endless chain of sequels and rip-offs, many of them starring Bronson himself, reducing him to a stock character whose only attribute was blowing the bad guys away. A shame, considering he was once an internationally respected actor. Death Wish is nonetheless a well-crafted, tightly paced crime drama, despite some dated aspects. It still kept me interested throughout and made me more interested in viewing more of the star's other films--good or otherwise.Rating *** (out of ****)Released by Paramount Pictures  "},{"Title":"Run and Hide No More","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What do you call people who when they're faced with a condition of fear do nothing about it they just run and hide? Paul Kersey.This is one of my favorite films made from one of my favorite books. I lived in New York during the 1970's and can attest that crime was out of control then, the subways, parks and many streets were no man's land at night where you only went if you really had to or else you wanted to score dope, get a cheap hooker (or be one), or just for the thrill and danger. Police corruption had been so rampantly widespread for so long that there was no law and order and the thugs had taken over the night. If you question this just see Serprico and read that book which details how one honest cop almost died and was nearly buried by the massive tide of corrupt cops he was trying to expose, which was practically all the other cops. The majority of the people lived in fear of being in the streets at night and even many places during the day. Even if you packed heat that was no guarantee of anything, it wasn't uncommon to come across a gang of muggers all carrying guns, knives, baseball bats, etc. Most people in New York then were as Paul Kersey described only worse, not only did they run and hide from fear and danger but they ignored the suffering of others. New Yorkers had developed a reputation as cold and indifferent, which was fairly accurate. I remember a concert in Central Park where a girl was gang banged by a group of guys and hundreds of people just watched it, too afraid, too apathetic, or too vicariously sadistic to get involved. Someone even stole her clothes and she staggered around naked and bleeding in the rain. Things were not good and just about everybody in New York felt angry, alienated and helpless. People were sick of it all, the terrible Vietnam war, corrupt Richard Nixon, corrupt cops, corrupt everything, but they mostly were sick of being afraid and tired of living in fear.Then the movie Death Wish came out. The theater was packed when I went, which surprised me, as I had already read the book and knew what it was about but how did these other people know, besides it was a matinée. I discovered why everyone was there when Paul Kersey shot his first mugger the whole place exploded in screaming cheers and the cheers got more powerful and louder with each subsequent vigilante act. I had been to Yankees games and concerts where you hear screaming and cheers but nothing had the power of the cheers on that day. There was something wonderfully cathartic taking place, everyone in that audience who had ever been mugged or had been afraid of being mugged, which was virtually everyone, was delighting in having the tables turned. We felt safe, and were happy to see a somewhat soft spoken, average kind of a guy being played by Charles Bronson kick a*s for us, take out the bad guys. This was a new, radical concept back then, an open revenge film where an ordinary appearing guy beats the muggers at their own game. It was a great experience and we all felt like we too could be as tough as Charles Bronson, at least during that safe little reprieve within the theater.Say what you will about the film, its technical shortcomings, you'd be hard pressed or less than honest to say that Charles Bronson didn't display his international appeal in this movie, the one that made him the world's biggest box office draw. He appears in this movie just like he was in real life, a quiet, unassuming kind of guy who really was tough, not the usual Hollywood tough guy who is so unconvincing because he can't fully hide his physical and character based qualities that are everything but a real, quiet, cool tough guy. Bronson was the real deal, just read about his earlier life if you want to know.This film got a lot of negative reaction as being a crass and brutal revenge film, and other typical cavalier comments. The New Yorkers who lived it, all the ones I knew and the ones in the theater that day, loved it for what it was, a piece of cinematic magic to make us feel like we weren't afraid and would perhaps very soon never have to feel afraid again. If you've never been mugged or been afraid of being mugged it's very easy to tell others how they're suppose to react, what they're suppose to like, think, do, etc. But until you've lived in a real urban jungle, you'll never know the great release that a movie like Death Wish can bring you. It's strictly vicarious entertainment but what marvelous entertainment it is! "},{"Title":"How Michael Winner and his Death Wish changed the outlook of the Crime genre","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the best favorite action movies of all time, Death Wish glitters Charles Bronson's glory famously. Followed by 4 script-free episodes the first episode had inspired millions worldwide. At present(2009) while the remake version is being filmed I have to say that; no matter who will perform Paul Kersey for the second time, he won't be able to impress us as Bronson did.Rather than Bronson's performance Death Wish has its significant themes and screenplay components which were used at almost every action/crime movie later on, thus became clichés of their genre. Spending a lot of the running time through the bad guys' side is the most fundamental component. This development was so modern and original, after a while it changed the outlook of the Crime genre. Death Wish is nearly as good as Eastwood's Dirty Harry, with just a different taste. Obviously, this should have been produced only once; since the sequels misrepresented its purpose. "},{"Title":"Solid Fare","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Here is a film whose quality and appeal, much like Sylvester Stallone's Rocky, may be overshadowed by a seemingly endless line of inferior sequels. But Death Wish is a real crowd-pleaser filled with emotion, drama, action and suspense. It's the story of Paul Kersey, a family man (and former Conscientus Objector in Korea) whose wife and daughter fall victim to a brutal attack at the hands of unknown thugs. Yet Kersey doesn't get mad, he gets even as a one-man judge, jury and executioner against those who prey on the innocent. Bronson delivers an underrated performance in a movie that constantly asks the viewer, What would you do? "},{"Title":"When push comes to shove, make way for Bronson!","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Charley Bronson portrays Paul Kersay, a mild mannered soul who's life is turned upside down when some punks ruin his happy life. After some deep soul searching, Charley comes to the conclusion that all those punks out there walking the streets need a lesson. So, after donning a beannie cap and a heavy jacket, Charley decides to give them all a taste of their own medicine. The night time is the wrong time for muggers when Charley's around. This is the first film in what would later turn out to be a franchise of action/revenge flicks and it made Charley Bronson a household name and a part of Americana.Highly recommended.A. "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking 70's agit-prop that can be hard to watch","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"46 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I recently watched Death Wish for the first time ever on video, having only seen edited-for-TV versions in the past. Before seeing the uncut versions, I thought the film was just an entertainingly intelligent little bit of slicked-up exploitation. Basically another take on the Dirty Harry formula--what if a peace-loving regular guy became a Dirty Harry? Even as a kid I could see that the simplistic political/social theory the film served up would only work in the self-contained, fictional world the filmmakers had created. But, that's art--a lie that tries to show truth. Well, I wouldn't say DW shows truth, but it does raise questions people often don't want to face. I also thought that the way Bronson's character made the transition from bleeding heart peacenik to fascist vigilante was very well written and well-played. And I don't think the story is as cut-and-dried as it seems on the surface. Near the end, Bronson's actions even seem to have driven him a bit mad, loosening his grip on reality (evidenced when he confronts the last thug and starts vacantly spouting Western cliches like they're both in Gunfight at the OK Corral).But (and as they say, this is a BIG BUT) I can't enjoy the uncut film because the murder of Kersey's wife and the viscous rape of his daughter is simply too repulsive to watch. Murder and rape are indeed repulsive, but for the melodrama to work, do I need to be subjected to such a graphic, in-my-face portrayal of the violence and humiliation? One that is presented like a porno snuff film? This raises an interesting question If violence is going to be used in a drama, should it be graphically represented to be as repulsive and foul as it really is? Or should we be spared the details? Think about it if all violence on TV and movies were as disgustingly graphic as in this film, violence might start to disappear from pop culture--we just wouldn't be able to take it. Instead, we as a society are constantly drowned in sanitized, videogame violence. The violent acts depicted in movies and on TV these days has no more effect on us than when a cartoon mouse drops a cartoon brick on a cartoon cat's head. Kill someone and them make a joke about it. So, even though violent acts are depicted everywhere in our popular culture, none of it seems real, thus disconnecting us from the consequences of real-life violence. So, if we can say nothing else, we can say that the violence in Death Wish is effective. It does seem real. It is repulsive.Hence, the dichotomy Even though I can intellectually defend the use of graphic violence in Death Wish, that same depiction keeps me from enjoying the film. I simply can't watch it. I keep thinking Is this representation of rape actually exciting some of the film's viewers? I feel complicit watching it. Dirty. So, does that make the film a success, or trash? Is that strong a reaction a mark of art, or exploitation? I don't know. And I must say that this I do not ask these questions only because this is a exploitation film. I've had the same thoughts about Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange. "}{"Title":"unquestionably Charles Bronson's finest screen hour.","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"24 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An animated performance by the normally stoic Charles Bronson lifts what would have been a standard revenge yard to new heights. Bronson plays Paul Kersey, a typical liberal New Yorker who struggles with his bleeding heart ideals after his family become the victims of a violent crime.Frustrated by the police's inability to solve the crime, Kersey considers taking matters into his own hands. After much soul searching he begins taking to the streets and hunting criminals. Soon punks start turning up dead. The press glorifies the killings. The public considers the vigilante a hero. The police search in vain for the killer. And Kersey slowly begins to enjoy his new mantle of dispenser of justice. It all ends somewhat predictably albeit satisfactorily.Kersey's transformation from arch-liberal to gun-toting Vigilante is classic. This is unquestionably Bronson's finest on screen hour.    "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"26 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is often branded as a violent and fascist one... I think this is nonsense, since if this movie is violent, then what about others like First Blood, Commando or Rambo just to name a few?...If one watches this movie carefully can see it´s a very likely story.Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is not a violent man at all, it´s a liberal and broad-minded architect who leads an ordinary life until his wife is murdered by some punks... and that´s not precisely a funny thing to happen to anyone.This is not a specially violent movie as I´ve said before. It´s the story of a man who loses what he loves the most... and just decides to make justice... and becomes the vigilante.This movie is a masterpiece. Probably the best movie starring Charles Bronson.  "},{"Title":"Started a trend for violent vigilante actioners. Slick, enjoyable, well made film, far better than its increasingly dismal sequels.","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The original Death Wish movie is still the only one worth watching. A slick, well-made and enjoyably amoral vigilante drama, it was a huge box office hit in its day. It starts with a chilling rape sequence - still provocative thirty years on - and develops from there into an exciting and perversely funny story of how a man whose life is affected by these disturbing events gets his revenge.New York businessman Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is devastated when his wife (Hope Lange) and daughter (Kathleen Tolan) are sexually assaulted in their own home. His wife dies from her injuries and his daughter is so deeply traumatized that she is left in a permanent vegetative state. Kersey tries to get some normality back into his life through work, but deep down inside he's burning for revenge. He knows he will never get the actual gang who harmed his family, but he also realises that crime in general is spreading through the city like a plague. So, armed with a gun and a sense of vigilante justice, he starts patrolling the streets by night, killing muggers, hoodlums and rapists. But for how long can he hand out his own brand of justice without being caught? And at what point does his course of action stop being justifiable? When does he become just as bad as the crooks he is trying to rub out?The film is based on a Brian Garfield novel, but in the book vigilantism was illustrated as an extension of crime - just another problem as opposed to a solution. Here Michael Winner, a director always happy to create a few ripples, presents the vigilante as an out-and-out hero. The film basically gives a great big nod of approval to Kersey's actions. The sense of humour really helps the film (I still laugh at the scene where some construction-workers kick the hell out of a crook, and one workman nonchalantly states to the TV reporters Erm, we roughed him up a bit before the cops arrived!) Death Wish was a pretty influential film for its era, and in spite of its dated air and its morally dubious stance, it is still a great flick. Just make sure you steer clear of its four utterly terrible sequels. "},{"Title":"Straight to the point","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Directed by Michael Winner and starring the late Charles Bronson in the lead role, this is a gritty inner city revenge film which comes off as a competent and effective social statement.Paul Kersey (Bronson) is a liberal architect living in a not so nice, crime ridden area of the city. He lives with his wife and daughter, who are brutally attacked whilst at home by 3 sadistic street trash thugs (a young Jeff Goldblum is one of them) whilst he is out. The wife is beaten into unconsciousness before later dying in hospital, and the daughter is sexually assaulted and goes into a catatonic state as a result of the shock.It is this terrible event which changes Kerseys perception of law and order. He starts to change his way of thinking, starts to change his way of acting. He sees an overstretched police force struggling with the city's crime and social decay, and feels he, just one man, can make a difference. Kersey soon enough takes to the streets, never to look for trouble, but to let trouble come to him, and deal with it directly in his own way! He is tired of being the decent citizen who shakes their head at the morning paper, talks amongst friends but does nothing to change what he sees. The film becomes better still as the police find themselves under pressure with the recent vigilante killings, and the media report that once helpless victims are fighting back against their attackers inspired by this new rebel.This is one of those films that has had a lasting effect on me, and I remember being quite shaken after watching it. It seems so real as Kersey could just as easily be a next door neighbour or uncle, he is no hulking giant with an arsenal of weaponry or superpowers, no fearless warrior who can't be scratched...he is just another man trying to make a living. Cleverly directed, well acted and graphic when it has to be, this is a great film and serves its purpose well. Gripping, raw and impactive, this is one of Bronson greatest films, and stands as a classic. "},{"Title":"perhaps the 'proverbial good vigilante drama' of its time","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Before I saw Death Wish, I knew there was more than just the context of it being a starring vehicle for one of the major bad-asses of the action picture, Charles Bronson (who's best role is still the one with the least words, Once Upon a Time in the West), and that it contains the elements that would spark an entire sub-genre (for better or worse). I knew that there was also a kind of historical context for the times, of how it was in New York City as well as in others during the 70's (though especially in the 70's)- I remembered my mother telling me about how the atmosphere of 'Death Wish' with its thieves and rapists and abusers was for real, that they were around every corner, and that crime was indeed at an all-time high then. So watching the film with this in mind, it brings a little extra drama to the story of Paul Kersey (Bronson). There is the style, and underlying humor, that appeals for the genre fans (and there is a minor bit of exploitation in making Kersey a 'bleeding heart liberal' with skill behind a gun). But there is also a sense of overall tragedy to it all.The tragedy comes out of a truly disturbing scene- Kersey's wife and daughter go home from the market, unaware that a trio of hoodlums (one of them a fresh-faced Jeff Goldblum no less) follow them, bust in, and beat and rape them. This is indeed so terrifying and real it tops a scene like the one in Clockwork Orange with the assault on the writer; it's somehow even more shocking when its in an apartment in the now, with hoodlums as random and sadistic as the ones here. Kersey mourns the loss of his wife and daughter (the latter to dementia) briefly, but it sticks with him through the whole film, in one way or another. The first signs of him knowing what's around him on the streets at night (and one of the funnier bits of the film's bleakness) is when he takes a sock full of quarters to use on the hoodlums. This is short-lived after a visit to the south-west, where he gets slipped a gun in his suitcase. The rest of the film unfolds as it would, at least under the circumstances of the genre.Yet within the grip of Death Wish being a genre picture (and this is something that the sequels and other lessor B films have forgotten) is that there has to be a sense of reality, and real dangers, to the film, not to mention the sort of evolution of Kersey into how he becomes- a killer, a vigilante of the scum who try to rob and threaten to kill. Although the police procedural that parallels his story isn't as strong as his, it works fine within the scope of the story that has to turn out in a certain way. But there are other factors to go with it besides a strong story (based on an even stronger book Brian Garfield). Bronson is, indeed, great at being, well, Bronson. If the violence in the film doesn't pull any punches for its time period, Bronson doesn't skip being good at showing Kersey's inner strength of defense as well as his weaker side. It's not a very complex performance aside from the conflicts midway through the film with Kersey, but it's in a way truer than the film could deserve. Michael Winner, the director, is also an asset with this, in giving to the film its gritty tone. And, as an added bonus, there's the sweet musical score from Herbie Hancock.Death Wish is a film of its time, but one that still has significance, and entertainment value for today. People my age (i.e. college kids) will be attracted to it for its 'retro' style, and, as it is in the vein of a film like Taxi Driver (though less visceral), as a stylistic action film. And for the older folks, the drama of the film, and the solid storytelling, will keep it interesting. In short, it's the proverbial good vigilante film of its time, giving Bronson one of his most memorable turns. "},{"Title":"You will have to take it.","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish is a 1974 film based on the 1972 novel written by Brian Garfield. The film is directed by Michael Winner and stars Charles Bronson as Paul Kersey. Kersey becomes a vigilante after his wife is murdered and his daughter is sexually assaulted during a break in at the family home.Few films in the 70s have the reputation that is afforded Michael Winner's Death Wish, it seems that if you like the film then you must be an advocate of fascist exploitation cinema, or if you don't like it then you are a bleeding heart liberal. Critics of the time positively hated the picture, calling it irresponsible for advocating vigilantism, apparently it's a dirty picture calling on unlimited punishment to the criminals who stalk the cities across the globe. What the critics of the time failed to see, as the film became a huge commercial success, was that as they sat in their comfy secure high rise apartments, the people of the streets lived in fear of stepping outside their homes.Crime was rife in the 70s, more so in America where the film particularly struck a chord with those uneasy with the ever growing threat of violent crime out on the streets. But did Winner and Bronson purely make a film for the working class people of the city? It's positively churlish to decry the influence and impact of Death Wish back in the early 70s, and I would wager that it was churlish of those critics to not embrace the film as the critical piece of aware cinema that it was, and, still is. Nothing in Death Wish is violence for violence sake, it's all relevant in capturing the time frame that was awash with fear, and sadly here, 35 years on, it's as relevant as it has ever been. If you are a fan or not, rate or hate, Death Wish is a landmark in cinema history, it's an urban nightmare as an everyman working Joe takes up arms and fights back against the slime that would take all that we hold dear, purely because they don't have it themselves.Outside of the moral questions that Death Wish throws up, the film contains a searingly brilliant turn from Charles Bronson as Kersey, a sedate hard working man reduced to being vigilante on account of a society that can't protect the honest. Anyone in doubt of Bronson's leading man status need look no further than the opening frame here as Kersey photographs his wife on a beach, keep that in mind, as later we witness him swinging a sock full of quarters in his apartment, the transformation is incredible, that could well be you or I, a wonderful turn from Bronson that has been sadly lost amidst the controversy surrounding the film. Also of note is Vincent Gardenia's performance as Detective Frank Ochoa, grizzled and as tough as they come, it's a wonderful character portrayal that is taking on poignant importance the further the film progresses.Death Wish is far from being one of the best films in the 70s, in fact technically, it's close to being average, but if a list of the most important 70s movies doesn't include Death Wish? Well they have obviously missed the point, and crucially, it's time frame. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Charles Bronson is my hero","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This visually-arresting action-drama tops the classic Dirty Harry in my opinion, the whole vigilante theme is there in both movies but Death Wish pulled on my heartstrings a little more than the testosterone filled Harry Callahan vigilantism. Do not get me wrong I love Clint Eastwood and the entire Dirty Harry series but the series of events that Mr. Bronson had to endure was very very upsetting (like I was almost in the same room with Mr. Bronson feeling his pain, that is how good I think Michael Winner did in shooting this film). The opening scene (AKA Jeff Goldblum's debut) is very unsettling, but without that opening scene, we as the viewer really wouldn't have much to get amped up over. Bronson's retaliation is classic and I found this movie truly redeeming in the end. A true classic that will never lose it's touch. 10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Rest in Heaven with Jill","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was very saddened to hear that Charles Bronson had died a few days ago. I write to celebrities as a hobby and had written to Mister Bronson several years ago and he kindly replied. He had suffered from Alzhiemers and I am sorry for it, but I am happy that he has joined his beloved wife Jill Ireland in heaven. I read her book Life Wish about her brave battle with cancer and she talked of what a wonderful, loving husband he was. Mister Bronson I also want to thank you for serving in World War II. I am a Sergeant in the Army who served in the first Gulf war and I learned the hard way to respect what you did. You came from a very poor background and made something of yourself. You were a tail gunner in the Air Force and were a hero in real life as well as on the screen. Death Wish is perhaps your best known film. As the vigilante Paul Kersey, you struck a sensitive nerve like Mack Bolan the Executioner. You connected with people who are fed up with scummy criminals getting off the hook or who are fed up with crime in the streets. You were our champion and gave us a reason to cheer. You were the hero. You were in two of my father's favorite movies The Great Escape and The Dirty Dozen. You were a real tough guy, you were one of the only POWs to escape and you were the only one of the dozen who survived the mission. Thank you for the joy you gave my father and for the shining example you gave me. A person never really dies Mister Bronson as long as they are remembered by others and we will never forget you. I know that you and Jill had a wonderful reuion and are having a wonderful time in Heaven and I just want to tell you right now if there are people like you in Heaven YOU CAN SIGN ME UP TODAY!!!! "},{"Title":"A statistic decides to fight back.","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a monumental film dealing with one man's revenge after muggers murder his wife and leave his daughter in a vegetative state. Many people over the years have foolishly stated that this film somehow owes its existence to the presidency of Richard Nixon and his silent majority. Truth be told, this is just a film about an honest guy who suffers a great loss and decides to seek revenge. The film definitely has a political ax to grind, as it is pointed out that the main character is a liberal, but crime is really not a political issue. Crime is a battle between good and evil. Even the most left-leaning members of the ACLU can be victims of the lost souls they claim to champion, just as readily as conservative waspy folks. Criminals don't often seem to care who their victims are in terms of race, creed, or color. Muggers like the ones depicted in Death Wish seem to be financially motivated more than anything else. Even the three that torment Kersey's family first ask for money before moving on to the more sadistic acts that they commit. Many of these types of muggers are looking for money to support their drug habits, and all the vigilante action in the world would not stop them from looking to take down their victims. Anyway, enough pontification for now. Let's look more closely at the film....Charles Bronson, in his seminal role, plays mild-mannered architect Paul Kersey. He and his wife are barely back from their trip to Hawai'i when she and their daughter are attacked in their apartment by three ugly hoodlums. (one of them is Jeff Goldblum!) Kersey has always been somewhat of a pacifist, even serving as a conscientious objector during the Korean War. On a business trip to Arizona, the still grieving Kersey is re-introduced to firearms by a colleague. The man even slips one into his luggage as a gift. Once back in NYC, Kersey decides the best way to get over his grief is to use that little .32 on anyone who dares accost him on the streets after dark. Apparently, you can get mugged very easily at night in NYC, as there is no shortage of muggers who line up to shake him down. Kersey is a pretty good shot, and the bodies of muggers begin to pile up. The police are faced with a tough dilemma. They know it is their job to catch the vigilante, but his work is also having a dramatic impact on crime rates. It seems muggers are a little more reluctant in the wake of Paul's revenge. If Paul is brought to justice, he will be a martyr, and crime rates will shoot back up. The conclusion is a bit hard to believe, and certainly would not happen in this day and age. A white man who kills mostly minorities for any reason would likely be the scourge of the media now. Just ask Bernard Goetz.Though unrealistic, Michael winner has created a very good film. It looks good and is far more intelligent than the exploitative sequels it spawned. Those films, particularly part 3, can be fun but they are nothing as polished as the original. There is real emotion in this one, and the acting is top-drawer for the most part. The shootouts look somewhat realistic, and the city looks foreboding and sinister. Especially in one scene where Kersey steps out onto the balcony of a cocktail party and looks across the Manhattan skyline. What a shot! And Herbie Hancock's urban 70s style score hits all the right notes. Maybe this is just a law-abiding citizen's bloody fantasy, but it makes for some very interesting viewing. It's best if you try and ignore the politics, though. Crime hurts everyone.... not just whites the elite. 9 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Classy well made top notch thriller.","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" INTRO Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is a successful architect who turns vigilante after his wife and daughter are ferociously attacked by a gang of violent thugs in their New York city apartment.Set in the mean streets of New York city, Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) plays a man completely overcome by the horrific assault on his family,with that his comfortable professional life comes to an abrupt end. When the police are slow to respond, Paul Kersey (Bronson) takes the law into his own hands and sets out seeking revenge by himself with a revolver, prowling for muggers on the crime ridden mean city streets at night. It's not long before he becomes a well known vigilante in the city by both the cheering residents and the sympathetic police who funny enough actually see the urban crime rate start to fall in the city.MY VIEWS Being a fan of the late, great Charles Bronson I enjoyed Death Wish very much with it's exciting quick pace and engaging music by Herbie Hancock, builds the tempo for a great powerful 70's classic thriller. Charles Bronson, is extremely well cast in this film as he plays a gentle professional family man Paul Kersey who is driven to complete despair when his family is set opon by savage thugs. There are at times some very graphic and violent moments, but this being directed and co-produced by Michael Winner is to be expected. The atmosphere when Bronson is prowling on the streets, subways of New York stalking the thugs is both chilling and enthralling. Death Wish was the film in my opinion that made Charles Bronson shine at his best and that would also spark off 4 Death Wish sequels 3 of which were directed by Michael Winner, but sadly none living up to the engrossing original. Also watch out for a young Jeff Goldblum (The Fly) on his debut playing one of the key violent thugs.DVD INFO Film  93mins Widescreen  1.78 Sound  Mono Subtitles  English, Dutch, Danish, Finnish, Norwegian, Swedish Rating  18SUMMARY A violent but yet powerful film Death Wish is the best vigilante film ever made in my opinion. With the help of great directing from Michael Winner this film will captivate you for the full 93mins, as the good guy (Charles Bronson) seeks revenge on the city streets stalking the muggers and thugs. You'll find yourself cheering in a strange sort of way when he blasts the bad guys to kingdom come. Death Wish is NOT just another brainless shoot-em-up but a classy well made top notch thriller and the fact this film was made back in the 1970's is a plus, as it just gives it more style. I would thoroughly recommend this film although it will not be to everyone's taste it's still one not to be missed. 9/10 "}{"Title":"So one sided that Winner spoils any merit this film may have had","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Paul Hersey lives happily with his wife in New York.  His daughter is married to a good man and Paul is a successful architect.  He knows there is a crime problem in New York but is a liberal at heart, having been a conscientious objector during the war.  However when three muggers attack his home, killing his wife and leaving his daughter traumatised to a vegetative state.  Hersey struggles with his loss and agrees to take a business trip away from New York.  On this trip he is introduced to guns and on his return to New York he finds solace in `defending' himself against New York's criminal element.  The police find he reduces crime but sets a worrying trend for others to follow.I have never seen a Death Wish film and I felt that to judge them fairly I needed to go back to the first one rather than any of the sequels.  I knew that Michael Winner is pretty right wing but I didn't expect him to have his politics driven through this as crudely as he did.  The plot is simplicity itself, from the obvious set-up through to the stupid ending.  It has drama, action and excitement but it is spoil by the horrid taste of a director campaigning to make his crass point in the laziest way imaginable.From the start the film makes Hersey a liberal &#150; by merely having two people accuse him of it twice.  The film paints all the criminals the same way &#150; animals, crazy people, crazy pointless people.  There is no room for pity for these people, no room for understanding.  Cops are also played as decent chaps who are handcuffed by the system.  All Winner's sympathy and understanding is saved for Hersey &#150; Winner too clearly admires and agrees with his character and this again tips the film away from any attempt to be a balanced argument.  Even those on the political right may struggle with how heavy handed this film is.Bronson is fine and gives his usual stoney performance.  He does, however, bring out some internal emotional conflict well.  But before long he is on the road to violent redemption and such character issues are left behind.  The rest of the cast are clumsy stereotypes &#150; wives and daughters are clean white-bread stock while criminals are ethnic groups or crazy white people and so on.  It spoils the film that Winner makes his case with such desperation.  He clearly felt that his point who be weakened if made in a balanced way so he needed to stack the cards overwhelmingly in his favour.Overall this didn't disappoint me.  I suspected Death Wise would be an extension of Winner's unreasonable, unblinking political belief.  He directs with good use of location and actually is better than usual (this doesn't look as bad as most of his more recent work) but the delivery outside of that is shamefully biased. "},{"Title":"Once upon a vigilante...","Date":"20 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The vigilante sub-genre is an interesting one. While I can't say that I really approve of it, it simultaneously fills me with great feeling of satisfaction. And who couldn't possibly enjoy seeing scummy criminals receive their just desert? Revenge/justice feels even more rewarding when it comes in the shape of man-of-steel Charles Bronson.Even though the movie is titled Death Wish I think it shows remarkable restraint when it comes to living up to its name. It all starts nice and quietly with Paul Kersey (Bronson) and wife Joanna (Hope Lange) on vacation. Yes, they are happily married and have a great daughter. Life sure is good for Paul and family. Well, it's good until about the 20 minute mark when Joanna is brutally beaten and their daughter is brutally raped. The assault is suitably uncomfortable, with Jeff Goldblum debuting as one of the rapists. One thing that has always struck me about this scene is seeing the daughter getting her ass spray-painted by one of the assailants. There is something about how they do it, like she was an inanimate object that disturbs and puzzles me. The end result is Joanna dying in the hospital and their daughter sent into a catatonic state. Paul is a peaceful man (aren't they always?), but is frustrated by the inactions of the police. He starts noticing just what a jungle New York City really is. In an attempt to give Paul other things to think about, his business partners send him out of state to work on a real estate project. He complies and is introduced to the ways of old justice. It's done in a clever fashion at an old western town for tourists. We see the courageous sheriff kill all the robbers. Bronson stares at the show and you know what he's thinking. As a gift for helping out with the real estate project he is given a very nice looking Colt revolver. Kersey goes back to New York. Of course it doesn't take long before he uses it. After an initial panic attack he realizes that killing the scum of the earth is actually a decent way of spending an evening and so he continues. Along the way he receives praise from the public inspiring people to take the law into their own hands. I think in the short time span we see Paul and Joanna together their relationship is very well established. Paul receiving their vacation pictures after she's dead works great as the catalyst for his call to arms. We see what he had and then we see him opening the box containing the gun. The violence in Death Wish is never gratuitous. He shoots the criminals and that is it. Kersey even has a rather modest body count with ten dead bad-guys. Fortunately Kersey was only warming up. The Death Wish sequels provide gratuitous violence and nudity aplenty. I like that they go for a more crude approach, but I equally appreciate the first one for its restraint in brutality. One of the truly exhilarating things about Death Wish is seeing Kersey go hunting after developing a taste for vigilantism. The villains approach. They feel confident. Of course they do. He is just an old man. What could he possibly do? Guess again punks! This is one man you do NOT want to mess with. I'm simply unable to stop grinning as Kersey leads them on. It's a diabolical cat and mouse game, where both parties believe they are the cat. Another thing I really enjoy about Death Wish is that the ones responsible for the deeds against Kersey's family are never caught by the police. Paul doesn't make any effort in trying to find them either. Instead he turns on the underbelly of New York in general. All of them must pay for their collective effort in destroying the lives of honest, hard working people. As for leading man Charles Bronson, I have nothing but praise. He makes a believable character you can relate to. And when it comes to serving up justice there is no man harder or better to do the job. While action stars like Schwarzenegger and Willis provides muscles and attitude to their characters Bronson doesn't play hard. He IS hard. Some will argue that he's acting is stiff, but I think his restraint (or inability to overact) is his strength. Just look at those squinting eyes. He could stare you to death if he wanted to.Part of what makes Death Wish memorable is how politically incorrect it is. While the mayor wants him stopped he doesn't want him arrested either. They can't make a martyr out of the guy. So instead the police cover it up and make Kersey leave town. Neither the police, nor Kersey shows much confidence in the justice system. Is it okay to take the law into your hands? Death Wish goes a long way in saying yes. "},{"Title":"Action and melodramatic masterpiece","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish is just one of those films that simply changed forever the genre. You knew what Paul Kersey was doing was wrong, yet you cheered him. For a nation that was coming off the turbulent 1960's and a war that divided the nation, one could argue that Death Wish serves as a metaphor for the countries anger.The story starts off nice and calm. Paul and his wife are enjoying a vacation,away from the New York Streets. It's a peaceful setting, and you can see the love that these two share for each other.They soon return home to New York, and their daughter Carol, and her husband. A simple trip to the grocery store brings Carol and Joanna into the clutches of a ruthless group of thugs, led by a young Jeff Goldbloom in one of his first ever roles.Posing a grocery store delivery boys, the groups makes their way into the apartment. Carol is violently raped, while Joanna is beaten to death.The lives of Jack and Paul are throw into a mess. Joanna is dead, and Carol is soon confined to a mental institute. Whereas Jack is ready to just cut and Run Paul feels driven by a force he is not yet aware of.Given a gun as a present by a land developer, Paul finds a way to deal with the forces within. If he can't get those that attacked his family, he'll get those that terrorize the good citizens of New York.Hunted down by a police detective named Ochoa, played quite excellently by the late Vincent Gardenia, Kersey dispatches thugs and crooks with a harshness that borderlines on coldness. Kersey is on the verge of becoming that very thing he despises.Eventually, Kersey is captured, but there's a twist. Instead of arrest, the Ochoa is under orders to get Kersey to simply leave town A great drama with plenty of action. While Kersey does dispose of plenty of bad guys, he never does get the ones that attacked his family. And there's the final twist.This is perhaps one of the great films of the last 50 years, and doesn't get the credit it deserves. Check this film out, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Charles Bronson - The Original Vigilante","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the film that Charles Bronson is best known for as a man named Paul Kersey who turns vigilante after his wife and daughter were attacked by muggers. A classic of the action genre, Death Wish along with Dirty Harry and The French Connection influences many action films you see today. The film also made Charles Bronson who was before known for his co-starring roles in The Great Escape and The Magnificent Seven into a star and that got him to become the leading role in his movies since. Death Wish spawned 4 sequels which were not as good as the original but Death Wish 2 and 3 are worth watching if you are a fan of the original or just a Bronson fan. Unfortunately, MGM might be remaking the film soon. "},{"Title":"Bronson's Finest Hour","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Gripping tale of Paul Kersey, a liberal architect,who takes revenge on the criminals of New York after his wife is murdered and his daughter left catatonic from an attack in their apartment by a bunch of random thugs.Bronson is particularly good at portraying the generous liberal Paul at the beginning of the movie and how he changes into the steely ruthless Paul at the end. This is one of several things which make this film stand out and make it just a little different from other similar movies. For example, the original attackers are never seen again, elevating Paul's subsequent actions from simple revenge to all out war against the criminal underworld of New York, which has the knock on effect of scaring off the other criminals and making the general populace tougher. I especially enjoyed the part where the building foreman says about the mugger he and his crew caught, Well we roughed him up a little, and the news reporter then says, the mugger had two broken arms, a broken leg and cracked ribs or something like that.Also good is how it shows the evolution of Kersey's various reactions to his circumstances from being afraid to hold a sock of coins, to being sick after he shoots his first victim, to actively going out and flashing his money around, attracting potential muggers so he can kill them.Bronson's facial expressions are exceptional, looking genuinely surprised and shocked by his potential muggers while at the same time shooting them, sometimes twice to make sure they are dead.Another point that makes it stand out from the norm is that Paul's getting away with it is not a result of a sympathetic detective telling him he has a five minute head-start or something like that, but is officially sanctioned for reasons that make perfect sense.OK so the rape scene is brutal, but I would say necessary and in the context of this film justified. The son in law Jack Toby is so annoying that in real life any self respecting father in law would beat the living crap out of him. Something I can't understand is why Jack keeps calling Paul Dad. Is this an American tradition? In Ireland, where I'm from, men generally call their fathers in law by their first names and call their own fathers Dad.Although now that I write this, I'm just wondering if the character was made deliberately annoying to throw Paul's toughness into sharp relief and also if his passivity and willingness to do nothing is there to provide a counterpoint to Paul's decision to stand up for himself and therefore a stimulus for his actions. In this context, the character is exactly what is needed.I loved this film far better than I thought I would, I could watch it over and over again and I, provided you're not too easily offended, would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Not like I expected but still good","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Before watching this film I've already seen a third part and I was expecting this film to be similar with Death Wish 3 but actually these are pretty different films. In a third part there were a lot of action and in this one there is almost no action just some short shoot-out scenes. But this film is better in it's own way. Charles Bronson's character is a vigilante who is looking for criminals in the streets and killing them. He is also inspiring other people to fight crime. Actually there is a lot of this kind of movies but this one is much more intriguing. So if you are expecting to see some action - this movie isn't the best choice but if you just wand to see a good vigilante-thriller, then you may like it. "},{"Title":"vivid vigilance...","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Early 70s groundbreaker dealing with a mild-mannered architect who undergoes a mental transformation following the disturbing attack on his family. His wife dead and his daughter reduced to a catatonic wreck, Bronson is shipped to Arizona for a business arrangement. His client is a basic modern-day cowboy, a Southern boy with a penchant for big properties, back-slappin' --- and guns.Bronson is introduced to his first firearm in years. You see, he was a conscientious objecter in the Korean war, another fascinating character trait of Bronson's Kersey. (For you kids out there, a CO was someone opposed to war combat, but still performed other duties, such as Bronson's character being a medic.) Upon returning to New York, a compulsion comes over Bronson after his sort of awakening with the cowboy. In the ensuing days, he takes to the streets at night, grocery bag as a lure, and begins plugging would-be assailants. His nearly-mute daughter unable to identify her attackers, Bronson is left to stalk the streets and make a statement rather than seek revenge, capping whomever approaches him.Director Michael Winner's result was a timely and culturally pleasing comment on the good guys vs. the bad guys. There's even a somewhat archaic reference to that Old West feel near the end of the film, when a dazed and wounded Bronson asks a modern-day street thug to draw. Compelling moment. Plus a completely unpredictable reaction aftermath to Bronson's first victim. Charlie's performance overall is abundantly subdued, but he did manage the incredible once-in-a-lifetime feat for an actor becoming a movie-star sensation in his 50s.Death Wish isn't a perfect film, the set-up dragging listlessly to its middle, and the shooting becoming painfully repetitive (Bronson turns, gun in pocket, blam!, ad naseum). As well as Gardenia's grizzled, store-bought, weezing, sneezing, cigar barking (are we out of cliché's yet??) detective slightly annoying at times. And even for a 1974 film, the initial household attack can still be too much for some to stomach.We try as best we can not to review an older film in the present day, but it becomes nearly impossible. So it must be said that Death Wish hasn't aged horribly, but is a bit outdated in spots. Has that overly crisp, narrow look to it, plus stiff acting in spots, with that annoying sounds dubbed dialogue of the early 70s.But Bronson, in his patented understated fashion, wipes all that nearly out with a legendary debut as Paul Kersey. "},{"Title":"The Father of Vigilante Movies. Quintessential Bronson.","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The father of vigilante movies. The quintessential Charles Bronson flick. There have been many attempts in Bronson's career to duplicate the success of this film,(10 to Midnight, The Evil That Men Do, Kinjite, The four Death Wish sequels, etc) but not one has resonated with the same impact as this cooly calculated chiller. The story is familiar. Bleeding heart liberal turns vigilante after his family is attacked and wife murdered. Despite the disturbing promotion for gun ownership and taking the law into your own hands, the filmmakers did take certain measures to imply Bronson's ill state of mind, as Bronson's character recites old Western movie cliche`s such as Draw, when cornering a prospective mugger. Or by the film's closing when ineffectual Cop Gardenia orders Bronson to get out of town, Bronson responds, By Sundown Sheriff?, further illustrating a Man whose sense of reality is blurred by the fantasy of the Old West, where Men protected their homes and families. A little exploitive here and there (Those graphic rape scenes are pretty tough to take), but otherwise a worthwhile venture into the mind of a once simple man pushed too far.   "},{"Title":"The Vigilante Goes Into Business","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Death Wish films are not my favorite Charles Bronson works. But there's no doubt that Bronson attained his enduring popularity on the strength of the five films in the series.In this the original Death Wish, Charles Bronson introduces us to Paul Kersey, successful architect and family man with wife Hope Lange and married daughter Kathleen Tolan. Bronson's well ordered life takes an abrupt change when a home invasion robbery results in the death of Hope Lange and the rape of Kathleen Tolan.All the acting is done with facial expressions here. Bronson usually plays stoic characters in his films, but in the Death Wish series he never articulates what's going on with him, but you see it in a face that was made for movie closeups in the same way that Gary Cooper's and John Wayne's faces were.A trip out west on a project brings him in touch with a different mentality about settling urban problems and the present of a 32 Caliber pistol from the man he was contracted to work for gives Bronson a whole new outlook. And a mission in life to rid the world of street criminals.1974 may have been the year Richard Nixon had his downfall, but this was the president elected on a law and order platform. George Wallace sent his audiences into delight when he talked about running protesters down with his vehicle. Death Wish struck quite a nerve with the American public because unlike Dirty Harry, Bronson was a citizen like you and me who just decided to act.There are two really good supporting performances in Death Wish. A New Yorker to his fingertips, Vincent Gardenia plays the dogged police detective who's put on the vigilante killer case. And Stuart Margolin as Bronson's western host who presents him with the tool of his trade is also worth noting.In 1982 Bronson finally due to a lot of audience demand and the fact that the money was too good to turn down, repeated his role of Paul Kersey in a series of Death Wish films of varying quality. Nothing like this one though. "},{"Title":"A man sees red","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" That's what the movie is called in Germany. Which kind of means, that a man is going (sort of) crazy! But there's a bit more to it, than just a man that goes crazy here. It's also about taking the law into one's own hands! Charles Bronson major role was in this movie. He's a family man at the beginning, until something bad happens. He relies on the justice/the police at first ... but as you can guess while watching the movie, this won't stay that way for long. But that's enough about the story. The acting is good enough to fit the theme of the movie and you have one of the best endings ever for a movie (imo)! Recommended! "}{"Title":"Good, solid thriller","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson plays a liberal, mild-mannered architect. His wife (Hope Lange) is murdered and his daughter is gang-raped into a near-comatose state by a gang of thugs (one played by then unknown Jeff Goldblum!). He slowly becomes a vigilante--going out late at night and shooting and killing any muggers and thieves that attack him. Somewhat unrealistically he's attacked every single night he goes out--was NY THAT bad in 1974? He becomes a media hero and police detective Vincent Gardenia is assigned to stop him.Interesting movie--on one hand you're all for Bronson and, on the other, you're disgusted with what he's doing. Both sides of the issue are presented but not dealt with in much depth--this IS a Charles Bronson movie after all! Film is dated (NY has gotten much safer since this came out) but is still powerful.Bronson gives a bad performance which somewhat diminishes the films impact, but everybody else is great--especially Lange and Gardenia. And look for Olympia Dukakis and Christopher Guest (very young and handsome) in small roles.Only complaint--the murder/rape--it's way too graphic and disturbing. It's hard to watch today--I can only imagine the impact in 1974.Avoid the sequels--they're all violent killings and nothing else. All the moral issues brought up in this movie are gone. "},{"Title":"Charles vs Termites","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A NYC man turns vigilante when his family is attacked by hoodlums. The behavior of street criminals is laughably exaggerated to justify the vigilantism. This inept film inexplicably became a huge success and spawned four sequels. Bronson's acting is so wooden that one fears not that he'll be attacked by thugs but by termites. It's safe to say that he didn't strain any acting muscles in this role. Gardenia, on the other hand, chews the scenery as a cop. The only decent performances are turned in by Hope, basically in a cameo as Bronson's wife, and Keats as his son-in-law. Director Winner is a complete loser when it comes to the art of filmmaking. "},{"Title":"Bronson's great performances","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What is the most famous and recognized character of the late screen legend Charles Bronson? Stupid question. There's actually two. Harmonica in Sergio Leone's spectacular western masterpiece Once upon a time in the west and a bitter avenger called Paul Kersey. Death Wish spawned four sequels and a countless amount of imitators (The Exterminator of 1980 being probably one of the most obvious ones) but still, original is always the original. This is just the type of a performance Eastwood could have easily played as well but I guess in the end we all wanted rather to see Clint wasting criminals as Harry Callahan on the right side of the law. Bronson however fits in this role like a glove. His just terrific and so is the whole immemorial movie. If you want to treat your eyes with an unquestionable 1970's thriller classic Death wish certainly wouldn't be the worst choice to pick. "},{"Title":"Engagement","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.The basics of film boil down to only a few key considerations, the solutions to which can  become impressively nuanced. One of the basics is to figure a strategy to locate the viewer in  the story, ideally in a way that engages them. If the engagement is strong, the rest of the  project need not be so.Here is one strategy that worked make the viewer mad and have him/her come to the same  conclusions as the main character while he is. As obvious as it seems in retrospect, this  simple strategy was unplumbed - at least in this way - until the inappropriately titled  `Death Wish.'That alone would not be remarkable enough to comment upon. But in this case, the  engineering is similarly transparent, and shows some nice self-referential folding.Self-referential films are films about films. A common substitution for a filmmaker in such  projects is an architect. There may be more film architects than real architects. Our hero is  an architect to whom bad things happen, oddly mild by today's standards. In fact, this kind  of film is impossible today because there is no violence that can get an R rating that would  enrage us as this did 30 years ago.Here's the self-referential folding he goes away and watches a `movie' (a re-enactment) of  western justice. Its a film within the film, and a typical one at that, the western. While he  watches this film, we watch him watching it and we come to the same conclusion at the same  time. Simple, but effective. He then folds the western movie into an urban justice one.Think this wasn't done deliberately? What do the first punks that he encounters right before  the fold actually happens? `That was the worst f-ing movie...'To pull this off, we have to have police from an urban crime movie, and they have to act so  stereotypical that we can do no other thing but recall that genre. Sure enough, the cops here  are cartoons of a specific kind.Other `audience' members - the general citizenry - are depicted to help with the effect.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Solid crime thriller","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not sure it's possible to view Death Wish through politically unbiased eyes. I mean, the movie was machined as a manifesto on private gun ownership. And that debate still rages today, giving this movie an unusual relevance. Dirty Harry was of the same era and also had something to say, but this is more calculated. It'll either rally or rankle, and those are its pure intentions.But it's also effective, both the movie itself, and its star. The violence herein is rough, that rape scene was hard to watch, and we feel the need to see Charles Bronson take matters into his own hands. This is my first exposure to Bronson (as good a place to start as any) and it's easy to see how the man became a brand name. Rugged, steely-eyed and someone I certainly don't want to bump into in a dark alley.But there's also enough story material in his thirst for vengeance without extolling the virtues of vigilantism in big bad New York City.6/10 "},{"Title":"Fairly good although I'll admit I gradually became less impressed as the film progressed","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is an everyday New York City architect who one day discovers that his wife has been murdered by street punks and his daughter has been badly injured by the same group of yobs that murdered his wife. Paul, understandably, is angry and upset following this incident and initially turns to the police for help. However, when the police seemingly have no leads and when his daughter refuses to look through mug shots, Paul decides that he will take to the streets and dispense his own form of justice on the muggers and low life that are living in New York.The biggest problem for me with this film is that it starts out as one thing and then changes to another without much logic surrounding this narrative shift. Let me explain; Paul's wife is killed by a group of robbers and his daughter ends up being badly injured by them. This isn't a whodunit as the robbers break into the apartment unmasked and attack the two women. An investigation begins to take place but comes to a halt due to there being no leads. Then... well that's the end of that thread and then it never gets re-established again. The rest of the film then seems to focus on Kersey prowling the mean streets of New York dishing out punishment on unsuspecting muggers. I didn't mind that this aspect factored into the film as Kersey becomes an 'anti-hero' and as mentioned during the film he alone actually helped reduce muggings overall in the city. What surprised me is that there was no focus on anyone tracking down his wife's killers? After the first 20-25 minutes this is never mentioned which just seemed really odd to me. If you think about it, those that killed his wife were far worse than any of the would be 'chancers' that Kersey killed because their attack was far from 'opportunistic'. Those that targeted Kersey could definitely be classed as 'opportunists'. I would have preferred it if this aspect had acted as a sub plot and if Kersey tracking down his wife's killers would have acted as the main focus of the film. Again it might just be me but it seemed strange from a narrative perspective. Even more bizarrely, the police then focus all their attention on catching Kersey again without bothering looking for his wife's killers?Going back to Kersey's family, did anyone else think it strange that they were side-lined after the first half of the film? There is a very moving scene where Kersey goes to see his daughter in hospital when he gets back from Arizona and he gives her a hug after he is told that she is in a catatonic state - that scene was beautiful. Shortly after that, the film forgets about his daughter and son which again seemed strange to me. It's almost like the film was making one step forward and then taking two steps back. I also thought it was odd that they showed clips of other 'anti-heroes' dealing with muggers in their own bizarre ways - it didn't sit well within the tone of the film.Overall, this is a decent film and as mentioned my only really big gripe is that it seemed to lose all focus in the second half. Why did both the police and Kersey give up on trying to find his wife's killers? "},{"Title":"You're probably one of them knee-jerk liberals that thinks us gun boys would shoot our guns because it's an extension of our penises.","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Do not kid yourself. This is the way anyone who has experienced personal loss would probably act given the same circumstances. We want to lash out at those who are scum and prey upon us and others. Maybe we just limit ourselves to reading the obits every day and hoping to see a name, but Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) took the step that we all have wished at one time or another that we had the guts to take.Being a liberal, opposed to the death penalty, that is hard to say, but it is true. The need for revenge must be ingrained. Why else would we watch this and the four sequels as well as other revenge movies like Death Sentence or The Brave One. In fact, I know one critic that categorizes all movies into love stories or revenge movies. Interesting observation.Bronson was made by this role, turned down by Frank Sinatra. Those of us that Like Paul Kersey and Harry Callahan are thankful for that decision.Vincent Gardenia (Moonstruck, Bang the Drum Slowly) was also great as the police inspector that sent him packing.One of Christopher Guest's (Spinal Tap, For Your Consideration, A Mighty Wind) first films, although it was just a small part at the end. "},{"Title":"Truly a classic","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are many movies out there that claim they ask the question what would you do? throughout but few truly mean it like this classic.The great Charles Bronson delivers a brilliant performance as Paul Kersey,an architect and family man whose wife is brutally beaten to death and daughter is raped by a gang of 3 savage thugs led by a young Jeff Goldblum in his first movie appearance.Paul Kersey then exacts revenge by killing any thugs,muggers and hooligans he can find during the night.This in turn encourages ordinary citizens to fight back against crime which leaves the police with a dilemma,Capture Paul Kersey the vigilante and crime will rise or leave him and crime will continue to drop.This movie made Bronson a worldwide star and one of the biggest box office draws for years to come.There is also a perfect atmosphere to the movie and it is a realistic image of new york in the 70s.The music by Herbie Hancock perfectly suits the movie also.The series has been affected by the fact that the sequels became average over the top action movies but this First Death Wish is filled with suspense,emotion,action and great directing from Michael Winner. A true Classic. "},{"Title":"Taking care of business","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Social justice commentary aside, this Bronson vehicle still packs a punch as an action-thriller with a particularly suspenseful ivories score by Herbie Hancock and a typically understated performance by Bronson as the wealthy architect, husband and father whose family is destroyed following a brutal home invasion. Bronson emerges from his grief as the all purpose avenger, hunting those who prey on the vulnerable and innocent, propping up the inept police department's attempts to control the ever burgeoning crime rate. It's amazing how much damage you can do to a person with just a row of quarters and a sock.An expansive cast includes Hope Lange as Bronson's wife, Steven Keats as his son-in-law, Vincent Gardenia as the weary detective and William Redfield as Bronson's co-worker. Keen eyes will spot Paul Dooley and Christopher Guest as uniforms, while Jeff Goldblum utters the immortal line I hate rich c...s (twice) as he beats on two defenceless women in an auspicious film debut. Way to go, Jeff.There'll be viewers who argue the merits of portraying vigilantes as anti-heroes and the disintegration of social values underpinning law and order, but cut the rhetoric and just enjoy the film for its suspense, thrills, action and engaging narrative. It's a good yarn, great entertainment and in spite of its inferior progeny (four illegitimate offspring, all losers) is a first class trend-setter. "},{"Title":"The Classic Vigilante Revenge Thriller","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson attained stardom before he turned vigilante in British director Michael Winner's Death Wish, a violent revenge thriller that looks tame by today's standards since Paramount released this R-rated movie in 1974. Indeed, Death Wish turned Bronson into a superstar, and The Dirty Dozen star went on to make four other films. Winner stuck with the franchise until the fifth outing when J. Lee Thompson took over the helm. As incredibly violent as Death Wish is, this gritty Big Apple melodrama casts Bronson against the grain. He plays architect Paul Kersey who was a conscientious objector in Korea. Essentially, he is a non-violent individual who survives the murder of his wife and the rape of his daughter during a bad day in New York City. Death Wish had its detractors, and they howled in agony about the graphic violence. The worst of the mayhem occurs for only a few minutes when the mother and daughter are brutally assaulted in our hero's apartment. For the record, the three psychos are white, and one is Jewish. The rest of the psychos that Paul Kersey kills vary by race, color, etc. The Wendell Mayes screenplay deals the attitudes about violence. Who has the right to kill? Our hero goes from paradise to New York and then out West where men solved their own problems with any intervening. The film also makes clear that we have become so civilized that he cannot handle violence much less use it. Herbie Hancock's stupendous score gives Death Wish an added vibrancy that an ordinary score would not have furnished. "}{"Title":"Endgame","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Though Michael Winner doesn't have it in him to make a really great movie this is certainly entertaining and allows people like myself - sated with the violence that permeates our large cities, wary of venturing out for fear of being mugged or worse yet physical cowards - to live vicariously through Charles Bronson as he cleans up the streets the way we would ourselves if only ... The film is more than thirty years old but little has changed and certainly not for the better so much so that only a couple of years ago Winner's great friend Michael Caine starred in Harry Brown, in some ways a remake of Death Wish set in London rather than New York. Charles Bronson, in real life, a gentle soul, is ideal casting as the bleeding-heart liberal who is driven to do what the police can't or won't and rid the streets of scum. Bronson, largely due to a slightly menacing appearance, is totally convincing as the one-man crime-buster. If only there were no need for movies like this I for one would be happier but as long as there IS such a need then this is as fine an example as any. "},{"Title":"bending the mood","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an ordinary film experience, rooted in a number of cinematic common places and character conventions, enhanced by a sublime soundtrack. The character is what it is. I think Bronson's stereotype of the lovable thug was invented here. Previously there was what Leone made of him, overcoming his obvious limitations as an actor by clever close-up framing, impeccable timing and editing, and sound environment. That's what Leone did, by the way, with a great number of other actors. Here he invents the tough guy, bit by some tragedy in the past, overcoming it by violence, isolation, and doing the right thing. This is his seminal character, and it lasted long enough to allow Bronson to become a sort of a pre-Stallone kind of character. That's why this character was remade another 4 times after this one. So this justice maverick was at this point a kind of a new iteration of a character archetype that goes a while back. That's nice. I suppose that's why this film is still mildly celebrated today.But what makes me truly excited here is how Herbie Hancock handles the music. He is an important person, someone who bridged spacial moody jazz from Miles to our days, and pushed some sound and improvisation boundaries further. Here he does so with film music. He bases his music on a notion that Vangelis with masterly explore in Blade Runner it's about musical themes, it's about environment. You can pick up the mood and use music to build it, or you can pick up the specific emotions of the plot points, and enhance them through music. Here he does both. New York by night, and suspense. The main character, whom we follow endlessly being an architect, someone who bends the environment through buildings, as much as Hancock bents it through sound.Vincent Gardenia's character is memorable.The roughness of the rape/killing scene is also remarkable. The visceral grittiness of it sets perfectly the mood for the story.My opinion 4/5http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Death Wish He Cut the Recidivism Rate ****","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" John V. Lindsay, the late mayor of New York City, called our metropolis Fun City. Some fun. The muggers ran wild during Lindsay's term and this is best reflected in this Charles Bronson one man show in 1974.Amazing that Hope Lange took such a small part. Her murder and the putting of their daughter in a catatonic state set the stage for our hero to become a one-man vigilante death squad. He dispenses justice quickly and without a second thought.Bronson was absolutely terrific in the part. It was made to order for him. He was equally matched by a police chief, played with relish by Vincent Gardenia. He knew what type of person he was looking for once the shootings started.The ending shows us that the Bronson character had a fever in the blood. No matter where he was, his one way to fight crime would go on. "},{"Title":"Possibly the Film that Started the Whole Revenge Film Craze","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember Seeing Death Wish like 5 or 6 years ago on TV one night, where it was heavily Edited for obvious Reasons, especially after seeing the Uncut version on DVD just recently. Which brings me to writing this review, How does the movie hold up? Well when i first saw it on TV I enjoyed it, but i was only like 16 and kinda didn't see how deep the film really was, and being a big film buff I decided to rent it out and see it again along with It's Sequels (which I'll review also)Now after seeing it again, this time uncut It really is an Important Film to see.The Plot involves an everyday man Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) who's Wife And Daughter are Brutally Raped and Murdered by a gang of thugs (One Played by Jeff Goldblum in an early role) Kersey is unsatisfied with the police not being able to do much to catch them so he gets himself a Pistol and Decides to Take the law into his own hands by taking vengeance on any Street Punk trying to Rob or Kill him and any other innocent Victims.The Film makes You feel Paul Kersey's Pain and you're Left feeling Truly Sorry for him, But in the end you'll be Questioning whether it was right for Kersey to go off killing Random Street Punks who are robbing him or other helpless victims, one may classify it as Self Defence but other's may say there are other Options available when Being Robbed, however i don't like to think too much about it, I would just have to say that Paul Kersey was a man pushed to the limit at a point in his life when everything seemed to be going right until the walls of his life Came Crashing Down because a bunch of Vile and Remorseless Criminals Killed His Wife and Raped His Daughter. Death Wish is a Gritty Film that is packed With Emotion in Which Charles Bronson makes you feel, He truly is the main Attraction to the film, the atmosphere Director Michael Winner Adds to the film is incredible, new york has never looked so gloomy and the Score by Herbie Hancock is really fitting to this film, the only Problem I have is that the Film has some Slow Moments and an Bitter/Sweet Ending Which Might Disappoint a Few people, but aside from that, this film is excellent, And Due to its Success It spawned 4 sequels and a string of other similarly themed films.NOTE To People who are easily Disturbed By Brutality and Rape, Please Be Cautious.OVERALL 8/10 "},{"Title":"pretty good but not what i expected","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I saw the preview to this movie I thought it would one of those old shoot em up movies (which are mostly better than today's shoot em up movies). Maybe not as extreme as like First Blood or Predator or The Terminator but there really wasn't much action. But while you're watching this you can't help to want him to kill. If you don't know what's it about it's like this; Paul's (Charles Bronson) wife is killed by thugs and even though he doesn't know who the thugs are the closest thing he can have to revenge is killing all thugs that come his way. Towards the end he's injured and all the cops want him and one of the cops tells him to get out of New York permanently. It's pretty good but one thing that bothers me is the title of the movie. Do you even know what a death wish is? If you don't (and you should) it's when you want your life to end but you can't go through with suicide. So you hope you get stabbed or shot or something that kills you that wasn't your intentions. They should have called it The Maverick or The Viligent. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was an EXCELLENT revenge film, that i really enjoyed!. Charles Bronson was awesome here and this movie had a lot of disturbing moments, especially near the beginning when his wife gets her head kicked in and his daughter gets raped, and i loved the ending it left me with a huge grin on my face!.The plot is fairly simple and the characters are typical (but at least were very interesting but the script was excellent and the characters were as i said very interesting. The directing was fantastic!. Michael Winner did a fantastic job here moving it along at a very fast pace especially during the night scenes it made for some creepy atmosphere, and he did a lot of cool camera shots!. There is a bit of violence. we get quite a few bloody gunshot wounds, a couple of harsh somewhat bloody beatings, rape, big bloody wound on someone's shoulder and some somewhat bloody surgical gore. The acting was GREAT!. Charles Bronson was absolutely fantastic in the lead role, he kicked that ass, and i felt very sorry for his character after all his wife gets beaten to death and his daughter gets raped!, he did a wonderful job!.Hope Lange was only on screen for a few minutes but she was great when she was and appeared to have good chemistry with Bronson!. Steven Keats does okay as Kersey's son but didn't have much to do. Kathleen Tolan didn't have much to do but act shocked throughout the film. Overall this is an EXCELLENT revenge film that i HIGHLY HIGHLY recommend! "},{"Title":"A better drama than an action movie","Date":"4 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's hard to effectively gauge the quality of Death Wish by today's standards, since far superior revenge flicks have been made since this humble entry's release. However, perhaps remarkably, the heart of the film holds up admirably well, and while I don't consider Charles Bronson's most iconic offering a genuine classic, its grittiness still packs quite a punch.Every good revenge film needs a powerful motivating event, and Death Wish certainly delivers on that front. The rape scene, in which Bronson's wife and daughter are unspeakably brutalized, remains a shocking and haunting bit of degradation that is graphic enough to be a vividly displayed and truly horrifying set-piece, yet doesn't play out as gratuitous. What happens in that apartment is an abomination, and it is more than sufficient visual stimulation for us to then root on Bronson as he wages his one-man war on crime.However, the savages who ultimately murder Bronson's wife and render his daughter a basket case disappear from the film after this shocking violation, so in the end we are not offered pathos for the despicable act. Perhaps it would be skirting credibility if Bronson somehow tracked down the impetuses for his killing spree amidst a city of millions, but since we are forced to suspend our disbelief for much of the ensuing occurrences, it seems strange that the film-makers didn't want to fulfill the implied promise of Bronson bringing his family's tormentors to justice. Instead, we see Bronson enact his wrath upon a series of interchangeable stand-in muggers and thugs, which, while this suitably climaxes the dramatic arc of his character, renders the series of shootouts he ultimately embroils himself in rather meaningless.The most effective aspects of the film are the psychological explorations of both Bronson's everyman and of the public at large, who latch on to his murderous exploits as heroic displays of courage since he only kills bad guys. Bronson's performance is actually quite excellent, and his transformation from grieving family man to instrument of vengeance plays out in a natural and satisfying manner. His very normalcy here strengthens the impact of his deeds, and unlike the unstoppable archetype of the forthcoming 80's action hero (who Bronson would more closely resemble in the Death Wish sequels), our protagonist in this original can be wounded and stymied during the course of his nocturnal missions, which heightens the realism of the film.More problematic is Bronson's essential abandonment of his daughter after she is institutionalized later in the movie. The way her character is ultimately pushed onto the sidelines muddles the original go get 'em spirit the film encourages us to foster, and it gets increasingly hard to root for a hero who becomes so lost in his own quest that he neglects the traumatized daughter whose tragedy launched him into it. The final resolution, which finds Bronson starting anew in another city, doesn't end the film on a high note, despite the little wink he throws at the audience. Death Wish expects us by this point to be so callous that we embrace the idea of Bronson basically severing all ties to his child, which is a dicey proposition considering the moralistic themes the film sets forth at its core.The action sequences play out a bit rote after a few repetitions, but still hold up fairly well. The scummy urban locales help immeasurably in heightening the impact of Bronson's solitary sentry; the New York in Death Wish is presented as a dirty city that needs to be cleaned, and the film-makers indelibly capture the seedier side of the locale. Revisiting the film today, I couldn't help but think that the New York Board Of Tourism must have been horrified by the way the Big Apple is portrayed in the film. After all, every single time Bronson leaves his house at night, someone tries to rob or kill him.Overall, Death Wish is squarely a product of its time, and as an action vehicle, it isn't likely to please fans of the modern mode of CGI-laden car chases and explosions. However, those looking for a thoughtful film about real-life horrors and how ordinary people cope with them will find a lot to chew on here. Viewers in the middle of those two camps have seen this material handled better since Death Wish, but there's no denying that the blueprint here is still being referenced today. In the end, this is a very good, not great, film, but still highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Not Bronson's best, but better than a lot of his later work.","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson is truly one of the greatest action stars to ever live, but unfortunately he was never one for choosing roles. For every Rider On The Rain, Red Sun, The Mechanic, Mr. Majestyk, or Hard Times there was a good deal more movies like Cold Sweat, Love And Bullets, St. Ives, and all of his 80's material(though I admit to liking Death Wish 3 and 4 as b movie ridiculousness). Now My point is, many will tell you Death Wish is his masterpiece, and though I don't quite agree it's undeniably the best of the series and does show that he had hidden acting skills that unfortunately weren't tested often enough.Everyone knows the story by now Architect Paul Kersey, when coming home from work finds that his wife and daughter have been raped. He then goes on a business trip where a guy there re arouses Kersey's interest in guns, he comes home where he finds said guy gave him a gun for a present. Kersey uses it in self defense at first against the mugger, and finds he gets great relief in it. He then begins posing as mugger bait for revenge on the kind of people that raped his wife and daughter.It's a pretty good movie. The action is restrained, and has a lot of suspense in it leading up to the actual killing, the dialogue is surprisingly well written given the genre, and it's quite compelling. Though I give it an 7, it's really more of a 7.4. The thing that makes it above average is it really shows the effect violence can have on someone, and the how someone will attempt to escape their problems through it. Sure it seems like he's solving the problem to him, but as the movie unfolds you certainly get a sense of the wrongness in his actions. Self defense is one thing, getting revenge is one thing, taking it out on a large group of people whom despite being a problem and a nuisance, don't quite deserve death.It's a well told story, but the points it's trying to make are hard to find at first, and could have been done slightly more effectively, but it's nevertheless a pretty good movie. But the reason it isn't Bronson's best is because it doesn't quite succeed at doing what it sets out to do but also because he has movies like Once Upon A Time In The West(his masterpiece), Hard Times, and Red Sun which are my personal favorites and I would argue far outclass this. Nevertheless it's a very enjoyable movie thanks to the strong performances, good screenplay, well done action scenes, and a great score. "},{"Title":"Successful crime thriller that created the Vigilante genre with Bronson as the main star","Date":"6 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Architect Paul Kersey turned vigilante and taking the law into his own hands as judge , jury and executioner. This first entry with excessive violence concerns about Paul Kersey, a middle-age New York architect and become into vigilante. He lives in N.Y. along with his wife and daughter. Kersey turns the one-man vigilante when his family is attacked by furious band formed by some ominous punks , as his wife is murdered and daughter reduced to living vegetable. Then he stalks the slums of N.Y. and takes the law into his own hands, searching vengeance on crooks, hoodlums, muggers, pimps making the neighborhood safer and bumping off delinquents and street scum.This first outing from the novel ¨Death wish¨ by Brian Garfield contains suspense, noisy action-packed, intrigue, thrills and lots of violence.Bronson with his usual stoic acting displays efficiently his weapon such as ¨Harry the Dirty¨ and killing mercilessly nasties .It's certainly thrilling , though the morality may be questionable , even in this time, as the spectators were clearly on the Kersey-Bronson's side . Furthermore, appears a nice secondary cast , as Vincent Gardenia as obstinate cop, Jeff Goldblum as heinous hoodlum in his film debut, Steven Keats as son-in-law and Hope Lange as wife submitted to brutal rape. It packs a screeching musical score composed, orchestrated and performed by Herbie Hancock. Followed by various extremely violent sequels to this successful 1974 movie, that's , of course,the best from the series. This big hit motion picture is middling directed by Michael Winner such as the successive films with his main star, Charles Bronson. In the mid-70 Winner had great commercial hit , a box office success he repeated when badly in need of another hit smash with the sequel, but both, Bronson and Winner, looked increasingly passionless and mechanical in the later years of their partnership. The worst sequels in which Kersey goes on to torture robbers, all of them inferior and the violence could be deemed excessive, are the following  ¨Death wish II¨ by Michael Winner with Jill Ireland and Vincent Gardenia, ¨Death wish III¨ by Winner with Ed Lauter and Deborah Raffin, ¨Death Wish 4  The crackdown¨(1987) with Kay Lenz directed by J.Lee Thompson and ¨Death Wish The face of death¨(1994) with Leslie Anne Down directed by Allan Goldstein. "},{"Title":"Death Wish Revisited","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first time I viewed Death Wish was in Times Square on Broadway. The left side of the theatre was yelling for Bronson to get the muggers and the right side of the theatre was voting for the muggers to get Bronson. So much for deep thought about what the public was thinking at the time in New York. New York City back then was a crime ridden violent place that people were afraid to walk down the street at night. There was a knee jerk reaction against Death Wish. Charles Bronson was asked by Johnny Carson what he thought about the movie and he said if something like that happened to your family wouldn't you do something like his character did? Well most people would of course not but it did feed into the argument against the movie that it was a right wing racist film. The critics including my film teacher Frank Manchell trashed it but did fail to note that the first attackers of his family and the first mugger he shot were Caucasian.Having just watched this film after many years it still holds up as an interesting trip down some streets people don't want to think about. Also most people cannot handle the violence of rape but it is violent and Winner did a good depiction of it. The violence in the film is appropriate for the story line and if I have any problem with the film it is that they made 3 other additions. It stands alone as an excellent story. But of course people want to exploit their success and it is sad they chose to do so with Death Wish. Most people these days hide behind lawyers anyway not 38's "}{"Title":"Charles Bronson lives on....","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Late Legend Charles Bronson is the life, soul and everything of 'Death Wish', he's outstanding throughout.Michael Winner has directed the film with ease, there is a rustic feeling which is needed in a film like this. Agreed, the film's theme is disturbing & gory, but there's a reason behind it and it works on it's favor all the way.The brutal rape scene depresses you completely and that's exactly what the veteran filmmaker wanted. The sequences when Bronson kills the baddies might be violent but they are clap-worthy nonetheless. The film has soul and there's no questioning it's super-success upon it's release way back in 1974.It's a Charles Bronson show all the way. He lives on. Late actors Hope Lange, Vincent Gardenia, Steven Keats & William Redfield deliver first-rate performances. Jeff Goldblum debuted with this film, he's passable as a menace.all n all, 'Death Wish' is a must watch. "},{"Title":"Killing muggers","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is about what is affectionately known in the trade as street justice, or the dispensing of justified capital punishment on the spot. Lawyers do not like this, as it deprives them of their fees. But it is very therapeutic to watch felons get killed on the silver screen, particularly since - because of lawyers - that so rarely happens in real life. OJ got away with double murder and Charles Manson is still alive. At one point the in Oregon the average punishment for murder was not only not capital, but only an average of seven years in prison.Nationwide exoneration statistics for justifiable shooting homicides are slightly higher for civilians than for police, counter-intuitive as that may seem. I believe that to be attributable to the fact that civilians generally shoot only when they must, not when they may. Having personally been involved in law enforcement for 28 ½ years, I would like to offer some valuable insight to Death Wish either deliberately covered up, as in the movie, or not generally made available to the public. Street justice really DOES deter crime. We see this here in Portland, Oregon, whenever a homeowner kills a burglar inside his house. If publicized as such, the burglary rate temporarily dips due to the felons' realization that killing a burglar in the act is justifiable under Oregon law. (In fact, any burglar who enters your home while you are there is a cat burglar, and is significantly dangerous and generally armed...you would be a fool not to kill him. Charles Manson cat burgled as a game he called creepy-crawling, and he went on to murder about three dozen people, if that tells you anything about the mentality of this particular brand of felon. Read Helter Skelter.)As depicted in Death Wish, the reduction of crime rate is entirely realistic as a deterrence to muggers (translation = armed robbers). "},{"Title":"An action classic and the patriarch of revenge films","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish is not just a run of the mill action film that spawned too many sequels...for those who have not seen it you might get that impression but that isn't the case. Death Wish is in fact a dark, gritty, violent and very disturbing look at vigilantism, violence, and so much more. In many ways Death Wish is considered almost campy and yet it has this violent disturbing nature that must have been downright shocking during it's release in 1974 because even now it holds up as being quite disturbing. The rape scene in the beginning would be lucky to manage not getting an NC-17 slapped on it nowadays let alone back then. Director Michael Winner has had great experience in directing and writing and has a really unique style that fits well with Death Wish. This isn't just some random flick about a guy blowing bad guys away, there is a real element of drama and intensity and emotion that is explored not only in this first film but in future installments as well. Although some might say the series was over used and abused there was good reason to continue Kersey's fight.Charles Bronson can be an acquired taste and I would say he is absolutely one of my favorite old time actors. He has this hard, steely, masculinity in his performances and he has had some truly great roles and this original go around for Death Wish was one of them. Even though we've seen him in some really kick butt action roles he manages to introduce us to family man, business man Paul Kersey who finds an outlet for his anger and grief in blowing away crooks, mostly muggers. His character has a significant arc and you can see the changes in him following the crime. He really lights up the screen in a serious dramatic emotional and yet action packed role. Steven Keats, Hope Lange, and Kathleen Tolan are the main supporting cast plays Bronson's son in law, wife and daughter. They don't have a whole lot of time on screen except for the actual happening of the crime which as mentioned is pretty brutal but they serve their purpose to set up the story but don't really take away from Bronson's one man vengeance show. Vincent Gardenia is the main cop sent to stop Bronson's vendetta but not to necessarily kill him but get him to stop so as to not make him a martyr. Gardenia is good but his role is small and I would have liked to have seen more of a cat and mouse, adversary type relationship between them but it never really pans out.Ultimately Death Wish poses the question it means to which is do you believe that Kersey's vendetta is right or is he as bad as they are? One thing that is almost campy and unbelievable is how much crime does exist around Kersey in particular. I mean everywhere he goes...Subway, buildings, random street someone tries to mug or rob him so he can blow them away. I mean crime is bad...even know let alone 30 years ago but that rampant should mean everyone should carry a loaded pistol to blow bad guys away. He also never really resolves his wifes case which is unfortunate but instead he finds this relief in fighting crime in the most brutal manner. Still Death Wish is a cult classic and a must see and it doesn't disappoint for entertainment value or even for a more serious message behind it. It is still one of my favorite Bronson films definitely. 8/10 "},{"Title":"THE Vigilante Flick","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Michael Winner's Death Wish of 1974 starring the great late Charles Bronson is a great and highly controversial classic of 70s cinema, and, without doubt, THE most important vigilante film ever brought to screen. Alongside that of Harmonica in Sergio Leone's Once Upon a Time In The West, the role of vigilante architect Paul Kersey is arguably the most important role in Bronson's career, and the role that made him the undisputed number 1 leading man to play characters taking the law into their own hands. This was already the fourth collaboration of Bronson and director Michael Winner, and what a team they were Their work together also includes the equally brilliant Western Chato's Land of 1972, another tough-minded and uncompromising 70s Bronson cult-favorite. Upon its release, Death Wish was heavily bashed by critics for its violence and the alleged promotion of vigilantism. Even though the film's reputation has changed and it is nowadays more respected, Death Wish remains a controversial film to this day. The allegation of promoting self-administered justice may be justified with the film's sequels, but it sure isn't justified to accuse the original Death Wish of anything like that. It is merely a film about a man in an exceptional situation, whose desperation and fury make him take the law in his own hands, and about the resulting appreciation by the masses and the media. The film may differ from Brian Garfield's novel (which I have not yet read), but that doesn't make it a glorification of vigilantism, in my opinion.Paul Kersey (Bronson) is a kind, liberal architect living in New York city with his family. After a vicious attack in which his wife is killed and his daughter brutally raped in their own home, however, Kersey begins to change... Death Wish is an amazing film that builds up a very particular kind of tension. In this original film, Paul Kersey does not hunt down any particular criminals, but he just walks New York's mean streets at night, and deliberately acts out of self defense whenever he is attacked by muggers. The outbursts of violence are of course some of the most memorable moments in the film. The violence is very realistic and often shocking. The attack in the beginning is particularly disturbing, and many the later sequences, when Kersey has become the vigilante already, are unforgettable. Charles Bronson is one of my personal favorite actors, and his performance as Paul Kersey is plain brilliant. No other actor could have played this role even nearly as greatly as Bronson did, and no other actor will ever be THE film vigilante that Bronson is for eternity. The supporting cast includes Hope Lange as Kersey's wife and young Jeff Goldblum in his very first role. Whether you like it or not, Death Wish is a film you will not forget quickly. Four sequels followed, the first of which was highly entertaining, the rest barely worth watching. The original remains the masterpiece. This is THE vigilante movie and an absolute classic that no lover of film can afford to miss! "},{"Title":"Vigilante Man","Date":"19 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When Michael Winner asked the late Charles Bronson if he'd like to star in his new movie 'Death Wish', about a mild mannered chap who goes on a rampage shooting scumbags when his family is attacked, Bronson replied Id like to do that. The movie? Winner enquired, No, responded Bronson, Shoot some scumbags. When it was released in 1974, Death Wish stirred up enormous controversy. With its violent rape scene and apparent condoning of Paul Kersey's vigilante activities, Vincent Canby of the New York Times called it one of the sickest movies ever made, claiming that it raises complex questions in order to offer bigoted, frivolous, oversimplified answers.The films message in enunciated best by Kersey in conversation with his wet blanket of a son in law; What do you call people who, when they're faced with a condition of fear, run away?. His son sheepishly asks Civilised?. In the west, society works on the understanding that when members of the public are done wrong, the State, which holds the monopoly on legitimate violence, takes peoples rights of revenge and retribution on itself. With this comes the caveat that the State is duty bound to exercise this right of revenge and retribution. But, as this film poses, what are we supposed to do when the authorities rescind this right, and by definition the rights of victims and the public, in the face of left wing/liberal notions of fairness for crooks? When the police don't protect us, who does?For those who think this film silly, just look at the case of British farmer Tony Martin. Repeatedly burgled and repeatedly told by the police that they were powerless to act, Martin shot one burglar dead and wounded another when his home was broken into again. Unlike the burglars, Martin was arrested and sent to jail. The burglar who escaped was subsequently given legal aid to sue Martin. In Death Wish the police spend considerably more time trying to apprehend Kersey than the scum he is after. This is provocative political film making of the highest calibre, not far behind Pontecorvo's 'Battle of Algiers' and Costa Gavras' 'Z'. Some criticise the film for the ease with which Bronson finds muggers. As the Canadian film critic Mark Steyn wrote, To be sure, he sort of goes looking for trouble. But in 1970's New York you didn't have to look far just go to the park, ride the subway, take an evening stroll. This great movie loses one star only because it is not quite as good as the similarly themed 'Dirty Harry'. There are a couple of problems with this movie. Charles Bronson is too macho an actor for the role of bleeding heart liberal turned vigilante Paul Kersey. He looks like a killer from frame one, and as a result his transformation is a little hard to swallow. A more normal looking actor might have been more believable, as Dustin Hoffmann demonstrates in 'Straw Dogs'. It also suffers in comparison to the book. The back story about a gun fighting father, introduced in the movie, is plain daft, and the police investigation in the film, which tracks Kersey down in pretty short order, feels tacked on and ill thought out. The ending of the book is better also. Called Paul Benjamin in the book, the Bronson character is caught red handed by a police officer. The officer removes his hat, turns his back and allows the Vigilante to escape. Oochoa gets nowhere near him in the book.Ask yourself the question posed on the back of the paperback version of the book; What do you do when your life lies in ruins and fear clutches at your heart? Do you shun the city and flee from its violence? Or do you do what Paul did - get a gun, learn to use it and start fighting back? "},{"Title":"Though not at all a Pleasant Film, this Story confronts the greatest Domestic Challenge that America had then and still faces in the 21st Century.","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A highly civilized, technologically developed and culturally refined a Nation as the United States of America has found itself at the mid point of the 20th Century in a contradictory position of having a crime rate in its major cities that would be more like that of a barbaric, developing 3rd World Country. The accomplishments in the areas of science, literature, painting, architecture and athletics are shamefully dragged down by the one disgustingly grim reality. And that is that the streets of our cities are not safe.In our quest for civility and peace, we have gone to the path of legislating laws that have continued to restrict if not outright violate our own Constitution. And that is namely the Second Amendment, which states that &#133;..the right to bear arms shall not be abridged. Now, please notice that the Amendment does NOT say that our Government, be it State or National, may grant us permission, because our Founding Fathers knew that the Right of Self-Protection is a gift to Mankind from Our Creator, not of any man-made body, no matter how well intentioned. And furthermore, it is very common sense friendly.OUR STORY&#133;&#133;&#133; We open up with a view of New York City, Manhattan life in the contemporary setting of 1974. We see two obviously well dressed, well to do women, Mrs. Joanna Kersey (Hope Lange) and her daughter, Mrs. Carol Toby (Kathleen Tolan) doing the shopping at their grocery store. When they pay for the order, there is a delivery slip that is left with it in the box with their address.A band of three Street Scum Sociopaths (Jeff Goldblum, Christopher Logan and Gregory Rozakis) of the very worst order read the delivery slip and make a beeline for the exclusive residential property and going around the to the back service entrance, they circumvent the main entrance and the Dorman. They then go to the right floor where they gain entrance to the Kersey Residence by announcing they were the grocery delivery man.Now dear folks, kindly readers, what follows has to be the most disgustingly realistic, brutal and out and out sickening scene ever captured on the cinema screen. Because the two women have so little money, the three angered by their waste of time, attack them violently, and violate the daughter sexually, molesting her, raping and forcing her into fellatio. The mother, who had earlier cautioned her daughter to just keep quiet and cooperate, gets beaten viciously with a blackjack, slapped back and forth across her face.The two men, Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) and his son-in-law Jack Toby (Steven Keats) receive word that their wives have been taken to a Hospital Emergency Room, in poor physical condition After a seemingly endless runaround at the Hospital, Jack finds out his wife is in stable condition. When Paul inquires about his wife, he is flatly and abruptly told; Mr. Kersey, your Wife died about 20 minutes ago! With the Wife killed and the daughter in serious mental condition and possibly facing permanently hospitalization, Paul Kersey gets himself lost in his work. Immersing himself completely in a planned housing development in the Southwest, in either New Mexico or Arizona, Kersey goes there in person to work out a compromise about the number of houses to be built with Land Developer, Ames Jainchill (Stuart Margolin).On the occasion of accompanying Mr. Jainchill as his guest at his Gun Club, Paul is found out to be an expert marksman and having been a Conscious Objector, assigned as a Medic in the Korean War.Returning to New York, Mr. Kersey, while reading through his back-log of mail, finds the photos of him and his wife from their last vacation trip. Tearful and feeling more lonely than ever, Paul opens the gift package given to him by Mr. Jainchill at the airport when he left the Southwest; its contents &#150; a .32 Calibre Revolver.Taking an evening stroll in the Wintry City Landscape, he purposely goes to spots clearly off the beaten path, and hence more isolated from the safety of numbers. He is confronted by a junkie stick-up man with a gun, whom he promptly dispatches from this world. He had his new .32 pistol with him.That is just the start of a one man crusade in which the unknown Mr. Kersey is dubbed The Vigilante by the gentlemen of the Press. We follow his exploits as he continues to carry on his new found role as armed and dangerous decoy.The story continually gives us examples of just how even a well trained and hard working Police Department cannot have Cops everywhere and that it is still up to us to be prepared to defend ourselves.At the time of its initial release, there were some critics who described DEATH WISH as being gratuitously violent and having an appeal to a lynch-mob mentality. Well, we figure these were the folks who are far-removed from any of these troubles and can afford their own protective services.As for the cast, some people we thought deserved mention includeVincent Gardenia,Stephen Elliot, Robert Kya-Hill, Ed Grover, Hank Garrett.As far as there being any theme or message in DEATH WISH, most certainly it is one about the rendering of the public impotent and helpless with the passage of a lot of ridiculous gun laws, which only the law-abiding would follow. It's almost as if the Bleating Hearts form high in their Ivory Towers; know what's best for we little people. I mean they must follow the line of reasoning that would declare that we would be safer from drowning if only the Life Guards had the Life Preservers.Oh, yeah; see DEATH WISH, but skip the sequels. "},{"Title":"The bringer of justice&#133; vigilante style!","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" An upper-middle class architect and fully blooded liberal, Paul Kersey lives with his wife and his newly engaged daughter in a New York apartment. One afternoon a couple of punks get into the building and brutally rape his daughter and viciously attack his wife. When he gets to the hospital his daughter has slowly fallen into a vegetable state and his wife has died. The grief starts to hit home and Paul takes a work related trip, where he meets a client that takes him to a shooting range and as a farewell gift he receives a 32-calibre revolver. When he returns home, he takes the law into his own hands by dishing out his own justice aimed at crooks.This was the first time I got to watch this one uncut and its still an unheralded cynical urban vigilante piece that only few can match. This supreme item maybe not as shocking, unsparing and cruel like you would think (instead wait around for Death Wish 2 1981), but more so a thoughtfully glum character study and a left-wing political pot shot (pro-gun and vigilante support) slanted into the controversial context.We follow one anti-hero coming with the terms of the confronting ordeal he has encountered and he had enough of watching the crims get-away with things. While the police can't lift a finger to prevent it. So what to do, well no more sitting back and take the law into his hands. We watch the main character spiral into some sort of craving to vent out his pain and anger. He can't seem to stop seeking out crims and thugs, after his somewhat nervous first strike. But even when the police are hinting that they know its him, the rush of it all is just too much to let go and the society doesn't want to take it for granted anymore. So in the context there's little more too it, then just a fully blood revenge pick. Although, there's nothing really too deep there, but it gives us a touch of insight in what's going on in our protagonist's mind and seems to blame the failing system and a depraved society for his actions. It's not really explained through dialogues or emotions, as they are mostly spare here. The broad actions are what tell the story and it suits Charles Bronson's hardened persona. Paul Kersey would go on to be Bronson's iconic role with four sequels to follow on.Director Michael Winner paints a chillingly dread-filled setting of New York and illustrates the savage intentions of those muggers that seem to over-populate the streets. Winner's tightly constructed direction keeps it moving and smoothly patterns out the violence with great control and grit. It's in your face, but his direction suit's the style of film he was going for here. A dynamically breezy score by Herbie Hancock is well integrated into the formula and Arthur J. Ornitz's steely camera-work shapes the film's hard edge. The clunky story is as straightforward as can be and rather heavy-handed in what its got to say. Engraved is a black sense of humour (which more arose from the cops on the case). Charles Bronson nails down the part and brings to his upholding character a well-mannered vibe that could turn unyieldingly cold-hearted when called for. The rest of the performances are fine with Vincent Gardenia standing out amongst the pack as wry police detective and there are minor roles from Jeff Goldblum and Christopher Guest.A very influential studio exploitation flick of the 70s that wasn't afraid to get its hands dirty and speak its mind. It's maybe not as lowbrow as it could have been, but it still manages to keep one transfixed. "},{"Title":"Irony of time, filming locations should have been reversed today","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Interesting fact In the year 2003 the state in US with the highest crime rate is Arizona, compared with New York, which only ranks no 44. A far cry from the situation laid out in Death Wish, where the main character, being an over-civilized middle age man living in the toilet New-York, visits the homely cozy Arizona and comes to terms with his reluctance towards fire arms. Today, he'd be safer staying in New-York than going to a modern-day frontier high crime Arizona. What irony time can produce! Bronson is Bronson here, one can say that the final image of Bronson is fully developed here. Some of the acting here though are wooden and plain ridiculous, but when the inner action man in Bronson, and in You as a spectator, takes over, the film delivers, and is highly effective. One can easily imagine the controversy it must have stirred being made in the progressive era of social awareness. Herb Alperts score is lush and enjoyable, and the cinematography is competent enough to generate an eerie feeling when the lonely vigilante is roaming the streets. And we cannot help keeping our fingers crossed for him. "},{"Title":"One of the best vigilante movies ever made!","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The late CHARLES BRONSON plays PAUL KERSEY, a mild mannered New York architect who's life is forever changed when a group of punks break into his apartment & brutally beat his wife & daughter. As time goes on, Kersey realizes that the street are no safe haven since no car or home is safe from sleazy punks. Sick of it all, he picks up a pistol that he got as a gift & goes about the streets wiping out any punk that is foolish enough to try & rob him & make the streets a heck of a lot safer for the decent citizens of the city. Unlike the sequels to this film, Death Wish 1 has Kersey not as an unemotional killing machine (He gets sick after his first crime) who wipes out the bad guys who killed his friends & family, but as a normal, good living citizen who never asked for this travesty to happen. A must see for Bronson fans. But beware, unlike most action films released in Hollywood that stars the likes of BRUCE WILLIS or ARNOLD SCHWARZENAGER in rolls where they are blowing away scores of bad guys with guns & showing no emotion & making vigilantism look fun, this film is a gritty violent look at what murder is really like, in other words, as a dark, cold & unsettling act. Followed by four sequels, starting with the equally or perhaps more violent, DEATH WISH II **** (stars) "},{"Title":"Death Wish!","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Death Wish films are some great movies. Charles Bronson is very good in them all especially the first and the third of the franchise. The first three are in My opinion the best in Death Wish series. In My opinion the films are not for young children. Its the trilogy directed by Michael Winner. The movies are packed with very realistic graphic violence, great music, good by acting the actors, and good directing. The first one is the one that started it all! Charles Bronson is great in the film! His emotions are very believable! Jeff Goldblum believe it or not is in the film and has a big part! He looks like a very young man. If you like Charles Bronson and want to see him bust up some punks and like to see great revenge films with great action then watch Death Wish!  "}{"Title":"REMINDS ME OF HOME, NEW YORK THAT IS.....","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was only a baby went this movie hit. When Charles Bronson's Paul Kersey hits the streets of N.Y., it's considered safe with him around. I wonder why the NYPD were of any help when the victims need it. Vigilantism is always on the rise anywhere, but there are sum who give it a bad name. Paul Kersey does not. Playing the hero/antihero gave Charles Bronson's character his remenition. Maybe if the NYPD would do their job, there would be any vigilantism going on.  Two thumbs up for Death Wish. R.I.P. Charles Bronson! 3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"A conservative is a liberal who has been mugged.","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I was a student back in the mid 1980s, I regarded myself as liberal minded. Pity the criminal, I used to think. Be merciful on them; Be understanding; It's society's fault; They do this because they live in poverty; and many other carefully cultivated arguments. I was proud of my open-minded ideology, and even a bit smug about it.Then one snowy night, I was walking alone on Amsterdam Avenue just below Harlem, carrying a load of books under both arms, and minding my own business. I had just turned a corner when suddenly, and from out of nowhere, a group of kids about 12-14 years old whom I had never seen before ran across the street and pelted me in the face with snow and ice, breaking my glasses. There was, of course, no policeman in sight. Unable to defend myself, and fearing one of these kids might have been armed (a real possibility in New York, especially in those days), I ran away from them, and they sped off in another direction. I never saw them again. And in that instant, my 'compassionate liberalism' when out the window forever.Thank God all those little creeps did was break my glasses - kid stuff, as they say. Even so, I was ready to see them skinned alive if I could arrange it. I can very much feel for those who attacked or have lost loved ones to the senseless acts of criminals, and I pray to God I am never put in their shoes. To the limousine liberal critics who rail against this film and scream We don't like it! We don't like it!, I retort with You don't GET it! You don't GET it! In the moment that I was being attacked, I wasn't thinking about their poverty or their misguided upbringing, and to this day, I couldn't give a s**t about either. All I was thinking about was my own safety, and how I was being wronged. Who wouldn't?As this film's own script states Exactly WHAT are we supposed to do when the police and courts are unable to protect us? Do we just sit back and take it, and let the criminals rule our lives? And that, of course, is the point of this movie, which those on the Left refuse to acknowledge. Note, for instance, the words of a liberal in this comment section (Bob the moo from England on 11/12/02, if you care to know). Bob's brilliance states the following The film paints all the criminals the same way - animals, crazy people, crazy pointless people. DUH, YEAH, BOB! That's only because that's what they ARE!!! YOU get yourself mugged or attacked at random by someone you've never met, and then try to tell yourself they are anything but animals! I have no sympathy for anyone who attacks another person who means no one else any harm - NONE WHATSOEVER! Sorry to disappoint you, Bob.Bob also says There is no room for pity for these people, no room for understanding. Uh, NO Bob, you're right! Try as I might, I cannot imagine ANY JUSTIFICATION AT ALL for why those little punks decided to assault me out of nowhere. Perhaps you can explain to me how poverty forced them to do that. (Yawn!) The critics will never understand this film. But it makes a statement, and a very loud and clear one at that WE ARE FED UP WITH CRIME. And why should we, at any level or part of society (e.g., black, white, male, female, rich, poor) have to live with street crime at all? Why should any of the streets be ruled by the lawless rather than the law-abiding?In the 70s, when this film was made, New York street crime was much worse than it is today, and this film very much expressed the feelings of the people at the time. Indeed, when it was playing in the theaters back in those days, people in the audience were CHEERING when Bronson's character shot the criminals. Now why do you suppose they did that? By the way, to those little creeps who attacked me in New York back in the 80s  I'm still lookin' for ya! "},{"Title":"justice","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like the concept of this film.  It is too bad that we do not have this type of vigilante justice now adays.  The bad people deserve what they get in this film.  It is better than the joke of a justice system that we have here in Canada.  The acting was believable and makes one wonder if they would do the same in that situation.  The story was strong.  The ending was great.  Spoiler!!!!  It is good that he was let go of any charges.  Scum bags deserve what they get.  It also leaves room for part two. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Paul Kersey Architect & Arse-Kicker!","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish has always been one of the easiest movie-targets for critics to bash, because it's overly violent, gratuitously explicit and &#150; supposedly - the whole movie is nothing more than a promotional campaign to encourage more people to buy a gun and protect their loved ones and personal belongings. Perhaps the violence & bloodshed form the most memorable parts of this film, but the screenplay and character drawings are far more complex than it superficially seems. Not talking about any of the sequels here, but the original Death Wish is as much a dramatic portrait of a torn man as it is a harsh & relentless vigilante thriller. The main character, Paul Kersey, is not just a randomly trigger-happy gunman. Heck, he doesn't even become a wild bloodthirsty animal immediately after a trio of thugs murdered his beloved wife and abused his daughter so badly she turns into a silent & traumatized vegetable. The story introduces Paul Kersey as a warm-hearted and reasonable man who acknowledges society's issues and even tends to defend the underprivileged people, unlike his fellow colleagues. The tragedy that overcomes his family literally tears him up inside and, after a professional trip to Arizona where he re-discovers his bounding with guns, Paul dwells the New York streets to cleanse them from all the scum. Death Wish is, as surprising as it may sound, much more realistic then most revenge-thrillers. Kersey doesn't just exclusively go after the thugs that harmed his own happiness, as that would be impossible. Neither does he rescue defenseless old ladies when their purses are being snatched, nor does he provoke burglar attacks. He simply takes on every criminal who crosses his path. Naturally this spawns a large-scaled police investigation as well as a lot of variable media attention. Particularly great about Death Wish is the sense of filming location. The dark, narrow alleys and the gritty, forsaken parks of New York feel effectively menacing and ominous. Director Michael Winner's views are clearly a bit conservative in some ways, but he has a strong feeling for atmosphere and suspense and he obviously knows Charles Bronson inside & out. Winner, who previously made three films with the veteran actor already (including The Mechanic), allows Bronson to act like he prefers silent, but charismatic with very little dialogs but a lot of tough and emotional grimaces. The violence is remarkable and often downright malevolent, but imaginably realistic and confronting. The sequences showing the assault of Kersey's wife and daughter (starring a youthful Jeff Goldblum in his very first film role ever) are deeply unpleasant and disturbing to behold. A period masterpiece, but still shocking today. "},{"Title":"Decent vigilante film.","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish is set in New York City where Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) lives & works as an architect, while at work three thugs break into his apartment & beat his wife Joanna (Hope Lange) up & gang rape his daughter Carol (Kathleen Tolan). Joanna & Carol are taken to hospital where Joanna dies from her injuries, unable to cope with the ordeal Carol has an emotional breakdown & ends up being committed. Paul contacts the police but there is little chance of find those responsible, with crime rates through he roof & innocent decent people fearing to go out at night Paul decides he has had enough & starts to fight back. Armed with a pistol he walks the New York City streets at night looking for the muggers & criminals, when he comes across anyone he feels is breaking the law he dishes out his own brand of justice as he shoots the criminals dead. Crime rates falls & people feel safer on the streets but the police begin to close in on Paul...Co-produced & directed by Michael Winner this vigilante thriller was based on the novel by Brian Garfield & is a pretty good film that plays very much on the fears of the period, to be fair it still has relevance now I suppose even after 35 odd years since it was made. At the time crime rates were spiralling & the average person must have been worried about this & as such I would imagine Death Wish hit home, I'm sure the idea of a lone vigilante who works beyond the seemingly ineffectual law dishing out his own brand of lethal justice must have appealed to audiences back then. Of course Death Wish is a rather heavy handed film as it quotes crime statics, champions gun laws & show's the brutal attacking & raping of a mother & daughter so maybe it's not a film for everyone. There's also a political angle as the authorities decide that arresting the vigilante wouldn't be good & it's engineered so Kersey is scared off. Kersey is the sort of anti-hero action film character that are seen regularly today but back then the play by his own rules hero was a new thing, together with Clint Eastwood Dirty Harry (1971) the character of Paul Kersey here probably helped developed the modern action film hero. The film drags at times, Kersey's trip to Tuscon seems a little unnecessary expect for some broad wild west allusions as it compares 70's America to the old frontier & it's type of law & justice. I would have liked it better if they had cut the Tuscon sequence & just showed Kersy visiting his daughter at regular intervals to remind him & us why he was turning vigilante, unfortunately his daughter is totally forgotten about by the half way mark. It has a certain power & the helplessness some feel when it comes to crime & the inadequacies of the law is easy to relate too even now but as a film in it's own right it's a bit of a drag as it gets buried under various heavy handed ideas & themes that come & go & it's a bit repetitive as well.It seems that every person Kersy meets at night in New York City is a thug & mugger. There's not much violence expect for the opening attack in which a woman is beaten & a her daughter raped in a rather unpleasant scene. Apparently the producer & Paramount wanted to call the film Sidewalk Vigilante which when compared to the title Death Wish just sucks. &0's New York is a great setting for a film such as this, the sleaziness & dirtiness of it perfectly captures the urban decay & moral decline that the film is about.With a supposed budget of about $3,000,000 this has good solid production values although some of the 70's fashions & decor do date it. The acting is OK< Bronson was never a great actor although he has some good support here including Jeff Goldblum in his feature film debut. Frank Sinatra, Steve McQueen, Jack Lemmon & Clint Eastwood were all apparently either attached to star or offered the role of Paul Kersey.Death Wish is a decent vigilante film that has a social message & it still has relevance today although it's all rather heavy handed & does get bogged down within itself at times. Nt a perfect film but by no means a bad one either. Followed by four sequels, Death Wish II (1982), Death Wish 3 (1985), Death Wish 4 The Crackdown (1987) & Death Wish V The Face of Death (1990) while the IMDb lists a Death Wish (2011) remake as in development. "},{"Title":"Did Hope Lange Fire her agent?","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't like this movie, though I am willing to accept John Simon's take Obnoxios garbage, but made with a certain panache. The endless sequels should pretty much rule out any serious person taking it too seriously. My only reason for weighing in here is to note what only one other poster does the truly ghastly nature of the rape scene, which I found truly upsetting when I viewed this film as an adolescent. I wonder if it would cause anyone to have the same reaction today.It might have been that this came out right after Deliverance and the idea was too see how far one could get away with pushing these things. Still, to this day, it is to my mind still the ugliest ten minutes or so from any major studio release. I can't believe Hope Lang, not an unknown actress; took the part knowing what She was in for or didn't walk off the set. Jeff Goldblum, as far as I know, never talks about it; and tends to list his walk on in California Split as his first film. SMART MOVE. "},{"Title":"fairly ghastly","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Most of the viewers here have the right take on this bad movie. Even down to the detailed ones. But it is mostly just plain old ugly to look at. The director always had an axe-like approach to the camera and dialog. Very embarrassing, look at how he went after Raymond Chandler and Phillip Marlowe. Ruined those classics as well. It has the frantic look of a rushed TV movie. The real question is, could a decent film have been made about a vigilante killer. Probably not. The crazy thing is that the early scene in the apartment almost works. All that violence is on a fairly real brutal level that in the hands of a better director, could have been classic. Just look at how Hitchcock handled something like that in Frenzy. Superb. Instead, just another movie turned out in the land of palms and sunshine by the bad for the mindless. "},{"Title":"Gives A New Meaning To The Crime Genre. One Of Bronson's Best Roles.","Date":"3 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A New York City architect becomes a one-man vigilante squad after his wife is murdered by street punks in which he randomly goes out and kills would-be muggers on the mean streets after dark.Death Wish is a movie that gives a new meaning to the crime genre. It is one of the best movies that Charles Bronson ever made, and it is one of my favorite movies that I've seen in quite some time. Before I really get going I'll say this. I'm not saying that I support vigilantism (Brian Garfield disliked this movie by the way, because he believed it changed the meaning of his book), but I acknowledge that it was a growing mood at the time this movie was made, and so it becomes stronger when you realize that it was reflecting how people felt at the time. And on top of all of that, the movie is well acted, well written, well scored, well directed, and well shot. Death Wish is also a movie that is thought provoking, as well as a new take on personal justice that changes the meaning of it as a whole.Charles Bronson plays Paul Kersey, an architect who is living a normal life. But one day, everything is shattered in one swift blow. Three street thugs follow his wife and daughter home from a grocery store, and when they discover little money on them, they get vengefully beat Paul's wife, rape his daughter, and vandalize the apartment. Paul's daughter survives, but ends up in a traumatic state, unfortunately for his wife, she doesn't make it. Paul is then told by the police that the chance of finding the culprits is next to none. Following this injustice, Paul begins to question the reliability of the authorities. Following a business trip to Arizona, he comes back and takes the law into his own hands by killing muggers after dark. While the vigilante becomes popular considering that the rate in crime drops soon afterwards, this attracts the attention of the police, particularly Detective Frank Ochoa.Bronson is one of my all time favorite actors, and one of the best actors of the action genre. In my point of view, he was perfect in his role as Paul Kersey, this is easily one of the best roles he ever played, and it is one of my favorite roles that I saw him in. Vincent Gardenia was also good, he did a fine job at playing Frank Ochoa, a police detective who is sympathetic with Paul, although persistent in trying to find out who the vigilante is, and will keep it up until he finds out. Everyone in my opinion did good work with their performances, but out of everyone, Bronson and Gardenia stand out the most. When it came to these kind of roles, Bronson was simply perfect, he was one of the best actors in revenge related films, and one of the best action stars of all time.The movie also has a rather ominous feeling to it. Herbie Hancock's score and Arthur Ornitz's cinematography really make the scenes such as the attack on Paul's apartment or whenever Paul is on the hunt give off a real sense of danger. Michael Winner's directing also gives it an edge that brings out the danger. Whenever there was trouble in this movie, I could always feel my tension reach its max point, and since there is danger in this film, you can expect there to be some high tensions. Winner and Bronson made many movies together, and this one is their best collaboration, the Bronson-Winner collaboration was a combo that had chemistry. Although I did enjoy some of the other works they did together, this one is by far their best one.Like I mentioned in the first paragraph, Brian Garfield disliked this movie, because it changed the meaning of his book. The book denounces vigilantism, while the movie (and the sequels that follow) supports it. As for the message and the violence that this film gives, this is what I think about it. While the movie does support vigilantism, and is quite violent, I do not think that the message this movie gives is for people to defend themselves from attackers by buying guns and shooting them. What I think is, that while this film does support vigilantism, it also shows just how dangerous it can be, and it is definitely not something that one should be going out and doing, although most people know that.If you want to see a film that has a different take on the crime genre and personal justice than most movies do, then Death Wish is the movie to see. However, I don't think that this movie should teach you to forget about what's legal and do what's right, as it is only for watching. However, I do think you should see it because of how much it relates to the time that it came out. And on top of that, this movies features Charles Bronson in a kind of role like you have never seen. This one is the one that best defines that kind of roles that he was best at playing.10/10 "},{"Title":"Death walks the streets in the form of Bronson","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The one that started it all, and of course the best, sees our unforgettable vigilante, Paul Kersey (Bronson), deliver justice to those punks at night, who like to do stick ups, and rob us innocent folk. But it's the catalyst of this, that is most interesting. Bronson wife (The Ghost and Mrs Muir's Hope Lange) and daughter in law are raped, (Lange not surviving) by a group of punks (the head an early Jeff Goldblum, like you've never seen em before). The daughter in law has resorted to a state of catatonia, blocking it out, making her, as her husband, describes a vegetable. I imagine this film at the time, would of stirred up a lot of controversy, or may'be caution some muggers out there, on the New York streets at night. The early rape scene is quite intense and disturbing (I was 14 when I first saw this movie) and that's the scene that stands out. Bronson of course, doesn't show enough range of emotions, yet still is wonderfully effective, doing it his own way. I like Stuart Margolin too, and really it's Vincent Gardenia, as the Inspector who's notable, who really has taken Bronson's side from the start. What wasn't believable, really, in this otherwise excellent film, was some of the victims, and community fighting back at muggers, like that old bag lady, which did provide some laughs, on that news bulletin. The film does make you question, should these muggers die, and are we right to fight back? If judging against Goldblum and his freaks at the start, it's an easy Yes. Goldblum and co company never get caught, and when Bronson asks, the chief detective Is there a chance they'll catch these guys and he answers, Yes, there's always a chance, hey that's really telling like it is. I myself would be afraid to walk the streets of New York, today. One defining moment is when Gardenia, about to exit Bronson's hospital room, coughs with laugh at shock, to Bronson's former statement. The last shot of a sickly smiling Bronson, cocking his finger at some muggers at a bus station, should be etched in the annals of movie history. One fault moment- when the son goes over to Bronsons for dinner, and he's about to turn the music down, just before this, you'll notice a mic, partially sticking down in shot. "},{"Title":"Cloying","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Watching this movie again more than 40 years after it first came out is interesting. While it can still touch a nerve somewhere deep down inside, on the surface at least, it seems heavily clichéd to the point of being cloying. It seems heavy-handed and in terms of its style very heavily dated. I do not think it has stood up all that well to the test of time. Anybody who saw this as an adolescent in the 70's should have enough life experience by now to know it is almost as much of a fantasy as Star Wars. Even where crimes of the nature seen at the beginning of this movie do occur, in real life they don't look, or more importantly, feel the way they are depicted here. It would be interesting to see a thoughtful modern-day remake, but it is unlikely anybody will do a thoughtful one. Instead, you only get even more fantastic, exploitative renditions, in the light of which, it is no wonder America has become a filled with foolish, immature, paranoid gun-crazies that can't go to the bathroom anymore without slinging an assault rifle. As Roger Ebert once said while discussing film noir, no society could have created a world so filled with doom, fate, fear and betrayal, unless it were essentially naive and optimistic. Hell, maybe the answer to this movie in 2015 is a movie about a vigilante who shoots gun-crazies to prove how ridiculous they are. Under these circumstances, I give this one a mere six. "}{"Title":"Death wish Charlie Bronson's best movie","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I caught this late night on itv4 and it had a strange affect on me . I don't know why it just did anyway the film stars Charles Bronson as Paul kersey formally a new York based architect one afternoon discovers his daughter and wife have been sexually assaulted by three thugs lead by Jeff goldblum pre Jurassic park his wife dies from her subsequent injury's and his daughter enters a sanitary clinic . And i wont give away the rest of the plot but suffice it to say you'll be intrigued for the rest of the 1 hr. 35 minutes the film last anyway the film is compelling due to the action sequences especially the shootouts which are choreographed in meticulous detail the cinematography is exquisite which gives us a gloomy and dark depiction of what a dangerous city New York was like in the 70s the script is extremely amateurish and half baked like it was rushed completely neglecting characterization and thoughtfulness when trying to write some genuinely appealing characters such as Paul kersey played excellently by Bronson conveying a sense of uncertainty and remorse this is undoubtedly his best performance of his entire career check it out its a really thought provoking piece of social commentary in the 70s . Rated R for some strong violence and scene of sexual violence . Also don't watch the sequels which are exploitation garbage and nothing like this psychological provoking piece of film making . "},{"Title":"The Original Vigilante Movie","Date":"26 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish is a vigilante classic that always gets a hearty mention when a new vigilante thriller like John Wick appears, but surprisingly I have yet to see it even if I seem to 'know' the movie like an old friend. The story is simple - Paul Kesey's wife died and his daughter traumatized by a savage home invasion by hoodlums. The man then becomes the judge, jury and executioner of a seedy New York City overrun by gangsters and thieves, becoming a hero for the city's citizens and the bane of NYC's police force. All the featured hoodlums overact (watch a young Jeff Goldblum do the crazy) and they are all painted in broad strokes. The movie glorifies violence to the Ying Yang and the solution is overly simplified for a hot-button issue, but I can't help myself from enjoying every minute of it. One of the things the movie does very well is how it paints Charles Bronson's character arc. His motivation and learning curve are slowly defined to amazing lucidity. The film also plays to Bronson's strength as a taciturn man with few words. I also enjoyed the cat and mouse game in the last act. One interesting thought at the back of mine is that the film somehow feels like it was suggesting that owning a gun is a symbol of manhood and all problems in the world can be solved by one (or a few ). I know that feeling - I shot a revolver before back in the days and it is damn 'man'! "},{"Title":"Urban western classic.","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The film's initial tempo was a bit too fast to my taste, but as soon as Kersey's 'project' begins, everything goes just smoothly. The soundtrack in itself is beautiful, but for the film it often sounds too 'nice'. And even though Bronson looks like a tough guy from the get-go, unlike a homely father who goes through drastic changes, he does a good job. The last bit, Kersey in his new town Chicago making the gun gesture with his hand, was too much. The rest of the referencing to westerns did work for me, illustrating perfectly how our protagonist becomes more and more a gunslinger;Inspector We want you to get out of New York... Permanently. Kersey Inspector... By sundown?A good 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Classic Bronson!","Date":"3 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I was a kid I used to think Charles Bronson was a really scary man, especially when I would see a few seconds of any Death Wish movie, but watching it now, all I can say is that Bronson is totally awesome. This actually has a decent story, about a man the is wronged by punks when they kill his wife and rape his daughter, and decides that he can no longer just sit by while innocent people are hurt for fun and greed. The action is believable, the police work actually would make sense and Charles Bronson was flat out terrific as the lead. So all in all this is a good tale of justice and revenge, and it has Jeff Goldblum trying to look like a bad ass, which makes it worth seeing all on its own. 4 Beards Out Of 5 "},{"Title":"We gotta let the cops handle this, dad!!!!....","Date":"11 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey is an architect, and a peaceful man. But when his wife and daughter are attacked in their apartment, his world falls apart. His wife is killed and his daughter is in catatonic state. His boss decides that Paul needs to get out of New York so he sends him to Arizona to meet with a client. While there the client, gets Paul interested in guns and gives him one as a gift. When Paul returns, he brings the gun out with him and when a mugger tries to jump him, Paul kills him. After that he goes vigilante. The police are investigating the killings, but the public feels thankful that someone out there is taking a stand......Bronson has been in much better films for sure, but when anybody mentions his name,this is the film that they instantly think of, it's his most iconic role, and despite its exploitation roots, its a pretty high concept movie.It's such a brilliant concept, Bronson gets angry, gets a gun and puts the world to rights. Why should people be scared to walk the streets? Yes, he's breaking the law, but aren't all the comic book movie heroes in theory breaking the law?In fact, this has many similarities to the Batman origin story, family are killed, hero protects the city via the night and the shadows, the only difference is that Kersey kills the bad guys.Its sharp, cold and relentless, easily Winners best movie, and although the sequels stretched the boundaries of realism, they don't tarnish this movie, because they are just over the top action movies (but lots of fun).Its a great movie, lots of fun, and it thankfully answers its own morality, would make a great companion piece with Winners Dirty Weekend, which is just this film but with a lady in the lead. "},{"Title":"Crime and Revenge","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey's (Bronson) wife has been murdered by a street gang of thugs. Paul decides to take matters into his own hands, he becomes a vigilante. He is rightfully angry and seeks justice and revenge for the murder of his wife. Kersey decides to clean up the town - to remove all thugs within the city of New York.This is a good crime thriller - and extremely graphic/violent for 1974, a forewarning to people that cannot watch extreme violence on film.If you like Death Wish the you might like Death Wish 2 or 10 to Midnight (both films are starring Charles Bronson).8/10 "},{"Title":"Bronson's fulfilling their Death Wish!","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson stars in one of his most famous and beloved roles--a role so great, he repeated it for four sequels. WITH A VENGEANCE.Charles plays Paul Kersey, a kind, likable architect whose wife and daughter are attacked in their home by a gang of hoodlums that are never seen again (no seriously--you never see them again. Ever.). The attack results in his wife's death and his daughter's permanent mental scarring.Kersey goes over the edge and becomes what the inept police force uninspiredly name him as 'The Vigilante.' Conflicted with himself as he tries to justify his actions between shootouts with New York hoodlums in underground subways and public parks, Kersey also manages to dodge the police... but for how long?That's pretty much the only plot this movie has, to be honest. Not that much happens in this movie, to be honest. It's a good movie, don't get me wrong. It makes very good points about vigilantism and the blur between revenge and justice, which makes it worth a watch for sure. It's not loud, fast, and noisy like its sequels, but that's a good thing, because then the focus wouldn't be on the story and its conflicting morals, and too much action would just take away from that.It's definitely worth the watch. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Instant classic","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There isn't really that much you can do wrong with a movie when you give Charles Bronson a gun, but even aside from that Death Wish is just tremendous. On the surface it's a pretty straight-forward thriller, but it takes a while before you really notice how many layers it has. Do two wrongs really make a right? Is the instant satisfaction you feel when Paul Kersey blows away another mugger fully justified? The movie gradually transforms into a powerful social commentary, but it never forces a message onto the viewer and just trusts on the audience's intelligence (this was made a while ago...). In the end, you still don't know what you should really feel for Kersey. Most of the time he plays good Samaritan, but eventually he just has so little trouble with killing people that you do start feeling uneasy. Death Wish is drama rather than action, it goes for style rather than body count. And if that's not fully what you're into, there are plenty of shoot-em-up sequels around that are entertaining in their own right. However, this one will always rightfully be considered the best of the franchise. "},{"Title":"Good plot, bad directing","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There were many things wrong with this movie, the directing being the most major one I think. The first issue was the villains. Their sneaking around was pathetically comical. They were slamming their feet on the ground and smashing through doors, in an attempt to be stealthy. Not to mention their lines were pathetic. The scene changes were awkward. Sometimes it would just cut out at a seemingly random point in a scene and insert you into another random point in a scene without any style. Charles Bronson is wooden. He definitely shouldn't have been cast in this role, this movie was meant to be too dramatic for him. For a combat veteran he seemed kind of shaky after fighting off a mugger. Great picture quality for a 70's movie though. Once he starts fighting crime the movie starts becoming better, probably because they shied away from the dramatic scenes which they had no skill in crafting. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Makes you root for the vigilante","Date":"28 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Although 1974's Death Wish spawned a bunch of inferior sequels in the 80s, the original film stands out as an excellent drama/thriller about a bleeding heart liberal man, Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson), who turns to vigilanteism when his wife is murdered and his daughter turned into a vegetable by low-life scum in New York City. As Kersey's victims pile up, a police commissioner (Stephen Elliott) zeroes-in on Kersey as the vigilante.This is a great film that effectively inspires the viewer to root for Paul Kersey and his cause. Like Kersey in the story, we feel frustrated by the injustice of stoo-pid policies that embolden criminals and leave the citizenry open prey. It's not a mindless action film, but more of a drama/thriller. The characters are established and you care about Kersey, his son-in-law (Steven Keats) and daughter (Kathleen Tolan). The viewer observes and understands Kersey's slow transformation into a one-man judge, jury & executioner. Moreover, the film never becomes ludicrously unbelievable, like modern thrillers or action films.The film is short and sweet at a lean 93 minutes and was shot in New York City and Tucson, Arizona.GRADE A "}{"Title":"An architect turns vigilante after his wife and daughter are attacked","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have finally seen this Charles Bronson film from the 70's and I have to say it is pretty good. The problem with this film though is that a lot of the vigilante scenes are the same thing repeated over and over. I can see why the later installments of this franchise got lower scores as they went on as my guess is they all simply rehash the exact same thing for the most part. Here, there are still some interesting elements that are most likely not present in the later movies. Though I cannot see them being too bad, mainly because one still gets to see super tough guy Charles Bronson in action! The story, muggers break into an apartment and kill Paul Kersey's wife and leave his daughter in a near comatose like state. He handles it the best he can; however, he starts to feel a bit of power when he smashes a would be mugger in the face with two rolls of quarters and then during a trip to Texas he fires off a few rounds and ends up getting a gun as a gift for a man he helped down there. He is soon tracking down muggers and gunning them down, leaving the police scrambling to find the vigilante killer; however, even if they apprehend him they may still find themselves with more copycats on their hands.The film is interesting as Paul feels a sense of power when he knocks out a mugger with quarters, but after his first kill he is sick and vomits. Soon, though, he is killing and cannot seem to stop. At the end he even winks and points his finger like a gun at some hooligans in a train station. My guess in the sequels, this transformation is pretty much absent or essentially copied.So, overall a good film, but mainly due to the presence of Charles Bronson. I have seen only a few films of his, but usually he does good in his role even if the movie is not all that great. It was nice to finally see this film as it is one of those vigilante films during this era that was something I wanted to catch. I also want to see that film called, The Exterminator as I hear that one is pretty good too. This one has kills and a pretty good story so I enjoyed it, it just needed a bit more variety here and there as the kills all do seem the same and also the finale could have been done a bit better as well. "},{"Title":"The mother of all vigilante movies and Bronson at his best!","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish once again pairs together the excellent actor/director team of Charles Bronson and director Michael Winner. Bronson is Paul Kersey, a successful businessman and father/husband who's wife and daughter were brutally attacked and raped in a home invasion. Kersey's wife did not survive the attack and his daughter is left in a comatose state and lives in a sanitarium. The culprits of the crime are unlikely to be brought to justice. The bereaved and angry father/husband walks the hard streets of New York City and brings his own brand of justice and retribution. Charles Bronson is brilliant here and shows a wide range of emotions from fear, sorrow, revulsion and anger. In this world of violence Paul Kersey is most certainly not unaffected and in his downward spiral, he is nearly insane by the end of the movie. Forty years later the film still holds up and brought forth several Death Wish sequels that are entertaining action movies, but lack the realism and substance that made Death Wish a stone cold classic. "},{"Title":"The best of the death wish series","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" While today this film is dated it still captures the imagination that it's an American right to bear arms in self defense. It's more then just another action film like the films released today. Bronson plays the part very well his style fits the part well. It's very realistic and doesn't hold back when it shows just how violent rape, and murder can be. I know this film got a lot of criticism about how violent it was very realistic. While the movie progresses the viewer becomes the vigilante Paul Kersey wanting to exact revenge on the criminals who have taken over the city. The movie takes you from emotional lows to highs as Kersey dishes out his form of justice. "},{"Title":"The Best Vigilante Film Ever Made","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first learned about Death Wish, I was very interested and excited about it. Then when I finally watched it, I saw a man who did not go after the exact same people that assaulted his family, but killing any mugger he could find. I just wish that Michael Winner payed for attention towards Brian Garfield's book, because after a little while, I purchased the book off Amazon and found it more interesting than this movie. But above it all, this is a great film about vigilantism. This film can inspire people not to commit vigilantism but to make stories about it. That's what this film has done to me. This movie is just what conservatives would enjoy watching. It should have been the only Death Wish that ever existed! All of the sequels to this film are pointless and horrible! This film will forever change the way people look at crime. As good as it sounds, it is better for us not to become Paul kersey. Crime will end one day. But at least we get to see Charles Bronson take down the bad guys in a unique way! "},{"Title":"The impact has diminished a bit, but it remains a powerful tale of revenge","Date":"12 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" An architect in New York City's life changes forever when his wife & daughter are victims of a home intrusion. His wife (Hope Lange) dies from abuse, while his daughter is molested & raped by a bunch of thugs who act like delivery boys. He becomes a vigilante who kills any street thug that crosses his path. This is a pretty potent experience. I do have some issues with it, but it's a film that sticks with you a bit when all is said and done. Its legacy has diminished a bit, since the storyline has been done quite a few times since the 70's, when this came out, but that doesn't change the fact it's a powerful movie. This was around the time period where the sleazy 70's was at large, and Death Wish falls into that category. I've never agreed with murder, but when somebody kills your wife, and hurts your daughter physically, I think revenge is completely rational. Too many cops don't do enough to solve the case, so I like the Take matters into your own hands thing. Murder isn't the answer? Do your job, and it wouldn't be an issue. This will be controversial on my part, I realize that. The violence is pretty harsh, with vivid rape scenes and nasty gunshot wounds. It still holds up today. I love Charles Bronson. His machismo is highly entertaining, and he does show emotion in this movie, but not enough for my liking. I know his character is supposed to be macho but I was a bit bothered about how he played it so cool at times. There are times where he shows the proper emotion, and times where he is too blasé with it. A bit more balance would have been nice. That criticism aside, Charlie gives a classic performance in this one. The Bronson is always a hoot to watch. In all honesty, nobody else would have done the part justice like he did. I just wish a bit more emotion poured out of him, but maybe I'm being too fickle. I will say him getting sick over his first kill was a nice touch. Vincent Gardenia is great as a nosy detective. Hope Lange does well with her limited role as the wife. Jeff Goldblum & Denzel Washington have minor roles as thugs, pre-stardom. My only huge complaint about this movie is that the original street thugs who killed his wife & hurt his daughter are never caught. Final Thoughts It's a good movie about revenge and vigilantism. I don't condone murder, never have, never will, don't have the stomach for it. But in Paul Kersey's case, I empathized with his plight. It embodies what the 70's were all about. I'd like to see this remade today. Sylvester Stallone was attached at one point, but I think it's been scrapped. This is followed by four sequels, which I haven't seen in years. I'm gonna go revisit them 8.3/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish. What a film. This film rode the tide of admiration for vigilante action against the ones that seem to avoid justice or just plain slip through the cracks. When Paul Kersey's (Bronson) wife and daughter are attacked in their own home, beaten and sexual assaulted by a gang of low life scum, the police and the courts offer no justice. Later after learning to shoot and ditching his liberal values Kersey takes to the streets to dispense some real justice! Now this sure does raise some interesting moral questions, but lets face it, we all back Bronson/Kersey, and maybe even secretly admire his actions, at least to some extent. We know that what he does is wrong, but the 'thrill' of revenge and harsh punishment dealt out to criminals sure carries a hell of a punch. You may be surprised just how relevant and fresh the issues are to modern Britain now. Time to remind yourself just how important a film this is. "},{"Title":"Iconic character","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the culmination of the unease of the crime filled 70's era as society is seen to be in crisis. Architect Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is a liberal in New York City who hasn't held a gun since his father was killed in a hunting accident. Three hooligans break into his home, kill his wife, and rape his daughter. For the first time, he truly sees the dysfunctional city through the ineffectual police and his weak son-in-law. To get a break, he takes a job in Arizona where Paul gets a taste of the Old West ideals. He returns to New York with a gun and a different sense of justice.This tap into an underlying sense of fear in the city and in the wider country. The trip to Arizona broke up the tension after the harrowing home invasion. Maybe they should have shortened it. Maybe they should have had him just watch some old westerns. It was too long of a break. Charles Bronson would create one of the iconic Hollywood characters that would define a decade. And it would define an actor.Watch for Jeff Goldblum as one of the hooligans. "},{"Title":"Charles Bronson Is Paul Kersey.","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Michael Winner directs this controversial & hard-hitting urban vigilante thriller that casts Charles Bronson as architect & family man Paul Kersey, whose life is shattered when his wife and daughter are viciously attacked by degenerate muggers in their apartment. His wife(played by Hope Lange) dies, while his daughter Carol is in a catatonic state of shock. His son-in-law(played by Steven Keats) is helpless and lost over what to do, but after Paul returns from assignment from Arizona, he finds a handgun given to him as a present from his new friend Ames(Stuart Margolin). Driven by frustration and grief, Paul hits the streets of New York, where, to his surprise, he becomes a successful vigilante...though the police are on his trail(led by Vincent Gardenia as Frank O'Choa, quite a memorable character).Hard-hitting and uncompromising drama is extremely well scripted, directed, and acted, tapping into audience rage over rampant crime, and an ineffectual legal system, which saw people cheering the killing of muggers, making the vigilante a hero. Deserves credit for not taking the easy way out, and sticking with its guns(so to speak!) Ending leaves no doubt of that...A huge hit, followed by four sequels. "},{"Title":"Revenge or Justice?","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey, a New York architect and all-around common man, has his wife and daughter attacked by criminals in their apartment his wife is murdered, his daughter is rapped and left traumatized, and the criminals are not caught. His life shattered, he returns from a 'vacation' in Arizona (where he watches an 'Old West' show, where justice was made with guns) with a new mindset to kill criminals at night, as a vigilante.His actions spark the interest of the media as the people of NY start following in his footsteps and fighting back on muggers and burglars. This doesn't bode well with the politics and the police, though, as officer Frank Ochoa (even if he isn't fully unsympathetic to the vigilante's actions) is determined to catch the vigilante.Speaking about the movie itself, it is very good. Charles Bronson is great, one of the best tough guys in cinema history and still far better than most action stars from today. He makes a very good job as the disillusioned Paul Kersey. Vincent Gardenia, as Frank Ochoa, makes an adequate 'nemesis'. The movie is never dull, and quite gripping at most times.The one criticism I have is that the police had no real way to incriminate him, and he knew it, but was still scared. All of his actions WERE technically self-defense, and it wouldn't be difficult to prove at all.However, 'Death Wish' goes beyond just your typical action/cop thriller. At a time when crime was high in big cities, it invited a question most make themselves even today how can we, the 'common citizens', react to crime? Is taking the matter on our hands, resorting to vigilantism, just another crime, or is it another face of justice? It is surprising, how people seem to love vigilantes in pure fiction (like 'Batman') yet they frown on such behavior on a more real situation. How they prefer to place the fault of crime on others, on the corruption of 'society', on politics or even on the poverty, and make the criminals look like the victims. 'They are still people! They have to be treated well, it's not their fault they did what they did!' Like Paul Kersey at the movie's beginning, to the point of being called a 'bleeding-heart liberal'... that is, before his only family ends attacked. Then the 'victims of society' become criminals who deserve death. Yet the movie is not overly one-sided, and actually questions Kersey's morality. His actions are, legally speaking, self-defense he never actually attacks people just for their looks, but waits to be attacked first (he later 'lures' the criminals, though it still is their choice to attack him). But the fact that he made himself into the judge/jury/executioner leads to the understanding that he considers himself above the law, and we see that he is not totally sane at all (his reactions to guns near the beginning, plus the trauma of his wife and daughter being attacked), showcasing another side of the vigilante.How easy is it to go from a righteous self-defense to flat-out murder? How easy is it to lose control? How thin would the line separating crime and justice be in this situation?It is a point for reflection, one that can truly touch the viewer and might even change how he enjoys the film. If you believe his revenge can actually be justice, or if he by the end he became just another criminal... That is a strong discussion. I have my reservations on the subject, truth be told.I liked the film, its violence actually serving a purpose rather than being done just for kicks, the actors brought the needed realism that make it work so well and the action makes it never dull. The 'Taxi Driver' style ending was also quite a nice touch (but unfortunately called sub-par sequels to life). "},{"Title":"Dark, Gloomy and Violent","Date":"9 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is a land developer whose wife is killed and daughter is viciously raped by burglars in his New York City apartment. After burying his wife and seeing his daughter committed to a mental institution, he decides to take the law into his own hands. The considerable press the Vigilante gets results in lower crime rates, but it also increases the pressure upon the police department to apprehend him before the situation gets even more out of control. And as the body count rises so does the pressure. At any rate, I thought both Charles Bronson and Vincent Gardenia (as Inspector Frank Ochoa) put in superb performances and the director (Michael Winner) also did a good job setting the stage for such a dark, gloomy and violent film. Definitely worth a watch for those who enjoy a crime-drama with good action. All things considered I rate this movie as above average. "}{"Title":"Death Kitsch","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Inspired by Dirty Harry and vigilante films, mainly Westerns, Death Wish caused a bit of controversy with its author who didn't appreciate the more heroic portrayal of Paul Kersey (Paul Benjamin in his book) in this film. Death Wish commands a fascination with its audience, and continues to do so, presenting a world where the code of the Old West lowers crime, protects one self and inspires others to do the same as the city and media (including the cops) embrace Paul Kersey as a hero. The movie opens up, as one might expect, with mild mannered Kersey (Bronsan) expressing sympathy for the underprivileged (as he puts it) when a co-worker crows about the rise in crime and his desire to put them all in concentration camps. Once the crime finds it's way to old Charlie's home, he slowly changes his tune and heart (from bleeding to stone cold). Unlike the more exploitative sequels, the original presents a human Kersey that Bronson characterizes at times as scared, excited, courageous, clumsy, vulnerable, cunning, lucky, sloppy and later on possibly crazy. His is an excellent performance, though it may have been better to have had an unlikely gunslinger of the time do this transformation, since we buy Charlie from the get go due to his Westerns (though to be fair, at the time, he wasn't a big star in the US yet, but the UK.) The action is great and this is a very manipulative film the narrative has us cheering ol' Charlie along as he blows away criminal after criminal. Curiously enough, unlike most revenge pictures, he never finds (nor looks for for that matter) his wife and daughter's attackers. He instead bravely uses himself as bait and sets up thugs for slaughter. However, the film wants us to accept that any mugger, who possibly only wanted money and would do you no harm, should be shot and killed even when not carrying a gun. It also presents vigilantism as a solution to crime, very heroically, at odds with Brian Garfield's novel which showed the opposite vigilantism leads to more crime. He wrote a sequel Death Sentence, hoping it would be adapted and restore his message. (It was finally adapted loosely with Kevin Bacon in the lead, decades later and many very exploitative sequels later.) Still, for character, action and crime-victim wish fulfillment, Death Wish is a classic. "},{"Title":"the foundation for a lot of action and crime flicks","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson at his best and it surely but him on the map of fine actors. After Dirty Harry (1981) this was another entry in the revenge flicks that became a classic. The story is rather simple, Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is a nice man who loves his wife. After coming home from a holiday his wife Joanna Kersey (Hope Lange) is mugged at home by 3 punks, one of them is Jeff Goldblum in his first flick. She dies by the wounds and his daughter being raped doesn't become better so he decide to leave New York to Tucson but there guns are nature and he starts shooting again. The joy brings to mind to take revenge in New York. We are only 20 minutes in this flick, from there on it he becomes a one-man vigilante squad killing scum on the streets. For such revenge kind of flick it's low on blood and gore, Two years later Assault On Precinct 13 (1976) became notorious by shooting a child in the head, Last House On The Left (1972) was also a revenge horror that was avoided due it's brutality. Nevertheless it is Bronson that makes this worth watching. But not only that, the theme's used was copied a million times after wards so Death Wish became the foundation together with Dirty Harry for a new genre of crime or action flick. A must see.Gore 0/5 Nudity 1/5 Effects 2/5 Story 4/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Greatest Action Revenge Film Ever?","Date":"14 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A New York City architect (Charles Bronson) becomes a one-man vigilante squad after his wife (Hope Lange) is murdered by street punks in which he randomly goes out and kills would-be muggers on the mean streets after dark.Not only is this the film debut of both Jeff Goldblum and Denzel Washington, it is possibly the greatest revenge film of all time. A mild-mannered veteran -- now working as an architect of all things -- going ballistic? Awesome! I have no idea why I waited so long to see this movie... it kicks all kinds of butt, and presents a very interesting amoral picture. Not immoral, but amoral. Do you cheer him on or hope he gets caught? It is a timeless dilemma. "},{"Title":"They've got a wish... for death!","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Take any right-wing vigilante action movie -- they've existed more or less as long as cinema, but they especially proliferated in the 80s -- and scratch off all of the bells and whistles and what you eventually get will be something like Death Wish. Death Wish is the formula which all of these films rely on understanding and liberal policy gets nowhere, so what's needed is hard violence directed by the right people at the odiously evil criminal class.What's notable about Death Wish is how dressed-down it is Charles Bronson has a weird charisma that largely powers the film, but overall he's just an ordinary guy with a shotgun, and his opponents are an endless array of forgettable thugs. The violence is tame from a contemporary perspective, clean and almost easy, with the exception of one early scene (featuring a young Jeff Goldblum as Freak #1!) The only thing that really seems hyperbolic is the setting, a supposedly contemporary dystopian New York where it seems as though any upstanding citizen gets mugged five times a week.Aesthetically, Death Wish is a mix between the grindhouse and New Hollywood, with its pacing a good deal more cerebral than your usual shoot-'em'-up. I'm not sure if that makes it a better film, given that these are thoughts that are rather silly when presented straight-up. It has a weird sort of charm, especially as a curio of exploitation cinema, and that charm is almost enough to get you to forget how reprehensible the film itself is. Almost. "},{"Title":"We're not Pioneers any more, Dad!","Date":"5 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This Bronson movie asks some of the right questions about vigilantism, but most people will remember it for its action scenes shot in a dark and somewhat dirty New York. It is not a straightforward morality tale, and the protagonist is not punished for his crimes at the end of the story. The truth is, you get to root for Bronson as a mild mannered architect who through personal tragedy discovers the catharsis of violent revenge. The movie doesn't glamorise vigilantism, and through Gardenia's cop weighs the balance of Bronson's revenge against the prospect of law abiding people everywhere taking up arms and settling their own grudges. It's an interesting film, given substance by Bronson and Gardenia, but particularly Bronson, who escalates from helplessness, to anger, to retribution. He is not a hero. He is an ordinary man pushed too far but it all starts to go off the rails when Bronson's deeply personal revenge catches the imagination of New Yorkers and his actions are broadcast on TV. Street crime drops radically. It puts the viewer in an awkward position, because Bronson's Paul Kersey is a sympathetic character, you want him to have his measure of revenge, coupled with the ironic situation that he is seemingly cutting violent crime as muggers and thieves stay off the streets. The prospect of summary justice dispensed by a grief stricken man with a gun should frighten us all, but we can't help sympathising with Kersey who has been badly wronged. Civilised he may be, but there is still a part of him that finds his son in law's solution of cut and run to be the act of a coward. An entertaining movie with good set pieces and action scenes. Bronson is as solid as ever and Gardenia's policeman is one of the stronger points of the film, and the scenes when both actors are on the screen together are credible and watchable. Due to this films success it spawned several sequels, the first Death Wish II coming some twelve years later. However the later films were made for an 80's audience and as a result all of the violence and sex had to be harder and more graphic than even this film to reflect the changes in the viewing public that took place in that twelve year period. This is the original and best, and it turned Bronson into a superstar. "},{"Title":"A Tabloid-Style Vigilante Thriller","Date":"15 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The most attention grabbing tabloid journalism is sensationalist, forthright and very opinionated and it's these qualities that are used to great effect in Death Wish to give the movie its immense power and clarity. Its story about vigilante justice is told in a style which is simplistic and forceful and totally eschews any form of subtlety or equivocation. The circumstances which lead to a decent man becoming a vigilante are portrayed in a way which is calculated to provoke a visceral response and in so doing, justify the movie's pro-gun and pro-vigilante agenda. As Death Wish was made at a time (in the early 1970s) when urban crime was escalating at an alarming rate and the authorities seemed incapable of dealing with the problem, it's easy to understand why these types of views gained some traction.Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is a New York City architect whose comfortable middle-class lifestyle is destroyed after a group of hoodlums break into his upmarket apartment and violently attack his wife and daughter. His wife dies from her injuries and his married daughter slips into a catatonic state and has to be institutionalised.Paul's sympathetic employer sends him on a business trip to Tucson, Arizona where he meets a client called Ames Jainchill (Stuart Margolin). Some years earlier, Paul had given up using guns after a hunter has accidentally killed his father but visits to a gun club with Ames and a staged wild west gunfight at a tourist attraction in Old Tucson revives his interest and when he leaves, Ames gives him a .32 revolver as a present.Back in New York City, Paul develops a compulsion to roam the streets at night armed with his revolver and when he's threatened with being assaulted on a series of occasions, he simply shoots his assailants. His actions gain favourable coverage in the media, the city's crime rate plummets and ordinary citizens start to feel more prepared to fight back against the criminals. All this leaves the police with a dilemma because they have a duty to hunt him down and stop his rampage but if they do, the crime rate is likely to soar again.Films that are shocking at the time of their release generally lose some of their impact after a certain number of years. This isn't the case, however, with the scene in Death Wish where the two women are attacked, as this sequence remains just as harrowing as it ever was.New York City is depicted as an extremely dangerous place and this impression is reinforced by its dark, threatening environment being contrasted strongly with Arizona and Hawaii which are both portrayed as being far more beautiful and salubrious. The fact that, in certain circumstances, a conscientious objector with liberal views can rapidly adopt a diametrically opposite outlook and become a violent killer, also suggests that the veneer of civilisation that most people conform to, is indeed, very thin and fragile.Paul is a man who's quiet and likable and lives in a period of time when men were not encouraged to express their feelings in the way that they are today. His stoicism is typical of what was expected of men in his circumstances and the internalisation of his emotions is reflected very powerfully in Charles Bronson's wonderfully measured performance. "},{"Title":"Did you notice the thugs at the start of the movie are never killed (or even seen again)?","Date":"21 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish is an old-fashioned vigilante movie. Unlike vigilante movies made today, It's less about shooting criminals than it is about justice and the law. Also, if you've seen this movie, you may notice the thugs who attack Kersey's family are never killed or seen again? That, to me, is very questionable. It's nice to see other criminals being shot to death, but they aren't really at fault (other than just being criminals). The thugs (one of them played by Jeff Goldblum) who attacked the two women should have been part of the entire movie (or at least the important parts), not the miscellaneous ones. If you like your Death Wish movies more violent, start with the sequel instead. "},{"Title":"Cathartic wish fulfilment","Date":"19 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey, trying to rebuild his life after his wife is murdered in the source of a burglary at their apartment, has cause to shoot and kill someone who attempts to mug him some months later. He comes to the conclusion that this was a good thing, and there is no reason why it shouldn't happen again...Michael Winner comes in for a lot of criticism as a director in this case, he and frequent colleague Charles Bronson have made a film which, while superficially a simple revenge thriller, goes beyond that in addressing causes of and consequences of vigilantism without coming to any glib conclusions, and does so in a way which has the audience rooting for Kersey's damaged protagonist - contemporary audiences were cheering in cinemas.And Bronson, customarily so impassive, is very good here. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was born in 1976, and I am a big movie fan, but I have never seen this movie until tonight in May, 2010, so it was a big experience. I've heard a lot about it, and I guess Taxi Driver is a sort of similar story. Moreover, Charles Bronson had before this movie appeared in such classics as The Twilight Zone. Anyway, I Death Wish (Danish translation A man sees red) is a very interesting take on emotions such as anger and sorrow. It is not nice to watch some of the scenes, even today it is a very violent movie, and I kept thinking about some of the real events of the 1970s while watching it. In that way, it is very realistic and still holds up today. I would say it is a fairly realistic description of how a man like that might deal with trauma and loss. "},{"Title":"Will satisfy your craving for violence!","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'd like to say I'm a chin scratching intellectual who would rather sit around listening to smooth jazz music and reading Tolstoy's War and Peace than watch a movie about a guy who shoots up New York City, but I can't say that. I like to see movies like this with non stop action and violence. The truth is, this is my kind of movie. And it's not even completely senseless violence,either. This is the story of Paul Kersy a man who has his family life ruined by three thugs(one of them Jeff Goldblum, in an early role.) The thugs rape his daughter and kill his wife. Kersy slowly changes his view on guns, from hating them to carrying one around with him at all times. He becomes a vigilante/city hero by blowing holes through the criminals of New York City,killing any who attempt to mug him. This movie is a bit slow moving, but has no pointless scene, every moment adds to the story. And, while the scenes of Kersy shooting the scum of New York almost never seem to end, they never get boring either. The message of this films seems to be that vigilante justice cleans up crime and is more effective than lawful justice, while the book it's based on says vigilante justice only adds more crime. Any way you look at this film, you will see it is thought provoking and action packed. "}{"Title":"Charles Bronson's Signature Role","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the movie that made Charles Bronson a real star, and Paul Kersey undoubtedly is the one and only character that he's going to be remembered for into the distant future. That doesn't, of course, mean that Charles Bronson is an especially good actor, but it does mean that he had a signature role. Death Wish fits in with the general theme of a lot of movies made around the same time. Network (1976) was a biting caricature of television and the dumbing down of society; Rocky (1976) celebrated the underdog at a time when the underdogs felt crushed; Death Wish - made a couple of years earlier - is the feel good movie for those who are (if I might steal a line from Network) mad as hell and ... won't take it anymore. Those are three very different movies from the same era, all seeming to deal with roughly the same issues. Death Wish may not be as good as the other two, but it tries to strike roughly the same chord in the viewer, although it approaches the subject from a different angle.Death Wish is the ultimate (well, at least the first to really capture the popular imagination) modern vigilante movie. In the 70's the perception was that crime was out of control and criminals were running the streets and the police had no control over anything. Paul Kersey becomes a victim. After a short opening in which it's made clear that Paul and his wife are a normal, happy and loving couple, the madness begins. After Paul and Joanna (Hope Lange) return to their New York City home from a vacation, Joanna and daughter Carol (Kathleen Tolan) are attacked by thieves and rapists. Joanna dies and Carol is left as a vegetable - as she's so delicately referred to. After a business trip to Arizona, where Paul (a self- confessed bleeding heart liberal and conscientious objector who served in a medical unit n Korea) is introduced to the gun culture where people look after themselves and there's no muggers as a result, Paul returns to New York and becomes an increasingly enthusiastic vigilante, eventually searching out and tempting muggers to go after him so that he can take them out. In the process he becomes a popular hero; an inspiration to others who also start to fight back, and a problem for the police - who want him to stop, but who don't want to arrest him because he has in fact lowered the crime rate by his actions, and they want the criminals to think he might still be out there!The movie deals with a lot of issues - gun control, vigilante justice, out of control crime, and a police department that seems far more concerned with finding the vigilante than with dealing with the criminals the vigilante is dealing with. (I'm not meaning to support the idea of vigilante justice with that last comment, only pointing out the inherent irony.) So there are issues galore, although there's no in- depth analysis offered to any of these issues. They're dealt with on the surface; used as a backdrop for a movie which is not a social analysis of any sort. It's a movie made to appeal to those who were sick to death of not being able to walk the streets at night without fear of being mugged, raped or killed. There's also not too much here by way of actual story. The story is guy's family gets attacked; guy seeks vigilante justice. Aside from Paul himself, there's really no character development; no significant background offered to anyone. In the end, Death Wish is part of what might be called a mid-70's genre focusing on the little guy and his need to stand up against the big bad society in which he lives. Paul Kersey will never be Rocky Balboa or even Howard Beale, and Charles Bronson will never be Peter Finch or even Sylvester Stallone. But this movie fits in with that concept, and Dino De Laurentiis clearly believed it would strike a chord, because the last scene in the movie is possibly the most obvious set-up for a sequel ever filmed! (Although for some reason the sequel ended up being set in LA rather than Chicago, which you would have expected.) The movie definitely touched a nerve at the time, although it lacked the staying power and continued appeal of the other mid 70's era movies that I've mentioned. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Asks the right questions, but gives the wrong answers","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The plot of this film is a simple one. After an attack by robbers leaves his wife Joanna dead and his daughter Carol seriously injured, Paul Kersey takes his gun and goes out looking for revenge. That could, of course, be the plot of a Western; there were innumerable Westerns based upon a similar revenge theme, such as True Grit or Hannie Caulder to take only two examples from the previous five years. The difference is that Paul Kersey is not living in the Wild West of 1874 but in the New York City of 1974 where he works as an architect. Death Wish was probably the first film (although far from the last) to take this theme and place it in a modern urban setting. Moreover, Kersey does not just swear vengeance on the three men responsible for the original attack but rather becomes a vigilante waging war on the criminal fraternity as a whole, especially muggers.The film was a highly controversial one when it first came out. The controversy was partly due to the extreme levels of violence depicted, especially during the initial attack on Joanna and Carol. (Joanna is beaten up and then forced to watch her daughter being raped). Such levels of violence were, however, not unprecedented in the cinema of the mid-seventies; Peckinpah's Straw Dogs, for example, which features a similarly violent rape scene, had come out three years earlier.What made Death Wish especially controversial was that it was widely (and, it must be said, with some justification) interpreted as advocating vigilantism. Comparisons were made (and continue to be made) with another movie from the period which was also criticised for its advocacy of uncompromising methods in the fight against crime, Don Siegel's Dirty Harry. Yet there is, in my view, a difference between the two films. Harry Callahan's strong-arm methods may exceed his legal powers as a police officer, but he only goes beyond those limits when innocent lives are at stake.Paul Kersey, by contrast, is not a police officer but a civilian, and he cold-bloodedly guns down his victims not in order to save the innocent but in order to take revenge. Some at least of his killings might, legally, be justified as self-defence (he never opens fire until his assailants have drawn a gun or a knife on him), but what can be justified legally cannot always be justified morally. Whatever liberals might say, it is possible to find a moral justification for Dirty Harry's behaviour (at least in the original film; some of its sequels, especially Sudden Impact, are more questionable). It would not be so easy to find a moral justification for Paul Kersey.Despite the film's dubious ethical stance (it never condemns Kersey's behaviour), it achieved considerable success, probably because it caught the mood of the public in the seventies. In his review of the film, Roger Ebert argued that the New York shown in the film doesn't look like 1974, but like one of those bloody future cities in science-fiction novels about anarchy in the twenty-first century, but in the 1970s, a period of sharply rising crime, many people really did believe that in America's cities, especially New York, every shadow holds a mugger; every subway train harbours a killer; the park is a breeding ground for crime (to quote Ebert again). The film's criticisms of the police also struck a chord with the public. The police, exemplified by Lt. Frank Ochoa, the officer leading the hunt for the vigilante, seem not only unable to cope but also uncaring. They seem far more anxious to pursue the vigilante than to catch Joanna's murderers, the reason being that his crimes are a news story, and therefore politically sensitive, whereas her death is a mere statistic. They are also prepared to falsify the crime figures for political reasons and finally, when the have worked out that Kersey is the vigilante, to allow him to go unpunished at the behest of the city's District Attorney.This was the film that was to define the careers of both its director Michael Winner and its star Charles Bronson. Following its success both men, especially Bronson, became increasingly associated with violent action thrillers until it became almost impossible to imagine Bronson in anything else. Perhaps Winner's best-known film before Death Wish was the Western Lawman, another action-thriller but one which took a more subtle moral position and questioned the code of the West with its emphasis on honour and revenge. It is perhaps therefore ironic that three years later he was to be responsible for a film which advocated the extension of that code to modern urban America.Bronson is better here than he was in the Dirty Harry clone The Stone Killers, also directed by Winner, but he has never been my favourite actor and his lack of emotional range handicaps him here. Kersey is, after all, a former pacifist driven to kill by rage and grief, but Bronson's habitual icy demeanour does not suggest a man in the grip of uncontrollable emotions. And yet in many ways this is not a bad film. The action sequences are well handled and Winner brings to the film some surprisingly deft touches. The action takes place in winter and the shots of a bleak, snowbound city, especially during Joanna's funeral, do more to suggest Kersey's inner state of mind than does Bronson's acting. The film does at least ask some tough questions about crime and law and order, even if it ultimately comes to the wrong conclusions. It is a pity that its reputation has been affected by all those inferior sequels. 6/10 "},{"Title":"somebody please explain","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Can anyone explain how Vincent Gardenia's character (the detective) enters Bronson's house without a warrant?that's illegal search and seizurei was born in '81, so I don't know if that was legal in new york at the time, i doubt it.in dirty harry, which was made before this movie that's how the killer got off the first time he got caught.I really liked death wish up until that point. I have a hard time getting over sh*# like that. That's a huge plot hole.somebody please explain this. Did I miss something? or are fans of this movie really that ignorant? again, I doubt it. But how did this movie become a cult classic with such a gaping hole? "},{"Title":"Has become a totem for those denied justice.................","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...which,statistically,is about 90% of victims of recorded crime and - obviously - 100% of those too frightened or cynical to go to the police. Death Wish divided the country into liberals or those who had already been mugged/burgled/assaulted and were either victims of police indifference/inefficiency or of the justice system's reluctance to deal effectively with criminals who preyed on the vulnerable. Liberals,with characteristic intellectual arrogance,poured scorn on the movie.It was fascist( an adjective also bestowed on Don Seigel's masterpiece Dirty Harry),populist,racist and several other of the Highgate Mafia's favourite -ists all at the same time. Never mind the statistics carefully gathered by director Michael Winner that the majority of muggings at the time in New York were committed by Hispanics or African - Americans,often against their own communities,and that Hispanics and African - Americans cheered as loudly as anyone else in the theatres when Mr C.Bronson took the law away from those who had for too long been sheltering behind it. Despite being called immoral,it is in fact a highly moral movie. One man is doing what should be the task of any government ; ensuring that its innocent citizens can conduct their lives peaceably and without fear of violent assault. 30 - odd years later we can look at a Britain awash with gun and knife crime,where an underclass has been bred unrestrained by any fear of legal interference in their culture of contempt for the rest of society and its laws,where a government who pledged to be Tough on crime - tough on the causes of crime continues to whimper ineffectually at socially inept parenting and roll out the Human Rights Act at every opportunity in order to justify it's unwillingness to meet its obligations to those who voted it into power. One day soon Death Wish may be coming to a street near you,and if it does Mr Michael Winner will not be to blame. Mr C.Bronson and Mr V.Gardenia are both oustanding as the vigilante and the police chief hunting him down.New York looks as cold and threatening as it undoubtedly was.Now it is one of the safest big cities in the world,and you can bet that change was not achieved by wholesale implementation of the Human Rights Act,a legislative tool originally designed to protect those imprisoned in totalitarian regimes,not drug - addled criminals with sub - zero I.Q.s and Legal Aid briefs. The Establishment and the media hate Michael Winner because he does not conform to their idea of what a movie director should do i.e. make movies that they approve of.Ken Loach or Terence Davies he ain't. All the more reason on my book to cherish him - The Last of The Independents. "},{"Title":"A powerful film, all these years later","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish can be viewed on two different levels. On one level, it's a superb thriller and a social commentary on the condition of New York City in that grim, post-Vietnam, post-Altamont, Watergate era in which we saw a considerable increase in violent crime. But on another level, it's a character study of a man whose personal politics change considerably after his family is victimized by exactly the type of people he would have previously been quick to defend. At the beginning of the movie, one of Paul Kersey's co-workers accuses Paul of being a bleeding-heart liberal, to which Paul replies, Sure, my heart bleeds a little for the underprivileged. Minutes later, we see Paul Kersey's family destroyed by examples of these poor, underprivileged souls. Once the reality of this tragedy sinks in, Paul Kersey's apparent mental deterioration begins, and we see him resort to the type of violence that he was once repulsed by. Interesting.The pros and cons of vigilante justice have been debated at length, so I don't want to continue that debate. But consider this as United States citizens, we have the right to walk the streets of our cities at any time of day our night without fear of being victimized by a criminal. That's exactly what Paul Kersey was doing in every scene of the film where he was set upon by muggers, and if he wasn't carrying that gun, he is the one who would have ended up dead, not the muggers. Just a little food for thought.This movie was considered highly controversial and violent when it was first released, and remains powerful all these years later. My father-in-law, a retired New York City police officer who witnessed and experienced a great deal of violence during his career, once told me that he was so disgusted by the rape scene that he walked out of the theater during the film's original theatrical release. I think that speaks volumes about the film's impact. It's too bad that Bronson found it necessary to make all those TERRIBLE sequels. He was obviously in it for the money. "},{"Title":"Urban Nightmare","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The sequels are all pretty seedy and somewhat laughable. This movie, however, packs a punch. Bronson is very believable as a liberal pacifist turned angel of death. I do find it hard to believe the NYPD would focus all of their efforts on locating a vigilante when so many other crimes are going unsolved -- including the murder of Bronson's wife! NYC comes across as a very scary place, and in the 1970s, it probably was. Never mind the hip NYC depicted in Annie Hall, this Big Apple is pretty rotten. The film opens with Bronson and wife on an idyllic Hawaiian vacation. When they return, the shot of the city's smoggy skyline reflects a sense of dread. A very effective movie and one of Bronson's best. "},{"Title":"What  A lot of Us Would Like To Do","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish is a film that can be brutally honest. For the time, I can see why this film was so famous and sparked many sequels. Here we have the story of a man named Paul Kersey, an architect and has many liberal views on the world. When he and his wife come back from vacation his whole life is turned upside down. After his wife and daughter leave a grocery store near their home, three hoods follow them and rape his daughter and murder his wife. This sparks something in Paul. After noticing that the police were doing nothing to find the hoods who committed this crime, Paul takes the law into his own hands and becomes a vigilante.I really enjoyed this movie. Charles Bronson is always a lot of fun to watch even if it seems that he doesn't put a lot of emotion into his acting. Vincent Gardenia plays the detective who is out to stop the vigilante crimes and he also plays his part well, as always. We even get to see a very young Jeff Goldblum near the beginning of the movie playing one of the hoods.What makes Death Wish such a fun movie to watch is simply seeing Paul Kersey taking the law into his own hands. You really end up cheering him on. He is better then any other fictional type of vigilante because he seems like a really human being. He doesn't run around in a Bat suit or has to cover his identity. He is almost the all American man who has just taken enough of sitting around and feels compelled to do something about the crime all around him.Unfortunately, other then the second Death Wish movie, the rest of them are just jokes. They take away from the seriousness of what this movie was meant to be. Not to say that they aren't enjoyable, if you like seeing Charles Bronson blow people away with bazooka's and take on the mob and what not.If you like this movie you should check out Falling Down. Another great vigilante movie, but with a sense of humor. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Vigilante Justice!","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish is one of the films for which star Charles Bronson will be best remembered. Having been in Europe for several years, this was Bronson's first big starring role hit on his return to the USA.After Paul Kersey (Bronson) and his wife Joanna (Hope Lange) return from vacation, tragedy strikes. Three thugs (Jeff Goldblum, Christopher Logan, Gregory Rozakis) follow Joanna and the Kersey's daughter Carol (Kathleen Tolan) home from the super market. A violent encounter ensues in which Joanna is killed and Carol is raped.Carol's husband Jack (Steven Keats) conveys the news to Kersey and the two rush to the hospital. After learning of his wife's death, Kersey becomes despondent and is sent to Arizona for a change of scene. There, he meets fellow architect Ames Jainchill (Stuart Margolin) and the two become friends. Jainchill gives Kersey a gift as he leaves.On his return home, Kersey learns that his daughter has become a vegetable. While unpacking Kersey discovers that the gift from his friend is a revolver. With the police making no progress in finding his wife's killers, Kersey reluctantly takes matters into his own hands.While walking home one night, Kersey is confronted by a mugger whom he kills. Although shaken by the fact that he has killed, Kersey begins to revel in his role as the Vigilante and soon is responsible for more killings. As the Vigilante becomes a local hero, the police assign Inspector Frank Ochoa (Vincent Gardenia) to the case.Bronson evokes some sympathy as the first distraught Kersey and later as the vigilante killer. While never a serious threat for an Academy Award, he does give one of his best performances here. Gardenia on the other hand, as the sniffling detective steals the picture.Other recognizable faces include William Redfield as Kersey's friend and co-worker and Christopher Guest, Olympia Dukakis, Lawrence Hilton-Jacobs, Paul Dooley and Hank Garrett in various small roles. Also, for fans of TV's Sesame Street, watch for Maria (Sonia Manzano) as a cashier in the super market sequence.Followed by four sequels. "},{"Title":"Charismatic Clunkiness","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is not much about the first Death Wish film that you could call smooth. The story, although still relatively unusual for 1974, has very transparent politics, made so by a lot of awkward and awkwardly delivered dialogue. Beyond the politics, there's not a lot to the story, really. The performances tend to range from amateurish to generic television-style for that era. The same could be said of the directing, cinematography, and just about everything else.However, for the right audience, there's a lot of charm in the film, and a cheesy clunkiness is part of it. Of course, so is star Charles Bronson, who is not really cheesy or clunky or a bad actor, but just a very strange one by this point in his career, beginning a particular-kind-of-fan cherished path that will consist of very unusual choices for vehicles. Unusual because he seemed to look for these kinds of cheesy, clunky crime films from this point. Bronson, who looked increasingly odder as time went on, has an almost ineffable anti-hunk charisma. Someone like him would probably never get a role like this if this film were being made today, and he's probably the definition of wooden as an actor, but a lot of other people and I love him. Just like overacting, I don't think that woodenness is inherently a flaw--it depends on just how someone does it, and Bronson does it with style. Of course, that a guy who looks and acts like Bronson does here chooses the actions that he does in this film is part of what makes it effective--he's not the typical kind of guy to all of a sudden become a tough, near-invincible vigilante.Death Wish is firmly mired in 1974. It plays and looks very dated. New York City in the 1970s had a funky, squalid, crime-ridden, but also charming feel that this film (and lots of others, ranging from Taxi Driver (1976) to Basket Case (1982)) captures very well. I love the production design on Bronson's character's apartment--with its creamsicle-orange walls and trashy silver and daisy wallpaper.You get to see Jeff Goldblum in his first role, playing what only Broadway might think is a passable freak/punk, and Christopher Guest in one of his earlier roles briefly playing a very middle of the road cop. The music is also worth noting, partially because Herbie Hancock did it and partially because it blends so much into the woodwork that you'd not notice it if the credits didn't tell you it was him. "},{"Title":"Wishing you were here...to kill.","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey(Charles Bronson) has just gotten back from his vacation with his wife Joanna(Hope Lange) however little does he know that tragedy is about to hit and when muggers follow Kersey's wife and daughter home from the grocery store which ultimately leads to the death of Joanna, Paul's grief turns into vigilante justice which makes him a public hero despite the cops' plea for him to stop and turn himself in. Death Wish came out when I was still a baby so I unfortunately missed it in theaters and it wasn't until I saw Death Wish 3 that I had any interest to watch the series and was indeed surprised at just how intense and well made this movie was. Indeed the movie is not unlike The Terminator in it's impact. It features a brutal pace and action sequences which border on the frighteningly intense. Bronson is of course in great form and he pulls off the part with a performance of such change that you would indeed be surprised in comparing this performance to his non-acting in the subsequent entries. Death Wish though is a bona fide genre classic and I think deserves to be watched at least once. (I think the third one deserves this fate as well.) * * * * out of 4-(Excellent) "}{"Title":"Pretty good movie!","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish is a movie from the 70's that was based on a book. It was so popular, that it had four sequels. This is Death Wish, and it's the only movie in the Death Wish series that critics don't bash. Death Wish II was bad, Death Wish 3 was a great comedy, Death Wish 4 was OK, and Death Wish 5 was bad. Death Wish isn't non-stop action like Death Wish 3. It's not a comedy like Death Wish II and Death Wish 3. It's a good 90 minute movie starring the late Charles Bronson. It starts off on the beach where Paul Kersey(Bronson) and his wife(some actress) are having fun in the sun. Paul is taking pictures of his wife and they're having a jolly good time. But then, they go back home to the crappy crime-filled streets of New York. Everything's all dirty and grimy and gross. Paul's wife goes grocery shopping and some thugs follow her home. They knock on the door and say that they're delivering the groceries. She lets them in and they rape her and her daughter. It's a gruesome scene. Paul's wife dies. He wants revenge. He gets mugged, but he pulls out a gun and shoots the mugger. So throughout the movie, he's shooting muggers. It's a very entertaining movie. Good for any Bronson fan. It gets an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Brutal, forceful genre material","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson and director Michael Winner became synonymous with vigilante cinema for a while because, quite simply, they hit creative and financial paydirt with this. The story is simplistic and the execution is straightforward, but Bronson's Paul Kersey struck a chord with a public fed up with rising street crime and a justice system hamstrung by liberal legalities.Kersey is an incredibly likable vigilante, a father and husband whose life is changed by the brutal violation of those closest to him. Realizing that the police are unable to stem the rising tide of crime, he buys himself a gun and goes looking for the men who destroyed his family. The movie IS his revenge. But in addition to his personal mission of vengeance, Kersey deliberately baits assorted street thugs in order to kill them. As a result, he becomes a hero to the impotent authorities and, ultimately, a dangerous role model who must be tethered.Winner has a heavy-handed, forceful style that suits brutal genre material like this. Accompanied by Herbie Hancock's driving, literal score, he delivers a taut thriller that plays well to a blood-hungry audience eager to lap up quick cinematic murder.Bronson is his usual stalwart self, conveying both friendliness and callous regard for human life with a look here, a grimace there. Most of the street scum, including a debuting Jeff Goldblum, are one-dimensional and mean-spirited, while the victims of their harassment are either old, innocent or naive.As nasty as Hollywood flicks get and not modest in its ambitions, this first Death Wish is a keeper. "},{"Title":"Paul Kersey, Urban Cowboy","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Whether fans of Charles Bronson like it or not, the now-departed actor will be best remembered for his gig as Paul Kersey, that pop icon who created a sensation when 'Death Wish' first hit the screens in 1974. Having already made his name in such films as 'The Magnificent Seven,' 'Once Upon a Time in the West,' and 'The Dirty Dozen,' Bronson's quiet demeanor proved an ideal fit for this Dino De Laurentiis-produced trailblazer.'Death Wish' was a timely film, as many American cities were swamped in high crime rates. New York City was a shining example of urban decay, with its government bankrupt and public services heavily cut. The NYC Police Department had an aging and ineffective staff, school teachers were being laid off by the hundreds, sanitation was on the wayside, and the city's roads, bridges, and subways were falling to pieces. The drug trade was entering full steam and pimps were going about their business 24 hours a day. Violent crime was taking place in every neighborhood and murders occurred by the dozen each week. Subway trains were popular work sites for muggers and Central Park became a gunned-out, graffiti-infested battle zone that wasn't approachable at any time of day, let alone at night.A cross-country rise in urban squalor led to the vigilante film of post-Vietnam War America, with 'Death Wish' as its spearhead. Loosely based on Brian Garfield's novel, the film makes use of themes from old-time Westerns, transporting them to 1970s New York City, where a similar lawlessness had taken hold. 'Death Wish' was very much a potboiler of its time, offering a quick release for those dealing with endless crime and failing bureaucracies.Most film-goers already have a basic idea of the plot. Paul Kersey (Bronson) is a middle class architect who lives in Manhattan. He is politically a liberal who sympathizes with the poor and despises violence. This all changes, however, when his wife Joanna (Hope Lange) and daughter Carol (Kathleen Tolan) are attacked by three punks who break into their apartment. Joanna is fatally beaten while Carol is raped and left mentally incapacitated, ending up in a sanatorium on Long Island.The scum having gotten away with their crimes, Kersey plunges into helplessness until he visits a Tuscan land developer named Ames Jainchill (Stuart Margolin), who is the stereotypical gunslinger with a Dodge boasting longhorns and cow-patterned seat covers. Kersey is introduced to quieter surroundings, where people seem in harmony with the land. He visits Jainchill's gun club one evening out of curiosity and reveals excellent shooting skills that were passed on by his father. His architectural work complete, Kersey returns to New York with a .32 caliber as his going-away present and begins to walk the streets at night, in search of lowlifes to mow down.Three decades removed from when 'Death Wish' first appeared and with crime rates hitting their lowest levels in forty years, we can now look at the film's viewpoints with a clearer head. There are many elements of 'Death Wish' that are sensationalized and white-hot, which cause the film to lack a true balance of opinion and place it at risk of becoming a cheap shoot-'em-up. For all of its political sentiment, 'Death Wish' only touches the surface of important questions. We are never asked to find realistic solutions to our crime problem, nor does the film discuss major issues like the role of police in American life, gun control, and correcting flaws in our justice system. Instead, issues are thrown around just to move the plot forward or create the impression that 'Death Wish' is more socially relevant than it actually is.Many of the characters who surround Bronson are underdeveloped and only serve as touts for extreme views of the political spectrum. Inspector Ochoa, while played strongly by Vincent Gardenia, is the typical rogue cop, loving his own ugliness and begrudgingly going about his job; Paul's work colleague Sam (William Redfield) spurts off about locking the poor in concentration camps; and Jainchill (Margolin), the most important supporting role, is a quintessential NRA member who places guns in the same category as spoons, hammers, and ballpoint pens Just a tool. These characters are so exaggerated that it's impossible for Kersey not to look an out-and-out hero, the man with some grounding in a world of outrageous contradiction.Having pointed out these flaws, there are certain elements of 'Death Wish' that will survive the test of time. The storyline of Paul Kersey is compelling and will always receive a great deal of sympathy from those who watch it. Kersey's ordeal is a believable one and we cannot help but root for him as he cases the dark streets night after night, looking to somehow vindicate what has been done to his family. As long as there are crimes and victims of crime, 'Death Wish' is guaranteed a willing audience.Michael Winner has been a target of criticism for his other films, including two ridiculous 'Death Wish' sequels. Winner does some of his best work in the original, however, making effective use of that jarring, 'in-and-out' style he is known for. His directing is fairly good in this one, with help from Wendell Mayes' tight screenplay. The score by jazz composer Herbie Hancock creates a sense of doom from the outset. Editing and continuity are also pluses. Technically speaking, the film is nicely stitched together.Hope Lange and Kathleen Tolan appear briefly, but deserve a great deal of credit for acting out the robbery scene that is sickening to watch; Jeff Goldblum (in his film debut), Christopher Logan, and Gregory Rozakis are convincing as the hoods. The only blemish is Steven Keats, playing Kersey's son-in-law Jack (why he calls Joanna and Paul 'Mom' and 'Dad' is never explained). Keats is rather annoying as the whiny, browbeaten relative, probably due to his weak position in the script.*** out of 4 "},{"Title":"The Sadistic Gun-Toting Satirical Monolith","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's hard to imagine Michael Winner was once a fine filmmaker (Lawman, The Sentinel), yet somewhere along the way his career took a strange Faustian detour - the man became a corporate whore. Death Wish 2 and Death Wish 3 would look bad in the filmography of the worst of the worst straight-to-video hacks, to think that Winner helmed these smoking turds is more than a little troubling. It's even more tragic that the only film to bring Winner a slight glimmer of critical appraisal was the sick British Death Wish gender-reversing Dirty Weekend. Nevertheless, perhaps we should cut the man a little slack, though while he probably spends his spare time rolling his fat naked carcass around in hundred dollar bills, he did manage to squeeze out one undeniable classic - the first and best Death Wish. There are many who are offended by the politics of this film, reading it as no-brain successor to Walking Tall, yet the film is clearly a very bleak (though not entirely unrealistic) satire. I find no need to regurgitate the plot, we all know how Jeff Goldblum flashes his naughty bits and startles Paul Kersey's daughter into a state of perpetual vegetation. And while the original novel inarguably contained more bite in terms of social commentary, there is a heavy dose of dark humour inherent in the film, just look to the scene where a news report shows an old lady defeating a gang of thugs with a knitting needle. This isn't easy humour, this is the mediocrity of the international media machine.This isn't an easy film to return to in a post-Columbine world; it's a film so politically incorrect, yet with the continuing politics and influence of Charlton Heston and the NRA, strangely politically correct also. Its also troubling in that while the actions of Bronson's character were deemed necessary in the first film and aided the depiction of struggling in a city gone completely awry (the film is in many ways is the brutal though less-pointed cousin to Little Murders, which also happened to star Vincent Gardenia) the fact that Winner helmed the two ridiculous, commentary-free sequels makes one question what his original approach to the material actually was in the first place. Be that as it may, Death Wish is a great film, with Winner's haunting use of wide-angle photography and Herbie Hancock's score still resonating with power to this day. If they remake this one with The Rock, I'm denouncing God and moving to the mountains.   "},{"Title":"The best of the series","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've seen most, if not all of the Death Wish movies and also most of Charles Bronson's films, and the first Death Wish still stands out among them all.  Like the other reviewer said, The First, the Best- I agree.  It was a new plot line that took the viewing public by surprise and why the film did so well at the box office. I have my own copy of it and I've watched it several times, and am about to watch it again. Its the middle of winter here and theres a big snow storm a couple hours away- what better time to stay inside and watch some good movies.  "},{"Title":"Complex Social Commentary","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fueled with an insightful, intelligent, and probing screenplay, Michael Winner embarks on a process of examination in DEATH WISH. When his wife and daughter become the victims of a brutal crime, bleeding liberal Paul Kearsey (Charles Bronson) decides to take justice into his own hands.  Becoming a street vigilante, he defends himself from muggers, fires upon thugs, and kills anyone that attempts to harm him.  Nonetheless, Winner refuses to glamorize such violence and, in one instance, shows Kearsey vomiting after shooting a pretty thief.  In the end, questions are raised if the police can't defend us, who can?  If we take to the streets, who will win?  And, most importantly, what does violence accomplish?     "},{"Title":"Bronson best role","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The original & arguably the best of all vigilante films!! Charles Bronson is a knee jerk lib, until a trio of scumbags (including a young Jeff Goldblum) rape his daughter and murder his wife, then he becomes a vigilante. I have a confession to make, I never saw any of the Death Wish movies before. I've been meaning to for a while now, but nope, never got around to it till today. With that out of the way. Death Wish 1 is a pretty good flick. Well it starts off good at least & was enjoyable through most of it, but the ending was a tad too silly.My GradeA-Where i saw it 5 Star Max "},{"Title":"The film every revenge flick tried to duplicate.","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Charles Bronson in one of his most notorious roles, as mild-mannered NYC detective Paul Kersey, who is driven to homicidal vigilante rampage against muggers after his daughter is raped and his wife beaten and killed by a group of hoodlums.  Every single revenge movie (including the four sequels to this one) tried to duplicate the success of DEATH WISH, few succeeded.  Chilling and irresistible.MPAA Rated R for strong violence including a graphic rape scene, language, and brief nudity. "},{"Title":"Classic Bronson","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was the film that Charles Bronson will be most remembered for - nobody else could have played his role in quite the same way. His style was distinctive, and the man of action and few words fitted the bill perfectly. The plot is simple and gets off to a rather slow start, but is worth bearing with as Bronson turns from liberal-minded architecht into cold blooded vigilante.Almost every scene in New York is desolate, devoid of scenery, carefully shot to show an empty shell of a city. There is very little dialogue, but no dialogue is needed - for Bronson, actions speak louder than words. Yes, there is a politcal agenda to Michael Winner's direction - but who really wants to empathise with the muggers and the rapists anyway?Some have argued that Death Wish II is a better film, but this was the original and needs to be seen first. This is where the legend began, Bronson never looked better. "},{"Title":"Interesting, disturbing character study that's unpleasant and graphic in detail, but packs a wallop","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson stars as a New York architect whose life is shattered after his wife (Hope Lange) is killed and daughter (Kathleen Tolan) raped by three lowlife thugs. Upset about the police making very little or no effort in catching the criminals, he decides to take the law into his own hands by waging a one-man war against muggers. Not only does his brand of justice make him a media hero, but it also attracts the attention of the police detective (Vincent Gardenia) assigned to the case.Based on the novel by Brian Garfield, this is an interesting, disturbing character study that's unpleasant and graphic in detail, but packs a wallop. Bronson's performance is effective as a bleeding heart liberal who slowly transforms into a hero that most people deserve (especially those who can't fight back). Herbie Hancock's score is very moody and atmospheric. Look for Jeff Goldblum (in his debut) as one of the thugs responsible for the senseless attack on Bronson's family. Followed by four low-grade sequels and countless imitations (some of them with Mr. Bronson). My evaluation **½ out of **** "}{"Title":"Bronson dead on target in chilling classic","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first Death Wish-film is truly a rare cinematic masterpiece in audience manipulation.It starts with a harrowing account of the murder of Bronson's wife, and the rape of his daughter. Later, when he starts turning vigilante we are - like Bronson's character - shocked over what he's doing, but as he start to enjoy his vigilante-mission we too find us caring less about his victims, and basically supports him even when he starts to SEARCH out trouble, like sitting on the first car of a subway-train (everyone in New York knows you're not supposed to ride the first, or the last car of a subway if you wanna' avoid trouble) and just waiting for trouble to show up, so he can blow it away with his shiny new revolver.It's disturbing, more so because it is delivered with strong conviction and solid film-making, with Bronson showing once again what an underrated actor he... was. He will be sadly missed.Everybody who likes to cut down on the Death Wish-series without having seen the original most surely will be (positively) surprised over the complexity and credibility that went into describing the character of Paul Kersey first time around. This was no ordinary movie-Rambo, but a realistic account of a family-man pushed over the edge.And you gotta love that final shot of Bronson before the end-credits! "},{"Title":"Great concealed carry movie, but could have been better","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Seeing this movie for the first time recently, I could not rate it very highly, but it brings many feelings to mind.  This was filmed the year the World Trade Center opened, and in one scene Bronson has a scale model of lower Manhattan with the new towers, which are later seen on the horizon.There is some truth in the script, but a lot of pure ignorance. First the ignorance.  One character comments that muggers should be put in concentration camps, some writer's lame idea of a typecast law-and-order reactionary extremist.  The brazen gangs of thugs, obviously casing their vicitims in broad daylight, are laughable, but maybe I haven't been in big cities enough.  The way Bronson shoots multiple criminals from the hip (one of them in the back) and each one is blown away by a .32 bullet is typical Hollywood.  Then he flees the scene like a coward every time, which nearly every concealed-carry permit holder knows is illegal and incriminating.As for the truth in the story, Bronson and his friend in Tuscon enunciate a very important point that self-defense is a right, and the police are incapable of protecting anyone from crime (nor are they duty-bound to do so--the courts have stated as much).  It is still true that coastal urbanites are scared of guns, and people in middle America across the mountains, deserts, and plains are still fairly comfortable with them as tools.  These days there is still no equalizer better than a handgun, as many armed women have proven by averting rapes, among other things.  There is a germ of truth to the apathy of witnesses and the ineptitude of the police, but the commissioner sneaking into Bronson's apartment is fairly ridiculous.Yet the rich Manhattan partygoers have a timeless conversation about whether poverty is the root of crime, or criminals are just bad people.  They point out that the vigilante shoots people of any race in the proportion they commit street crime.  The lack of PC is refreshing.One wonders if the Death Wish movies had anything to do with the widespread enactment of shall-issue concealed-carry permit laws starting in the 1980's, which brought the number of states with such laws up to 34 today.Now having seen this movie I can understand the joke in the Simpsons where an aging Charles Bronson is seen in Death Wish 9, lying in a hospital bed, saying I wish I was dead. Oy.  "},{"Title":"Among the best of the revenge fantasy genre","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although its four sequels probably would give the viewer a real death wish, the original and best in the series is more commendable than it is made out to be. Charles Bronson plays Paul Kersey, an architect whose wife and daughter are violently attacked and raped. His rage vents to the streets of the city as he takes down other lowlifes in the classic vigilante motivation. Bronson's monotone approach actually fits his character and his character's actions very well. When the viewer thinks about it, the plot of Death Wish isn't nearly as overblown as other films of the revenge fantasy genre. The movie was a hit and made Bronson a star relatively late in his career. A great formula of action and drama. "},{"Title":"Sometimes you just need to believe in heroes...","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  even flawed ones and this film works in fulfillment of that. It's plot isn't entirely realistic and feels like a comic book story yet in some strange way it works. This film delivers what most viewers probably want from it..an action anti-hero. Of course there's many problems with what is put forth here such as violence being used to try and solve the problem of violence, the mugger characters getting gunned down always being almost faceless, unknown and evil.Still when the world seems an awful place, when it seems like justice isn't being done in the real world..at least in the movies it seems the heroes can win...and that's where this movie's charm lies..in there somewhere. This film was most likely the inspiration for the comic book character named The Punisher. Having talent like Charles Bronson and Vincent Gardenia certainly didn't hurt the film any either..I found it surprisingly engaging. "},{"Title":"Sure to annoy liberals","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is Charles at his best. Always plagued by poor script choices, Death Wish is the film where everything comes together for him. A realistic story of what happens when a liberal suburbanite is smashed with a cold dose of reality. Very violent, but the action fits in seamlessly with the dramatic story line. If Charles could have made more movies of this calibre, he would have the reputation of Clint Eastwood, as his acting and screen presence is at least as good. Charles, as you probably know, was originally slated to be in the first few westerns that made Eastwood famous. The director (Sergio Leone)could not afford Bronson at the time so was forced to go with the unkown Clint. See the excellent Once Upon A Time In The West as this was the film that Leone and Bronson were finally able to make.  "},{"Title":"Put a sock in it!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Any movie that has Chuck Bronson hitting people with a sock full of coins is going to get at least a four-star rating from me. This movie is pretty tame by today's standards but in it's heyday, it was the target of a lot of controversy. I'm not going to tell you what the movie is about other than it's about an everyday man turned vigilante after his family gets attacked by some lowlifes (and Jeff Goldblum is one of them! Oh, the humanity!). It's not a jaw-dropping movie compared to what's been released since then but it's considerably a classic. And the movies get pretty ridiculous after this when any semblance of realism goes out the window. See, he stops going after individual criminals and goes after entire gangs. But I'll recommend this one. Rating **** out of *****. "},{"Title":"A quiet and very savage thriller","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A quiet and very savage thriller that examines the peaceful life that a honest Manhattan archtitect, Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) lives until a small gang viciously attacks his wife and daughter.  The daughter survives, but the event left her in a state of shock and the wife is gone.  Kersey decides to take matters into his hands and becomes a vigilante, who ventures out onto the dark and bleak streets of New York City with a loaded silver thirty-two pistol in hand.  What the movie is trying to suggest is that murder isn't the best solution to crime.  The performances are strong all around besides Bronson himself (Vincent Gardenia, Hope Lange, Steven Keats, Stuart Margolin, etc.).  I was also impressed with the ultra-stylish musical score by Herbie Hancock, who lets the music express itself and it's fun to listen to.  Jeff Goldblum makes his movie debut here as one of the demented muggers. "},{"Title":"The first and best of a series that quickly went downhill","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death Wish was unavailable on video in Britain for something like fifteen years, which strikes me as strange when you consider that the disgusting, brutal and frighteningly misogynistic Death Wish II (1982), a vastly inferior film, has been consistently available since its release, but let's not discuss the bizarre inconsistencies of censorship now.POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD... Death Wish is an enjoyable and entertaining vigilante thriller that somehow contrives to keep you watching, despite Bronson's hollow, one-dimensional performance as the grief-stricken architect who finds solace in dealing a little rough justice with a sock full of quarters and a handgun. Herbie Hancock's score is both chilling and expressive, enhancing and altering the mood of the film without being too intrusive, and there are some neat touches in the script - for example, after Bronson clobbers his first thug, he is so shaken he has to pour himself a whisky to calm down, and after his first kill he actually vomits - these things make him more human and believable than the sadistic automaton he becomes in that wretched sequel. Vincent Gardenia is excellent as the cynical, hard-bitten cop on his trail, and the aftermath of Kathleen Tolan's gang rape (which is mercifully seen only in glimpses shot in fast-edited wobbly-cam) is responsibly and harrowingly depicted - she is so traumatized she even screams in fear when her own husband touches her. There's also some necessary comic relief - the old lady who goes after hoods with a hatpin, the nose-picking hookers, the building site crew who make sure a mugger never does it again - and Gardenia's reaction when he sees his face on the cover of a magazine is a joy to behold!There are also a couple of cameos that will make you laugh, even though the film-makers couldn't have anticipated it at the time. Firstly, one of the rapists is Jeff Goldblum. Correct - the master of geeky neurotic roles as a rapist. Cruel as this sounds, I laughed really hard, particularly at his jittery delivery of the line Don't jive Mother, you kno-o-ow what we wa-ant! Then, near the end, Christopher Guest, best known as the gormless Nigel Tufnel from Rob Reiner's classic This Is Spinal Tap (1984) turns up as a cop! Just the sight of his face makes me laugh and remember his amplifier that goes to 11...but that's just nitpicking isn't it!All in all, Death Wish is a solid little movie that will pass ninety minutes enjoyably enough. It's not great, but you will be riveted until the end. Shame Winner and Bronson got greedy and made those revolting sequels.  "},{"Title":"Divine Retribution","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish is a movie that works because of it's simplicity. It's theme is timeless. It's a tale of taking the law into your own hands and distributing justice where one sees fit. Charles Bronson stars as Paul Kersey, a man who resorts to an act of violence after punks break into his house and his wife is killed and daughter mentally traumatized. It's here in what starts as an act of simple revenge that Kersey's pain and anguish turns into an almost personal crusade against bad people who inflict suffering on others.In no small way it's success lies deeper than it's universal theme. For one, Bronson is able to carry the role of the caring all-too-human father well. Secondly you can't help but like him, sympathize with him, even route for him as he carries out murder in plain sight numerous times. It's this way the movie and the vigilante genre has always been manipulative. However since the people he takes out are set up and shown to be supreme wastes of life the point of precious human life becomes moot. It throws you the suggestion that what Kersey's doing may be right. It never dives into a discussion on the subject, but the theme is there. I don't condone killing especially for revenge, but again, that is of little coincidence when the people he blows away are such vile trash and the whole thing is just a movie after all.Death Wish works primarily because it's good entertainment and because people can relate to Kersey's actions in a world so screwed up and misguided. It allows for a short window of escape for the viewer and that's what movies are all about. It's very manipulative, but it works as entertainment, if not an inside look into the darker recesses of the human mind too. Imitated, but never duplicated, Death Wish is amongst Bronson's best work. An instant classic of it's time, today and maybe for the foreseeable future. Tread lightly when it comes to the sequels, but the original is a highly recommended watch. "},{"Title":"A movie for the people","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death Wish is a movie for all of the people who have to wade through the legends of scum that inhabit the streets of America's urban wasteland. Liberals hate this film because it appeals to a very real desire in many Americans to see the streets cleaned up. It is often portrayed as horribly violent and as nothing more than an exploitation movie--I'm not so sure that it is either. Yes, the film exploits the very real feelings people have toward violent wanton crime, but this story could have been a lot more exploitive than it is. Rather than roaming the streets armed to the teeth, as we might see in a more modern film, Paul Kersey takes on the criminals of New York with a .32 revolver. This is not a gun nut blowing people away with a .44 magnum or a .308, rather it is a guy who knows so little about firearms that he uses a pathetically underpowered gun to defend himself. That's the point of the movie. Paul Kersey is not a Special Forces Vietnam vet returning home to clean up America with overwhelming firepower--he is an architect and a liberal--in other words, just a regular guy. That's what is so forceful about the movie. Most people hold liberal views about criminals and violent crime because they have never had it hit close enough to home to shake them out of their liberal, hypothetical, text-book way of thinking. This movie seeks to do just that. As difficult as the rape scene is to watch, it is absolutely crucial to the plot because it tries to put the audience in the place of an innocent victim of violent crime. Talk to people who have lost children or parents to violent offenders and see if they support liberal coddling of violent criminals--you'll find few that do. Death Wish makes a simple point if the law can't or won't protect innocent people, then maybe someone else should. Is vigilantism scary? Yes, of course it is, but then so is the liberal tradition of accepting violent crime as a normal aspect of society. Death Wish is a good movie; it's many sequels are not. Don't confuse the original with the real exploitation movies that follow it. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly powerful sleeper","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In this movie (unlike the sequels), Paul actually seems somewhat remorseful, where in the other ones, it seems like a mission.  After his daughter is raped and wife murdered (by a young Jeff Goldblum), he takes to the streets, fighting back and showing that he's not going to put up with it anymore. The very last image of the film shows that Paul Kersey will probably not stop murdering muggers, he has just begun, hence the horrid sequels....... "},{"Title":"The best movie about justice","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death Wish is a classic, no doubt about it. Charles Bronson plays his most famous performance as Paul Kersey, the architect who comes home one day to find his wife raped and killed and his daughter brutally raped and beaten. The most clever thing about the movie is that it doesn't turn into the usual good guy goes after bad guy formula. The muggers who broke into his home and killed/raped his wife and daughter are never caught. This is what leads to Bronson becoming a local vigilante. By doing so, he hopes one night that he will encounter and kill the muggers who killed his wife and brutally beat his daughter (who became comatose after the attack). You can closely relate to the Paul Kersey character and that's what makes this movie so effective. The movie could have fell apart right from the beginning when the attack occurs. Bronson could have chased after the attackers or eventually kill them all at the end; That would have been a predictable and happy hollywood ending. Fortunately, the movie doesn't turn out that way. Paul Kersey never encounters or kills any of the muggers who attacked his family. Instead, he makes his neighborhood safer by getting rid of the other muggers and killers who wander around. He gets shot in the leg, identified by a decent cop as the unknown vigilante who lets him go because he can relate to his sufferings. The best part is he made a difference. Great Film!       "},{"Title":"Great flick,very controversial when it was made..","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a great flick,a lot of movies have ripped off the story or basic character(Bronson,as Paul Kersey,an upscale housing planner for a big outfit,and a C.O.during the Korean War,bluntly,he's a peacnik).His wife and daughter are attacked by Jeff Goldblum!,and his buddies,his first role,and the wife is killed,and his daughter goes catatonic from the trauma.He eventually gets mad as hell,and goes from rolls of coins in a sock,to a gun given to him as a gift,and begins offing muggers who are stupid enough to mess with him after he usually gives them a chance to bail out.He single handedly drops crime in N.Y. 25%(?),and is persued by a not unsympathetic detective.When this movie came out,some of the more gentlecritics were screaming about vigilantes,and how this film would make killers out of people and a lot of other nonsense.My sister hated it,but she hates most any movie I liked at the time.. "},{"Title":"A cool little movie","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There have been many stories like this one, but this is the father of them all. The reason why I consider it a good movie is the good use of the subject a man going out and breaking the rule of submission to criminals. Its value is in keeping the facts in the limits of reality. Paul Kersey is not Rambo, but just an architect with a .32 revolver. He doesn't battle gangs (as will happen in DW3). So anyone can identify with him, and since we all are confronted by criminals (more or less) and we often wonder if it is worth to react or just better to be submissive, this movie is important, because it deals with us and our real life. In conclusion, a little cool movie, maybe childish and possibly somewhat fascist, but nice.  "},{"Title":"One of Charles Bronson's few magnificent leading roles","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When it comes to the 60s and the 70s in Hollywood, there were only four true badasses of cinema Clint Eastwood, Steve McQueen, Lee Marvin, and Charles Bronson. And in Charles Bronson's career, there were really only two big highlight films for him Once Upon a Time in the West and Death Wish. While his one film with Sergio Leone was amazing, it was Death Wish that was his vehicle. The film was made for him and it was great at that. Charles Bronson is a man of few words and he says more with a facial expression than with dialogue. Which is why when he finds out that his wife has been murdered and his daughter has been raped, you really feel for him because of his superb acting. And you're completely on his side when he turns to a life of vigilantism, killing sociopathic muggers, because he is just so believable. Sure, the director Michael Winner may not be one of the greatest directors in the world and sure the other four Death Wish films really sucked (especially The Face of Death), but at the end of the day when, in Death Wish, Charles Bronson smiles at a group of rowdy kids and mimes firing a gun at them, you have to shut up and let the king of badasses do his work. "},{"Title":"We want you to get out of New York... Permanently.","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Do not kid yourself. This is the way anyone who has experienced personal loss would probably act given the same circumstances. We want to lash out at those who are scum and prey upon us and others. Maybe we just limit ourselves to reading the obits every day and hoping to see a name, but Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) took the step that we all have wished at one time or another that we had the guts to take.Being a liberal, opposed to the death penalty, that is hard to say, but it is true. The need for revenge must be ingrained. Why else would we watch this and the four sequels as well as other revenge movies like Death Sentence or The Brave One. In fact, I know one critic that categorizes all movies into love stories or revenge movies. Interesting observation.Bronson was made by this role, turned down by Frank Sinatra. Those of us that Like Paul Kersey and Harry Callahan are thankful for that decision.Vincent Gardenia (Moonstruck, Bang the Drum Slowly) was also great as the police inspector that sent him packing.One of Christopher Guest's (Spinal Tap, For Your Consideration, A Mighty Wind) first film, although it was just a small part at the end. "},{"Title":"Best ever of its genre","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson was only in two movies that fit him perfectly.DEATH WISH and HARD TIMES.The scene in the hospital after Paul Kersey's wife and daughter are attacked is very believable.The son in law (and his reactions to the same events) is used as a contrast to Bronson's reactions.The scenes between the two are significant, culminating in Bronson's redecorating his apartment in a garish way to wipe out the stain of the crime that took place there that deprived him of his wife and daughter.The inhuman character of his city of New York is illustrated by the scene where two young men bump into Bronson as they laugh about a movie they just saw, continuing with their conversation as and after they bump him as if he is an inanimate object.The trip to Texas is significant and the character Aimes Jainchill is important.This sets up Kersey's return to NY City where he open two items--- FIRST--- receipt in the mail of the developed pictures of his now dead wife taken on a vacation they had shortly before she was killed, where she posed for him in a bathing suit on the beach in various mockingly sexy poses.SECOND---Kersey opens the present given to him by Ames Jainchill upon his departure from Texas. And what is it? A gun.Kersey decides to go for a walk with the gun. The result he shoots a depraved drug addict who tries to rob him, in the stomach, leaving the scuzzbag writhing on the ground.Kersey goes home and throws up. But he learns from this how to do the job better. After that he always shoots his victims twice, eliminating any writhing.The police inspector character played by Vincent Gardenia, with his constant asthma attacks, is a strong antagonist to Bronson's character.The scene is telling where they finally meet face to face at the end of the film.This film is not for leftwingers, members of the ACLU, etc.It is for those who choose not to submit and those who choose not to offer their exposed throats to those who would destroy them. "},{"Title":"Really good and serious movie","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw the sequel (Death Wish II) before this. Again (, or as a matter of fact for the first time in this movie-series,) the candy-stealin' bad guys are really bad, actually they behave like some braindamaged children and look like comic characters. They have long hair, they dress ridiculously and everything. They are ugly,but of course not as ugly as mr.Bronson. And for some reason they run all the time. Even Troma can't do anything as exaggerated and comically unrealistic as this. It's quite funny to see these future-good actors (here Jeff Goldblum, in the sequel Larry Fishburne) doing these far-out stupid roles. You can see how they steal the whole show, at least from the other motley cru members. But anyway, after the stupid start, the movie turns out to be much better than it first seems. As a matter of fact, at least to my opinion, it transforms almost to a different movie after the beginning.This is technically (as if such a thing would matter) better than the sequel; Photography is good, and of course the music, which is by Herbie Hancock. That alone might make the movie interesting to some people. It's also one of the very few movies, that has some scenes filmed with real snow (or fake snow that at least looks real). The movie is in every way more whole than the sequel. The film is overally deeper and much less nihilistic. One thing that makes Bronson's main character interesting, is how sick (althought seemingly normal and well-functioning) he is, at least at times, and of course for understandable reasons also. And it's also natural that in the sequel he's even sicker. (I have to check out some other sequel also.) There is some character development in this story; The main character learns things, and thinks about different possibilities (what to do/what should be done with his life). It has interesting themes and juxtapositions Countryside/City, Old/New.It's funny how some pictures in this movie reminds of Taxi driver, which is made a year or two later. Maybe it's just New York (in the seventies). I don't know has Scorsese seen this before he made the classic, I think he has. Actually he maybe even made some homages to this film If I remember correctly, there is exactly the same kind of target board (with some mugger on it), which Travis shoots in Taxi driver and which here hangs very visibly in the police department's wall. Of course that could also be a coincidence. Of course the themes are also similar to some point, but that has to be put to the writer's account. I don't know when the Death Wish book has been published, and has Paul Schrader read it. Anyway it doesn't matter, because outside of the formalities these two movies don't have much similarities, and they surely are two totally independent works and both deserve their places in movie history. In any case it's interesting to see what kind of cultural atmospheres and grounds classics like Taxi driver has been made in. One more comparison In this film I like that it doesn't have any hurry (and still it doesn't last longer than one and half hours) In fact there isn't too much big happenings or big dramatic turns in the plot. I think Taxi driver would have to be at least an hour longer to get to this non-hurriness (, if it would still want to include the same events to the story).Actually I have nothing to complain about in this movie. This is one tough movie and it still raises same questions as in times when it was made. "},{"Title":"A hard to resist revenge flick","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Although being known for practically starting the vigilante genre, Death Wish is not the daring masterpiece one would expect from a first in cinema. But it is a entertaining little picture, predictable but entertaining, poorly acted yet impassioned, and with a clever use of a society that was already becoming obsessed with serial killers, ideas that would later be used to full effect in films such Natural Born Killers and Man Bites Dog. Unfortunately, in this movie it's more of just a plot device to have a happier ending.Which is probably just what this movie needed. Even in the optimistic early scenes of Paul(Charles Bronson) together with his wife Joanna(Hope Lange) have a very dry and lifeless feel to them. This of course goes from bad to worse when she is brutally killed by three random hooligans. Their daughter survives but is raped in the process and becomes a vegetable for the rest of the movie.Surprisingly, Bronson does not immediately grab the closest gun in sight. He just kind of shuffles around mourning over his family. Filmmakers would basically get rid of this type of scene in all subsequent films of this genre, including the Death Wish sequels. Probably for the best though, as they become dead weight in a genre not known for it's emotional side. Afterwards though, is when the real movie begins. And not to spoil anything, but he kills a lot of people. All the while the media eats it up, causing many New Yorkers to proclaim him a present day hero.If it weren't for these last 30 minutes, this film would not receive it's present score. Instead its a soulless B-movie, but with a healthy amount of action and Bronson at top form. For better or worse, this is truly one of the best of it's kind. "},{"Title":"Charles Bronson's Make A Death Wish Foundation","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the very few movies I have seen where I didn't want the film to end.  This was Charles Bronson's most famous role and he did a super job.  I had all but forgotten about it since I hadn't seen it for many years when I was a kid.  A movie that was made as a sort of social commentary more than for pure entertainment or action.  It was a adaptation of a book written in response to the urban crime wave that was sweeping the country at the time especially in large cities like New York.  It was particularly noticeable then and yet it hasn't gone away either.  I remember in 7th grade when New York City had a record 24 homicides in one weekend.  You would think that this film makes a strong case for vigilantism and indeed it does but the fact of the matter is that it doesn't work because (1)It goes too far i.e. the punishment isn't real justice and people get the lynch mob mentality and start killing innocent civilians and (2) it doesn't know when to stop ex. should people be executed for parking tickets or speeding?  The Dirty Harry sequel Magnum Force makes the same argument as Death Wish but on the flip side of the coin where the cops kill the bad guys, making vigilantism look very very evil.  However you feel that Paul Kersey was justified in his actions in retaliation for what happens to his wife and daughter and you are at the same time surprised by the reaction of the DA's office and the police department to the one man war he is waging in the subways and alleys of NY even as the public loves it.  All I can say is that if this film is remade I hope and pray that Hollywood doesn't butcher it like they have so many others.  It is a joy to watch and a rock solid performance by Bronson.  "}{"Title":"Why do bad things happen to good people?","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Imagine a New York City that is down-ridden, noisy, over-populated, and has numerous criminals who conduct assaults, robberies, rapes, and murders on a daily basis. That's right - imagine a New York City before the arrival of Rudy Guiliani as mayor in 1994. 'Death Wish' was released in 1974 accurately portraying the condition of the city during the 1970's. The sequels to the original are complete rubbish, but the original was a hit. The movie was a commercial success while at the same time it was being crucified by critics for being too violent. Remember, this was over 25 years ago.Charles Bronson plays Paul Kersey, a typical Upper West Side liberal who <snicker> believes that criminals are not responsible for their actions and are victims or by-products of society. Unfortunately, this archaic point of view is horribly challenged when Mr. Kersey's family is brutally attacked by a group of ruthless animals. His wife is murdered, while his daughter is raped and left in a catatonic state. The police don't have enough manpower and evidence to catch the gang even though they sympathize with Mr. Kersey's plight.Kersey, overcome with grief and anger goes to Arizona for a desperately needed vacation. In Arizona he learns how to use a handgun and along with that the power and determination to fight back at the criminal element that took his beloved family away from him.The rest of the movie deals with Mr. Kersey's adventures in the city when the sun goes down. Soon, the overall crime rate plummets as criminals are shocked to learn that their victims are actually fighting back; the criminals are unable to deal with this and sulk back into the sewers where they come from. Meanwhile, the police do their best to find and capture this vigilante despite the decreasing crime rate.From this review, readers might this movie is a simple violent flick. This could not be further from the truth. 'Death Wish' offers viewers some profound questions to answer Would Mrs. Kersey and her daughter be all right if they owned a firearm? With all the hoopla over gun control recently, it's been proven time and again that people who arm themselves are less likely to be a victim of a violent crime, such as rape. Another question deals with the notion of revenge are Mr. Kersey's  actions wrong and unethical? Perhaps they are. However, if a close family member of yours was brutally assaulted, what would you do to preserve your state of mind as Mr. Kersey did.Ultimately, 'Death Wish' asks why bad things happen to good people. And why are the good people crucified for fighting back against those who they fear? As James Madison said, government wouldn't be necessary if all men are angels. However, not every person is not an angel. Unfortunately, Mr. Kersey learned that truth the hard way. "},{"Title":"Everyone has a little Paul Kersey in them.","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Would the world be a better place with more persons like Paul Kersey around? Who knows. But either way, everyone should be able to recognize themselves in the actions Paul Kersey takes. Even though its ruthless and violent, you still understand him and cheer for him as well. It distinct this movie from other 'revenge-flicks' and is the very reason why this movie has grown a bit into a Charles Bronson classic.I like how the movie handles its story. It doesn't try to glorify Paul Kersey's actions but it does make them understandable. Yes, the violence is pretty brutal but it all serves a purpose in the movie and becomes necessary for the forming of the character. Basically this movie is just your average action movie revenge flick but with more realism added to it. It helps to make Death Wish an original movie, even though the story and concept itself is far from anything new or original. The story is slowly told and it takes its time to develop. The movie is perhaps even an essential '70's viewing, since its a one of a kind movie, in which a normal every day guy turn into a 'sidewalk vigilante' after his wife is killed and his daughter raped by a couple of thugs (one of them played by a very young Jeff Goldblum in his very first screen appearance).But lets be fair. the movie is far from a perfect one. The movie has a typical experimental like '70's style, especially in its cinematography, that is interesting to watch but it adds very little and works distracting at times. The movie is also told very simple at times and some of the sequences even feel amateur like, to be honest. The story itself also feels extremely far fetched and unlikely. I mean, literally every time Paul Kersey goes outside he walks into trouble. He gets mugged several times and he encounters other thugs on numerous occasions. It's highly unlikely all, even for in a city like New York.The acting on the other hand is good. It's probably mainly thanks to Charles Bronson that his character works so well for the story. I also really liked Vincent Gardenia in his role. He brought some much needed comic relief and gave the story some extra flair and depth.A simple movie that mainly thanks to the original way it handles the story and characters, works out extremely well as a brutal action flick. Even though flawed, still an essential '70's viewing in my opinion.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The Original, The Best","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When this film first came out, this type of plot was pretty new and it came at a time when vigilantism was rarely talked about.  However, this pretty much showed how when one man is pushed he decides to take things into his own hands.  Bronson gives a pretty good portrayal as Kersey and he is quite believable.  In fact, as another person said, he is almost a sympathetic character.  Unfortunately, in the later sequels he is nothing more than a killing machine who kills just to be killing.  Too bad that this film is lumped in with other films that came after it. "},{"Title":"Death Wish","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bronson is well cast as an New York architect who turns vigilante hit man when his wife and daughter are brutally raped and his wife dies. One of the defining films of the zap realist revolution in 1970's moviemaking. Followed by four below average sequels.     "},{"Title":"Why is this so good?","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie twice and I cannot figure out why so many people think it is such a good movie. They must be die-hard Charles Bronson fans who would love any Charles Bronson movie just because it has Charles Bronson in it.I just don't believe that Bronson played the character of Paul Kersey very well, or he wasn't directed very well (or both). At the scene of his wife's burial he shows no emotion at all. He didn't serve in the military because he was a conscientious objector, and his wife was just brutally murdered in their own home. His daughter was also assaulted and left mentally incapacitated. Yet, he shows no emotion. He handles the whole scene like he is leaving work and telling his co-workers see you tomorrow. I guess if you are looking for the ultimate Bronson-esquire mental detachment from reality, this is it. Unfortunately, he doesn't even play the scene like he is detached, like he is about to mentally go off the deep end.He opposed his involvement in the military and he doesn't own a weapon and, presumably, never has. Yet, when he has the first opportunity to fire a weapon he nearly hits the bullseye. Right. It's not like he has natural ability, making a few mistakes and then we see him taking a few weeks to sharpen his skills - no, the first round out of the weapon is ready to kill. At least when this happens in a Schwarzenegger movie, we realize that the movie is poking a little fun at itself and we chuckle a little. There is nothing to chuckle at in this movie. Nothing is tongue-in-cheek in this movie.During the 1970s the crime rate in New York City was high, but it still wasn't like anything portrayed in this movie. Death Wish would have you believing that in 1974 in NYC that there was a criminal around every corner and on every subway car waiting to pounce on a victim. They would have you believe that 8 out of every 10 citizens were getting mugged. Not only is this not a fact, it's beyond fiction. I realize that the premise of the movie requires crime, but the movie portrays the crime rate so high that you have to wonder why it takes somebody who doesn't own a gun to become a vigilante. If the crime rate were really that high, even for 1974, there would have been hundreds of Bernie Goetz's running around NYC. Paul Kersey wouldn't even have had the opportunity to be a crime victim, much less become a vigilante.At least they did portray Paul Kersey's first act of vigilantism somewhat realistically. I would believe that Paul Kersey would go home and vomit after hitting a stranger, albeit a criminal, in the skull with 2 rolls of quarters and leaving him for dead. It's a stretch to think that he could be transformed into a vengeful killer without any other thing happening to him (other than being given a weapon to use). His wife was just murdered yet he goes from quarter-roll clubbings to deadly-accurate assaults with a firearm. No further mental transformation was required. Right.He is also completely detached from his daughter's mental incapacity. There is only one scene where he shows any emotion over her predicament, and it occurs well after her assault and it is displaced. When he is trying to be upbeat to disguise his anger, and then he shows an outburst of anger, the anger and its disguise are just not believable. Death Wish wouldn't pass muster as an average made-for-TV movie. The supporting roles are either played over the top or without sufficient emotion to tell us what they are really thinking. Why don't we see more discussion from the city officials about how to handle the vigilante situation? Oh, right, that would take up valuable screen time for Bronson to randomly murder criminals that he entraps.I'm really surprised by Roger Ebert's 3-star rating. He must be an avid Charles Bronson fan. This is a poorly made movie. "},{"Title":"The Most Anti-Liberal Movie Ever Made","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When this movie opened in New York at Loew's Astor Plaza with a small size ad saying, Vigilante city style Judge, jury and executioner it shattered the box office record; perhaps in response to 4 decades of decline under the evil hand of Liberalism. Young New Yorkers today have no clue (thank God) of the scum pit of crime and depravity which permeated the city at the time this film was made. No section of New York was safe from violent crime at any hour of the day. Broadway moved its show-time from 830 to 730 and many restaurants just plain quit. There were crack-whores on 7th Avenue and 50th, between the two Sheraton hotels from 3 pm till dawn. With all that came this articulate movie about a conscientious objector who sees his own family attacked, and later attacked himself. Eventually, he fights back. Without ever using the L word, the film advocates vigilante justice as not only the answer --- but the only answer --- to a society that will not protect its own. Years later, the real life Bernie Getts fought back the exact same way Bronson fights back, when attacked by 3 hoodlums on the Subway --- the most famous case in New York history. Incidentally, thank NBC TV for 30 years of lawlessness on New York's Subways. About 40 years ago they did a made-for-TV called Train of Terror which demonstrated how a small band of teen criminals could control and rob on the Subway. Within 24 hours, the crime rate on Subways escalated by thousands of percentage points; unchecked until Rudy fixed it. See this movie, but skip the shallow sequels. A masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Down These Mean Streets A Man Must Walk&#x85;","Date":"16 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's New York in 1974 and architect Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) has a good life and a happy family. That is all shattered one day when three thugs (one played by a very young Jeff Goldblum) follow Kersey's wife and daughter home from the supermarket. They attack them and end up killing his wife and leaving his daughter catatonic. Kersey takes to the streets and starts blasting away muggers left, right and centre in a series of vigilante attacks. The killings end when he is warned to leave town by the police or face a prison term.There are some problems with the script of Death Wish that blunt its power somewhat. While it's realistic that Kersey would not be able to find his wife's killers in a city the size of New York, it's not dramatically satisfying that he never pinpoints them. You want to see Kersey make the thugs pay for what they did. Instead, what happens is that Kersey randomly shoots a load of muggers and his wife's murderers get away scot-free. It makes the whole movie seem pointless.The movie also goes off the point halfway through when Kersey has to leave New York and go out West for a business meeting with a character called Janechill. The writers try to make the connection that Kersey is like a gunfighter from the old West dispensing justice when the law fails to do so. They even go so far as to give the Bronson character John Wayne's line from True Grit when he confronts a mugger Fill your hand. It's a diversion we don't need to a point that's laboured too much. Again, it may be realistic for Kersey to have to leave New York on business, but it's not dramatically satisfying as it takes him away from the problem we want to see him solve for a long time. The second act sags quite a bit here.That's one of the reasons why Death Wish II is a better movie. Bronson's character finds and kills every one of the gang responsible for murdering his daughter and there is no midway distraction from what he sets out to do.Life imitated art when Bernie Goetz really did shoot some muggers on a New York subway in 1984 and all the old arguments raised in this movie came up again; Is it right to take the law into your own hands? Is it okay to shoot scum who deserve it? Should gun controls be tougher?, etc.Death Wish is a good movie if a little dated now. More importantly, it finally made Charles Bronson an A-list star in his 50s and he made four sequels, the fifth of which would be his last theatrical release. Without this, Hollywood would have missed out on old Stoneface Bronson and for that we should be grateful. "},{"Title":"A Response to Sweet Sweatback","Date":"22 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Richard Pryor once complained on afternoon talk that while people were saying you can't have a black man throw a white man out of the window, it seemed like it was okay for Charles Bronson to go and gundown black guys. Pryor I think really understood what Death Wish was really all about. In the early 70's starting with Sweet Sweatbacks Badass Song, until about 74, the so called black exploitation films catered to a black audience wanting to see a black superhero killing bad white guys.While Dirty Harry showed Harry shooting black bank robbers, (a first at that time), and Roger Moore as James Bond taking on a black crime syndicate led my Yaphet Kotto (A film with its tongue in its cheek) Death Wish really takes on black on white crime head on. Yes, Kersey's wife and daughter are murdered and brutally raped respectively by white criminals, 6 of the 10 criminals that Kersey kills in Death Wish are black. When at a party someone comments that the vigilante killer is mostly killing black people, a party goer remarks that mostly blacks commit crimes.Having white criminals in the film, was I think mainly used to hide the films response to white resentment and possible fear of the black man as criminal. Growing up in the Bay Area in the 70's I remember the Zebra Killings, and other murders that seemed to be occurring by blacks on whites. In Death Wish, the white criminals are mostly shown to be possibly crazy, and maybe hooked on drugs, while the black criminals are somewhat shown to be more calculating. Having white baddies in the film allowed the film not to be considered racist. Also it was mentioned in the newspapers and on TV that black audiences were also cheering Bronson killing muggers, though when I saw this film in Berkeley California, I don't remember such cheering, though their were African Americans in the audience.Watching Death Wish Many years later, I realized what a cartoonish and silly film it is, much like the Sweet Sweatback Bad Ass Song, if not more polished. Sad it some way, that Bronson's role as Paul Kersey would be the film he would be most famous for in the US, and not his role as Harmonica in Once Upon a Time in The West, or even his other Bronson-Winner collaboration The Mechanic. Yet Death Wish is an interesting film as propaganda. At one time, the idea was to have Henry Fonda in the film. Sadly, I think the film would have been different, but wow, if the film had been with Fonda, in the same form it is now, what would Jane have said? "},{"Title":"Classic That Started a Genre","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film was followed by four sequels, it was the inspiration for the The Brave One, and was the first of the vigilante genre. At the time of this film's release it featured themes that had already been seen by movie goers at the time, but in a more controversial way. The rape scene was very graphic for that time period and in someways, still is today. It is also noteworthy, that this is one of, if not the first movies to drop a C bomb. I like how all of the bad guys are the same. Like, why do they all jump around like they belong to the ministry of silly walks? I'm not sure why that is, but as the film series progressed the bad guys did get a little more realistic. "},{"Title":"Death Wish","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was surprised by how much I liked this film. It wasn't just a shoot 'em up action movie where the protagonist (Charles Bronson as Paul Kersey) goes around blowing away street punks for no reason. He is an architect who (SPOILERS AHEAD) has his wife killed by a gang of thugs. The police can do nothing about it so he decides to hunt them down himself. So he does shoot a lot of punks but he's really just concerned with the ones who killed his wife and got away with it. He also helps others when he comes across criminals while stalking the streets, looking for the rapists/murderers he is after. Jeff Goldblum is even in it as one of the freaks which was another surprise. Charles Bronson was incredible in the lead role. I recommend this movie because it says a lot about what New York was like in the 1980s concerning the crime wave and how people were tempted to deal with it and it says a lot about vigilante justice in general. The police commissioner and city hall even make it obvious to the detective in charge that they don't want Kersey captured because he is too popular for killing criminals, scaring muggers off the streets at night! "}{"Title":"The Very Best of Bronson","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was Charles Bronson's best movie by far. His chiseled features & stoic mannerisms fit his character perfectly. New York City.Paul Kersey, mild-mannered architect & bleeding heart liberal, whose life is suddenly shattered. Muggers have attacked his wife & daughter. Wife, Joanna ( Hope Lange ), is dead & his daughter is becoming a vegetable.Soon after Joanna's funeral, Kersey's boss sends him out to Tuscon on a job. The Jainchill Development Company there needs someone with Paul's expertise & skill as an architect. Also, being away from New York for a while would seem to be therapeutic.Paul is met in Tuscon by Ames Jainchill ( Stuart Margolin-EMMY winner from The Rockford Files ). Ames takes Paul to an old western movie set which is now a tourist attraction.Later, that evening, they go to a club...a gun club. Paul has told Ames that he was a C.O. in a medical unit during the Korean war. Upon learning that Paul was, actually, a conscientious objector, Ames begins laughing & says, Oh Christ ! What a guest to bring to a gun club !But, it turns out that Kersey's childhood was spent around guns & he is a 'dead shot'-courtesy of his father.When the job is finished, Paul is headed back to New York- along with a present from Ames-a 32 caliber pistol. Now, Paul is beginning to focus on something...REVENGE. He begins prowling the city streets at night hoping that local muggers will see him as 'an easy mark'. But Paul begins gunning them down left & right.The mayor, city leaders, and the NYPD are secretly pleased- of course, they dare not reveal that to the citizens. Kersey is doing what they would all love to do-and the voters seem to adore the man known only as The Vigilante. It's kind of like having a gunslinger named Pecos Paul in town. Muggings are way down & people are sleeping a lot better.Eventually, Paul is wounded by a mugger's bullet. Inspector Frank Ochoa has been doggedly tracking our vigilante. Now, Ochoa has the opportunity to offer Paul a deal. The inspector has secured Paul's pistol. The weapon will be 'disposed of' if Paul leaves New York...permanently. Kersey's classic response ? Inspector...by sundown ? One is reminded of the scenes in Tuscon.Is the very end of this film a new beginning ? Well, that's what sequels are for-and Death Wish spawned four of them.Pecos Paul ? Well I was quite pleased with that...and I don't even like westerns. Jeffrey McAdam-Reed "},{"Title":"the ultimate vigilante film","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Meet Paul Kersey,(Charles Bronson)mild mannered architect and liberal.Kersey Believes that the criminals are merely a product of being underprivileged and deserve some slack.spoiler ahead***However,Kersey's views change one day,when his wife is brutally murdered and his daughter is raped by three thugs.his daughter has been so traumatized,she is nearly catatonic.Kersey then decides to fight back against the criminals.he becomes a one man wrecking crew,killing muggers rapists and others.as a result of his efforts,street crime dramatically decreases,and people begin to feel more safe.naturally the police dept can't have that,a vigilante going around blowing away the human waste,lower crime rate or not.never mind the fact that the police have been completely ineffective in curbing crime.in fact,their efforts have actually resulted in crime increasing.this movie illustrates the helplessness the average woman/man feels in the face of crime.it also shows the ineffectiveness of the legal system.the legal system seems to favour the criminal,and the bleeding heart liberal mouthpieces are always on hand spouting crap about how the criminals right are being violated,while no one seems to care about the victim.and it also shows how the police and the legal system are not concerned with citizen safety,but are worried about citizens taking matters into their own hands.see, the problem with the legal system is it bound by rules,regulations and basic bureaucratic bullsh*t.the system is useless unless your are a criminal.how can you fight criminals when they have no rules or regulations to bind them.and the other problem is the system is reactive,not proactive,so once you've been shot,stabbed,raped,or otherwise beaten or killed,then the police will help you.now think about that for a minute.when you actually need them,they are seldom there.(i should qualify this by saying there are some decent caring people who care about the victims,but they are not as well funded as the other side)in certain countries(Canada,for instance,you are not even allowed to defend yourself in your own home.you will most likely be arrested and charged.on top of that,the scumbag who victimized you can actually sue you for their injuries.what the f**K is up with that?so,even if only in a movie,its nice to see the sh*t sack knuckle dragging wastes of skin get blown away.now,Death Wish was very controversial when it came out in 1974,due to its graphic violence and language.i still actually find it hard to watch in some scenes.i wouldn't call it an entertaining film,but it was definitely an important film,the way it brought home the reality of crime and its effects.based on its importance as a film,i'd have to give it 10/10. "},{"Title":"Bronson is the Man","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Before god awful pieces of trash like The Punisher, there was another film that showed a man who's wife was murdered by a gang and wanted justice, but wanted to deliver it in his own way. That film was Death Wish. And instead of a hero that didn't seem to care too much about this killing (though it was mostly just the actor, Tom Jane)we had the cool three dimensional Charles Bronson. You may ask yourself, three dimensional?. And I say sure he cried about his wife before he went on to kill a great many scum bags on the streets of New York. The bottom line is that Bronson was a bad ass in this film and all the rest of the Death Wish films which I also enjoy very much. We know that this movie will be great from the beginning when Bronson cashes in a 20 dollar bill for two rolls of quarters so that he can stuff them in a sock and smash it across some dude's face. It's brilliant. They don't do they kind of raw action in movies anymore, and I guess that's why this movie can be so refreshing even if it was made in the seventies. There's no doubt that anyone who appreciates good action flicks with a bad ass main character will appreciate THIS movie the way I do. "},{"Title":"Complex Social Commentary","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fueled with an insightful, intelligent, and probing screenplay, Michael Winner embarks on a process of examination in DEATH WISH. When his wife and daughter become the victims of a brutal crime, bleeding liberal Paul Kearsey (Charles Bronson) decides to take justice into his own hands.  Becoming a street vigilante, he defends himself from muggers, fires upon thugs, and kills anyone that attempts to harm him.  Nonetheless, Winner refuses to glamorize such violence and, in one instance, shows Kearsey vomiting after shooting a pretty thief.  In the end, questions are raised if the police can't defend us, who can?  If we take to the streets, who will win?  And, most importantly, what does violence accomplish?     "},{"Title":"It's good, Bronson's archetypical role...","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ......Sure we've all seen this or its sequels/rip-offs galore since, and yeah we have all seen Bronson do better work (Dirty Dozen)-but heck, this Does hold up. You do get to enjoy his bell bottoms, '74 Sideys and boat-tailed cars along w/ the Watergate era muggers being gunned down in NYC. At the time, NYC was pretty bad as compared to now, trust me on that.I don't have a problem w/ how the vigilante angle is shown either-Bronson is believable as is his character's reaction to it. And ya gotta like his sock filled w/ quarters bit too-that was cool.Bronson was great, too bad his 80s flicks were so poopoo. Thank you Cannon Films YUCK.*** outta **** "},{"Title":"The 'vigilante' movie....","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Michael Winner's DEATH WISH (1974) is without question a movie that will always divide fans. After it's initial uncut film release, CIC revived it for a double bill with THE WARRIORS in 1979-80 in the UK and then it played on TV in a cut version in 1982 one Saturday night. It has been recently released in a cut video version in the UK.As with STRAW DOGS, the original source material doesn't feature a rape sequence. Brian Garfield's novel, which was created after his car was broken into by thugs and his feeling of what he might do to the people who did this (a similar feeling that Callie Khouri had after a male driver leered at her to create the screenplay for THELMA & LOUISE (source FOUR SCREENPLAYS by SID FIELD)) only suggests an attack on Kersey's wife and daughter, which suggests that, like Peckinpah with STRAW DOGS (THE SIEGE OF TRENCHER'S FARM is effectively the second half of the film adapted from the book), he used a bit of 'artistic licence' (if that's the term for it)Charles Bronson is perfect in the role of Kersey and Herbie Hancock's jazz score theme is atmospheric. Perhaps there could have been a bit more staging of the action and tightening of the script, but DEATH WISH still works today as a thriller. "},{"Title":"* * * * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Charles Bronson stars as Paul Kersey a mild mannered businessman who turns vigilante after a brutal attack on his wife and daughter in this thought provoking, well made and humorous box office smash. Death Wish is indeed a pioneer in the genre for which it spawned, and overall it holds up well today as it did in the 70's. Charles Bronson's most note worthy date, and certainly one of his best. Followed by 4 weak sequels "},{"Title":"A Study in ZeitGeist and Group Psyc","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is even better than when it first came out in 1974.  Those of us old enough to have seen it then can understand what I am talking about. There was a great deal of 70s mentality in this film hence the term Zeitgeist.  Urban squalor, violence, apathy, and fear permeate this movie, and were big political issues at the time.  During the police investigation, one of the key suspect groups suggested by the Chief of Police was the Vietnam vet - nothing like serving your country faithfully.  The Vietnam War was just over, and the Vietnam vets were viewed as potential psychos for any number of reasons real or imagined.  The police in NYC are always an easy target, and are shown as being ineffectual.  In one scene on the subway, two thugs enter the car, and the cop moves away from them to another car.As the movie unfolds, Bronson's wife is murdered and the daughter is raped into catatonia during a robbery at their apartment.  Bronson feels hopeless for a time after dealing with the system.  A work related trip to Tucson breathes some life into him.  He comes back to NYC with a pistol a client had given him as a surprise gift.  One night while walking, a junkie tries to rob him, and becomes Bronson's first vigilante kill.  Thereafter several shooting and deaths occur as others try to rob him.  The police figure out that they must have a vigilante on their hands -- even a blind pig can find an acorn.  The crime rates plummet, people begin to stand up to the muggers, and the cops start getting scared.By some miracle, the police trim the list down to Bronson.  The Police Chief in charge of the investigation is called in by the DA and other bigwigs for a chat.  They tell the Chief that they don't want the vigilante because of all of the publicity the he has gotten.  Apparently the public loves him, and cops don't want to look really bad by not being to protect people and then arresting the one person that is fighting back and inspiring others to do the same.  They instruct the Chief to scare him off.The Chief tries to scare him off, but only makes his point after Bronson has been shot and has no other choice.  Bronson makes a bon mot by stating the obvious -- get out of town before sundown.This movie, while presenting all the darker elements of human nature, is a good movie from a historical perspective and proving once again revenge will always sell theatre tickets! "},{"Title":"One of those great 70's New York movies","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  spoilers ahead!Death Wish is one of those movies about New York in the 70's,when the city was a toilet. Other movies in that era are the French Connection and Taxi Driver.Death Wish is a movie about revenge. Charles Bronson plays Paul Kersey,an architect and a liberal,whose wife and daughter are attacked by muggers(a young Jeff Goldblum!) in a vicious rape scene.His wife dies and his daughter turns into a vegetable. To get away from it all Paul decides to go to Tucson for a job where he meets Jainchill,a redneck from the country. There he shoots a gun or two and on his way home he gets a present from Jainchill,a gun. Back in the Big Apple Paul wants to get even with the muggers and goes on a crusade in New York at Night.  He kills muggers in Riverside Park,in an alley,in a subway train and at 8th avenue station. In the Meanwhile inspector Ochoa(Vincent Gardenia) tries to catch this mysterious Vigilante. In the end he catches Paul and orders him to leave NYC.Although the moral of the story is not my way of thinking and although the end is pretty psycho(let Paul loose in another city),it is a very good movie about New York in the 70's. The shots of 1970's New York at Night are beautiful and Charles Bronson gives away a fine performance as an innocent man who becomes a killer.My favorite part about the movie is the soundtrack by Herbie Hancock. each scene has it's own score and doesn't look alike. The rape scene has a dramatic almost horror score while the scenes of Night New York are very quiet and gloomyA shame is that Charles Bronson got a stigma on playing a Vigilante(4 sequels,from which only part 3 is not bad. The others suck.). In the end Death Wish is one of those very good movies that where made in that period,don't look at it from a political point of view but from a movie watching point of view. Then it will good evening entertainment! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Shameful enjoyment.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death Wish is one of those movies that your ashamed of liking. It's a misogyn, semi-fascist film that was a huge trendsetter when it came out. But that's part of its appeal it doesn't take prisoners and it isn't politically correct. It speaks to the lowest within man, and for that, it will always be remembered as the ultimate vigilante movie. "}{"Title":"Best of the bunch","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having watched the horrid Death Wish 2 recently, the original is the best. Let's make it clear, Bronson could be a decent actor, but somehow he always looks wooden. There's never enough emotion from him, even in this one, you are struggling to see any emotions, and when you do, it looks fake.Death Wish is obviously a predictable film, but I was surprised that the finale never satisfied me. The film is very gritty and paints New York as a dirty city, full of criminals.I identify with Kersey, I think most people do. I always side with him, even in the dreaded sequels. The film poses an interesting question and I think the answer is neither right or wrong.The performances are not great, actually most of the acting is wooden and lacking emotion.The direction is standard, but the photography fares much better.The script lacked bite and never really pulled the viewer in, I felt it was missing something.Avoid the sequels, they are pathetic.  "},{"Title":"Could have been better.","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie reminds me a lot of Sam Peckinpah's Straw Dogs.  It's the story of a pacifist pushed to violence.  The premise itself is intriguing and the movie is interesting.What is lacking is a solid leading man.  I love Charles Bronson, but he's too old for this movie and too wooden. The story is a bit tiresome and never really satisfies the viewer.Still, if you're a vigilante fan, check out Chuck and his sock full of quarters. "},{"Title":"Urban Thriller","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death Wish(1974) is a tale that reflects the feeling of people who are victims and feel like they are unable to strike back at their attackers.  The direction is both gritty and taut.  Charles Bronson is brilliant as the vengeful Paul Kersey.  The Uncredited inspiration of Death Wish(1974) seems to be Sam Peckinpah's Straw Dogs(1971).  Jeff Goldblum made his debut his as one of the rapist.  This would start a new sub genre in which the result would be Rolling Thunder(1978), The Exterminator(1980), Vigilante(1981), and the best of them all, Ms. 45(1981).  Death Wish 2(1982) is a good sequel but the next ones stink.  Paul Kersey of Death Wish as with Harry Callahan of Dirty Harry and John Shaft of Shaft are three of the biggest icons of the 1970's.  Its too bad that Charles Bronson and Clint Eastwood have never got together to do a film as it would have been awesome to see Dirty Harry and Paul Kersey in the same film. "},{"Title":"Bronson's wish","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Good film, eerie, cold, well acted, not overblown, has that great scene where he takes a tube sock, 20 bucks worth of quarters and smacks his first mugger in the noggin with it-comes home and about pukes in fear. That's when he realizes a .32 is gonna do the job a bit better....Needless to say, this is the role of Bronson's that will be forever identified with him the most-even after the biggies like 'Dirty Dozen', 'Magnificent Seven' and 'Great Escape'-Bronson is DeathWishman to a lotta folks. He didn't help his cause by making 4 rather poopoo sequels either, or the other Cannon films of the '80s...but then that's another story.Here, in '74, he was at his most popular, he did himself proud in a fine 'Nixon-Ford era Law and Order' type film, and thus it still stands the test of time. I haven't seen it in a while, but-heck, its Death Wish. You know what yer gonna get.*** outta ****,good work by all. "},{"Title":"More even-handed than you might remember, but still a vengeance pic to the core","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'd seen bits and pieces of this over the years, but never the whole thing straight through. Bronson is Paul Kersey, a successful New York architect in a happy marriage, with a son and daughter-in-law. Right away the film telegraphs its POV about violence, when one of Kersey's coworkers calls him a knee-jerk liberal and, knowing it's a Bronson film, we can see that an awakening is about to happen.For those who don't know the story, I'll make it brief. Kersey's wife and daughter-in-law are viciously attacked by a trio of hoodlums (including a young Jeff Goldblum) in Kersey's apartment; his wife dies and the daughter-in-law is left so emotionally scarred that she never recovers and ends up in a sanitarium. In the early scenes, before and after the attack, we see a crime-infested New York where violence is casual, everyday, all over - and a police force that is powerless. Bronson undergoes a slow metamorphosis - to the credit of the film, he clearly has doubts about what he's doing - as he decides to take the law into his own hands upon finding that the cops can't do anything. Interestingly, he never really speaks out against the police though his son more than once says nobody can do anything. At first he just puts some rolled-up quarters in a sock and carries it with him as insurance, at one point fighting off an attempted mugging - but after a lengthy trip to Tucson where he makes friends with a client who turns out to be a gun collector, he decides to arm himself seriously, and a one man (and five movie) war on crime begins...This got lambasted by liberal film critics when it came out, of course, just as Dirty Harry had three years previously, but what's interesting about it today is how low-key the attacks on liberal values are, and in fact the film really doesn't go after anything except on-the-street violence. Of course it completely ignores class and race issues, except for one brief comment where somebody at a party mentions that there are more black criminals than white - it basically just treats all criminals as scum who enjoy preying on their victims. It does get a bit more disturbing as it goes along, and we see Kersey acting first, deliberately getting himself into situations where he might be in danger, and then blowing people away before they even have a chance to go at him. No question that the morality here is decided skewed to the right, but as I say, not so much as you might expect given its reputation. Probably the most extreme part is at the very end, when the rather sympathetic police detective (Vincent Gardenia) who's been in charge of hunting down the vigilante lets Kersey go - but given the vision of the city this film gives us, this isn't really unexpected.The film-making though is quite solid; one thing Winner can do is propel a story forward, with very little in the way of needless exposition or explanation. The New York locations are well used, and Bronson is...Bronson. Great music by Herbie Hancock. "},{"Title":"What are we, Jack?","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Watchable enough, for various reasons who doesn't like to think of putting holes in bad guys? Who is unamused to see Olympia Dukakis, Christopher Guest, Paul Dooley and The Fly in bit parts? Who can resist the obscene spectacle of Charles Bronson's rude hamburger face perched atop one of the most classically sculpted physiques in pre-Schwarzenegger stardom? But ultimately it's a Michael Winner movie, so, eh. This wildly uneven director (MECHANIC and LAWMAN a little better than they oughtta be; NIGHTCOMERS just irresistibly awful; BIG SLEEP largely soporific) here demonstrates his inability to sustain mood and his lack of interest in coherence, both spatial and logical. Mostly he exemplifies a bland form of typical British salaciousness. The early rape scene involving Bronson's daughter is a pretty straight ripoff of the home invasion in CLOCKWORK ORANGE from a couple of years previous, but lacks the grandeur, morbid humor, and lasting chill of Kubrick's version.Aside from the indifferent direction, there are numerous technical underachievements. Most annoying is Herbie Hancock's score, hugely derivative of Lalo Schifrin's cop movie music yet not ever quite interesting. Thank God these guys didn't get to do FRENCH CONNECTION. "},{"Title":"Happiness is a sock full of quarters","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Michael Winner stopped making films some time ago and became a professional rent-a-celeb, boulevardier and occasional restaurant critic, largely because his last few movies stank. But there was a time when the redoubtable friend of the stars was capable of better things, and DEATH WISH is proof that Winner once had some degree of talent. A talent untroubled by considerations of subtlety, good taste and understatement, but talent nonetheless. DEATH WISH tells the story of Paul Kersey (a fine performance from the late Charles Bronson), a happily-married architect returning from a second honeymoon with his wife to the scum-encrusted toilet that was New York City circa 1974. Most directors make the viewer wait at least twenty minutes before hitting them with their first jolt of adrenalin-rushing excitement, but Winner can't wait that long, so within the first ten minutes we see Kersey's wife and daughter attacked and raped in their own apartment by three drugged-out hooligans. Even thirty years down the line, it's a genuinely shocking scene; not even the presence of Jeff Goldblum as one of the most reprehensible and hateful thugs ever to smear a screen can diminish its impact. Kersey's wife dies and his daughter slips into a traumatized catatonic state (look quickly for Marshall Anker, the dumb sheriff from LAST HOUSE ON THE LEFT during the snowbound funeral scene), prompting him to take a job in Tuscon to take his mind off things. In Tuscon, he meets up with a good-ole-boy property developer who invites him down to the gun club where Kersey turns out to be something of a sharp-shooter. Suitably impressed, the redneck presents Kersey with the parting gift of a handgun, which comes in useful during the second half of the film, during which the vengeance-crazed architect sets himself up as an easy target for muggers, only to wipe them out the moment things get nasty.DEATH WISH reads like simple, gut-level exploitation, and to a large extent that's exactly what it is, but Bronson's subtle, believable performance, the well-drawn characters, the effective NYC location shooting, Arthur Ornitz's grimy photography and Winner's knack for snappy action sequences help to rise the film above the sum of its parts and make it a minor classic. There's a lot of black humour on offer, some of which works (Vincent Gardenia's performance as the downtrodden, headcold-harbouring detective is always amusing), but some of which - such as the nose-picking hookers and the minor character whose dog paints such marvellous pictures with his paws - are simply perplexing. Above all else, DEATH WISH is a highly effective mood piece, the kind of film that goes down well after a hard day, as a reminder that somebody is always worse off than yourself, or as an escape valve for all your guilty fantasies about slaughtering whichever inconsiderate lout stole your parking space or your seat on the bus. For that reason alone, DEATH WISH belongs in your video collection as a very guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"A Fine Film","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a very enjoyable movie. It's a great theme of a man who has felt the effects of violence and will not sit back and be helpless, he will instead take action. The movie greatly captured the grim society and low morale of the 1970's.The graphic murder and rape of Bronson's wife and daughter was effective because it made Bronson a sympathetic character. Which made it real fun when old man Bronson goes around shooting punks.As everyone knows, there has been a lot of criticism of the movie for being pro-violence, fascist, etc. But it's important to remember that it is JUST A MOVIE!The movie was only 90 or so minutes long, and at the end the routine of Bronson going out, getting mugged, and then shooting someone got a bit tiring. Which is why this series should have ended with the first. Although the sequels were fun, just not that good. )Bronson was fine, but his lack of acting range did hurt the film. More emotion would have fit the part well. Bronson was at his finest in Once Upon a Time In The West, as a mysterious man with unclear motives. Bronson's strength in this film showing the weariness and sadness of his situation.The movie dealt with heavy and controversial subject matter, which made the light-hearted and goofy ending absolutely perfect. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Weak Performances & Bad Direction, But ...","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ... this movie is thought-provoking. I really can imagine that it was discussed widely when it was released in the mid-70s. An interesting question What can you do when there's any help at all? How do can you get even with someone who's taken everything you cared for?Unfortunately, about 30 years after it was shot, Death Wish looks like a very cheap made-for-TV thriller. The editing, the camera and lightning; it all is very poorly made.One of the greatest disappointments of the movie is Bronson's dull acting. It takes away of the most important things this film would have needed Sympathy for the main character. His violence does not seem motivated (even though the spectator knows what has happened), because he delivers a totally unconvincing, emotionless performance. "},{"Title":"Liberalism is for fools (spoilers)","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The underprivileged are beating our goddamned brains out. You know what I say? Stick 'em in concentration camps. That's what I say. Ah, the wisdom of Death Wish.However, not everyone thinks that way. Paul Kersey certainly doesn't. At the start of Michael Winner's vigilante wet dream, Kersey is a 'bleeding heart liberal'. He even has sympathy for people who aren't fabulously wealthy. What a fool! Death Wish starts with Kersey on holiday with his wife. Everything is idyllic &#150; the sun is shinning, waves are lapping on the beach and Kersey's wife poses for several snapshots. Then they go back to their hotel room to have sex. What a mistake &#150; you never have sex with Paul Kersey and live to tell the tale.But despite this well-known fact, the Kersey's are oblivious. They just finish their holiday and return to New York. Then five minutes later Kersey's wife and daughter are attacked by the monster that is Jeff Goldblum (playing 'Freak #1'). The rape scene that follows, if it weren't filmed by a filmmaker that is wholly incompetent in the art of movie making, should be hard-hitting, but instead it's hilarious. Basically you have a skinhead, a Jew and a moron in a bandana raping and pillaging while spouting lines like, Don't jive, mother. Has Winner ever met anyone that doesn't drive a Rolls-Royce or anyone who doesn't dine at The Ivy? His idea of 'punks' is so quaint, so out of touch and so naive that all the hard-hitting scenes are extraordinarily camp &#150; bandanna has an obsession with spray-painting things (Let me paint her ass). I guess this is what criminals do in Winner's world. They're children who have to paint swastikas everywhere.After the rape, Kersey's wife dies (Goldblum beats her around the head while spouting the best dialogue in the film, dialogue that I can't quote here) and Kersey's daughter is reduced to a catatonic mess after being forced to taste the delights of Jeff. But how does Kersey react to this news? Well, he shakes a little bit, but he hardly seems fazed &#150; Bronson is such an expressive actor. However, there's a deeper change in Kersey. He realises that to be a liberal is to be a fool. He realises that to have sympathy is to have weakness. And he realises that the only way you can make the world a better place is to blow large holes in the heads of goddamn punks. In other words, liberalism gets you nowhere; fascism gets you everywhere.But Kersey doesn't immediately become a killing machine. First he walks the street with a cosh &#150; he fills a sock with coins. But although the effects are desirable, heavy sock killings are time consuming, energy sapping and far too messy. What any good vigilante needs is a gun. And Kersey gets his gun on a business trip to Arizona.The Arizona sequence is actually one of the funniest. There's one bit where you have a long close-up of a noose. Do you see what those do-gooders have done to us? There was a time when you could just lynch a man. There was a time when you could string criminals (or suspected criminals) up by their neck and get instant justice. But then people had to come along with laws and courts and foolish notions like 'innocent until proved guilty'. Look what they've done. But then Kersey watches a fake cowboy stunt show. He positively glows when he sees men shooting themselves in the streets. What a much better place the world was back then you could settle everything with your fists and a gun. Those were the days.And so, tooled up, Kersey returns to New York (or that toilet as one character says). And no sooner has he landed than he's confronted by his son-in-law. How's his daughter? She's almost a goddamned vegetable. Possibly one of the best lines in cinema.So, with this news, Kersey is in the mood to start killing. However, after his first killing, like the pussy liberal that he is, he pukes. But he soon gets the hang of it (he gets plenty of practice; in the space of a ninety minute movie he gets mugged four times). Soon he's shooting black men in the back with great aplomb. And he enjoys it so much that he redecorates and starts listening to chirpy music. Killing is a great cure for depression.Pity, though, that the police aren't impressed. For some reason they want to apprehend Kersey, even though crime rates are down. But we soon understand why. They fear that Kersey is too effective. They fear that there will be a wave of vigilantism and that the public will no longer have need for the police. What scumbags. They're denying us a utopia, a utopia where muggers, perverts, poor people and people who look at you funny are shot on sight by squinty-eyed madmen. The world needs more Kersey's! However, the film doesn't broach the subject that if there was widespread vigilantism that the criminals would become more desperate, more ruthless and more dangerous. That would be too sensible and would require too much thought. Plus it would get in the way of a great wet dream, one where the pampered middle classes can shoot punks at will. If only&#133; "}{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish (1974) **** (out of 4) A mild manured Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) turns vigilante after his wife and daughter are attacked by muggers. The 1970's were full of hard hitting and gritty dramas and while most of them get the credit they deserve this film has yet to get all the love I think it deserves. The film is certainly one of the most influential films of the decade but it's also one of the best and most underrated. The story itself has become quite familiar over the years due to countless sequel and rips but there's no denying that this first film still has enough power to make it stand up against all others. The acting of Charles Bronson often gets laughed at or called wooden but I think he was brilliant at playing the Bronson persona just like Bogart could do Bogart and McQueen could do McQueen. I think Bronson's performance here is downright brilliant from start to finish and the actor hits all the right marks no matter what the scene calls for. I think Bronson works the best during the silent moment where he's stalking the streets just waiting to get attacked. The look in Bronson's eyes is priceless and his gentle walk tells us all we need to know about him. The direction is also very strong and I love the way the story is handled with respect and care and doesn't try to make it exploitation like all the sequels. The film never becomes overly political but I'm sure some will try to pull or push it away due to their own moral beliefs and politics. The movie is a lot smarter than that and it just plays out and lets the viewer make up what they want. "},{"Title":"far from politically correct but brilliant","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have to say that I have never particularly liked Charles Bronson movies--in particular, his follow-up movies to Death Wish. What was an exceptional film, has been marginalized by two factors--the utter stupidity of DEATH WISH 2, 3, 4, etc. as well as the loud wailing of the ultra-left about how horrible and offensive this film is. One of the later DEATH WISH films shows that Bronson has given up using his trusty .357 Magnum and replaced it with a shoulder-launched rocket! Talk about making a film to appeal to the idiots out there! And as far as the ultra-left goes, I doubt that in many cases these people actually saw DEATH WISH before condemning it in a knee-jerk way just because it DID have guns and vigilantism.The film is an excellent portrait of an ordinary successful guy living with his family in the big city. One day, all this is interrupted when his wife is murdered and his daughter brutalized by a gang of scum. He's miserable and his life has been totally uprooted. Only later, when a business associate gives him a gun, does he consider looking for vengeance. And, I like how this was handled. He was NOT a jerk or crazy man--especially at first. Instead, he just carried the gun for protection. Trouble came to him--he wasn't initially seeking it. When he is mugged, he shoots back and is later horrified by his actions. But, as the movie continues, you see he then begins to deliberately walk the streets late at night in the hope that the thugs would attack. He never, by the way, solicited these attacks--they just occurred because he had the unmitigated gall to walk the streets after dark. So, he is technically a vigilante of sorts, but he was never a crazed killer and, quite frankly, I didn't shed too many tears when he shot these predators. The film exposed our breakdown in society in the 1970s without explicitly recommending we pack heat and blast away at the bad guys and in the process it really made me think. "},{"Title":"30 years later, times have changed.","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As someone who grew up in NYC and worked there til 1992, I must say the NYC portrayed in this 1974 flick is not at all like the NYC of today. I must agree that in 1974 crime was very high in the streets and the subways and the city was a filthy place and the subway trains full of graffiti. I travel to the city many times a year and you can see the difference 30 years have made. Clean , safe subways, clean streets and crime at it's lowest in years. I remember seeing this movie in 1974 on the big screen and everyone clapped and screamed each time Paul Kersey whacked out a mugger. Anyone who has never seen this movie must take it where it came from a completely different time and era in the history of NYC. "},{"Title":"Fun to watch, but hasn't aged well","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After hearing about Charles Bronson's death on August 30, 2003, I decided to rent and revisit his most famous movie, Death Wish, which I hadn't seen in about 20 years.  It's compelling and fun to watch, but it hasn't aged well. The villains he shoots are too cartoonish, and there's a cardboard quality to the whole affair, which seems very dated.  The worst part is that this movie spawned FOUR sequels, two of which I've unfortunately seen.  Still, it will always be the movie he's remembered for, so on that level, it's worth seeing.  6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wish Fulfillment","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is a scene in The Odd Couple (1968) when Matthau and Lemon are sitting on a bench having a conversation in Central Park and Matthau says, C'mon. Let's get outta here. Da mugger's will be here soon. A laugh line. By 1974, nobody was laughing anymore. In cities like New York, the rates for some index crimes, such as homicide, had tripled in a few years. The baby boomers, those in the age group most likely to engage in rebellious behavior, were moving through the age structure like a shoat through the belly of a python. Privileged white kids in the suburbs were learning from their professors that it was okay to disrupt the political process and violate laws because of our involvement in Vietnam. Hubert Humphrey gave way to people like Noam Chomsky. Underprivileged African-American kids in the inner cities were in turn being taught by their newly emerging leaders that it was okay to rip off whites and despoil their property because of white racism. Martin Luther King gave way to Stokely Carmichael. As Stanley Kaufman put it, A white person in the city today is like a game animal on a preserve. Of course, no one knew how to solve the real problem. Money certainly didn't work. So we solved our problems in the movies. We may have lost the Vietnam war, but Rambo managed to practically win it back. Death Wish is Hollywood's attempt to cash in on the monumental dysfunctions in urban America. Muggers? Kill them all and let God sort them out. Simple to the point of simple mindedness. Like Rambo, the vigilante killer is a crooked fantasy. It is filled from end to end with inaccuracies, dissembling, and plain baloney. The writers must have never actually ridden a subway. I'll just point out a few. The first violent scene, involving rape and murder and worse (messing up the furniture and spritzing the walls with spray paint), the scene that provides the engine for Kersey's quest for revenge, is committed by a gang of greasy looking white kids, very poor stand-ins for the black kids that so many New Yorkers had grown paranoid about. In fact, the movie pretty much sidesteps the issue of race. The initial muggers are white junkies. Before the first all-black group of muggers is eased into the movie, we have to sit through an integrated group of muggers. (When was the last time a victim saw a democratically integrated gang of delinquents?) However, the movie makers WILL have it both ways. We're not criticizing blacks. See? Here are some token whites. I suspect the cheering, salivating audiences were able to crack the code however. Other meretricious fantasies. No sooner do shots ring out or someone screams than the cop cars squeal up, sirens wailing. (See Casavets' Gloria for a valuable corrective to this fantasy.) The gun-toting Tucson landowner who wants his property developed insists that a relationship to the land be preserved -- for kids, for cows, for horses. (He missed the lesser earless lizard; the natural fauna is evidently of no interest to him.) A land developer is someone who buys large parcels of land, chops them into smaller pieces, and sells them at a profit. To describe him as a land developer is like describing a butcher as a cow developer. This land owner,incidentally, is one in a million. His business colleagues probably call him a fairy behind his back. Vincent Gardenia, as the cop, gives a good performance but the script endows him with an intuition amounting to clairvoyance. The writers might have saved us some time if, when the body of the first mugger is found, the cop had said right off, So he was lying here with money in his pocket, on his back, almost as if he had tried to mug an engineer named Kersey who is about to turn vigilante killer. That first mugger is interesting. A horde of cops mobilize around this worthless junky mugger's body in Riverside Park as if it were somehow AMAZING that he should be murdered here in fair New York! After half a dozen or so similar wipeouts of despicable nobodies, the incidents turn international, and we see broadcasts about the vigilante killer being broadcast around the world in Italian, German, and I think Eskimo. A huge task force fills a room, trying to figure out how to stop someone who shot a couple of street rats. An elderly black lady, inspired by Kersey to defend herself with a hat pin, is made to look foolish. I could go on, but why put effort into describing disjected membrae? The audience must have craved that particular brand of fantasy, since the movie spawned so many sequels, each worse than the last until, like Rambo, the desire for more of the disgusting same dwindled to a palpitating point, then vanished. Even the public's desire for garbage is not bottomless. "},{"Title":"A polarizing film on a polarizing subject.","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In a film that excels in manipulating even the most docile audience into wanting blood, Bronson plays a kindly architect who turns into a vigilante when his family is brutally attacked. Bronson and his wife Lange come home from an idyllic Hawaiian vacation to their home in New York City (the contrast is more than obvious, with a practically hellish depiction of The Big Apple here) and have barely unpacked before a trio of thugs assaults Lange and her daughter Tolan. Bronson tries to find a way to live with the injustice of it all, but eventually is awakened to the lure of gun ownership by a trigger-happy associate he meets during an extended business trip to Arizona. Having endured and witnessed all the crime he can tolerate, Bronson sets out to lure criminals into attacking him so that he can blow them away. Meanwhile, police detective Gardinia and his fellow officers try to locate the vigilante, whose string of killings has caught the media's attention and turned him into a celebrity, albeit an unknown one. Eventually, Bronson finds himself risking personal injury from his prey as the authorities close in on him, though they aren't even sure what to do with him since, thanks to him, crime has dropped considerably! Bronson isn't perhaps the most obvious choice to play a pacifistic architect, but he is, of course, right at home when it comes to the vengeful aspects of the character. He's always cool as a cucumber, stoically (detractors might say woodenly) enticing the dregs of the city into his gun sites. Just as the character he plays caught on with the media in the film, Bronson's star rose significantly after this film, which was a runaway hit (whose prestige was diminished a tad by a later quartet of horrendous sequels.) Lange (along with Tolan) has to endure a gut-wrenchingly savage attack, which, even today, is chilling to view. Something about that 70s camera-work makes these things look even more disturbing than today's filmmakers are capable of producing. Gardenia hams it up a bit as the dogged detective with a perpetual cold, but he's a good counterpoint to Bronson. (He shares some screen time with Dukakis, as a policewoman, who would later play his wife in Moonstruck and take home an Oscar!) Keats, as Tolan's husband, tries just a little too hard to engender familial bonds with Bronson and comes off as quite whiny. One could destroy a calculator trying to count how many times he says Dad to his father-in-law Bronson. The Rockford Files fans will get a kick out of seeing Margolin as the gun-totin' associate of Bronson's. His car is quite a sight, too. Many familiar 70s TV and movie faces pop up along the way including a nearly unrecognizable Guest as a cop, Jacobs as a mugger and Goldblum as one of the deranged thugs who start the whole sick ball rolling. It is, for the most part, a bleak, rather disturbing film, but, for those along for the ride, it's also somewhat cathartic in that it allows the viewer to vicariously get back at those who break the law and have no regard for others' feelings, property or wellbeing. On the flip side, there is some amusingly heinous décor in Bronson's high-rise apartment. This might take the cake as the all-time fugliest cinema kitchen! Also, Bronson appears briefly in a speedo, for those who like that sort of thing. Herbie Hancock's busy score is a matter of taste. "},{"Title":"Bronson is the life of this movie","Date":"11 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish is a very clichéd type of movie. Someone close to the heroic character is killed, hero goes out for revenge.However, there is plot here. There is also character development (for some characters anyway). It just doesn't take long for the movie to go down the famous path of hero becoming a vigilante.Charles Bronson was obviously the best choice to play Paul Kersey, the war veteran with a family who is happy with his life until disaster strikes. Stuart Margolin plays Ames Jainchill, Kersey's new found cowboy friend who introduces him to the world of carrying a gun outside of the war. Hope Lange plays Joanna, Paul's wife. Vincent Gardenia plays Detective Frank Ochoa, the detective who is sent out to find Kersey. I guess the rest of the characters aren't really worth mentioning except for an early appearance by Jeff Goldblum, who actually plays his part very well.The New York setting was very good, the wintry climate gave it all the more realism as to how cold the world really is. The music score was also really good.Bronson was definitely the main reason to keep watching. The part was seemingly written for him.Over all, not a bad movie. I'd recommend to mainly fans of vigilante/rogue cop movies and fans of Charles Bronson, as this is probably the role that fits him best.8/10 "},{"Title":"A Classic vigilante flick still rocks","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched the movie for the first time a few days ago , and must conclude that although made in 1974 it still has an appeal  simply put , this is a 'typical'crime movie with C. Bronson , made three years since the famous Inspector Callahan in the Dirty Harry series , both sharing some common points , namely  society has lost its defensive abilities , and mega-cities have become virtual Darwinian jungles , where less strong , less organized , honest and law-abiding are the prey , where the police are powerless bureaucrats , limited by the leftists laws, legislation and callousness , and only lone 'cowboys' , who shoot first and fill in the reports much later ,are the sole protectors of the innocent ! C. Bronson's character &#150; P. Kersey is not an officer of the law , but a successful architect , even &#150; as we learn in the movie later &#150; a conscientious objector to wars and guns whose life is suddenly turned upside down , as his family is attacked in their own apartment in the broad daylight by a street gang &#150; one of the perpetrators is no other than J.Goldblum, perhaps in his first major role ! As the police is powerless , and even not too interested , Charles Bronson is forced to take the law in his hands , and that is not an easy decision , not without psychological consequences and moral dilemmas ,and this is in fact the beauty of the movie , which tries to show the limits of human patience , and how much humiliation and sacrifice must one endure before one takes decisive action as nothing else works .All in all, a classic that was followed by equally good , but more extreme sequels, some produced by now defunct Cannon Co. "},{"Title":"* * * * out of 4","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey is an architect who served in the Korean War in the medial corps, and he lives in New York City. One day, three street punks posing as grocery delivery boys break into his apartment while he's not home. At first, they are simply looking for money, but when they find a lack of cash, their intentions turn more sinister, as they batter and physically humiliate Paul's loved ones, beating up Paul's wife Joanna and raping his married daughter Carol Toby, and both women are spray-painted just for fun. Joanna later dies of her injuries, and Carol is left catatonic. Paul's life is ripped apart by this. Paul's boss decides that Paul needs to get out of New York for a while, so he sends Paul to Tucson, Arizona to meet with a client. There, Paul witnesses a mock gunfight at Old Tucson, a reconstructed Western frontier town that is often used as a movie set. Paul's client, a gun enthusiast, gets Paul interested in guns, and even gives him one. When Paul returns to New York, he brings the gun with him, and when the police are unable to find the rapists, Paul sets out to find the rapists himself.An masterpiece with full of yesteryear's actors and more. A great script, acting and famous lines make the film a classic.Rated R for Extreme Graphic Violence, Nudity, Profanity, Sexual Situations and Rape. "},{"Title":"This film does not age well.","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great story, but the acting, and action scenes look lame.  I bet, they where big back in 74.  The story is interesting, what would one do if motivated by extreme events.  Bronson is a New York liberal who is spund out of control by tragic events in his life.  This creates the title, and what the character wants, a Death Wish.  A curiosity, maybe a classic, but not a great film.  5/10. "}{"Title":"A guilty pleasure","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Released at a time when crime in America seemed out of control, DEATH WISH gave people the chance to vicariously enjoy the thrill of blowing away the bad guys. Charles Bronson was forever typecast out of serious acting after his compelling performance as an upper-class liberal who experiences the classic saying, A conservative is a liberal who's been mugged. After his wife is killed and his daughter raped, Kersey becomes a vigilante and quickly moves from mere self-defense to hunting down and blowing away anyone who messes with him.While this film is crudely manipulative, especially in the cartoonishly repugnant rape-and-murder scene at the beginning, it is effective and raises some interesting questions. DEATH WISH presents a world in which people have become timid, scared mice, spinelessly allowing criminal repulsivos to take over the streets. Some people do see our society this way, but in the 35 years since DEATH WISH was made, New York City has become much safer and crime is not the burning issue it once was.Bronson's vigilante is nicely balanced by Vincent Gardenia's endearing portrayal of the detective Ochoa assigned to hunt him down. Gardenia's rumpled, wry, dogged flatfoot gives the film a lightening touch it desperately needs, and the final scene between detective and vigilante has just the right touch.This is not really a political film, although it does touch on certain issues. If the police are ineffective, should people be able to defend themselves? The answer to this would appear to be obvious, and yet this film doesn't try to force it on you. It's possible to enjoy this film as a guilty pleasure without taking it too seriously.I do question whether the police are quite as ineffective as is portrayed in this film. When Bronson asks whether there's a chance of catching the men who attacked this family, the detective replies, Of course there's a chance ... but ... in the city, that's how it is. Here the film is telling you that the cops can't handle it, and things are out of control. It's easy for the viewer to forget that Bronson was not there when his family was attacked. His wife is dead and his daughter has retreated into catatonia, so the cops don't really have a description. With no description, exactly how do you expect them to find the perpetrators? As Bronson becomes more addicted to his nightly prowling, which rapidly becomes compulsive behavior, it's easy to forget that he's never seen the original attackers. He's just lashing out at anyone who represents them. The movie is careful to pit him only against obvious repulsivos, but anytime someone goes around shooting people to death there's a good chance he'll kill someone who was just in the wrong place at the wrong time.DEATH WISH may be manipulative, but at least it allows the viewer to make his/her own decisions about the larger issues. "},{"Title":"curiously not terrible","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you are familiar at all with the Death Wish series of movies, it might strike you as odd that the original was actually a film, as opposed to its sequels, which technically qualify as guano. This film has a score by Herbie Hancock, is based on a novel, and features early small roles for Jeff Goldblum and Christopher Guest. Charlie Bronson is actually conflicted in this movie. Honest. It's a drama with a slow build. It's not a great movie, but it's not bad by any means. It's just not anything like it's sequels (well, Charlie kills bad guys in both, but this isn't an action movie). Overall, I'd say that Death Wish is an okay, if dated film that attempts to comment on vigilantism in our culture. It is not a hero-gets-mad-and-kills-stadiums-full-of-bad-guys movie Weird, huh? What's not weird is Jeff Goldblum's role. As you may have suspected, Jeff is actually responsible for all the Death Wish sequels. Jeff, with long hair and a Jughead-style crown hat, leads a gang that robs, beats, and (probably) rapes Charles Bronson's wife and daughter. I don't understand why Charlie never followed Jeff to another movie set and just took care of his grudge once and for all. Wouldn't it have been great if Charlie showed up during the Big Chill and shot the only character that couln't get laid? Of course it would have. "},{"Title":"guilty pleasure undermined by reactionary politics","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What this influential, reactionary meditation on vigilantism lacks is evidenced in any one of its sequels and/or rip-offs it tries too hard to be some bold political statement, which erases the joyful adrenalin rush of seeing Charles Bronson blow away muggers in New York City. The plot is simple enough a group of thugs (including a young Jeff Goldblum) rape Bronson's daughter and murder his wife, causing him to lash out and dispense justice where the police seem to be lacking. Death Wish is directed with A-list gloss by Michael Winner, the cast is in fine form, and the cinematography brilliantly captures the wintry chill in the air&#150;the film has a lot going for it, and even as pure fantasy, it works, but its buildup seems to plod, and once Bronson is lashing out, the film falters due to its own shallow sermonizing and symbolism. Comparatively, if it had followed the purely exploitative path of its descendants, it might have been that much more entertaining in the low-down, dirty way it was intended. "},{"Title":"Sickening","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Death Wish' is so morally skewed as to be almost deranged. A grubby paean not only to the joys of gun ownership but the desire to turn that gun on anyone who's wronged you, it plays out its one-sided premise with barely a dissenting voice to be heard and does so with a lack of class and competence typical of a Michael Winner film.The plot Charles Bronson, with a face full of starch, takes action when his wife is murdered and his daughter raped. He roams the streets of New York shooting dead any muggers who cross his path and soon becomes a public hero, to the (typically loaded) point that even the Chief of Police and the Mayor aren't too bothered; after all, the crime rate in the city has dropped dramatically. Oh, apart from all those vigilante murders, of course.This movie made me queasy. Even if you disregard the hero worship for a character who's essentially a mouthpiece for a demented Wild West take on society's ills, the film is shot, cut and photographed with dizzying ineptitude. The pace is a flatlining drone, the acting is uniformly poor, and characterisation is non-existent. It's all so crass and exploitative, failing in every way a film can fail.An utter disgrace in terms of social commentary and basic film-making skills, this is a movie that could have tackled the issues of gun control, responses to violent crime and the moral breakdown of its central character with some kind of balance and insight but the writer and director just aren't interested. Worthless. "},{"Title":"Death Wish","Date":"21 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I saw Michael Winner's Death Wish, I expected a great movie. But really the film seems too basic, too skin deep and too ordinary to me. Cursey (Charles Bronson)'s wife and daughter are killed in a mugging and I expected that he would try to find who the muggers were and kill them. Instead, Cursey does what any lazy vigilante would do which is to look for trouble and shoot down muggers. I think the problem with this movie is that it is too simple. Anyone can walk into the wrong neighborhood late at night and find muggers (killing them is less simple, unless you happen to be a typical action hero of the Bronson mold), but it is much harder intellectually to track those specific muggers that have killed one's wife and children. So by making a movie about someone who truly has a death wish, Director Michael Winner is taking away the fascination that one usually gets from watching the careful unfolding of a intricate murder mystery and revenge fantasy. Just take the film, Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, and you will see what I mean. I do not want to undersell this film though. There are some things to like about it - just not enough to recommend it. "},{"Title":"A nasty, shallow, base film.","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this, on release, 36 years ago. Time has not been particularly kind to it, with Director Michael Winner's career having been ultimately defined by this work. It was about the first, and certainly the most prominent, modern Revenge story transplanting a formula which was well worn in Western Films into an Urban setting.It neatly tapped into justified contemporary fears that some major cities, particularly in America, were degenerating into lawless cesspits. Furthermore , sexual mores were loosening with the widespread success of Pornographic Movie blockbuster Deep Throat relaxing public attitudes to what sexual content was acceptable on screen. The ten minute rape scene is still amongst the most harrowing in mainstream cinema, and is there to shamelessly attract the voyeuristic as is the frequent violence.Where the movie succeeded was in tapping into the prevailing zeitgeist that some cities were spiralling out of control and something needed to be done, whilst delivering a level of physical and sexual violence as entertainment which was at the bounds of what was permitted purely to attract an audience. No doubt this irony was lost on the makers. It also explored the mob eye for an eye ethos, as confidence in the authorities waned ( the Vietnam War was limping to a humiliating ending for the United States).It fails because the acting is poor and the story clunky in the extreme. Winner is not a good Director. He is an upper class aesthete who thinks that he is pandering to the mobs taste by presenting the film in the way he does. But crucially he does not like people and lacks the common touch. In the equally violent Dirty Harry series Director Don Siegel and lead actor Clint Eastwood wade through a similar body count, but succeed. Why? Because the characters feel real. Winner simply uses characters as a means to deliver a product.That frequent and graphic revenge violence and a graphic rape are big pulls for many is confirmed by the commercial success of Death Wish and the subsequent three sequels. But beyond that there is nothing. Charles Bronson, as Paul Kersey, shoots people, and that is about it. Hope Lang, as Joanna Kersey is shown in her nightwear, and then being beaten to death. Their daughter, played by Kathleen Tolan is the rape victim, and that is your lot for women in this picture, a misogyny which is a trademark both of Winner as a persona and a film Director.That the three assailants themselves get away, whilst sundry other bad guys get it, is an attempt at some form of deliberate moral ambiguity to temper the natural audience enthusiasm for Paul Kersey's actions. But it is no device to question his actions, more a vehicle for saying that all bad guys deserve it anyway.A nasty, shallow, base film. "},{"Title":"Spluttering, self-righteous vigilante thriller","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A peculiar one this, a rather clumsy thriller in which a hard man of brittle pacifist ideology tries to subsume the pain of his wife's murder in picking off New York's muggers. Essentially it's a vehicle movie in which Bronson can act tough, rather like Clint Eastwood's Dirty Harry.A competent script that lays out the basis for a ethically and psychologically complicated thriller is really all that's worth writing home about. Neither Winner nor Bronson seem to want to investigate the psychological points failure of Paul Kersey. Perhaps they are. I can't see through the sediment that makes up Bronson's face though. Neither is there any attempt to argue the merits or detractions of vigilantism.No acting goes much beyond automaton. You can almost see Winner's notes in action ('he does this, THEN he says that, THEN you...' etc.). Herbie Hancock's original score is a very interesting document but I found it as often as not at odds with the content of the screen. Ho-hum. Well, if watching this film allows others to sublimate their urban indignation in private then maybe it has its uses. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Undeniably potent, but vicious, ugly, lacerating","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mild-mannered architect Charles Bronson becomes a street vigilante in New York City after his wife and daughter are attacked in their apartment. The fact that Bronson's Paul Kersey never catches up with the thugs who attacked his family can be construed as either clever or misbegotten by the filmmakers (clever because it shows they weren't calculating, misbegotten because it might have provided the viewer with some closure). However, director Michael Winner was smart enough to throw in a little sarcastic wit via detective Vincent Gardenia, who is terrific. Still, it's a bastardization of the source novel, which tried to say that violence is by no means an answer to--or justification of--violent behavior. ** from **** "},{"Title":"The one the started it all....","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The original Death Wish was a lot more convincing movie than its successors. Why? Well? It was 1974 and New York City was a crazy, scary place back then(or so I'm told) so the crime rate was in no doubt high. What so great about Bronson's Death Wish with it's merciless social stereotyping of minorities(especially Black people), the homeless, and young people(especially hippie-types)as these savage lechers without conscience and women as helpless dames or hookers; besides giving us a taste of the director's exposed prejudices of these people? It's the transformation that Kersey undergoes when his family life is shattered. From a level-headed citizen to madman vigilante with hell of a streak of bad luck. That is the only interesting part of the movie. That and how he gets revenge on the thugs who ruined his perfect world. It's a cult classic in its own right even though it's politically incorrect but not in the extreme of the second one. Anyway, Death Wish has more of a purpose in life as it is a revenge flick that seems to tests social perceptions as a controversial piece of cinematic art. To tell you the truth, if I had Kersey's type of life I would rely on the Second Amendment to kick ass and take names while having a Death Wish myself. "},{"Title":"Christ, they made FOUR sequels to THIS!!!","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"13 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really can't think of a word more appropriate than 'tawdry' to describe this incredibly boring drek. It may well have been regarded as hardcore back in the early seventies (but I don't see how) but Death Wish is actually as tame as a newborn kitten, especially in comparison to the first sequel.Ironically surnamed director Michael Winner shoots the film in the most mundane and sterile way possible. You'd be forgiven for thinking that you're watching a slide show. And ugly photography doesn't help the brain-dead plot.Charles Bronson (typically void of emotion or expression) is Paul Kersey, an architect based in NYC and a 'bleeding heart liberal' apparently. When a bunch of thugs (including a young, completely nonthreatening Jeff Goldblum) break into his house, beat-up and sexually attack (but not rape) his daughter he changes his views. After his wife mysteriously dies from her not-really-that-bad wounds he cracks and decides that killing random thugs on the streets is the best thing to do.Remember this was the early 70s and back then NYC was rife with crime and muggings. Michael Loser probably thought he was onto some groundbreaking commentary when an ordinary man takes the law into his own hands because the police are incompetent. But here's the stupid thing, the cops may not care about innocent people being killed so why the hell do they make a HUGE case out of the first vigilante killing? They don't care when decent civilians die but make a circus over some random shot junkie? Nonsense! I could call this part of the film 'fun' but since it takes ages to really get going I was already sighing and checking how much time was left. At 85 minutes I was beginning to wonder how he was ever going to find the people who attacked his family and sort them out with only a few minutes of the running time left. It turns out that they are never seen again, so they basically get away it. WHAT KIND OF ENDING IS THAT??? What a rip-off.Compared to Death Wish II (my God, what a disgusting film) this film seems relatively okay. But alone it's yet another exploitational piece of crap by a notoriously incompetent director. A classic is sure as hell ain't! "}{"Title":"About as subtle as a sledgehammer to the kneecaps...","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Where do they get this idea that ordinary middle-class people can't understand violence unless it's portrayed in the most offensively simplistic way possible??! It's a picture-postcard beginning, but all at once the honeymoon's over and we're straight into 'cartoon' territory; complete with 'Pink Panther' music as the villains make their entrance (Well OK, not quite, but it was similar enough to get an unintentional laugh from me... ) Almost immediately after the action kicks in, the message seems to be Don't associate with the 'underclass' on the street, or they might break into your home, turn into complete savages and eat your family... They forget to mention that moving house on a whim is a privilege only those with money can indulge... There's a 'division', even before we start. If governments spread the wealth a bit more in the first place so that poverty didn't make crime the EASY option; then there wouldn't be as much risk.I'd be interested to know if any fans of the film who are native New Yorkers got at all offended when they heard their city repeatedly described as a toilet, just for the purposes of cheap exploitation? He's the victim of an attempted mugging 4 TIMES in the period covered by one film, alone... If it weren't a fictional construct; you'd be forgiven for thinking that these people had gotten confused, and were just pressing Mr. Bronson for his autograph! This isn't a symptom of daily life in a big city; it's the paranoia of individuals with a point to prove who assemble and manipulate the circumstances only to fit their case. "},{"Title":"Flawed.  But.....","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  DEATH WISH is a very flawed film with much to criticise on a technical level. Winner uses far too many medium shots , the cinematography is poor and Bronsan is never a candidate for an oscar as best actor . Likewise we see a flawed script where the vigilante leaves his shopping on a tubetrain and the cops never think of dusting the tins and jars for prints , and once again we see multi ethnic gangs terrorising a city, only in America . But despite these drawbacks DEATH WISH is strangely compelling and taps into our fascist souls . Admit it , the hero has our blessing as he wipes out the bacteria who volunteered to meet their fate this way . My only regret is that this is a feature film and not a documentary  "},{"Title":"Death Wish","Date":"6 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" From director Michael Winner, this is apparently the film that finally made the lead actor a star in America, I suppose I can see why. Basically Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is an architect and Korean War veteran living in New York, and is angered by the murder of his wife Joanna (Hope Lange) and rape of his daughter Carol Toby (Kathleen Tolan) by a gang of muggers (led by Jeff Goldblum in his film debut). His boss decides he needs to get out of New York and go to Arizona to meet a client, who turns out to be a gun enthusiast, and gives him one. Paul takes the gun back with him, and when a mugger tries to hit him, he shoots and kills him. This becomes a habit as Paul goes on a killing spree against all muggers, and while the police led by Detective Frank Ochoa (Vincent Gardenia) is investigating, the public are thankful that someone is standing up to the criminals. Also starring Steven Keats as Jack Toby, William Redfield as Sam Kreutzer, Stuart Margolin as Ames Jainchill, Stephen Elliott as Police Commissioner, Jack Wallace as Hank, Fred J. Scollay as District Attorney, Robert Kya-Hill as Joe Charles and Christopher Guest as Patrolman Jackson Reilly. Bronson is alright in the lead, it is kind of shame he doesn't find the muggers that made him go vigilante, but then again the film isn't the most exciting thing anyway, but it's a crime thriller you could try. Worth watching! "}]