[{"Title":"The mystery of Kaspar Hauser","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"52 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" EVERY MAN FOR HIMSELF AND GOD AGAINST ALL (Werner Herzog - West Germany 1974).Lacking a traditional narrative or dramatic structure and full of obscure images, this film feels more like a hypnotic dreamlike experience. It also features one the more enduring trends in Herzog's work the featuring of individuals with exceptional physical or psychological conditions.The film is based on the true story of Kaspar Hauser, a young man who suddenly appears on the market square in the German town of Nuremberg in 1828. This strange occurrence has become one of the most enduring inspirations in German history, literature and science, with well over a thousand books written on the case. When Kaspar Hauser was found, he could barely grunt, let alone speak and caused a minor sensation among the locals. After living in a cellar for years with only a pet rocking horse, he is abandoned by his protector and provider, the mysterious Man in Black. Having been isolated from all humans except his mysterious protector, Kaspar is suddenly thrust into civilization, and is expected to adapt himself to 19th-century society. He becomes a public spectacle and everyone in town lines up to catch a glimpse of him. Soon the local officials in town decide he is too much of a (costly) burden and, in an attempt to profit from the public interest, he is turned over to a circus ringmaster, where he is added to the local carnival freak show, as one of The Four Riddles of the Spheres. The other three include a midget king, A little Mozart (an autistic or catatonic child), and a lute playing savage. When Hauser comes under the tutelage of a sympathetic professor (Walter Ladengast), he gradually acquires an impressive degree of socialization and learns to express himself with a reasonable degree of clarity, but most of society's conventions, manners and thoughts is more the young man is able to adjust to.Herzog adopted a technique of incorporating film material shot by others filmmakers into the film. Early on in the film, just before Kaspar is found on the town square, Herzog used material shot on super 8 of a Bavarian landscape and the town of Dinkelsbühl, that was almost disposed off, but Herzog thought it would be ideal for his film. These grainy shots, accompanied by a requiem of Orlando DiLasso, make for one of the most haunting images I've ever seen on film. Dream sequences are another important aspect in this film. In one of them, Kaspar Hauser has dream images of the Sahara desert, for which Herzog used material he shot in the Western Sahara on earlier occasions. I don't know of any other director who used this technique to such avail up until now. One of the most stunning scenes is when the Man in black leaves him with the shot on the mountain and soon after the music with the requiem starts. It's almost like a romantic twist on 2001 A Space Odyssey. Herzog has done a fantastic job recounting the legend of Kaspar Hauser to the screen. The casting of Bruno S. in the role of Kaspar Hauser is of particular interest. He was a street artist in Berlin, when Herzog found him and decided he would be ideal to play the role of Kaspar Hauser. Before this, Bruno S. had a troubled past. After being severely beaten by his mother, he became deaf and was placed in an institution for retarded children at the age of three. At nine, when he tried to escape, he was transferred to a correctional institution. With further escape attempts, he amassed a number of criminal offenses and was incarcerated for more than twenty years. The authenticity of Bruno's performance brings such an element of sincerity to the film, that makes it almost impossible not to root for his cause. Bruno S. also starred in Herzog's STROSZEK (1976).Camera Obscura --- 10/10 "},{"Title":"The story of a soul","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is the story of a soul, someone said and I agree because loneliness is here described through a slow moving plot and endless silences which make us see Kaspar Hauser not as a man but as something more sulfuric, almost a being from outer space. The performance of Bruno S. is simply moving and caused me a lot of tears and the use of time through the narration is perfect for a film of this kind. The poetic vision of Werner Herzog is very peculiar and unique and you can love it or hate it but you cannot ignore it. Herzog doesn't care about the audience, he tells what it wants in the way he likes and that's the praise and the defect of European cinema and it's what makes the difference between European authors and American ones. "},{"Title":"One of my top ten films of all time!","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Herzog has a way with documenting history as if it was our own past we were re-living.  It all seems strangely familiar, yet slightly surreal.  This film is rich with detail of the period (19th century), yet it's not the slightest bit in-your-face like so many of the current period films that seem to be about  nothing more than lush furniture and the people who sit on them.   Yet there are images here that you'll never forget!  There are some especially stunning sepia dream sequences of an Arabian caravan strolling in soft, slow-motion across a windswept desert.  They reminded me of Sam Fuller's effective use of raw colour footage of distant lands in Shock Corridor.  Images that seem to burst out at us from the B&W angst of a mental ward.   Such contradictory images seem perfectly normal in Herzog's world, since after all, they're from the world of our dreams. As always, Herzog finds great music for his score in this film, and he uses it in a very subtle way.  But he also is a master at allowing silences to tell part of his story.  If one is really listening, they can hear a great many things that define the world that his characters are inhabiting.  This of course, was more obvious in films like 'Aguirre', where one swears they can still hear the wild birds squawking in their head for days!  Can any film-going experience be more real?But this film is not all just sound and imagery!  The story is a puzzle.  It's up to us viewers to decide who this man is and how his mind functions.  It also challenges us to think about how our own minds function.  While various instructors try to cram a lifetime of education into Kaspar's brain in just a few short years, we are forced to re-evaluate the logic that we have been taught.  This is illustrated with great tongue-in-cheek humour when Kaspar approaches a lesson in logic with a Zen-like understanding that leaves his instructors livid.  Needless to say, this film is a good preamble to Being There, only more subtle, more haunting, and far more memorable.The film will also bring to mind The Elephant Man, not just in its depiction of circus freaks, but in its illustrations of cruelty, madness, kindness and alienation.  It is in essence, a movie about humanity.  Told in a poetic vision with just the right doses of wit, intelligence and mystery.  For this is, The MYSTERY of Kaspar Hauser.  The film never pretends to be a documentation.  It is simply an interpretation.  One man's imagining of what might have gone inside the mind of a man who was born into the world at sixteen. See it with that in mind, and you'll have one of the richest movie-going experiences in your life!  "},{"Title":"My favorite Herzog Film","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Even if this film had failed on the level of character or narrative (which it doesn't), I would still love this movie for its incredible imagery. The memory/dream sequences are haunting and will never leave my head. The opening shot of a field, long blades grass bowing under the wind to the music of Pachelbel, is extraordinary. And of course there's the performance of Bruno S, the most intensely hypnotic and genuine performance you will ever see. But my favorite scene is of the impresario and the dwarf king and his kingdom. This is a true Herzog moment -- bizarre but somehow still a moment of striking epiphany -- the dwarf a parallel, isolated soul to Kasper's own isolated, lonely soul. The extremity and weirdness of moments like these seem commonplace and everyday in a Herzog film, and therefore somehow commonplace and everyday even in our own lives. "},{"Title":"inarticulate real","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"28 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Herzog's characters tend to have an uneasy relation to language, whether they are Kaspar, who lives years in his life without language at all,Bruno(Stroszek,1976)who, rather than explaining his emotions,builds a schematic model of his feelings, or Fini Straubinger(Land of Silence and Darkness 1970),who cannot explain in words how it feels to be blind and deaf.Indeed, virtually all of Herzog's films are populated by marginal beings who resist language or who affirm its insufficiency to produce true meaning.For Herzog, their resistance to language is clearly a sign of their purity.More importantly, this resistance has the effect of rendering such figures opaque and image-like.An image that is visually striking but not wholly susceptible to verbal explanation.Their opacity gives them the quality of an unformulated image, an image that to some extent retards or actually interrupts the narrative flow with its non narrative effect.Kaspar is outside of language and outside of difference, and later resists the patriarchal narrative with which he is equipped.Despite the pronounced literary subtext in these films, the dismissal of writing as a secondary mediation in contrast with the immediacy of the image occurs persistently in Herzog.The words of Kaspar's name spring up as the watercress he has planted, becoming living things in a triumphant romantic gesture that recalls Holderlin's longing, in BREAD AND WINE, for words which spring up like flowers.By gestures such as these, Herzog has, in his view, redeemed language by transforming it first into a thing and then into an image.The lack of erotic impulse in Herzog's narratives is pronounced the sexualized body is not of interest to Herzog and in his characters libidinal impulses tend to be sublimated into an all-consuming vision or to disappear into introit by some other means.Kaspar's enthusiasm for knitting that so shocks Lord Stanhope and in his general refusal to distinguish between male and female tasks.The black caped man who initiates Kaspar's entry into narrative, a symbolic father whose identity nevertheless remains enshrouded in mystery, resembles on one so much as Dr. Caligari in his black cape.As in some measure the founding text of German cinema and as an allegory per SE, THE CABINET OF DR. CALIGARI would naturally speak to a filmmaker anxious to create a bridge between German films of the Weimar period and those of his own time.So the black caped father functions here as the symbolic father of German cinema as well.Within the overall narrative of the film, it is the Caligari figure who intervenes with violence at various junctures in order,it would appear, to be able to direct its course.This violence, in turn, generates in the imagination of Kaspar a succession of visionary images that, like Herzog's films, begin with landscapes.When, in one dream sequence, Kaspar creates a mythical landscape of the Caucasus, a landscape with golden temples for which there has been no equivalent in his experience, Kaspar is creating with natural signs, like Herzog in hoping to bring the real into his film-making. "},{"Title":"Werner Herzog Like A Prophet","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Not only is THE ENIGMA OF KASPAR HAUSER Werner Herzog's best film but I also believe it to be the greatest film ever made along with Stanley Kubrick's A CLOCKWORK ORANGE. KASPAR HAUSER has some of the most incredible and powerful images ever filmed.The opening shot is that of a rye field blowing in the wind; we hear Pachelbel's 'Cannon' and the following words appear on the screen; Don't you hear that horrible screaming all around you? The screaming men call silence. This sequence perfectly captures the spirit of this film; the beauty of suffering seen through the eyes of a human that is untainted and unformed by society.This film changed my life. I now see the world with a new set of eyes. It has the most amazing photography, brilliant use of music and an amazing performance by Bruno S.; a schizophrenic street musician who never acted before and who had been incarcerated for most of his life. "},{"Title":"Greater than the sum of its parts","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Every Man For Himself and God Against All aka The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser is a prime slice of pre-nutter-in-the-jungle Werner Herzog and makes an interesting companion piece to Truffaut's L'Infant Sauvage/The Wild Child. Where Truffaut used his true story of a foundling more animal than boy as proof of the human soul, Herzog uses the real-life mystery of Hauser as a means of showing that society's accepted way of looking at the world may not necessarily be the most valid &#150; as demonstrated when Hauser's contention that apples are tired is seemingly proved by the inability of his guardian to demonstrate that they are inanimate objects subject to man's will. Thanks as much to a truly alien performance from Bruno S. in the lead role &#150; he really does seem to have suddenly fallen to Earth and not recovered from the shock &#150; as to Herzog's unique mixture of the restrained and the hypnotic in his approach, the end result is one of those films that's definitely greater than the sum of its parts. "},{"Title":"One of the great masterpieces of The New German Cinema","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Kasper Hauser is one of the great masterpieces of the New German Cinema and stands as one Werner Herzog greatest achievements. It is a powerful movie that will strike at the heart of the viewer through it's strong visuals and thought provoking story. Those who are use to the spoon fed narratives of Hollywood may find Kasper Hauser hard to deal with. But those who are willing to engage themselves both mentally and spiritually will find the movie richly rewarding. "},{"Title":"The Enigma of Kasper Hauser","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Werner Herzog's film deals with the true story of Kasper Hauser (Bruno S.), a young man who appears, supposedly out of nowhere in a small German town of Nuremberg in 1828. The film deals with Kasper's slow educational process and his introduction into polite society by Professor Daumer (Walter Ladengast). Kasper is a true outsider, and the film looks at the problems this creates (for example, Kasper is unable to believe that god could create the entire universe from scratch, so he his shunned by the church elders).The films title (The Enigma of Kasper Hauser is just one of many others) seems to sum up the film perfectly. We never really know just who Kasper is and why the mysterious man wants to hurt him; the film ends up giving us more questions than answers. But the beauty of the film lies in the performance of Bruno S. his child like innocence and odd take on life is so pure and beautiful, I love the scene where he talks about how he sowed his name in seeds, and how someone had trodden on it. This seems to be a pretty clear metaphor for the film, how Kasper was crushed by the town folk, and used for social merit.Herzog's visuals are also fantastic, from the soft focus opening of the boat on the lake; to Kasper's dream of the caravan at the end he fills the film with a mixture of the naturalistic and the surreal. No other director has given his films such an air of the hypnotic and the style works wonders with this story. Kasper Hauser is a beautiful, if at times painfully slow film, that gives us yet another interpretation of the outsider in society, definitely worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Strange masterpiece by master filmmaker","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A  truely visionary work!!I have always been fascinated with the story that this film tells.Herzog seems to be an expert at showing the way that an outsider relates to the world.Bruno S. is amazing in the lead role , Herzog has definitely made the right casting choice.the movie is just a must for all fans of cinema,even if your not a Herzog fanatic you will still be moved by this extraordinary vision!!! "}{"Title":"Soft feet &#150; a Biedermeier tragedy","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is a highly artistic treatment of a very sad story. The cast is very good, especially Bruno S. in the main role, a non actor but a pretty determined fellow. This suits the movie very well. Contrary to Forrest Gump or Chance the Gardener in Being There, Kaspar Hauser is definitively an intelligent being, a man with a will and, if the guesswork about his past is correct, a fast learner - a man with opinions. He is not above telling his &#132;keepers that his life in confinement with a total ignorance about anything of God's creation was a better existence compared to what followed. He talks mechanically but with much determination and palpable inner pressure. Everything he says wants to convey meaning. Not one for smalltalk, Kaspar Hauser is. (it is highly recommendable to watch this in the original German version)The script is excellent. There is an emotional side, where speculation about this true story is admitted, and in contrast the &#132;protocol of the officials, scientists and theologians who make Kaspar Hauser the subject of their curiosity and their studies. The &#132;protocol part is clearly delivered as a comedy, embodied by the protocolist himself, a Dickensian geezer. Any scientific and philosophical approach to the Hauser phenomenon is presented as complete albeit generally well intentioned humbug, and in the end one is as helpless an saddened as in the beginning. But at least these people collected a lot of data which let one assume that the story Kaspar Hauser learned to tell was true. The most touching detail was the discovery that the man had unusually soft feet.Kaspar Hauser appeared in 1828, a time which in art is known as the Biedermeier period. The English translation for the term is nosegay, the term &#132;bieder means something like meek, conformist or even cowardly. In culture it meant kind of bourgeois &#132;pretty pretty, frail, introverted, apolitical. The makers of this movie took great pains to create settings that seem to come right out of Biedermeier paintings. They were awesomely effective, I must say in admiration. The sites and locations are very well chosen. I particularly liked how domestic animals and birds were integrated into the scenery &#150; I never remarked this in a movie before. Of course, Kaspar Hauser as a person is as anti Biedermayer as can be and a misfit if anything.The &#132;background of this movie is pure evil. For all the considerable kindness Kaspar Hauser receives from Biedermeier society, it is not capable to dispel it. In the end Kaspar Hauser comes stumbling into a Biedermeier garden with an expression of amazement in his face and his waistcoat covered with blood. He has been stabbed, no one knows where, why or by whom. It is all in the background, or the substructure. But it happens, almost like in H. G. Welles Time Machine. On his deathbed Kaspar Hauser tells an unfinished story he has thought out (on the screen transformed into a badly flickering Super8 footage &#150; one of the very few weak points of the movie), and the final point is made, namely that even an unfinished story is worth being told. In this case I could not agree more. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The movie is beautiful, easy yet complex and slow yet interesting. I have just watched and I could see it again a thousand times. You get so involved in the story, is impossible to don't love Kaspar, he is so like a child but at the same time so deep and complex.His dislike for learning normal habits and logical thoughts, what was consider stupid, shows beautifully that he is in a way superior to those professors and priests, he understand the world like it is and not like people wanted him to see it.Whem you see him crying when holding a child, or when he is playing with animals like a child, or when trying to learn simple kids rimes you just fall in love with that person. Is impossible to don't be emotional about this movie, is beautiful.I noticed that I wrote beautiful a lot of times but is the only word that I can think of to describe it, I'm not gonna use hard and complex words because I'm trying to follow Kaspar's way to live, simplicity make you see the wonderful in the world. "},{"Title":"A powerful and difficult film.","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie has become somewhat obscure, partly due to it's multiple titles (The misleading Mystery of Kaspar Hauser) and due to Herzog's own focus on his work with Klaus Kinski. However, if you are a fan of Herzog, neither this nor Stroszek should be overlooked. This has less to do with the historical Kaspar Hauser (and there are inaccuracies, as with Aguirre) than a harrowing look into alienation and exploitation.I will avoid spoiler details, but the scenes with the circus and the churchyard are especially evocative. This is a restrained film, as subtle as anything Herzog has done. If you are expecting grand historical panoramas, look elsewhere. If you want a harrowing view as to how we are all alone even when in the company of others, and a view of how we force our expectations on others, see this film. "},{"Title":"Learning to think","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It's a well known philosophical conundrum, would a man be able to think (or even be properly considered a man) if he was denied all sensory stimulation? In Nuremburg in 1828, there was a practical test of this proposition, when a person was discovered in town who had spent all his previous life incarcerated and denied human contact. He was duly taught how to think; but in fact, was not grateful for the experience. Werner Herzog's film examines the strange life of Kaspar Hauser - I find it hard to say whether or not I consider it a good film, because that life itself was so strange. Certainly it better recreated the bafflement of those who interacted with Kaspar than it managed to suggest what it really felt like to be Kaspar - but then, who could know? It's probably not Herzog's greatest achievement - but it's certainly an intriguing subject. "},{"Title":"A Dark, Mysterious, Real, Discerning and Instinctive Character Study","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Werner Herzog's strange and enticing film divulges only what is known of the account of Kaspar Hauser, played by Bruno S., who dwelled for the first 17 years of his life shackled in a small basement room with nothing more than a toy horse to occupy him, without all contact with humans or other living things save for a stranger who gives food to him. One day in 1828, the same anonymous figure takes Kaspar out of his chamber, schools him on a handful of expressions and how to walk, and then leaves him standing still in a cobblestone court in Nuremberg. Kaspar is the focus of novelty and interest and is even put on display in a circus before being saved by an aristocrat who slowly and good-naturedly endeavors to renovate him. Kaspar gradually learns to read and write and forms unorthodox perspectives on religion and logic, but music is what gives him great pleasure. He draws the attention of members of the clergy, professors, and aristocracy.The most telling scene is in fact my favorite, when Kaspar is being schooled by a psychologist who asks him a classic brain-buster, to which Kaspar gives an effortless, unusual, perfectly legitimate answer that is swiftly rejected by the psychologist for not being the standard answer. The people surrounding Kaspar in Herzog's film are perfectly subjugated, as in the scene where a little girl tries to teach Kaspar a nursery rhyme, and while it's clear that he doesn't know the meaning at all of the rhyme like she does and that he hasn't even developed as far as a small child, it's also clear that the small child has not developed far enough to know how to educate someone with less common knowledge than her.Herzog chronicles the real-life mystery of Kaspar Hauser not so much as a creepy mystery but as a character study that demonstrates that society's traditional manner of perceiving the world may not essentially be the most well-founded or defensible, hence the film's brilliant original title, Every Man For Himself and God Against All, as all but laid bare when Kaspar's assertion that apples are tired is apparently substantiated by the incapability of his aristocratic savior to show support of the argument that they are lifeless objects subject to human control.Bruno S. is Herzog's beautiful achievement. Bruno S., the disdained son of a prostitute, was beaten so cruelly by his mother as a toddler that he fell deaf for awhile. This caused him to be institutionalized for the next 23 years in countless institutes, regularly committing petty crimes. Regardless of this horrendous history, he became an autodidactic painter and musician. At the same time as these were his beloved pursuits, he was also pressed to take jobs in factories. Herzog saw him in a 1970 documentary, he swore to work with him. In and of himself, Bruno S. attested to the power of Herzog's vision. He was exceptionally strenuous to work with, at times not so much wanting but requiring numerous hours of screaming a scene could be shot. Owing to all of this, Bruno S. literally is a Kaspar Hauser, an inordinately tortured soul utilized for the sake of revealing the shock value of reality's hidden ugliness to common society. Kaspar is taken under the wing of several groups of people but whether their intentions are good or bad, he can never seem to live a life without the exploitation of his completely removed mind for the commotion of nobility or business.Short of an accepted narrative or dramatic construction and full of indistinct imagery generated only by Herzog's instinct, many unexplained elements never resolve themselves in Herzog's unique character study, and they shouldn't. His encapsulating only what the world knows of this very little-known story intensifies the intrigue of it. Why did this strange person do this to Kaspar Hauser? Who was he? "},{"Title":"Another (minor) Herzog masterpiece","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Werner Herzog's films reach emotional and aesthetic levels that few directors can aspire to. As one of the rare film-maker's more concerned with the artistry of their work than what they achieve at the box office, Herzog is nearly peerless in his purity and ideosynchrasy. Herzog uses the film medium as a moving canvas upon which he expresses, affects, and creates nightmares and dreamworlds which are so vividly real that they threaten our own naturalized consciousness of the projection we call reality.So much for the postmodern gobbledygook. As you can tell, I love Herzog.This early film deals with many of the familiar elements that tend to permeate Herzog's films - cultural critique, the insanity of everyday life, alienation, cruelty and power. But here, Herzog uses a true story of 19th century Europe as a vehicle, and treats his subject with an unusual compassion and straightforwardness.Herzog's incredible casting talent also shows here, just as it does in all of his films. I do not wish to take anything away from the great performers, but really, how does one manage to choose an actor whose life experience is broadly similar to that of Kaspar Hauser's without knowing of it beforehand? This film blends somewhat disjointed artistic imagery with the true story of Kaspar Hauser, a man apart from society who has been kept in a cellar all of his life, and is suddenly expelled into the light in Nuremburg. He is adopted by a kindly old gent who attempts to socialize him in what appears to Kaspar (and perhaps to us through the film's clear vision) an insane society full of lies and contradictions. All of this is done with the believability that is so consistent in Herzog's theatricality, and the visual quality that qualifies him as a true cinematographic artist. "},{"Title":"Herzog's ultimate statement about the perseverance of the human spirit","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" One of the most evocative and quietly moving films ever produced on the subjects of cultural displacement, exploitation and personal despair, with director Werner Herzog producing a pure work of cinema as sensitive as the character that he depicts. With this particular film, Herzog created perhaps the ultimate statement about the perseverance of the human spirit, whilst simultaneously creating a world that is deliberately abstracted in order to convey the perspective of a character out of step with society and the period that embraced him. Like many of Herzog's films from this era, such as Even Dwarfs Started Small (1970) and Stroszek (1977) in particular, The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser (1975) is essentially about looking at the world from the outside in; with all of the separate elements distorted in order to convey the world-view of this perennial outsider seeing himself for the very first time. In a manner similar to that of David Lynch's subsequent film, The Elephant Man (1980), Herzog uses elements of the real-life story behind the character simply as an excuse to ruminate on the notions of alienation, the nature of conspiracy, personal exploitation and degradation, as well as the often underhanded mechanisms of a seemingly enlightened society, in a way that goes beyond the mere superficial levels of the narrative.The point of the film is expressed by the original German title, Jeder für sich und Gott gegen alle, or every man for himself and God against all. In keeping with this, the nature of religion is brought up twice in the film and dismissed on both occasions by the central character, who claims to be too unfamiliar with the concept of spirituality to be able to make an informed opinion. The church argues that Kaspar should believe simply as an act of blind faith and that a leap of faith will overcome any such notions of knowledge or conception. It is a keen comment on the part of Herzog and one that ties into the idea of Kaspar as an unspoiled being; an almost childlike figure, though in the possession of a keen intelligence and a passionate creative spirit, who ultimately finds himself persecuted for reasons that neither he nor we could ever truly comprehend. In the hands of any other filmmaker, the depiction of Kaspar would have no doubt been that of the traditional outcast; desperately trying to find their own identity in the form of a triumph over adversity. However - again looking back to the subject matter of Even Dwarfs Started Small - Herzog instead gives us a representation of the sane man in the insane world; showing us how the corruption and inherent evil of self-preservation can take a gentle and contemplative spirit and crush it completely; a notion that is beautifully illustrated in a cinematic sense by the scene in which Kaspar sows his name with seeds into the flower bed, only to return one day from an outing to find that it has been trampled by an intruder.Moments like these are characteristic of Herzog's continually fascinating style of direction from this particular period, as he approached cinema from a perspective similar to that of filmmakers like Peter Watkins, Ken Russell or Pier Paolo Pasolini by investigating the workings of a period setting from a more contemporary perspective. So, we have the authentic costumes, locations and an attempt to recreate the values and mannerisms of this particular society, all the while being abstracted by Herzog's continually probing camera that lingers and explores - often hand-held - through the various cobbled back-streets and stately homes from where the drama plays out. Herzog has often claimed that there is (or was) no real distinction between his documentary work and his more cinematic features, with both particular examples coming from the same place and attempting to convey what Herzog refers to as the ecstatic truth. You can see this ideology clearly with the film, as the director mixes a non-actor in the shape of Bruno S. alongside professional performers like Walter Ladengast and Brigitte Mira. As a result of this, there is a heightened quality to the portrayal of Kaspar, as well as a genuine sense of dependence on the two characters that come to care for him, as the more experienced cast members take Bruno under their wing and coach him along in a manner reminiscent of the actual characters themselves.The juxtaposition between the two styles of documentary realism and purposeful cinematic expression can be seen in the visualisation of the film; from the naturalistic cinematography of Jörg Schmidt-Reitwein - with its emphasis on light and shadow and expressive use of landscapes - to the use of classical music (which here gives the film a yearning, almost romantic sense of melodrama to contrast against the more downbeat elements of the film). From its stark and impressionistic opening vignette - with its allusions to a dreamlike evocation somewhat removed from the rest of the film - to the beguiling fever-dream of caravans moving through a barren desert as the film reaches its close, The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser is an absolute masterpiece from a director here at the very top of his creative peak. It is without question unlike any other film you will ever see; one that is rich in character and a believable evocation of period detail, but one that also presents a genuinely unique and unforgettable cinematic vision. In Herzog's film, it is the world that is wrong and confused, with Kaspar becoming a sort of representation for the very greatest qualities of humanity in the face of this vile corruption. A powerful and emotive concept as passionately realised as the film itself. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Werner Herzog continues to amaze me. He has been able to make great commentaries on the human character through bizarre and uncommon circumstances which makes his work even more effective.This is the perfect movie. As I stated in my summary, this movie is beautiful. Landscapes, people, dreams. I do not think I have seen beauty so greatly captured on film. All the acting was great. Bruno S. embodies the character of Kasper Hauser. The rest of the supporting cast is also great. The movie is slow at times but ultimately overcomes its flaws in the end where the movie really shines. Werner Heerzog also adds humor to the film to lighten it up. Most importantly, the movie is full of Werner Herzog's awkward overly long shots that I just love.A must-see! "},{"Title":"Wunderbar","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is the third Werner Herzog film I have watched.  The first two were Signs of Life and Aguirre The Wrath of God.  All for themselves and God against All is by far my favorite Herzog movie (and my favorite title). The exploration of Kaspar's primitive mind was fascinating and, at times, even humorous.  I enjoyed Kaspar's disdain for the arrogant priests and scientists (but especially the priests!).  Like every Werner Herzog movie I've seen thus far, the film does not progress at breakneck speed.   This is definitely a turn-off to most movie-goers.  I can relate.  (Signs of Life had me checking my signs of life).  However, I felt that the significant and often humorous dialogue more than made up for the admittedly slow pace. "},{"Title":"What a pleasure for the audience but what a pain to a human soul","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Magnificent, epic movie, applicable in all times and all places. General assert that god does not exist. Support to Orwel, Bunuel, Harms and other historic men, claiming the same in their opus. Explains, at simple, even romantic way how life might be simple and pure but men makes it complicated, bitter and obscure. Makes you think that mankind would be beautiful without men. Makes even the spectator who abhors pathetic to let tears go by. Director avoided all the traps that can make bad movie of a good story. No long dialogs and insisting on details to stress the point. No explanation of messages that story offers, leaving the audience opportunity to use their own brains. Camera is a separate story. Each cadre is made like a beautiful piece of art from renaissance era. Lights, colors, costumes expressions of faces, all brought to the perfection. Might be compared only with visions from Kubric's movies. Perfect sample of what makes the cinematography competitive branch of art. "}{"Title":"A quite splendid film, which gives pause for thought","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is a film peopled with immensely likable characters, from the lead Kaspar, wonderfully brought to life by the performance of Bruno S., through to the various surrounding characters whose humanity is altogether touchingly drawn out in the empathy, patience, and kindness that they extend to Kaspar. Uniformly excellent acting helps ensure that the story comes across as highly authentic (a characteristic partly aided no doubt by the story's basis in actual events). Together these elements help to ensure that Kaspar's fate holds the audience's interest tautly. Dealing with material that inevitably draws the viewer into central questions about culture, identity, and the place and importance of the individual, Herzog excels, and the final result in this case is a quite splendid film, which gives pause for thought while providing engaging entertainment.By way of warning however, I should say that the notable downside of the video version that I saw was that the English subtitles were horrendously done &#150; on a number of occasions simply unreadable. The missus and I are patient folks, but, on this basis, after a while we just looked at each other and, without needing a word of explanation, began to laugh out loud in resigned despair. In short, watching this film is a rewarding experience, but is not to be done on a night when you're tired, and not feeling like battling with what are particularly arduous subtitles. As it was, in certain cases even rewinding twice did not allow us to decipher the subtitles as they appeared overtop of either white backgrounds or, on certain occasions, overtop of German subtitles. "},{"Title":"I WORSHIP WERNER HERZOG!","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is utterly amazing.  I suggest it and recommend it to anyone and everyone.  It is so brilliant I can't even begin to summerize it. However, I totally agree with ednora (<----that may be wrong name; review done on January 6th 2003).  The script is written with a sublime brilliance and every point that it makes is so profound without being elitist, stoggy, or pretentious.  I HATE pretentious movies, so please believe that this movie IS as wonderful as everyone says.  Just see it; you will be moved by it's content forever.   "},{"Title":"It changed me inside","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie presents Kaspar's reality in conflict with that of the normal world's, and gradually we come to see his as the more beautiful, mystical and human. The film is, at once, a vision of the artist vs. society, autism vs. normal, the seeker vs. a world rendered complacent by square-headed ration and unquestioning devotion to rules. Yet it is anything BUT a touchy feely movie, utterly devoid of sentimentality. I pitied the townsfolk more than I did Kaspar by the end. What is more, Bruno S., not a real actor but a man who had been in and out of mental institutions (at times claiming to be Kaspar), is brilliantly cast. You can't take your eyes off him. No real actor could have pulled it off. "},{"Title":"A Beckettian Masterpiece","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a unique and beautiful film. Kaspar Hauser is a Beckettian character who cannot make sense of this strange and violent world. The film is filled with silent absurdism and a sad recognition of the futility and cruelty of living.  It is more than film, it is magic. "},{"Title":"One of, if not the best, Herzog film","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A young boy is dragged from the hut where he's been imprisoned (by his father?), and then left on the streets of Nuremberg. Nobody knows where he's come from. Finally, he is taken in by a kind old gentleman who eventually wins the young boy's trust. The father (?) who watches how Kaspar 'blossoms', becomes jealous and snatches him back again. Woven between this simple plot outline, is a film that moves me to tears every time I watch it. The performance by Bruno S as Kaspar, is flawless, with just the right degree of wide-eyed innocence. Yet underneath, he knows (and we know), that it's all going to end badly. This is a stunning film, and easily Herzog's best - no mean feat when one realises he was also the director of such magnificent films as Aguire, Wrath of God andFitzcarraldo "},{"Title":"Fascinating but not for all tastes","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A fascinating film that I highly recommend to those who are willing to put in a bit more than passive viewing. It is visually very powerful, and it will leave you thinking about many things. Do some research about the real Kasper Hauser, it's a interesting story in its own right. "},{"Title":"It will haunt you for many days","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  As many other viewers have commented, this movie enters my personal list of the best ever. While other Herzog's movies often reach their expression climax in only a few scenes, as in Woyzcek with the amazing murderous shot of fury and compassion, this movie is beautiful all round. It has so many intersecting layers a compelling story, the powerful images of Kaspar's dreams, the incredible performance of Bruno S.,the shear elegance of the fuzzy photography of nature, the emotions of Pachebel and Albinoni music in a perfect match with the images. The emotional power of the movie will haunt you for days. "},{"Title":"fascinating","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" a trip more than a movie. pure Herzog. and the best Kaspar Hauser. one of films who explores the shadows of a myth with admirable precision and fascinating grace. the mystery, the fear, the colors of atmosphere are basic tools. but the work, scene by scene, becomes a masterpiece. for the exploration of feelings of a small characters who becomes a symbol. for the wise use of ambiguity. for the force of image and the exploitation of each nuance. a film for a special public, who knows the art and the science and the vision of Werner Herzog. each as expression of genius to propose unconventional actors in emblematic roles. a film about Kapar Hauser, who becomes large open window to the fascinating job of Bruno S.. "},{"Title":"Herzog on Hauser","Date":"18 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Jeder Für Sich und Gott Gegen Alle or The Enigma of Kasper Hauser is a West German 110-minute movie from over 40 years ago. The writer and director is Werner Herzog (he was roughly 30 when he made this) and this is one of his 2 critically acclaimed films with Bruno S., who was (just like Kinski) Herzog's muse in the 1970s. Bruno S. was a man with the most uncommon and interesting vita. I will not go into detail here, but you can check this out for yourself. Other famous cast members here are Walter Ladengast, Brigitte Mira and Willy Semmelrogge (father of Martin). Kaspar Hauser is still a fairly famous name here in Germany and all we know is that he was a teenager apparently without any human contact in the first 16 years of his life when he appeared in Nuremberg in the 19th century. The exact details will probably always stay a mystery. But it was not Herzog's challenge here to shed light into that mystery, just to make audiences aware and give us his take on the tale.The movie that won big at Cannes, but managed to get an Oscar nomination despite being Germany's official submission, is a quite extraordinary piece. Bruno S. was so interesting to watch from start to finish and he is definitely the heart and should of the film. It is packed with symbolisms and metaphors, so I was a bit disappointed that I did not like the film as much as I hoped. This was already the second or third time I watched it and even if I would say 1974 was more Fassbinder's than Herzog's, this was still a pretty good watch. It is interesting how Hauser perceives things so differently and basically in a 100% factual manner that often seems much more correct than the way the other characters see these things, because their approaches are so clouded by their education, their experience and most of all their bias. Church and religion is a crucial aspect in here. Overall, this film is worth a watch for everybody who likes Werner Herzog's films, especially his earlier works. However, it may not be the best choice to start with Herzog's work. It really it a more distinguished, more challenging film of his. Thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Beyond the realms of Scientific Explanations !!!","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" 'The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser' is a critically acclaimed film directed by Werner Herzog. It is based on the real life story of Kasper Hauser whose life is still a matter of a lot of conjecture and speculation. One fine day in the city of Nuremberg in 1828, a random, strange looking individual(he was 16 years old in the true story, but the film depicts him as a man in his late twenties) appeared standing in the city square motionless holding a prayer book and a letter in his hands. He later claimed that he was kept captive in a single room by an unknown man since his childhood and wasn't allowed to get exposed to the outside world in any shape or form. Although many historians have questioned these claims, Herzog accepts this account of his past to be the truth. So instead of a procedural film which examines the 'real' past of Kaspar, we get sort of an existential film which explores Plato's Allegory of the Cave by examining how difficult it might be for someone to adjust to the conventional human society.A fair portion of Werner Herzog's feature films explore weird, eccentric characters and his films have a surreal and expressionistic nature about them which makes this real story about Kaspar Hauser very appropriate for a Herzog cinematic adaptations. I could not help but notice a similarity between 'The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser' and 'The Elephant Man'. Not only is there a connection between the stories, there is also a similarity in the surreal style of both the films, although Lynch is a little more overtly surreal with the dream sequences, while Herzog is a little more subtle and ambiguous in this film. As I mentioned before, the film really is about exploring how difficult it can be for a person who is completely oblivious of the ways in which society works to find a place for himself/herself. Herzog shows both the good and the bad of human society. There are certainly some people who help him, but there are also some people who try to exploit him. It's fantastic to watch an outsider learn to speak, read and write. We find Kaspar having difficulty in adjusting to the way of the outside world as earlier, the small room to which he was confined was his whole world, but now he has been exposed to everything outside that room with complicated people hovering all around him. The funny thing is, through this person's attempt to become 'civilised', we see the odd customs and traditions of our conventional way of living. Herzog through Kaspar deftly questions the restrictions faced by females in society. He questions the reasons why we feel the need to allow ourselves to get judged by the supposedly honourable people of our society. Last by no means least, there is a beautiful critique of the suffocating presence of organised religion in our life. This is also visually presented in a metaphoric sense in the scene involving the apples which is a fabulous scene. What I love about Herzog's script and direction is that through all this, he still manages to maintain the real 'enigma' of the character. Kaspar still manages to outgrow the constant efforts of the people to put a label on him and find an explanation for his nature and all his antics. There are surreal dreams that Kaspar has which can be interpreted in many ways, but to me these themes spell out how not unlike him, everyone else also is pretty oblivious of the ways of the world and will go on wandering and eventually die having endless questions unanswered. The only problem that I have with the film is that sometimes the character of Kaspar is dealt with in an inconsistent manner which makes some parts of the film a little too preachy for me.The cinematography is brilliant. Herzog's camera shoots the natural locations beautifully. The fields of grass being swept by the wind or even the narrow lanes of the city streets look absolutely gorgeous. Bruno Schleinstein's performance as the titular Kaspar Hauser is superb. Considering his childhood and his past struggles, it was an inspired decision on Herzog's part to cast Bruno in the role. He brings a chunk of authenticity to the character. The character is peculiar and absurd, but Bruno manages to maintain a sense of realism in spite of the absurdities to make the character fully realised on screen and believable.In 'The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser', Werner Herzog through the use of an outsider, makes a subtle commentary about 'civilised' society. According to him, we might make the most conscious effort to come up with an explanation for everything using all forms of logic, but on some occasions those explanations only act as self satisfying instruments to hide our fear of the unknown and the illogical. There are some things and certain persons who can't be understood. Such a realisation will actually help us understand life much better. "}{"Title":"Still an enigma","Date":"9 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" THE ENIGMA OF KASPAR HAUSER is based on the true story of a 19th century German peasant who was supposedly brought up in a locked room without any human contact, only to be released to fend for himself. The film covers his his release, his discovery, his role as part of a travelling circus and his adoption by a Professor who tries to transform him. He is taught to read, write and speak properly but as a result of his odd upbringing he has strange opinions which infuriate visiting logicians and clergy. Obviously this challenge to accepted norms has some similarities with 1970s West Germany, when the film was made, but these are not overstated. Eventually Kaspar finds solace in music but is first attacked and later killed by parties unknown; a mystery which the film makes no attempt to solve. His final words relate a dream he has had, of nomads in the desert (which used rushes from another Herzog film). There is no real plot and little message but the oddness of the story and the acting by first-timer Bruno S gives it a compelling dream-like quality. "},{"Title":"Haunting true-life story of Germany's most mysterious man","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A great little Herzog movie. I remember seeing the first half of this on TV many years ago. I was late at night and I fell asleep, but always wanted to know what happened. Something about the acting of Bruno S. haunted me - I had to know the full story.I'm lucky enough to have just seen the whole thing for the first time, and for me this is a real classic. It's based on the true story of Kaspar Hauser, a real-life enigma of the 19th century. He was apparently brought up locked in the room for his childhood and teenage years, with little human contact or indeed contact with the outside world. He was then dumped and left to fend for himself in an alien society.Inevitably the story draws comparisons with the likes of THE ELEPHANT MAN and it's clearly a labour of love for Herzog himself, who had tackled similar themes of isolation in his documentary LAND OF SILENCE AND DARKNESS. It's a stunning movie - heartfelt, full of emotion and sadness. The wonderful cinematography is a real asset, but it's Bruno S. who makes the film for me - he's completely sympathetic in the leading role. THE ENIGMA OF KASPAR HAUSER is one of those quiet, unassuming movies that grows on you all the time, and far more memorable than many a noisy, brash Hollywood outing. In fact, I'd go so far as to call it unforgettable. "},{"Title":"sad and though-provoking","Date":"10 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A thought provoking and sad film. Movie's plot itself is quite rare. I guess, no other director than Werner Herzog would have dared to make a film on such subject. It is based on the true story of Kaspar Hauser, a young man who suddenly appears after spending almost two decades of his life in captivity without any human contact. The film focuses on efforts of various individuals to teach him basic activities. However, in the later half we see Kaspar as a person who has learned several basic things. It is about the troubles a man faces to connect with the society. He cannot digest the concepts of religion and loathes the order of society.During the whole film, we only see him as an immature, naive person. But inside him, there is a man with intelligence and purity. The years of isolation heavily affects his perceptions towards everything. There are some really beautiful insights in the film shown through metaphors and unforgettable images. And the film develops within itself with its beautiful soundtrack. Though we never know the origins of Kaspar Hauser. With a tragic climax, Herzog's lucid treatment and poetic insights, The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser leaves you with some incisive thoughts. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"7 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Herzog's film is based upon the true and mysterious story of Kaspar Hauser (Bruno S.), a young man who suddenly appeared in Nuremberg in 1828, barely able to speak or walk, and bearing a strange note; he later explained that he had been held captive in a dungeon of some sort for his entire life that he could remember, and only recently was he released, for reasons unknown.Plenty of oddness and humor here, especially when it comes to the segment with the miniature king. I just love Bruno S., and I am glad that Werner Herzog has put him in multiple films, because he just has a look that brings any film to the next level.Allegedly, this is a true story and fairly accurate. I cannot say I am familiar enough with the true tale to really evaluate it. "},{"Title":"Herzog's fascination is fascinating even if the film itself frequently is not","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is a difficult film in my eyes. On one hand I feel the pressure to love it because it is Herzog and therefore brilliant; those confused by what I mean need only scan some comments here to see those that feel the same way but perhaps didn't see the need to question it. On the other hand it is a film that moves very slowly and seems to have been much more about the process than it was about making a flowing film or telling a story. The plot here is based on the true story of a man who reportedly was raised in a cellar and then suddenly thrust onto the world without any reason or introduction. In an almost childlike state, everything is new and he perceives the world with no accepted wisdom or social filter.This situation clearly fascinates Herzog because this is essentially the whole film and the vast majority of scenes can be summed up thus. The actual story of what happens to Kasper is shown but it almost has no interest in the who's or why's, unlike those who think they have a nice neat explanation for everything. Viewing the film I did struggle with different illustrations of essentially the same thing and in terms of viewing it coldly, it was often rather dull, deliberate and slow. This is rather offset though by the two key men in the film. The first is Bruno S., an oddity himself apparently and he certainly captures the otherworldliness of the character really well. The script gives him an engaging view on things and he delivers it convincingly. The second and more important man is Herzog himself. Although I did not always share the extent of his fascination with the ideas and concepts herein, I was interested in the way he looked at them and the way he delivered his film. Not all of it worked for me, some of it was too slow, some of it was jarring and some of it was frustrating, but I found his process interesting. I have watched several of his films of late and while I do not always like his films, I love that his fingerprints are all over them and it was seeing these that made this film better.I would have liked to have loved this film but frankly did not. In terms of the film itself I probably liked as many aspects of it as I disliked but fortunately I was engaged by the minds and process behind the film and I think while it does not read that if you like Herzog you'll like this film, I would say that you will like Herzog's presence in the film. "},{"Title":"delicate poem","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Kaspar Hauser was one of my childhood hero. strange, mysterious, it is perfect prey for large speculations. and for circles of imagination. and this is basic virtue of Herzog film - the respect for pieces of accuracy. and the option for Bruno S. as Kasper. then - the impression of dream who grow -up in the mind of lead character. and the delicate manner to put rules to world. a movie about solitude of each difference. like many movies of Werner Herzog, a poem about man. nothing new, nothing complicated. only a hidden pain. and the innocence as tool to transform the world and its silhouettes in signs for a long way far from small circle of usual law. a film out of definition. because not images gives sense. only the veil of a state of soul. "},{"Title":"After Aguirre, there was Kaspar","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I recently had the chance to watch Werner Herzog's The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser. While not one of the most common works of his early period, I found it captivating and touching. Kaspar Hauser was made one year after Aguirre, The Wrath of God, his first collaboration with the equally brilliant Klaus Kinski. Much like that film, Kaspar Hauser has a certain quality that is mysterious, yet beautiful. Herzog is one of those artists that I can really connect with, and I share his romantic wonder for the world and appreciate his willingness to explore its mysteries. It is through his work that we are able to catch a unique glimpse of the wondrous world we live in, as though we are seeing it for the first time. This is perfectly suitable in this case, because the main character, Kaspar Hauser, really is seeing the world for the first time.The opening of the film sets the mood perfectly, showing foggy shots of 19th century landscapes and people that seem almost like a symbol of Kaspar's own hazy mind. These shots fill the viewer with curiosity that will assuredly grow as they first see Kaspar Hauser sitting in a dark cellar, not knowing how to speak, write, walk or even stand. Bruno S. did a fantastic job as the lead character, and it is moving to watch as Kaspar puts so much effort into attempting to comply with the society he suddenly seems to be a part of.Herzog's use of music in his films has always been profound, and Kaspar Hauser is no exception. Although not used throughout very much in the film, the classic pieces of Tommaso Albinoni and Johann Pachelbel are used to their full potential when they are heard. The dream sequences in the film are quite mysterious. Presented with grainy and flickering film, they are seen in a similar way to how we perceive them in life, watching as their details are slowly forgotten.There is always a very real, documentary quality to Herzog's films which is created through his use of extended shots of people, animals, and landscapes. Also contributing to this quality is his use of real extras rather than actors, and the fact that even the main characters seem as though they are real people. It all combines to create one grand illusion, seen through with more attention and heart than most renowned filmmakers of any generation. "},{"Title":"A bizarre true story well told and acted","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser is another of Werner Herzog's explorations of human extremity. In this case the character is a man who is thrust into society aged 16 with no prior experience of the human world. He spent his first years in a darkened unknown cellar, his origins remain a mystery. The fact that this is a true story only makes the events all the more remarkable.On one hand, the film looks at how someone with no preconceptions of any culture acts when suddenly confronted with them. On the other hand, it works as a damning indictment of humanity, as the primitive man at the centre of the story often comes across as more sane and reasonable than the people who try to convert him into society. The central performance by Bruno S. is a huge part of the success of the film. This non-actor brings a non-affected style to his depiction of Kaspar that seems truly authentic. In real life a man who had experienced a great deal of hardship, Bruno S. is ideally suited to this role despite the fact that he is a 41 year old man playing a 16 year old boy. This fact is never a problem and it's quite hard to see how even a skilled highly-trained actor could pull off a better performance in this unusual role. The lack of formal training of Bruno S. is in fact a clear advantage here.This is quite a typical film from director Herzog. Not only because of the focus on a highly unusual individual but also aesthetically. The film features a great deal of interesting imagery and slightly surreal moments. The shots of the fields, lake and dream, are examples of the former, while the circus sequence is a good example of the latter. And overall the film displays Herzog's typically critical view of humanity. We are certainly invited to not only empathise with Kaspar but to also see that his unique untainted way of looking at human culture is a very sane one. He infuriates academics and religious representatives equally with his so called 'primitive' observations and makes their views look somewhat foolish.Overall, this unusual product of the New German Cinema is one of Werner Herzog's best. "},{"Title":"Bruno S. The Discovery of Cinema","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In this film, Herzog made an awesome discovery of a real life outsider named Bruno S., and in here he played Kaspar Hauser. He was also to play a character named after him in another Herzog film, Stroszek. The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser is about a person imprisoned since childbirth and now at his middle age was freed. He was educated by the people around him and at the same time experimented. They are curious of this strange fellow. Kaspar Hauser was being prepared to be a part of the society he had come to know just by now. He was uncomfortable with how this society worked, uncomfortable of how they think. At the end he died and his brain was a startling discovery to professionals, he was different, he is a puzzling being. Though this one is less brilliant than Stroszek, I still find it hard to resist Bruno S., his effortless talent to fascinate us and dominate the screen with his charismatic eccentricity. He is truly one of the greatest discoveries on the screen. "},{"Title":"More interested in the universal human experience than in the facts of Kasper Hauser's Case..","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Herzog is a favorite of mine and I loved every quiet moment of this movie. The performance by Bruno S. is hypnotizing. The actor seems to be receiving a transmission as opposed to acting. The film embraces the myth of Kaspar Hauser and ignores findings suggesting that much of his story was impossible, or that he was regarded as a pathological liar and that several of the people who cared for him came to detest him, later testifying that they thought he was a con-man. Nonetheless, as often is the case with Herzog, he's more interested in the deeper truth of human existence than in the actual details of Hauser's case. He's obviously taken with the feral child concept and the idea of using it as a symbol of the individual against the collective, the uncivilized against the civilized. And though I'd love to see someone tell the real story of Hauser, this piece of cinema poetry, infused with just a hint of philosophical rage, is pitch-perfect in nailing its intent. "}{"Title":"No director make this except Herzog...No actor can act this except Bruno S.","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Don't you hear all that horrible screaming all around you? That screaming men call silence? Meet a young man who was abandoned from birth and grew up locked in a dark cellar without any human contact or external world. He can barely do simple things speak, walk, eat or dress himself. He knows nothing about what we called human civilization. One fine day he was left abandoned in a town; with a letter in a hand he was standing like a statue unaware about his innocent role playing in the world full of smart, civilized people. I won't ruin the charm of this classic by saying more about the plot.In my experimental search of world cinema's auteur film makers, I would like to add the proud name of Werner Herzog and I must say I become fan of him after watching this gut wrenching film. It's such a unique humanitarian and adorable film and Herzog without sermonizing told the story through the eyes of innocent Kasper. Unlike many films dealing with such enigmatic mysteries, it does not even attempt to explain the central mystery, but rather to see the world through the point of view of its protagonist and we come to know what a cruel but beautiful world it is.Its revealing thing to know that the actor playing Kaspar Hauser, by almost a non professional actor named as Bruno S. was beaten by his prostitute mother when he was three in his real life, leaving him deaf and leading to his institutionalization, as a mental case, for a quarter-century. But Bruno S. is just striking one with all nuances and it's the finest natural act I've seen in a long run, and I doubt whether any trained actor could do justice to it. Even there is so touchy part about Kasper's being, his whole existence that frequently challenges the established social notions. Outwardly he may look like a savage or village idiot, but inside he is a soulful man of great tenderness and for us he's still big enigma and Herzog left it to audience's own interpretation like Reader Response Theory suggested by Allen Tate. Any fine day I would like to watch it again&#x85;and again&#x85;and again&#x85; For those who've enjoyed David Lynch's masterpiece 'The Elephant Man', it's mandatory watch. It's must for all who loves sensible, subtle cinema which introspects and boils many questions than feeds easy solutions or answers of enigma called humanity.Ratings- 10/10 "},{"Title":"Kaspar","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In his occasionally very dreamlike and pictorial adaptation of the real occurrences around Kaspar Hauser, Herzog completely leaves out the criminological aspect of the story and concentrates only on the philosophical matter. Who this man was, why he had to live in confinement and had to die a few years in freedom is not of interest here. It's more about the subsequent subscription of the process how a human recognizes and understands the world, how he constitutes all the impressions in himself and fills it with meaning, with finding his tongue and learning how to communicate with it. Bruno S. as Kaspar Hauser is a real stroke of luck acting-wise, a street musician from Berlin who himself was locked away in homes for years. His unconcerned and also engaging performance gives a breathtaking depth to the character of Kaspar Hauser. "},{"Title":"Kaspar Hauser quietly, yet with a great impact, joins the realm of the remarkable innocent-outcast adult characters in all of cinema","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" What I mean by that first statement may not completely apply, due to Werner Herzog's standards for his character in his film Every Man For Himself and God Against All (a much stronger and telling title than the regular Enigma of Kaspar Hauser), but I thought of Kaspar Hauser a few times in relation to movie characters like Forrest Gump, Rain Man, the Elephant Man among others. Unlike all of those characters, however, Kaspar Hauser has the unique distinction of being one who has been denied everything by society up until adulthood. Many have compared the picture to Truffaut's Wild Child, but the comparison really only holds water in terms of detailing the domestication of an uncivilized being. Hauser, unlike the previously mentioned characters, isn't necessarily a 'freak', or with a total mental retardation (albeit with a certain brain abnormality that's used almost as an ironic gimmick by Herzog at the end), or too stupid. But Hauser, on the other hand, rejects the notion (or rather just doesn't comprehend) of there being a God. It's easy for children to accept and think of God as being the one and only, however what about someone who didn't even get the concept of an all-powerful being on first glance in adulthood? Maybe it tells a little something about everyone else though can abstractions really work when institutions and belief is not even taken away but never provided? This goes for dreams, and apples, too.Questions like these, as well as what it means to be always an outcast even when given the opportunity to 'join' society, are at the heart of Every Man For Himself, a film that ranks with the better Herzog films (if not the best), and provides the great non-actor Bruno S. with another staggering portrayal. While he would (arguably) top himself with his performance in Stroszek in the kind of role where one would be right to assume that Herzog plucked some random nut off the street and cast him as the star, it's the right casting choice all the same, and it shows a trust that the filmmaker has with his actor. By having him there, along with a steady roster of cast members, here and there I felt like as if Herzog might as well have taken a time machine back to the 19th century and made a docu-drama- and no one telling the variance from actor and character or real person. Of course, Herzog decides to use his innocent-fresh-to-the-world adult in a different manner than in other characters I mentioned before- sometimes Hauser will say something randomly profound, and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't (again, brain abnormality perhaps, though it's a little deterring to feel that something is *written* as opposed to the more natural state of affairs throughout).Yet it's a marvel of melodrama free storytelling for much of Kaspar Hauser, as we see just the simple physical actions at first to just make Hauser stand up straight and eat food. Talking is a whole other matter, to be sure, and there's even a great juxtaposition from one scene (Hauser being afraid of some pranksters messing around with a chicken in his tower) to the next (Hauser is given a baby to hold on to). It's not even like the domestication of a wild animal (hence the change from Wild Child), because Hauser can feel like real beings, but again has been denied any of the thought processes we all take for granted. So Herzog has his poignancy here, and it stacks up wonderfully as the scenes progress, even in Herzog's hit or miss moments of the eye-opening poetic nature in the dialog. What would end up having me recommend the film the most to fans of Herzog not yet acquainted with it, or even people just not familiar with Herzog at all yet love foreign films and experimental takes on human nature, I'd say it has two major things going for it the depths of the soul a mind and what makes up the essentials in society are put on display in ways almost all filmmakers wouldn't even consider much less film as a docu-drama; and the cinematography and visual strengths, where aside from the exceptions (I didn't care for the 8mm shots of the village, and the Sahara bits are only slightly better), are absolutely top-notch.I'll definitely want to visit the world of Kaspar Hauser again sometime, as it's a character given a 'study' of the purest kind (and a simple-yet-complex performance), where one sees what an outsider really is, and more than anything an outsider from everything the civilized world has to offer. Does this make him any less human? That ends up being the best catharsis during the doctor's last words. "},{"Title":"An enigma","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  i first saw this film in '75 in Scotland titled 'The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser'. Werner Herzog is masterly, and his depiction of this depressing story will immerse you into the period and into the minds of the participants. The Kaspar is played (in what should have been a multi-award winning performance) by Bruno S. What did the S stand for? See, this film is enigma after enigma. "},{"Title":"Hic Occultus Occulto Occisus Est","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In 1828 in Nuremberg, a young man is discovered who appears to have had no contact with other people and can only write his name - Kaspar Hauser. Adopted by the locals, he begins his education, but can he ever truly be a normal member of society ?Based on a well-documented case, this is a charming, eerie, thoughtful little film about a man in extraordinary circumstances. Kaspar is the victim of a cruel fate which causes him to despair once he realises it, and yet at the same time he has a unique perspective, a way of seeing the world that no-one else can, typified by his response to the logician's story of the two villages. He is both helpless and peerless at the same time. Herzog fills the movie with dreamy images (a beautiful shot of a wheat field blowing in the wind with Pachelbel playing on the soundtrack) and grainy sequences representing Kaspar's dreams, elegantly conveying his mental state in purely visual terms. Perhaps his most inspired touch though is in casting Bruno S(chleinstein), a non-actor raised largely in mental institutions, who has more than a little kinship with the protagonist. He seems to embody Kaspar perfectly; his confusion, ideology, affection for nature. He never looks at anyone directly, and with his rustic features and small eyes permanently focused a few feet ahead of him, he gives a unique performance that no trained actor could deliver. Jörg Schmidt-Reitwein shoots the movie with wonderful style, capturing a tremendous early nineteenth-century look but adding many creative abstract shots, like the one of Kaspar watching his reflection in the water barrel. The film was made thirty-five years ago, but could just as easily have been made a hundred years ago. An intriguing tale of a lost childhood and a mysterious death. The English title is The Enigma Of Kaspar Hauser, although the German title literally translates as Everyone For Himself And God Against All. "},{"Title":"An obscure jewel from the 70s.","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Life is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing. Shakespeare vividly helps in making sense, at times, of life, but it certainly does not apply to Kaspar Hauser. Predating Hollywood's recent love affair with the mentally retarded (Forrest Gump and I Am Sam come to mind), the main character here is handicapped cognitively before they became fashionable. But the tale told by this idiot is full of sound, but not fury, and signifies something.A true story of a severely neglected child who is then released into the city as a man, this movie shows how difficult it is to understand modern life (as in Munic in the 1800s) if we have not been culturized before. The main performances are great, and a superior script is aided by a talented directing. A great film, but one unlikely to be in any chain movie rental house. "},{"Title":"High quality movie picture","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  If you're used to crash-boom-bang movies, get away from this Herzog's job. This is definitely not one of those empty stories where everything is an excuse to show fights, naked people or guns.  This is certainly one of the best films I've seen this year. It's beautiful and has something great to show us the deepest secrets of human being.Kasper Hauser (Bruno S.) is a man who was found living away from other people. He's then taken to a house where he starts interacting with others. That's the beginning of a new life for him.  Hauser, completely silent in the first moments, and his new friends have some conflicts, but some time after, the new man's intelligence comes out and the film gets a new rhythm.  Pretty good story, wonderful actings and confident direction. Good reasons to watch this movie.My rate 8/10   "},{"Title":"The Enigma Of Kaspar Hauser","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The Enigma Of Kaspar Hauser is a German film in German with English subtitles. The film is based on a true story and is set in Germany in the 1800's. The film is about a man named Kaspar Hauser who was kept locked up in a cellar for many years and was finally released upon society. Not knowing how to speak or write and not knowing anything about the outside world the community of a small German town takes Kaspar under their wing and people let him stay with them and eventually he learns how to speak, write and even play music. Everything changes one day when Kaspar is mysteriously stabbed and later dies. Winner of The FIPRESCI Award, The Grand Prize Of The Jury, and Prize Of The Ecumenical Jury all for writer/director Werner Herzog at The Cannes Film Festival and The Film Award In Gold for Outstanding Individual Achievement In Editing, Outstanding Individual Achievement In Production Design and The Film Award in Silver for Shaping Of A Feature Film at The German Film Awards. The film has good direction, a good original screenplay, a great performance by Bruno S (who plays Kaspar Hauser) and a good supporting cast, good cinematography, good film editing, good production design and good costume design. The Enigma Of Kaspar Hauser is a fascinating film from start to finish. I was fully engrossed in this film the entire running time and after the film was over it left quite an impact one me. The film is a beautiful looking film and it is very well crafted to look like the 1800's and at times I almost felt like it was the 1800's. I thought Bruno S did a very good job at playing Kaspar Hauser who we the audience eventually learn to like, feel and care for. The film is a very emotional film and also a thought provoking one leaving us wondering about who held Kaspar captive for such a long time and why did they do it. The film never answers these questions and in a way I think I not like knowing better because it makes you think about the film and what you saw more critically and makes you think and analyze the film. This is a beautiful and powerful movie and it is also very sweet and endearing. This is a great film accomplishment and while the film may not be for everybody because of it's slower pace I really appreciated the film and it's style and the overall feeling it left me after I viewed the film. A truly great movie. "},{"Title":"**** out of ****","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Beautifully scripted and shot, with a superb first performance by Bruno S., The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser is not only one of Herzog's best films, it is one of the best films of the 70s.  It is slow paced but always interesting, and features some of Herzog's greatest visual images.  Definitely a one of a kind film. "},{"Title":"More true to life than many viewers realize (not only because of Bruno S)","Date":"8 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I came into this movie several minutes late so missed the opening scene of the waving grass but I can imagine it. Herzog evoked in an uncanny way what it feels like to be at the mercy of people you don't understand and who don't understand you, in other words a crazy situation that has its own rules. I know I was taken back to a buried time in my life that had never surfaced before.How did Herzog do it? By his choice of Bruno S, of course; by the brilliant work of his cameraman; by his depiction of 19th Century German society and its conventions; through the music. I could keep on.Why then a nine? Maybe because I don't know German (although I think the version I saw with Spanish subtitles was probably excellent), maybe because I thought during the last few minutes the balance between perception and realism was upset. The ending shot? Perhaps like the end to a Shakespeare play, reminding us that what we have seen was an artifice made from a historical event. Forty years after it was made, still an unforgettable film. "}{"Title":"See Dinkelsbühl and die&#x97;a lyrical tale of existential anguish","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Herzog's existentialist fable is clearly not for everybody; some, including my own dear wife, would say it's not for anybody. I've seen it three or four times over the years, and I still find it fascinating and weirdly entertaining. Herzog clearly isn't interested in solving the riddle of the historic Kaspar Hauser; the film takes Kaspar's unlikely story at face value and uses it as a showcase for the amazing if limited talents of his main man, Bruno S., a schizophrenic street performer who'd spent most of his life in institutions. Bruno's performance as Kaspar, who claimed to have spent most of his own brief life in solitary confinement, is irresistible; I especially enjoyed his outside-the-box disquisitions on logic and philosophy&#x97;he explains that the room in the tower in which he's briefly confined is bigger than the tower itself, because when he turns around inside the room, all he sees are the walls of the room, whereas when he turns around at the foot of the tower, the tower disappears. QED. Nice use of flickering footage of India(?) and the Sahara to illustrate Kaspar's dreams; haunting ancient recording of a Mozart aria really sets the scene as the film begins, and Grimms fairytale locations, period costumes and plush Biedermeier interiors (as Kaspar's briefly taken up by the local notables) add texture to this poignant tale of a troubled soul who can't find a home in this world. "},{"Title":"An out-of-the-box man within bureaucratic and ignorant environment","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Various nations have their own stories about persons spending their childhood and/or youth outside community; in Germany, Kaspar Hauser's fate is best known - but still a mystery. Talented German filmmaker Werner Herzog created a real and tragicomic story out of it, where retarded Kaspar shows often most sympathy towards others, and his distinct questions did not fit into narrow and established structure of German society. Bruno S. as Kaspar is a wonderful finding - he was not a actor and, possessing many qualities his character had, he could be himself in many occasions. The choice of music, and beautiful German towns and landscapes provide additional value to the film. Its beginning, however, is protracted, and some scenes are torpid - apparently the approach of Herzog, but needlessly prolonging the film. As Hauser's life is generally known, then the 2nd third of the film is the most interesting, you can even giggle several times.A solid classic, at times grievous to watch, thus not to everyone's taste. "},{"Title":"The Screaming That Men Call Silence.","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is Werner Herzog's story of the practically feral Kaspar Hauser, a thirtyish man found abandoned in a German village in the 19th century, of his gradual integration into the village, and of his end.Hauser could only speak a few words and one or two expressions when first discovered, but he learned to be fluent, in a rather simple way, in only a few years. This is unusual. In most cases of isolated children there is a kind of launch window for language acquisition that closes at about the age of twelve. Hauser does quite well, though, and if at first we might be inclined to think of him as retarded, we kind of get over it.He retains a couple of quirks that suggest primitive thinking. He's convinced, for instance, that his prison cell in the village tower is larger than the tower itself? How come? Well, explains Hauser, when he was in his cell, whichever direction he looked, he saw only the walls of the room. Now that he's outside, he can see the tower when he faces it, but if he looks in any other direction there are only wide open spaces. Therefore the tower is smaller than the cell it encloses. (Get it?) Another quirk is what one might be tempted to call the attribution of agency. In fact, I myself am tempted to call it that, it's such a beautiful phrase. The attribution of agency. I savor each syllable.All it means, though, is that you see something as being a causal factor, as having intelligence, a goal. For example, a man wants to demonstrate will power, so he explains to Hauser that he can roll an apple along the ground and make it stop rolling when it reaches another man's shoe. Well, this isn't astroturf we're talking about. The rough sward of a village green has its bumps, and the rolling apple hits one and bounces over the shoe meant to stop it. The apple is smarter than the man, concludes Hauser, because it chose to jump over the shoe.Is it okay to give a personal example here that might make the principle a little clearer? When my kid was only a few years old I took him to a pond in Golden Gate Park where men sailed radio-controlled boats. The boats were about two feet long and could be mighty elaborate.So here's Josh, standing on the bank, watching these half-dozen boats scoot around. And one of them slowly, warily, makes its way over to him and stops a few feet away, out of curiosity. Josh gawks at the boat and it sits facing him. Then it toots twice. Josh is silent. (He was Korean and only just then learning English.) Then Josh begins to walk along the bank, but the boat -- now joined by one or two others -- follows him slowly. When Josh stops and faces the boats, they stop and face him. Toot toot. He was drawing no connection whatever between the behavior of the model boats and the laughter of their controllers a couple of yards away.The boats were doing exactly what they wanted to do, just as Kaspar Hauser's apple had a will of its own. If it sails like an agent and toots like an agent, it's an agent. It takes a certain kind of imagination to bring in a third party as the causal factor -- let alone a fourth or fifth party. (I'm almost afraid to mention that all these factors may be operating at the same time with different degrees of influence.) Or, let's ground that argument. If an economic boom or bust occurs during a given president's administration, he's the agent behind it. Right? After all, he's the one doing the tooting.The movie is rather slow. Herzog never seems to rush through a story. A lot of time is given over to villagers who are trying to figure out just what to do with this anomaly. At one point they exhibit him in a freak tableau. Their reasoning is that he's costing them money and we all have to earn our keep. Herzog gives us compassion but it's oddly distances from the events we see on the screen. Hauser isn't turned into a particularly sympathetic figure. He's not friendly, but he's not hostile either. He constantly wears a fundamental half-smile, even when he's just burned his finger in the unfamiliar flame of a candle and tears wet his cheeks. The director treats Hauser and his predicament the way a doctor treats his patient -- Gee, it's too bad, but my feeling sorry for him isn't going to get the job done.Sometimes his stuff can be a meandering and tiring slog, but I admire Herzog and his willingness to take artistic risks. This is no Elephant Man. Hauser has no hidden skills. He learns to play a little Mozart but he stinks at it. Nobody's particularly noble or evil. There are no beautiful women or handsome young heroes, not even among the extras.It's pretty challenging and, as elsewhere, Herzog lets you make up your own mind. "},{"Title":"Witness the enigma of Kaspar Hauser, and the unravelling of some bizarre events in a small German town.","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" There is a definite feel about The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser, a strange and hypnotic feel as we witness the later-on-in-years life of a strange individual thrust in amongst people and a society, after previously having had barely any contact at all with someone from the human race. The film is a biopic of a brief spell in someone's life who doesn't talk and awful lot; knows nothing to begin with and carries blank expressions on his face as he trudges through his life seemingly oblivious to everything, and yet it's devilishly intriguing whilst acting as healthy ammunition for that old statement films like this just aren't made anymore! The film is supposedly based on a true story, that being of the man who mysteriously turned up in the German town of Nuremburg in 1828 with a note attached to him exclaiming he'd been chained up in a cellar for his whole life. His cell had nothing but straw for a makeshift bed and a toy wooden horse to keep him company. On initial face value, one so cynical might say it sounds like a disastrous idea for a film but on the contrary, for Werner Herzog crafts a tale not necessarily about one man's adaptation to the 'real' world in the form of a town, but more akin to an entire town's adaptation to one man. It takes the town time to get used to the individual; it takes us time to get used to him, which it would with anyone when the lead and title character doesn't really do much, and yet we feel won over by the end.The key is to understanding the young man. He is Kasapar Hauser, played by a man named Bruno Schleinstein who himself, if you trust what you read on the Internet, went through a pretty torrid childhood himself what with being born to a prostitute complete with regular beatings. Schleinstein captures the character really well. The first time we see him, we feel sorry for him as he sits and acts out infantile games in a stone walled cellar. Later on, we don't know whether to laugh, cry or feel a little frightened when he emerges in the town square with a distinct expression on his face and a piece of paper in his hand. Maybe we do all three or maybe we don't do any of them but for sure, by the time the film has finished we will have been tempted to indulge in all three.The villagers act as an interesting ingredient to the film. They are as baffled as we are at the beginning, debating what to do with him and how to, once accepting him, educate him in the sense of transforming him into a human being from a vegetable. Initially, Professor Daumer (Ladengast) is charged with 'curing' him and several reaction and fear tests are carried out but the results are inconclusive. This is revolved around one of the town's few acts of cruelty that they lament upon Kaspar, that being the placing into a freak show at the local circus with other such misfits. They are proud of Kaspar as their freak, leaving him to the end of the show before dramatically revealing him as their prized asset. While the show's other freaks are all unnatural in their own sense, they have little more than gimmick-driven tricks or wacky appearances. Kaspar has a complete aura to him; a tainted history and he feels the most genuine of the lot.But while the film could be read as a progression of one man with no history to him what-so-ever, a 'born as a young adult' scenario, it is the town itself that undergoes a similarly dramatic change. Herzog highlights the error of the town's ways by having Kaspar attempt to run away from the folk following the circus act. It is the beginnings of emotion for Kaspar, a recognition that he may be have been a hermit and a mute, but he can distinguish right and wrong. It's following this, and the realisation that he knows no fear, that Kaspar's born out of nothing ideas challenge the town's ideals and it's here he challenges them and their own way of thinking.Given Kaspar's absolute naivety to the world he's actually inhabiting, his ideas linked to religion and women are rather interesting in the witnessing of them playing out. He represents someone as a free thinker, someone who hadn't grown up being drip-fed ideas to do with the role of women and the importance of religion that the 'state' provide you. Indeed, one elderly woman in the film states that she has 'never really travelled that much' and that 'knitting and cooking' are what she, and the others, are limited to. This saddens Kaspar. Additionally, his refusal to engage in prayer brings to attention some worried opinions about him but the intriguing thing is the introduction of some possible conflict between Kaspar and his aides &#x96; will they forgive him because of his past? Or do they deem him now smart enough and thus, he should follow their ways and beliefs now.By the end, each party give and get enough off of one another. Kaspar contributes more to the town and their overall thinking, as well as overall science, then he'll ever know while it was the town that gave him his voice and his ability for basic theological reasoning in the first place. Herzog has taken a hero, whom doesn't initially have a voice or a mind, has has delivered a quite brilliant tale of realisation and reasoning amidst some fantastic mise-en-scene. Quite a winner. "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie Based on a True Story","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this in my German class and it served it purpose in instilling in you a sense of how much of a struggle Hausar went through.  One obvious inconsistency was, of course, that Hausar was that nineteen years old when they found him vs. the 30-ish Bruno S., but overall, a great film! "},{"Title":"interesting--especially if you've already seen Truffaut's L'Infant SAUVAGE","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This story, based on a real life person who was raised in a basement until age 18 is highly reminiscent of Truffaut's movie Wild Child, though it did not seem quite as engaging or interesting as the French film. That is not so say that this film is bad--it's just that if you MUST see only one film about a feral child, Truffaut's film is better (though it does take many liberties with the true story of Victor, the Wild Child). This is because The Mystery of Kasper Hauser is slightly less artistic overall--with a musical score (with Pachelbel and Albinoni) that isn't quite as good as the Vivaldi score in Truffaut's film. One thing I did like particularly about this German film, though, was the autopsy scene at the end. It WAS creepy and sick in a way but was also a great way of illustrating the detached way Mr. Hauser was seen by others (i.e., more of a specimen than a man). A good film overall and I was impressed that they didn't tack on a happy ending, as the real life Kasper Hauser was indeed a sad tale. "},{"Title":"Are all humans 'one of us'?","Date":"29 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This remarkable, one is forced to say unique, film, by the iconoclast Werner Herzog, raises many disturbing and fundamental questions about the human species and the constructs known as 'society' or 'societies'. (Margaret Thatcher once famously pronounced 'There is no such thing as Society.') Here we have a brilliant evocation of events which really happened in 1828 in Germany, when a young man who claimed to be named Kaspar Hauser suddenly appeared one morning in a town square. No one knew him. He held a note in his hand written by someone else but was himself barely able to speak more than a few phrases which he had been taught during the many years (apparently the whole of his life) when he had been held captive in a dungeon. Who was he? Where did he come from? Why had he never met anyone other than the unknown older man who had held him a captive, and who was never identified? How could he never before have seen a tree, a town, a house? Why did he not know how to converse or interact with other people? How could he be so removed from everything which we identify with what we call society, and hence with 'being human'? This leads to questions such as what does it mean to be human? And can one be human if one is outside 'society'? In other words, is a human in isolation 'human' or not? And if a human in isolation is not 'human', then what does 'human' really mean? For it can clearly no longer have a biological definition, but involves imponderables which are ill-defined at best and may even be beyond definition. In other words, the enigma of someone like Kaspar Hauser challenges all of our cozy assumptions about ourselves. And this is what the film is really about, for the absurdities of 'society' in 1828 Germany are ruthlessly and relentlessly exposed, with the implication being that all 'societies' of whatever date and place are perhaps equally absurd. And so where does this leave 'the human condition', or is there even any such thing? Herzog throws down the gauntlet to challenge all of us, and the responses to that challenge have in the four decades since largely consisted of pathetic and unfocused whimpers or evasions. One wonders to what an extent this film by Herzog was inspired by the Francois Truffaut film which appeared four years earlier, L'Infant SAUVAGE (THE WILD CHILD, 1970), which was also based upon a true story (of the late 1700s), but which was a far gentler and less provocative film than the frontal assault on us by Herzog. Truffaut's film is thoughtful and troubling, but Herzog's film is a manifesto and a direct challenge. Truffaut was holding a polite conversation with us, but Herzog was raising a banner and making a proclamation. In casting the role of Kaspar Hauser, Herzog made the inspired choice of the man known only as Bruno S., who had in real life been savagely mistreated when young and who shared certain characteristics with the character in the film. The result is the most astonishingly convincing portrayal of Kaspar Hauser. He does not look at or interact 'normally' with people when conversing with them, because he has never been conditioned to do so. He talks to them while staring blankly in front of him. In fact, the silent acceptance of contact amongst animals with each other more nearly resembles his behaviour than the human habit of looking at and showing facial reactions to each other when interacting, It is not the habit of dogs to look at each other as much as they look at us. They know they have to look at us because that is how we interact, but with each other they show what to us seems greater attentional indifference, despite the fact that 'dog language' is so strongly reliant upon facial, nasal, and eyebrow twitches, lacking as it necessarily is in words. So the apparent casual indifference which animals so often appear to us to show towards one another, being so alien to our own behaviour, is what Kaspar Hauser shows so clearly. All around him, meanwhile, frantic people behave increasingly like lunatics, trying to teach him the correct religious dogmas, the proper forms of dress and behaviour, the rigourous forms of logic, and other wholly inappropriate things. The film shows us a mad society and a sane but utterly alien outsider hopelessly unable to get through to one another, lacking all possibility of mutual comprehension, and living side by side as it were on different planets. Herzog wholly succeeds in holding this mirror up to us and asking who and what do we think we are? "},{"Title":"Location information","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Regarding more specific details on the location in Ireland to where scenes of this film are attributed.In a somewhat ironic use of stock footage towards the end of this film where Kasper is talking about his vision of climbing a mountain to meet with death, the footage is actually taken from a real annual religious pilgrimage on Croagh Patrick (The Reek) near Westport in County Mayo in the West of Ireland, where, each year on the last Sunday in July, up to 25,000 people climb the 2400' mountain which St Patrick, the patron saint of Ireland, is alleged to have spent 40 days living and fasting on back in the fourth century. "},{"Title":"Yawn, boring and slow try hard movie","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The film follows Kaspar Hauser (Bruno Schleinstein), who lived the first seventeen years of his life chained in a tiny cellar with only a toy horse to occupy his time, devoid of all human contact except for a man who wears a black overcoat and top hat who feeds him.This film may have actually been decent if the pace was brought up a little. The idea is interesting but I felt it wasn't told well enough. Also, the use of a 41 yo guy instead of 18 like the real guy is stupid and hated his bulging eye look which was over done.I sat through the first hour waiting for it to become a great tale but alas, I finally turned it off. The acting was too labored in the beginning, even though it got better, but perhaps a real actor may have been a better choice than a street performer which may have been chosen out of pity. "},{"Title":"a flat film about the story of Kaspar Hauser","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  When you have seen this movie you think about the idea of the maker. Did he want to tell an exciting story? Did he want to show a new insight in the mysterious descent or murder of Kaspar Hauser? Or did he just want to make a nice movie with beautiful pictures? I was always fascinated  by this this story about a boy who appeared out of nowhere in the city of Nurnberg in the beginning of the 19th century. He can hardly say a word and can't walk properly. It appears that he was locked in a cellar since the time he can remember. Already during his lifetime there were a lot of talks that he was born as an aristocrat or even at a royal court. This talks became louder after his mysterious murder a few years after his appearance. Werner Herzog is more interested in the development of the boy into society than in the solution of the questions. This makes this film an interesting story about someone coming into society at an older age rather than an exciting story. Because I already knew a lot about Kaspar Hauser this movie didn't tell me any news. But it remains a fascinating tale which probably will never be solved "}{"Title":"Like a Turner masterpiece - stunning but gets boring after 15 minutes.","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Herzog is a frustrating director but if you ignore his self-indulgence his films have a strength which is to be widely admired. 'Kasper Hauser' is one of his more intimate films which suffers because the slow, languid, drawn-out scenes become the heart of the film, and as such things slide into a virtual catatonic state. In 'Aguirre Wrath of God' and 'Nosferatu' there is a stronger narrative and a variety of locations which support the slow, poetic pace. For Herzog fans though 'Kasper Hauser' peaks in the first minute with Pachelbel's 'Canon' ( my favourite piece of classical music, also used at the end of 'Ordinary People'), and a breathtaking shot of a windswept cornfield. From here the film develops slowly and methodically, but never moves out of first gear.There are still things to admire about 'Kasper Hauser', and it still rates as a must-see for foreign film fans. It seems though that the films shortcomings, which result in it being an average film, have been misread by the unguided who have elevated 'Kasper Hauser' above its station.      "},{"Title":"Veeerrrryyyyy ssslllllooowwww","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Let's give this four stars! It might be a masterpiece as many of the fellows here think but it's just so unbelievably slow. It is really boring to watch even though the whole Kaspar Hauser enigma is so interesting. Maybe I am simply not intelligent enough to interpret Kaspar's behavior, preferring to have it all told to me directly Hollywood style - I just did not see a reason for a movie like this to be made. And then there was one thing that I found to be very disturbing and even bad Why would that person who is Kaspar and approximately twenty years old clearly look like forty? Couldn't they have found some actor in a fitting age range? If you like to be entertained by a movie, don't watch this. It'll fill you with boredom. "},{"Title":"A perverse approach.","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Herzog, the director, has advocated illiteracy as a virtue for film makers. In line with this, in Kaspar Hauser, he ignores the mainstream romantic literary tradition of the historical subject matter in favor of an idiosyncratic approach that reduces the protagonist, storied antihero of spiritual intellectual qualities, to a clod of earth and a spiritless automaton. As a contrast, think of Truffaut's Wild Child, with its very romantic portrayal of a child raised by wolves who is more sympathetic than his cultured human foils precisely because he is natural and uncorrupted by civilization. Herzog either never read or deliberately ignored the popularly available historical novel, Casper Hauser, by the German 20th century romantic, Jakob Wassermann, a writer like Herman Hesse distinguished by the natural mysticism in his works. In Wassermann's novel, Casper Hauser, in spite of being completely deprived since early childhood of all human and even sensory contact, is like the picture of man in Hamlet's soliloquy, capable of the greatest intellectual achievement, a proof of humankind's innate natural greatness and goodness. Why did Herzog choose a contrary approach, which seems so appropriate to the director's particular gifts but so inappropriate to the subject matter? I think it is a case of perversity &#150; of the artist exalting himself over his subject matter. He chose to empty his romantic subject of its natural spiritual qualities, so that he could recreate Kaspar Hauser in his own anti-romantic image. "}]