[{"Title":"engrossing, suspenseful drama","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"36 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jon Voight does an excellent job in this intriguing film about a reporter searching for a war criminal who escaped Germany after World War II with the help of an organization called Odessa. His investigation leads him to Simon Wiesenthal and to a group of Israelis who train him to infiltrate Odessa. The historical setting is 1963 Germany, at the time of the Kennedy assassination This is a very suspenseful film with wonderful performances from the supporting cast as well Mary Tamm, Maximillian Schell, Maria Schell, and Derek Jacoby.For me, The Odessa File has always had an old-fashioned feeling to it -it was made in 1974, set in 1963, and almost seems like it could have been made in the '40s. Truly an excellent film.As a bit of trivia no doubt already mentioned, Andrew Lloyd Webber wrote the music for the film, which I frankly found rather intrusive. "},{"Title":"Excellent climax to the film.","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although it deviates from the excellent book's plot, The Odessa File is, in my opinion, Jon Voight's best performance. A good script is handled very well by the actors. Like all Frederick Forsyth's books, the film conveys the possibility that all the events in the film were completely accurate to real events. The ending of the film, when we find out the reason for Jon Voight's character tracking down the former Nazi, is a superb moment of suspense. "},{"Title":" One nation, one people,  one leader!","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" You could do a lot of worse things than spend two hours indulging in the ODESSA file. This 1974 production was the second of Frederick Forsyth's trilogy of books that were put onto the big screen in the 70's. Although made in1974 the events meant to be are depicted are supposed to be about 10 years earlier. ODESSA was an organization created by Nazis to help former high profile Germans and members of the SS escape accountability after Germany's defeat in WW II. You would be given false papers, new identities, passports etc and many of them made their way to South America . The most popular destination was Argentina, whose Peronist regime made no secret of it's admiration for Hitler and the Nazi way of thinking. (This only made Argentina's defeat at the hands of the British in the 1982 Falklands war that much more satisfying)! It's a docu/thriller movie lead by actor John Voight who had been elevated to stardom by Midnight Cowboy and Deliverance. He plays Peter Miller a struggling Journalist who was looking to land the big story and is financially supported by his girlfriend Sigi who works at one of Hamburg's nightspots.After a routine check on a story of a suicide he is given a diary and documents from the deceased who as it turns out was survivor of a Nazi concentration camp. He takes his own life after seeing one of his former tormentors Eduard Roschmann a former camp commandant swanking it up in and exclusive restaurant in Hamburg without a care in the world. What drives him over the top is when he reports this he finds little sympathy from the West German authorities who seem either indifferent and try to fob him off.After reading an horrific and graphic account of the mans experience at the hands Roschmann, a sickened Muller embarks on his own investigation. He soon discovers the real motives for the ODESSA organization and delves further into this only to the disdain of friends and loved ones who fear for his safety. Soon he also gains the attention of members of the ODESSA organization who don't approve of his meddling. He manages to sneak into a reunion for former soldiers from a crack Panzer division, but unfortunately draws attention to himself. The beating that is handed out as well as an attempt on his life only emboldens him to carry on now knowing he is on to something? He also arouses the attention from members of MOSAD Israels equivalent of the CIA, whose job is to track down former Nazis and dispose of them. After satisfying the Israels that he is not a Nazi, they help him try to infiltrate ODESSA under an alias so he can track down Roschman who by this time he has is own personal score to settle. While reading the former survivors account it appears Roschman may have had something to do with his fathers death who at the time was a decorated soldier in the German army during WWII. So it's off to the races, can Muller get to Roschmann and find out who else is in ODESSA's secret file before they get to him! You get the impression that this was inspired by the capture of Eichmann and the wish to track down Joseph Mengelie a notorious Nazi physician. It's important that in the 1960's and even 70's many former Germans from WWII were still alive at this time and many of them not only escaped justice but managed to wrangle cushy numbers in business, industry and even in government under new identities. How widespread this really was I'm not sure, I suppose many lower level Nazi party members did manage to start up their careers again although those who committed the real acts were probably better off trying to get out of the country, where I suppose ODESSA came in, a sort of club south America for Germans wanting to get away from it all. The scene in the beer hall during the reunion is a real party piece. Still reveling in nostalgia about the glory days where Germany was feared and respected as they swept all before them, the frenzied gathering is finishes off by singing a rousing rendition of one of the German army's marching songs. In another scene when Muller visits Simon Weisentile (a well known Nazi hunter who made it his life's work to bring them to justice), he tells Muller that money was not a problem for ODESSA. Under the streets of Zurich were paved with gold, presumably gold and other stuff that was looted by the Germans from their Jewish victims, how ironic! Over all not bad movie , Voight was convincing as a German being blond and blue eyed and Maximilian Schell delivers a powerful performance as the arrogant and sadistic butcher Roschmann. It's certainly worth a watch! "},{"Title":"Marred only by one thing","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sometime between 1979 and today, filmmakers have lost the ability to tell a suspenseful story, to flesh out characters, so that today we see more style than substance, more gore and mayhem than plot development.The Day of the Jackal, Marathon Man, Eye of the Needle, The Boys From Brazil and others will be labeled boring by many here because they must wait for something to happen. A typical example from Odessa is the reunion scene. Voight infiltrates the meeting of old German soldiers, make that old devoted Nazis, gathering in a beer hall. He snaps a photo of the speaker, shouting what sounds like the words of the pre-war Deutschland uber Alles. One man comes and begins his eviction from the hall. In the next scene we see him nursing his wounds, which are far more serious than the pushes we see. Tell me that today we would not witness a brutal beating punch by punch, kick by kick.Films then used violence to advance the plot, such as the Is it safe? interrogation in Marathon Man. Seventies films are no shorter than today's masterpieces, but so much more intricate plot is compressed into their time frame.Three Days of the Jackal is a perfect telling of a Forsyth book; we never become involved with the characters but watch in fascination. Here we follow Miller (Voight) giving us a horse in the race. I have reservations about the final confrontation with Schell and Miller's motivations but I have none about the story in general.Only in the score does Odessa fall short; the music sounds almost if it was added as an afterthought and does nothing to enhance moods or foreshadow scenes. Worse, the score seems the beginning of a pattern that continues to this day where in some scenes the music is the main character. Only the bier-hall singing of the old Nazis sounds appropriate.I rated the film 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"effective thriller","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just a sad reminder of how gripping thrillers were a dime-a-dozen in the 70's, as compared to the suspense-bankrupt modern day.  2 hours of entertainment & not one single explosion!!  Jon Voigt once again establishes himself as one of the best actors of the decade in his principal role as the tenacious journalist bent on revenge.  The film & its subject matter could have easily been more confusing, and tho some scenes defy logic (a supposedly lethal hit man is reduced to dunderhead status in the film's pivotal fight scene), the story steams ahead fluidly til the climactic denoument.  This is Voigt's movie, but the supporting cast is effective in small roles, especially Maximillian Schell in his few scenes & Mary Tamm, as Voigt's along-for-the-ride girlfriend who also happens to be very easy on the eyes.  And look, there's Derek Jacobi, long before he met Kenneth Branagh, in a tiny, yet pivotal role!  Forge, Derek, forge!!  Not as good as The Conversation but infinitely better than any movie starring Sharon Stone or Steven Seagal (or both).  7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Intriguing and tense  movie full of suspense from the beginning to the end","Date":"31 August 2010","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Good and exciting film plenty of tension , action and entertainment . This intelligent picture is packed with historic events , tension , hectic intrigue and the suspense is maintained throughout . The deeds of the movie start in Hamburg, 1963 . An elderly Jewish commits suicide , leaving a newspaper that falls into the hands of an attractive and intrepid journalist named Peter Miller (John Voight). The German Peter goes to a Nazi convention celebrating the ¨Division Siegfried¨ where is detained. After that, he discovers a secret organization named Odessa that may expose some former Nazis and the unthinkable crimes of cruelty , torture and mass murder carried out by the captain of the SS Eduard Roschmann , commandant of the notorious extermination camp in Riga (Latvia). It seems that Roschmann (Maximiliam Schell) survived the defeat of the Nazis, and that lives in some place of South America under a fake identity . Miller starts then a relentless pursuit , decided to meet him . The journalist isn't alone, as he collaborates with the famous Nazis hunter Simon Wiesenthal ; in addition to receive precious aid by the Secret Service agents (Peter Jeffreys) of Israel , the Mossad , that try to avoid some rockets full of biological virus to be taken by Nasser , President of Egypt .Excellent film based on one the first successes of famous novelist Frederick Forsyth , a bestselling author . This stirring picture is full of suspense , tension , thrills and is very entertaining . The film's intrigue snowballs toward an exciting final. Extraordinary casting , all of whom give admirable acting as starring Jon Voight (Midnight Cowboy) who plays perfectly as dynamic journalist ; brilliant the British Derek Jacobi , the German Klaus Lowitsch , and of course the Maximilian Schell's interpretation who steals the show as haughty Nazi.We see this sensational film not only by its action and intrigue but also by the historical deeds that are well depicted and related to Simon Wiesenthal and concentration camps as Riga and Flossenburg where was executed Admiral Canaris . Even only for that reason the film worthwhile seeing . Spectacular musical score fitting to action by nowadays very famous Andrew Lloyd Weber , including a lively and jolly Christmas song at the main and ending titles . Furthermore , colorful and atmospheric cinematography by classic cameraman Oswald Morris . The motion picture is compellingly directed by Ronald Neame . Ronald's smoothly persuasive direction attracted reception by the public and was a success at the box office . Neame was one of Britain's best cameraman in the 1930s and 40s, working for David Lean, later he turned to direction in 1947 with 'Take my life'. His biggest hits was undoubtedly 'The Poseidon adventure' , 'Scrooge' , Gambit' , 'The prime of Miss Jean Brodie' , and 'Odessa file' . Rating Splendid and excellent, above average . "},{"Title":"Nasty Nazis are just beneath the surface","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A great story, which combines twisted plots, chase scenes and the deadly combination of history and the present. One is utterly compelled to wonder exactly how fictional this story is, and also how such an organisation could operate beneath the veneer of respectability. There is no doubt that the motives of all the chief characters are distinct, and the plot forces one to watch as Muller tries to break into the seemingly impenetrable organisation. His journey to find the answers he is looking for, and all due to stopping on the side of the road for a couple of minutes to listen to the radio makes one also wonder what else is out there that should be revealed, but due to cover ups and apathy hasn't been! "},{"Title":"Great film UNTIL the climax","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love this film. Jon Voight's German accent is excellent, as is his acting. The film is great, but falters at the ending, which could have been developed more carefully. The big secret is interesting, though. "},{"Title":"Underestimated masterpiece","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Movie-making at its best. A wonderful performance from John Voight (who remembers Joe Buck?) as a journalist son of Germany who receives a report written by a survivor of a concentration camp that committed suicide fueled by the horror of discovering a secret society conformed by high ranking former Nazi officials. Voight's struggle to investigate and uncover such an evil organization (Odessa) is the theme of this film that will keep you at the edge of your seats! The versatility and talent of Mr. Voight as a 1st line actor is evidenced here. After enjoying this film you will wonder where has all good movie making gone. Buy it or rent it....you will not regret it ) "},{"Title":"remarkable in many ways, including historical facts","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is remarkable on many levels, but two stand out 1) the realistic portrayal of the events in Riga, wherein thousands of Jews were massacred by the Nazis, and 2) the fact that the butcher of these events in the film was not a fictional ploy but an actual SS officer named, as in the film, Rosschmann. The latter point is of interest, since the film provoked a world wide hunt for this murderer, who was located in South America, and who then fled to Paraguay where he died in 1977. The first part of the film is near perfect, though it gets more melodramatic in the latter part, with a number of unconvincing dramatic events added. One example the journalist(Voight)attacking the burly professional hit man sent to kill him, and then actually winning a hand to hand struggle with him. "}{"Title":"Very Interesting","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"21 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS AHEADThe Odessa File is definitely a very interesting piece of '70's filmmaking. Returning to the days the Nazis were Hollywood's favourite villains, this movie updates the concept of the Nazi threat by exploring what happened after the Reich's fall, setting former SS officers who've escaped justice by collaborating with a secret organisation called Odessa, which has its influence in several aspects of life - judges, police, social services, hospitals. It's a creepy network that operates with societies' resources unknown to the average citizen.And it's fantastically brought to life in this movie. Jon Voight plays Peter Miller, a righteous, apparently altruistic journalist who wants to uncover the truth behind the Odessa, after he's put in contact with a dead jew's diary detailing his life in Riga, a concentration camp. Finding out what killed him was discovering a former SS officer, Roschmann, living in freedom in Hamburg, Peter begins an investigation that almost kills him, especially when he infiltrates the organisation under a fake identity. At this point the movie becomes very suspenseful...This thriller isn't a typical mystery; there is no 'whodunnit' to solve, no villain who reveals himself in a dramatic moment; all cards are on the table from scene one, and the fun is watching the Odessa react to Peter's getting closer, and his reaction as they try to undermine him. This is the sort of thriller I love watching, like a cat-and-mouse game between the two parties.The climax could be better, unfortunately a semi-twist somewhat ruins it, as we discover Peter's motivations are in fact personal rather than purely altruistic. I don't know, I guess I prefer my heroes when they do good for goodness' sake, not because of some hidden agenda. Well, characters like Atticus Finch are rare nowadays, I guess. On the whole, The Odessa File is a strong thriller with interesting ideas, good performances and characterisation. Mot many modern thrillers can live up to its quality. "},{"Title":"Terrific story and cast - a classic","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This thriller should go down as a classic. It has a convincing story a rare thing in movies that try to blend historical fact and fiction. It's tense from beginning to end and doesn't have annoying red herrings or plot twists.The casting is perfect. Maximillian Schell is ideal as the Nazi war criminal. Jon Voight is surprisingly convincing as a German accent and all. Good use of European supporting cast to avoid a fake feel.Good on location feel to it. Liked the evocative score too.It's one of the best thrillers about WWII subject matter even though it is set after the war. "},{"Title":"A gripping thriller","Date":"17 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This thriller opens in 1963 with a brief prologue where we see Israeli intelligence officers discussing an Egyptian plan to launch a biochemical attack on Israel; the only thing the Egyptians require is a missile component being made in West Germany. The action then moves to West Germany where Peter Miller, a freelance reporter with an eye for a story, follows an ambulance only to discover it was just going to an old man who had committed suicide. The next day the investigating police officer gives Peter the old man's dairy thinking it might make a human interest story... it does far more than that though; it tells of how he had survived Riga concentration camp where he'd seen his wife killed at the orders of camp commandant Eduard Roschmann, the dairy goes on to allege that Roschmann is still alive having been given a new identity by an organisation known as ODESSA. Having read the dairy Miller is determined to find Roschmann and expose ODESSA; it soon becomes clear it reaches deep into the West German state and it isn't long before an attempt is made on his life. With few clues in Germany he heads to Vienna to see Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal; not long after that he is approached by Israeli intelligence; they have a plan to send him undercover into ODESSA; a dangerous task where exposure could mean death but success could destroy ODESSA.Most thrillers seem to be packed with action however this one keeps things tense with a feeling of almost constant danger; this means when the few action scenes do come they feel more intense. Jon Voight does a fine job as protagonist Peter Miller; it was good to have a thriller about Nazis where the hero is German; even if he isn't played by one! Maximilian Schell only has a fairly small role as Roschmann but he makes the character quite chilling due to the way he first denies having anything to do with the slaughter in Riga, then making out that it was nothing important then finally boasting of the greatness of the SS. The story is well told and kept me gripped from the moment we learnt the contents of the old man's dairy... just the time Miller got gripped by the story too! If there is a flaw it was the suddenness of the end and the way he managed to find Roschmann alone in a castle; still the story demanded that they be alone together for their final talk so that improbability can be forgiven. Overall this is definitely worth watching if you like your thrillers tense and don't demand nonstop action and special effects. "},{"Title":" Peoples are not evil, . . .only Individuals are evil ","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" From the skillful and adroit hand of master novelist Frederick Forsythe comes this suspenseful story which begins in the wet streets of Berlin and traces itself to a WW II concentration camp called Riga. The movie is called  The Odessa File  and is based on the secret organization which helps ex-Nazis escape justice. Jon Voight plays Peter Miller a young German journalist who is intrigued by the diary of a survivor of the Riga death camp and left a journal identifying the 'Butcher' of Riga. With that diary, Miller decides to investigate if in fact Eduard Roschmann (Maximilian Schell) is still at large. Endangering his life and that of his girlfriend, Miller learns that Mossad, the Israeli Intelligence arm is also trying to locate the source of a electrical missile guidance system threatening Israel. With the help of Simon Wiesenthal (Shmuel Rodensky) and Mossad, Miller infiltrates the Oddessa organization and soon discovers Klaus Wenzer (Derek Jacobi) the man behind the false identifications given to escaping Nazis. However, Oddessa agents also discover who Miller really is and send their own men to dispose of him. The film is filled with intrigue, dark drama and tingling suspense and with Voight at the helm, this movie will soon join only the best which have all become Classics. **** "},{"Title":"Scooping The Fourth Reich","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Woodward and Bernstein may have been intrepid, but they have nothing on Peter Miller, a freelance reporter who goes underground to reveal Nazis working in postwar West Germany to destroy Israel, circa early 1964.Okay, Miller isn't real, but rather a character in Frederick Forsyth's novel The Odessa File brought to screen in 1974 with Jon Voight in the role of Miller. Not to be confused with the later, weaker Nazi-hunting potboiler Boys From Brazil (though the real-life Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal is a character in both), Odessa File benefits from a very involving opening and a clever, cathartic twist of a closer, though the two-plus-hour film gets soggier than sauerkraut much of the time in between.Are we speaking German in this movie, or English? Director Ronald Neame can't seem to make up his mind, and it's a bit disconcerting to hear an old German army vet give a speech in accented English before his comrades break into a Teutonic sing-along. Voight often seems lost in a film where he is bounced around like a pinball, his gaze like that of a deer in the headlights, albeit a righteous deer. A lot of the actors around him similarly feel unmotivated, even the great Maximilian Schell who plays Miller's chief prey, a former camp commandant named Eduard Roschmann. Efficient though Roschmann may be, there are some gaping holes in the Nazi secondary Miller more stumbles through than exploits.The Odessa File also has one of the oddest movie scores, fronted by a credit theme which, as all taut thrillers must, features Perry Como and a children's Christmas chorus. I kid you not. The incidental music is electronically processed '70s drivel that seems more suited for Logan's Run, and was the brainchild of none other than Andrew Lloyd Webber, apparently wanting to try something different while waiting for inspiration for another libretto to strike then-partner Tim Rice.But the film does deliver in the suspense department, setting up a nicely paranoid atmosphere wherein the sweet woman sent by the police to look after your girlfriend could be a spy helping a team of killers track you down. It may oversell the reach of the real ODESSA, a Nazi relocation group, in West Germany, but the screen treatment is at times quite gripping and believable, and of course features Nazis as bad guys, which seldom fails for entertainment.You understand a bit of the mania behind Miller's actions, if not exactly his methods, when you see in flashback the way Roschmann handles his captives at Riga. Even after Schindler's List and other films have presented the same material in more graphic fashion, there's a lot of power in the scene of a woman looking at her husband before the door of a deadly truck closes over her face, or a moment when Roschmann toys with a man awaiting execution for a giggle.If it's not as good as Forsyth's book, the film suffers from the same faults. The improbability of the scenes grows more apparent with repeat viewings, but a first-timer will likely be too involved much of the time to pay this much mind. And, like the novel, Odessa File the movie has a good heart. And what an ending! Don't let anyone spoil that for you, if you are the least bit tempted about seeing this; see it for yourself. "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"13 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Odessa File is a movie that had to be made. Based on the novel of the same name by Frederick Forsythe, this spy-thriller from the 1970's really shines in comparison to most modern day movies. Set in Germany in the 1960's, the movie is the traditional average guy hunts a war criminal theme. Jon Voight's acting is strong although his German accent isn't entirely convincing and may make you laugh at times. The supporting cast is fairly fluffy at times and so the movie really hinges on Voight and the story itself. You cannot go too far wrong when adapting a film from a Frederick Forsythe novel. A case in point would be 'The Day of The Jackal' which is based on another Forsythe novel. This movie fails if compared to the Day of the Jackal and finds itself more akin to 'The Holcroft Covenant'.The movie skips along fairly fast and one can tell that there is much from the original story that has been cut and even the ending comes as a bit of a jolt. It still is a great movie that I am sure you will enjoy if you like spy-thrillers and the great cinema of the 1970's. "},{"Title":"the Odessa file is a must-see","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Odessa File is a riveting piece of history that will hold your attention as it illustrates man's constant inhumanity. Its concentration camp scenes almost rival those in Schindler's List.Jon Voight, as usual, is an intelligent actor who fits the part of a reporter with a German background, perfectly. However, it is Maximilian Schell's performance as the concentration camp commander that is positively chilling.You will learn from this movie but, those with a heart and soul will be discouraged about they do learn.This film is a must-see history-come-alive item. "},{"Title":"Jon Voight hunts for a war criminal in exciting espionage thriller...","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" THE ODESSA FILE is filmed in authentic European locations which give the story an added touch of realism, the kind needed in this sort of espionage thriller. JON VOIGHT does an excellent job of portraying a journalist who comes across a journal vividly describing what happened at a Nazi internment camp during the last days of WWII. He decides to go on a personal hunt for the much hated man he believes caused the death of some 80,000 Jews (MAXIMILIAN SCHELL). In doing so, he also reveals another purpose that will come as a surprise at the story's conclusion.But first he searches for The Odessa File, full of documents on a band of former SS German soldiers who are now operating a secret society of former war criminals who still hold firmly to their former beliefs. The plot thickens once he begins to tackle the assignment, pitted against members who want him out of the way lest their true identities be revealed.Not quite as brilliant as THE DAY OF THE JACKAL, it's a Frederick Forsyth thriller that deserves the attention of anyone looking for an intelligent, well-paced thriller that benefits from excellent cinematography and a good background score with some music courtesy of Andrew Lloyd Webber long before his big show biz fame. The action scenes are handled for maximum effect and the final confrontation between Voigt and Schell makes for a satisfying climax. "},{"Title":"A good film of intrigue","Date":"20 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The action of the movie begins in Hamburg, the year 1963. An elderly Jewish suicide, leaving a newspaper that falls into the hands of a young and dynamic journalist, Peter Miller. The official testifies to the unthinkable crimes of cruelty, torture and mass murder committed by the captain of the SS Eduard Roschmann, commander of notorious extermination camp in Riga (Latvia). It seems that Roschmann survived the defeat of the Nazis, and that live in some place of America under a false identity. Miller starts then a relentless, decided to find.The journalist nor is alone, but that collaborates with the famous hunter of Nazis Simon Wiesenthal, in addition to receive aid by the Secret Service agents of Israel.Good film based on one of the first successes of Frederick Forsyth; either starring Jon Voight (Midnight Cowboy), and brilliant and also the interpretation of Maximilian Schell.I see this film not only by its action in intrigue but also by the historical data that relate to this tape. Even if only for that reason the film worth. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Film that made me cry with indignation","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I loved this film because it truly depicted the real horror of The Shoah, and the wickedness of the cover-up in the aftermath. I would recommend this film to anybody. I suppose it was a thriller and a work of fiction, but the message was not fiction. It also depicted how these murders, who were initially educated and supposed to be sophisticated could stoop to such mindless hate. At the beginning of the film, some of The Shoah victims were playing a tune in a stalag brass band. Can anyone please tell me what the tune was called, and if possible who wrote it? All the acting and pace of the film kept my attention throughoutShalom David B McGinnity "}{"Title":"A true gem!","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Odessa File has always been in my list of favorite movies. It has an excellent script and a marvelous performance of Jon Voight, one of my favorite actors of all times. This movie deserves a very high rating because it's not an acceptable movie, it's a true gem.  Don't wait any longer and buy this movie.  I have seen it several times. Don't rent The Odessa File, because once you see it, you will want to show it to all your friends. "},{"Title":"Starts intensely, falls flat","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Starts rather abruptly with editorial over the screen hinting that this could be an intense, thrilling spy film based on an actual occurrence.Sadly though, it never really rises above mediocrity. Some of the scenes feel almost moldy and so old fashioned, it's hard to believe anyone ever thought it modern even when new. This hasn't aged well and while there are some intense moments and it moves well, the climax is a bit disappointing and the film ends as abruptly as it began.Some scenes could have been fleshed out more or contained much more interesting dialog. A lot of the scenes are very low key, almost static. Hasn't dated well. "},{"Title":"One of my top ten.","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have read all the criticisms of 'The Odessa File' but they make no difference to my opinion of the film. I have watched it time and time again, and it never fails to grip me in many different ways. It was one of the first intelligent films made about the young Germans' struggle to understand and come to terms with what was done in their own country. The tension carries through the whole film without any sensational violence to the final scene when the surprise unfolds. Ronald Neame certainly deserved his BAFTA and Frederic Forsyth wrote a cracking story. Makes you proud to be British. The critics can carry on nit picking about a character's age and 'unrealistic' fight scenes, but I will continue to watch the film when it appears again and again. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think this is an enjoyable film. It is not very much like the book though.Jon Voight is great as the journalist (Peter Miller). His German accent is very good too.Maximilian Schell is also great as the German war criminal (Eduard Roschmann) now living as an apparently reputable businessman.There are some tense moments including when Miller fights and kills the man who was sent to kill him. This is just before he obtains the Odessa File of the title which gives the new identities of Nazi war criminals. This shows him where he can find Roschmann. He has a personal reason for wanting revenge on him as he murdered his father in the war. He found this out from the diary of an ex concentration camp inmate who had killed himself because he had seen Roschmann living comfortably and felt that nobody was doing anything about war criminals. The ending is very good. Roschmann denies that he actually killed any concentration camp inmates. Even when Miller makes it clear that, although he is sickened by what Roschmann and the Nazis did, he is only really there because he wants revenge for his father Roschmann rambles on about being innocent of any killings of Jews. Miller is so disgusted by Roschmann that he can't even kill him although he is forced to when Roschmann tries to shoot him.I found the acting to be excellent. There are a couple of faults including obviously 1970s cars in one scene when the film is set in the 60s but overall I think this is a tense and enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Fugitive Nazi Thriller.","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Based on Fredrick Forsyth's novel, and well directed by Ronald Neame, this thriller stars Jon Voight as journalist Peter Miller, who, after reading the diary of a suicide victim, learns of a recent sighting of a fugitive S.S. death camp commander(played by Maximilian Schell) so works with an underground Israeli group to infiltrate Odessa, a group comprised of fugitive Nazis, dedicated to aiding them evade authorities and set them up financially. He succeeds in joining the group, but we later learn that Peter has an ulterior motive in his mission... Future Doctor Who companion Mary Tamm plays his girlfriend Sigi, who supports him all she can, even at risk of her own life.Another smart and engrossing thriller from a Forsyth novel is also well acted and exciting, leading to a good climax. A bit incredible at times, but entertaining. "},{"Title":"The One (of many) That Got Away","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If getting away with Murder is intolerable, then getting away with Mass Murder is more than intolerable. So the fact that many Nazi War Criminals escaped at Wars end unblemished and prospering is the stuff that can enrage anyone.So from the beginning in this taut and incredibly tense Thriller we are behind the Protagonist and His attempt at finding and dealing with this Scum. Jon Voight gives a powerful, restrained Performance and is helped by some rather cold, but beautiful Cinematography.In fact, the Movie is so well shot that it doesn't look like a lot of cheesy and unattractive Seventies Films. There are remarkable Scenes, like the one in the Beer Hall that are so well Produced for such a short running time that one wonders why they bothered, but glad they did. It gives an authenticity to the proceedings and it is this sort of visual detail that makes this an above average affair.This is not an elaborate but chilling way to realize the subject matter and the Movie is never boring or disengaging. It has a deliberate and relentless take on a complicated situation. It never fails to intrigue and has a controlled environment of a determined Journalist way above His head, but tenacious in resolve. This is an enduring, factual Story that even Today never ceases to be involving. "},{"Title":"Of all the people who died tonight tomorrow the only one will be talking about is Kennedy","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" (Some Spoilers) The Israeli Mossad is determined to stop Egyptian President Nasser from developing a missile guidance system that will have his land based missiles hit Isreal loaded with bubonic-plague and strontium 90 and end up finishing the job what the late Adolph Hitler and the Nazis started out to do! The Final Solution to the Jewish or now in 1963 Israeli question.It's young German freelance reporter Peter Miller, Jon Voight, who unknowingly gets involved in all this by being at the scene of the suicide of Jewish holocaust survivor Solomon Tauber, Towje Kleiner, and ending up getting a hold of his diary. Miller who smells a good story in Tauber's tragic death gets immersed in his diary to the point that he's determined to track down and bring to justice the man who in fact was responsible not for the deaths of thousands of Jewish concentration camp inmates but after almost 20 years that of Tauber himself! SS Captain Eduard Roschmann, Maximilian Schell. Miller finds out from Tauber's good friend and fellow concentration camp survivor Marx, Martin Brandt, that what lead to his suicide is that Tauber spotted Roschmann in Hamburg just a month before his death which, with him escaping justice for his crimes, drove him to kill himself!Traveling to Vienna to talk to famed Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal, Samuel Rodevsky, Peter finds out that there's this secret organization that's committed to protect fugitive Nazi SS war criminals like Rochmann called the Odessa. Infiltrate the Odessa and find a list of its members, who now have new identities, and you'll break it's world wide criminal operations wide open Wiesenthal tells Mller. But in doing that you'll end up putting not only your life but the lives of your friends and family members in mortal danger! You start to wonder why is Miller so obsessed in wanting to capture Roschmann in that Nazi war criminals on the loose is nothing new to him in that the problem has been around since the collapses of Nazi Germany in the spring of 1945. There's a small item in Tuber's diary dated October 11, 1944 that caught Miller's eye that in fact had really nothing to do with Rochmann's many crimes at the Riga concentration camp. But it does has to do with something or someone very close to Peter Miller who's now determined more then ever to bring it to final closure with Captain Roschmann along with it!***SPOILERS*** Miller going undercover, with the help of the Israeli Mossad, and joining the Odessa as a 40 year old ex-SS execution squad sergeant soon uncovers where the Odessa file, having the identities of former SS fugitives now in Germany, is but puts his life on the line in getting it. Finding the secret printing and photographic lab run by mama's boy Klaus Wenzer, Derek Jacobi, that Odessa uses to print false identification papers for it's clients Miller is confronted by Gustav, Kalus Lowitsch, the #1 hit-man for Odessa. After finally dispatching Gustav,in a knock down and drag out slug-fest, Miller find in Wenzer's safe the Odessa File and those in it including the notorious and on the loose Eduard Roschmann! It's then that everything in the movie comes together in that Roschmann is now using the name of Josef Kiefel the owner of Kiefel Electronics to do his dirty work! Kiefel Electronics is the very German electronic company that's now producing the guidance system for Nasser's missiles! the big surprise and jaw dropping ending in the film is when Miller finally confronts Roschmann at his castle mansion in Heidelberg and brings out the real reason that he's been after him all this time and wants him to face justice for his crimes! At first arrogant and combative,even with Miller pointing a gun at him, Roschmann breaks down like a baby knowing that the crimes that he committed on concentration camps inmates during the war wasn't what lead to his being exposed and soon to be either brought to justice or shot by young Peter Miller. It was something very very personal and German that even his SS comrades in arms or on the loose wouldn't agree with him on! "},{"Title":"What a bore !","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A movie based on Frederick Forsyth book ? A old movie with Jon Voight in the leading role ? A movie about World war 2 ? About Nazis ? Based on real life events ? Yes , yes , yes ! I was pretty excited for this movie , especially considering good (7.0) rating.Too bad that the final result is something totally dull and unexciting. The movie is long and moves slowly. What is worse is that it is completely predictable and lacks any tension or surprise. The dialogues aren't interesting. Well , to be honest nothing is interesting here.Jon Voight did a good job and there is a surprise twist near the end . It's quite a good twist. Too bad the rest of the movie sucks terribly. Good ending can't save a bad movie. I give it 2/10. "},{"Title":"Ronald Neame's suspense masterpiece.","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It is interesting that the movie opens with the assassination of President John F. Kennedy on Nov. 22, 1963 in Dallas, a date and name that may mean nothing to young people today, or to non-Americans.Spoiler alertThe Odessa File is about a vast Nazi conspiracy, about Nazis who have infiltrated every level of government, police and business in post-war Germany. Some believe there was also a high-level conspiracy behind the killing of JFK. Is the movie suggesting a parallel?This is a great movie that holds up well to repeat viewings over the years. History can gain greater meaning as we age, if we take the time to study it. With greater familiarity of World War 2, this movie takes on added strength. The extraordinary ending still has power. The Odessa File has a slower pace than most thrillers, but this allows for creating a sense of atmosphere and gives the movie life and realism. Perhaps this is one reason it holds up well in repeat viewings.This pace and naturalistic direction is also found in director Ronald Neamse's Hopscotch (1980). While Hopscotch is a comic thriller, and Odessa has utterly serious, there are some curious connections, making Hopscotch a good follow up movie. The commentary to Hopscotch is especially interesting. Walter Matthau actually wanted to turn down the role, but instead said he would do it only if Ronald Neame were to direct. He didn't actually know Neame, had no particular reason to pick him, and assumed this condition would never be met, so he figured he was off the hook. But the studio offered the picture to Neame and he accepted, so Matthau was stuck. This was a problem because they planned to film in Germany, and Matthau refused to set foot in the country because the Nazis had killed many of his relatives. A deal was set to hire his son as an actor if he would film the scenes in Germany, so it was back on. I mention this because after watching Odessa, it is clear Neame was a good fit with Matthau because of the anti-Nazi credentials of this movie. And he was an absolutely perfect fit for Hopscotch because of his relaxed, atmospheric style. I guess it was one of those Hollywood serendipities. Other movies of Neame's I recommend are Gambit, with Michael Caine and Shirley MacLaine, and the truly unusual The Horse's Mouth, starring Alec Guinness.Some are critical of the Andrew Lloyd Weber music for The Odessa File; it is certainly an odd decision to begin such a serious movie with a faux Christmas Carol and use it as a theme. But there is very little background music in the movie, and it doesn't need it. The movie gets serious quickly enough, so why wear the viewer down from the start? And the melody has an appropriately German lilt, a sort of beer hall polka carol, that is reasonably pleasant. I wouldn't mind hearing in played in the shopping malls in season, but it never caught on. Is Odessa a 10? I figure if a movie is in my list of top 100 or 200 movies, out of the thousands I have seen, and it holds up to repeat viewings over the years, then surely it must be a 10, regardless of any nitpicking about music or whatnot.Odessa has a rich, complex, tight plot, some taut suspense, powerful subject matter presented realistically and credibly, and a dynamite ending that not only surprises and ties all of the movie together, but also provides an emotional catharsis that leaves you sitting in your chair in stunned silence after the movie ends. What more could you ask for? So 10 it is. Is this Neame's best work? Neame worked in many different genres, so it is hard to compare. Hopscotch is by far my favorite, but I suppose in terms of directorial technique, Odessa may be his best, that I have seen. And I dare say people will still be watching The Odessa File in the year 2111, 2211, 2311, and probably for as long as there are movies, because of its powerful historical message. "},{"Title":"An Apex of 1970's film-making","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The year was 1974. By this time of the 70's,Jon Voight was riding high with two very brilliant commercially released films of that year...In director Martin Ritt's Conrack,he portrayed a school teacher who is sent to the Gullah regions of Georgia and South Carolina to teach a handful of children that nobody wanted and eventually took over and taught them the ways of life and about each other. That film brought him an Oscar-nomination and Best Director category for Martin Ritt. That same year,he also starred in a adaptation of Agatha Christie's Murder On The Bridge,with an all star British cast that included Sean Connery and Micheal Caine along with Ralph Richardson.When Jon Voight's next theatrical feature,The Odessa File,based on the novel by Frederick Forsyth was released the same year,it really didn't do much for his career as well. In fact with the exception for early 1975's End Of The Game,before he completely vanished from Hollywood for two years,until his brilliant portrayal of an Vietnam Veteran won him the Oscar for best Actor for 1978's Coming Home,which starred Jane Fonda and was directed by Hal Ashby(of Harold and Maude,and Shampoo fame),and another Oscar nomination for 1979's heartbreaking drama The Champ which starred Ricky Schroder and Faye Dunaway.In The Odessa File,Frederick Forsyth wrote the best-selling novel(about a 1963 Nazi conspiracy in Hamburg)that inspired it and Ronald Neame(The Poseidon Adventure)directed it with his brilliant melodramatic style. Basically every cliche you can possibly imagine is recycled here in this top notch thriller that keeps you on the edge of your seat and on the brink of suspense as well. This is a grand example of brilliant film-making from the 1970's and the apex of what the cinema is to come. Jon Voight's character is caught up within a conspiracy between himself and evil Nazis who escaped justice to form and underground of their own. And with the obligatory sequence when come psycho Nazi screams about ruling the world is enough,but the rest of the film is classic suspense at its finest hour. The film itself is grand,but watching Maria Schell going through the motions is one of the tragic consequences that occurred within the film's running time of 128 minutes. The final showdown between Jon Voight and Maximillian Schell is worth viewing. "}{"Title":"A good seventies thriller","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Odessa File directed by Ronald Neame is in my opinion a good thriller from the last golden era of Hollywood. It features great locations, competent acting and has a strong plot, which most of todays thrillers lack. And it sports a nice score by Andrew Lloyd Webber.However I must disagree with those of you who believe it to be excellent. Compared to the craftsmanship which most modern Hollywood thrillers are made by, one could argue that most films from the seventies regardless of any genre are head and shoulders above what they make today.But as a seventies thriller compared to similar films from that period, it's just slightly above average.  Now having said that, The Odessa File is still a entertaining film with enough suspense to grab your attention from start to finish. And as previous comments have already written; they simply do not make them like they used to.-Chris- "},{"Title":"The film brings the -60s in Germany to life","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Brilliant casting, setting and directing creates a very interesting story and gives a unique look to the 1960s Germany. Watch out especially for Voight who gives his best performance so far. Max Schell is equally good as the sinister war criminal Roschmann (based on a real character) unfortunately Frau Miller and Roschmann never meet during the film, it would have been interesting to see Max Schell and his sister Maria Schell exchange a few dialogues. "},{"Title":"starts great then turns rather predictable","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's 1963. Israel knows that the Egytians are trying to perfect their biochemical rockets with a guidance system being built in Germany. Peter Miller (Jon Voight) is a reporter who becomes interested in the suicide of a Jewish Holocaust survivor. He leaves behind a diary detailing the crimes of the camp SS commander Eduard Roschmann (Maximilian Schell). Peter discovers an underground network of sympathizers called Odessa hiding SS men. He is soon hunted by the organization while Israeli agents recruit him to infiltrate Odessa.Initially, this is a fascinating thriller. It has Nazis. It has international intrigue. It does drag a little in the middle since most of the information is already laid out. It makes the movie rather straight forward. There is a great reveal at the end. It may be worthwhile to add more along that line earlier in the movie. The movie needs something to spice up the middle. "},{"Title":"Nowhere near as good as the book","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Where as the film of Forsyth's Day of the Jackal remains relatively close to the source material, this one fails to get close. I am a HUGE fan of the novel & keep thinking to myself that it is a perfect choice for a remake. Part of what is missing for me is the Jaguar. It is almost a character unto itself in the book, yet not even mentioned in the film. The book has so much more to offer than the film. Now I realize that films tend to gloss over a few details from time to time in order to shorten the length of a film. The DaVinci Code & Angels & Demons both were missing HUGE portions of what made the books so enjoyable & thus reviews suffered. I pray that a decent director reads this & gives the world a proper interpretation of this as this story could still be made into a GREAT film in the right hands. If you excuse me now I am going to dust off my copy & start reading...again! "},{"Title":"All good things come to those who wait","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie from my school library having little idea what it was about. I hadn't read the novel (still haven't) but I was intrigued at the idea of Jon Voight doing a thriller. I must warn you, the first thirty minutes or so move V-E-R-Y-S-L-O-W-L-Y, but be patient. After Voight meets up with his unforeseen allies (is that considered a spoiler?), the pacing begins to pick up. Great plot, great twist, and of course great acting by Voight add up to a top-notch thriller. I can say that because the two ending action scenes really do a great job of keeping you on the edge of your seat. Instead of just having characters blast away at each other with guns immediately, there is an admirable effort to build up the suspense. Check this one out! Also, is it my imagination or does Jon Voight look exactly like his character in Enemy of the State at one point in the movie? "},{"Title":"I can't believe no-one has commented yet...","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a wonderful film - one of my favourites. Should definately be watched by all. Great plot, great cinematography. Great film.Just thought that aught to be said-) "},{"Title":"Good thriller-who-done-it! and a Perry Como!","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I remember the poster Jon Voight on the tracks and a train gonna run him over! I also remember this was one of those sure movies that always came around during the summer or winter times, long before blockbuster movies! Objection now-days would off-course be that! all Germans speaks English with an accent. Around when this film came it was still common that all German's spoke English with a German accent.This is not an explosion filled thriller! This is more a step by step What will come next thriller.And Perry Como!!!! yes he plays the arian Nazi camp executioner!!!No only kidding he sings via a car radio in the early scenes, before the story begins! "},{"Title":"Verbose thriller, highly recommended to viewers who like this kind of thing.","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" What with 1966's The Quiller Memorandum, 1970's The Kremlin Letter, and 1972's The Salzburg Connection, it was only a matter of time before a film came along with The something-or-other File for its title. The Odessa File duly obliged, a 1974 Ronald Neame-directed thriller, based on a powerful bestseller by Frederick Forsyth. At 123 minutes or thereabouts, the film is decidedly a bit overlong but it still has its share of tauts moments, and a particularly horrible villain in the shape of Maximilian Schell, to help the time along.Young German reporter Peter Miller (Voight) is given the memoirs of a Jewish suicide victim. He takes the memoirs home and reads them. What he comes across is a terrifying and thoroughly disturbing account of the conditions and dangers faced by prisoners in a Nazi concentration camp. Contained within the memoirs are descriptions of outrageous atrocities committed by the psychotic camp commandant Eduard The Butcher Roschmann (Schell). Traumatically affected by what he has read, Peter goes undercover in an attempt to find The Butcher, but he must first find a way of infiltrating the ultra-secret Neo-Nazi organisation Odessa in order to pinpoint the whereabouts of his despicable quarry.The black-and-white sequences set during the war years and detailing Roschmann's appalling actions are powerful and provocative indeed. Other outstanding sequences include Voight's nerve-wracking cross interrogation at the hands of Noel Willman; an attempt on Voight's life in which he is pushed onto a train-track; a splendid tussle on a glass roof-top; and the electrifying final confrontation between Peter and The Butcher. In between these superb moments, the film all too often slows down to a crawl and in parts it gets mighty verbose too. Nowadays, the film might also appear dated (it is very much shot in the tried-and-trusted style of other '60s and '70s espionage thrillers). However, if these are the kind of movies you like you'll definitely like this one! "},{"Title":"I wonder, why don't they make movies like this anymore...","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, yet another example of a movie, that is clearly representing 70's wave. These movies are remarkable for their plots. It does not mean that other aspects thereof are bad, but the plot is what makes them extremely strong. It is true about The Days of The Jackal and it is true about Odessa File as well. It is certainly true that there have been some attempts to make thrillers like this nowadays, but most of the time the spirit and atmosphere do not come even close (Jackal remake is the perfect example). The way of making movies is simply different, audience nowadays wants spectacular action scenes, simply strong plot is not enough anymore.I do not know, to what extent is the movie based on reality but I would suspect, it is like half fictitious, half real. Anyway, there is almost everything believable, except the idea suggested in the movie, that the network of former Nazi top guys would be so strong even in 60's de-nazified Germany. Anyway, although all aspects of the plot do not have to correspond with reality, the movie can still be regarded as superb postwar thriller, that belongs to the top of its genre even almost 30 years after it was made.8/10, for some unnecessary scenes. "},{"Title":"Tour Guide for How to Remain Inconspicous in Secret Society Infiltration","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Insure you are the single non-member participant at a Society meeting and flash theeee biggest lightbulb for photos of this memorable event, grow a kewl 70s stash n become completely unrecognizable to those you have recently interacted with, call your girlfriend under surveillance and shout your current location and THEN question who the girl is who answered the phone, make believe you are a priest somehow because you twisted your white tie or ??? around your collar and get the safe number (of course she has to say the last four digits of the phone number vs 9753 b/c she is feeling chatty)!I looked forward to viewing this film and was most intrigued with diary account and then the plot became plodding, trying to keep up with the Israel destruction game plan vs why Miller is really committed to the personal vendetta only to be revealed at the last moment is beyond my comprehension, knowing the level of danger at any moment and walk down a dark alley alone and whistle a happy tune was the undertones of this film... so glad that train was crawling along to avoid any real disaster and thank goodness mr. evil had an even chance with his own handgun to create more suspense, think we kinda hated him enough already, hence unnecessary devices to junk up the sweet ending... High recommend for Voight fans, accent aside, found his role riveting, compelling and worthy of high praise, just not the proper vehicle for his talents... "}{"Title":"The plot is tucked in there, but the director wasn't up to it","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The book was a suspenseful investigation by journalist Peter Miller, and its specific pace was a real challenge to adapt into a 2-hour movie.The biggest challenge of all lied with the basis of the investigation the diary of a Jewish inmate describing SS Captain Eduard Roschmann's war crimes in Riga. The extended version of it in the book sets a powerful back-story that fleshes up the investigation right from the start. However, despite the detailed horror, you can guess Miller's true motive in the book. In the movie the diary is roughly edited into a quick flashback, a caricature of what was supposed to be a powerful testimony. B&W images of Nazis and Jews in Riga are too sharp and clean, the prisoners themselves are clean and never seem to be starving, the horror, the true agony of men and women (no children on screen) treated as unworthy cattle is missing from every frame.Thus the adaptation misses the point of the book an investigation building up from the diary. The director rushes a lot in the flashback and the next few steps, as a result suspense does not have time to settle in since we're thrown into a conspiracy action shuffling pace. The investigation looks like an easy game, only bumping into the ubiquitous SS manpower.So the two big flaws that make The Odessa File a mediocre movie are- a poor adaptation missing the point of suspense building up as the investigation gains momentum;- the shortcuts in the seminal flashback and in the ODESSA premise summed up as a gigantic SS conspiracy pulling the strings behind every German administration (in 1963).One good point though, the disturbing clumsiness of Peter Miller as his investigation gets more and more dangerous, in the book, has been properly dealt with. But as in the book Peter Miller is a rather bland character. His stubbornness doesn't help to make him interesting as he does his job. "},{"Title":"As good as the book","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's always been said that from a bad script comes out a bad film, and from a good script comes out either good or bad films. Neame takes advantage from the very interesting story, Voight's acting is quite good and the whole thing is really good. "},{"Title":"Will Some Kind Friend Say Kaddish For Me In The Hall Of Remembrance","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A young West German journalist played by Jon Voight on the day of John F. Kennedy's assassination stops when he sees a police ambulance carrying someone out. It's an old man who happened to have been a concentration camp survivor and it's a suicide. He had a diary though and a police friend of Voight's gives it to him. It details his experience in the camp with a clear and vivid picture of the commandant, Maxmilian Schell and the atrocities committed. The reason he killed himself was that three weeks earlier in Hamburg the old man spotted Schell and could convince no one in authority. Perhaps no one cared, so he decided to end it all. Young Mr. Voight did care and his odyssey to find Schell got him involved with the Odessa, the secret organization of ex-Nazis and Israeli intelligence. From that diary Voight learns he has a very deep personal reason for wanting to settle with Schell that's got nothing to do with the holocaust. And Odessa is making common cause with the current enemies of Judaism both then and now.Jon Voight did a fine job as the young journalist, representative of a generation that is in horror about the sins of their fathers. In one of the few films that Maximilian Schell did with his sister Maria, Maria Schell has a brief part as Voight's mother. Mary Tamm, Romana one on the Doctor Who show, plays Voight's girl friend.This obscure old man who was named Solomon Tauber who killed himself on the same day that Kennedy died gets his wish in the end. It was that a friend would say the Hebrew burial rite in the Holocaust Hall of Remembrance in Jerusalem. His life story told in his diary gave his life meaning, meaning as equal to that of the young president the world and his country mourned for. Jon Voight in his pursuit of justice gave that death a purpose and Solomon Tauber was remembered with the souls of all the martyrs from the many death camps in Jerusalem. By an old friend and by Voight representing a generation that was going to do what it had to do to see it never happens again. "},{"Title":"very good but could have been better","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The premise for the movie is excellent--there is an organization called ODESSA that helps ex-Nazis change their identities to avoid prosecution. Jon Voight is a reporter who stumbles upon this organization and infiltrates it with the help of the Mossad (Isreali secret service). Eventually, he unravels the key to destroying Odessa (about 80% into the movie) and from that point on, the movie takes a bit of a wrong turn. Instead of going to the proper authorities to get help, he goes off on his own to confront one particular Nazi. This didn't make sense until he explains WHY he did this. The explanation made some sense but seemed so incredibly improbable that it helped undermine an otherwise excellent movie. I hate plot holes or amazingly improbable coincidences in movies. "},{"Title":"Exciting not spellbinding","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Certainly not as spellbinding as it's horrifying plot promises, but this is nonetheless an exciting, well made thriller. German journalist Jon Voight uncovers a plot to utilize Nazi ingenuity(?) to aid Egypt in its plan to annihilate Isreal in the early 1960s. Hooking up with Isreali intelligence, he hunts all over Germany and Austria for lunatic ex-Concentration Camp Commandant Maximilian Schell. Directed with more finesse than usual by Ronald Neame (a great film editor who became a decidedly journeyman director) and featuring some stellar cinematography by Oswald Morris. Voight is pretty good and Schell is decidedly nasty. Shmuel Rodensky has a cameo as Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal. While the film is set in and around Germany, all the players speak English with a German accent. The music by none other than Andrew Lloyd Webber includes the song Christmas Dream sung by Perry Como. Maria Schell plays Voight's mother and Mary Tamm, Derek Jacobi & Günter Meisner are in it too. "},{"Title":"Mediocre story that covers important Historical Events.","Date":"31 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie stars a very young Jon Voigt who plays a freelance journalist in Germany in 1963. By accident he stumbles upon a story that takes its beginning during the second world war. It is a story that involves the genocide of the Jews and a very evil commandant Roschmann. Because our journalist is very idealistic he makes a promise to track down this commandant and have him brought to justice for the murders he committed in Riga during the War.Odessa is a secret organization with several purposes. On of them is to launch a big attack on the state of Israel. Further Odessa have saved many former SS-officers, given them new identity and helped them escaping justice.As the story begins they still need to develop a system in order to launch a rocket attack and Jon Voigt gets the chance to become the hero of both saving Israel and having brought Roschmann to justice and from early in the movie we sense that the story is quite straightforward in meaning that this will happen. So in my view there isn't any big surprises in the way the story develops. Voigt teams up with Israelistic intelligence officers and infiltrates Odessa. This part of the movie is in my view tiresome in the sense that it is very predictable.As already mentioned I find the movie predictable but despite this was entertained by the theme that it addresses - so all in all I would advice you to go see it if - and only if - you find Second World War exciting.Regards Simon "},{"Title":"Fine, Suspenseful Drama.","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you were to take Agatha Christie and put her on a lot of testosterone you might come up with something like Frederick Forsyth. They have a lot in common. Their stories are plot driven, lacking in attention to character, without sentiment, and have no moral, social, or philosophical message. The deaths are more or less perfunctory. The real point is only the solution of the puzzle.The chief difference is that Agatha Christie disposes of the crime and then gets down to intrigues and shadowy secrets. Forsyth's stories have more of a technological bent and machinery and machinations receive a good deal of scrutiny.In Forysth's novel, The Odessa File, for instance, a reader learns how to put together an explosive device and attach it to the chassis of a car in such a way that it doesn't blow up until the car hits a bit of a bump in the road. You don't get that sort of thing from Christie.This is a tense film. Both the novel and the film begin with Peter Muller (Jon Voight) zipping along in his sports car when the radio announces the assassination of John F. Kennedy. Muller pulls over to the curb and stops the car to listen. But if you expect anything resembling an emotional response, you'll be disappointed. His only reaction is to wonder how he, a journalist, should handle the news.But he changes. From a reporter with role distance, he becomes a dedicated and self-sacrificing avenger, although still quite an ordinary young man. I won't explain why he spends the rest of the film tracking down the commandant of a concentration camp and finally shooting him. The message isn't made explicit in either the novel or the film but it's a simple one. From a self-absorbed individual who won't marry his girl, and a reporter who cynically dismisses Kennedy's assassination, he grows into a Mensch who realizes that all civilized humans share a kind of Emersonian oversoul. As the poet put it, No man is an island.The film doesn't have the quality of a technical manual, like the book, but it does something better than that. It fleshes out Forsyth's mechanical people and turns them into simulacra of reality. Part of this is due simply to the fact that the events are being visualized on a movie screen. We don't just read about Peter Muller. We SEE Peter Muller. We know he has blond hair, blue eyes, doesn't smoke, has a knockout girlfriend whom he treats rather casually. We know Peter Muller looks exactly like Jon Voight and we don't want to see Jon Voight get killed.Then, too, the film lingers nicely over the relationship between a wimpy, probably homosexual collaborator with the Odessa people and his mother. Hitchcock would have appreciated that casual and relaxed interlude.A well-done thriller that leaves us satisfied with the revenge taken for the 50,000 Jews killed by Max Schell in Riga, and a brave young German captain whom he also murdered. "},{"Title":"Very interesting to watch","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Odessa File is a very fine movie to watch. Set in Germany, what a better way to have this movie filmed. Hunting down Nazis is a fine way to open minds to the Germans. Nazis were very notorious for the deaths of many Jews. Yet, there were Jews living in Germany as well. Loyalty seemed to be lost in the SS, when a soldier was killed by his commanding officer, just for decking him? ABSURD! Peter Miller(Jon Voight) wants the truth on who killed his father years ago. Clues pop up everywhere, and things have started to unravel. When the former leader believes of an Arayan nation should rise, this kind of ideology turns Miller's stomach. He finds the killer, avenges his father, and gets off without a severe punishment. To some people, that would make any angry, if it's a relative, if that relative did wrong in the past, why support his cause? That descendant would end up being a bigger fool than the latter. So Miller will be living better, and he'll go on to a happy retirement. A good movie for history, even though it's fictitious. I liked it! Rating 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Edge Of Your Seat Suspense","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is an exciting cloak and dagger type story about a young German journalist (Peter Miller, played by Jon Voight) who comes across information that involves him in a personal quest for a former SS Officer responsible for the deaths of thousands of Jews during the Second World War.Voight is excellent in this role. As the primary star of the movie he holds everything together perfectly. The movie has a rather eerie feel to it in several places a gathering of former SS men that at times resembles a Nazi Party rally, complete with a charismatic speaker who tries to sound and act like Hitler; and the prevalence of impressively blond and shockingly blue-eyed characters remind us of the Nazi plan to breed the perfect Aryan race - a plan we end up being reminded of by Kiefel/Rauschmann (the man Miller is seeking, played by Maximillian Schell.) I found this reminder of Nazi eugenics so eerie, in fact, as to be almost frightening. Played against the backdrop of Kiefel's plan to develop a weapon for Egypt's Nasser to use to destroy Israel, this ends up as a movie taut with suspense.The primary weak spot I see in it is how Miller came into possession of the information that begins his search in the first place. I find it unlikely that a police officer would simply hand such sensitive information over to a journalist, and even harder to believe - and Miller expresses his disbelief also - that the officer would get upset when the journalist actually follows up on it! What was the journalist expected to do with the diary? Use it for light bed-time reading? Given the twist at the end of the movie that explains why Miller is so fanatical in his pursuit, the whole idea of the diary being given to Miller (and the information the diary contains) is just too much of a coincidence. I have to say also that Mary Tamm as Sigi, Miller's girlfriend, didn't impress me all that much.Oh well. Nothing's perfect. But this was pretty good! 8/10. "},{"Title":"A careful, occasionally suspenseful drama","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" German journalist in 1964 becomes aware of Nazi war criminals still alive, and plots to find and kill one in particular--not quite or only for revenge of the Jews murdered, but for one particular killing that resonates with him personally. Adaptation of Frederick Forsyth's bestseller, this carefully-paced and plotted film has a lot of talk and supporting characters which don't add up to much, but the central idea is intriguing. It's far-fetched in places(watch for the scene where Jon Voight easily infiltrates the castle where Nazi Maximilian Schell resides), but it has some suspenseful passages. Voight isn't particularly well-cast in the lead(he's doesn't look or sound German, and he seems too young for this role), but he gives the movie his usual heart and innate sensitivity. Schell is very strong in a taut sequence near the finish, although the set-up for this is an old movie stand-by keep the captor talking long enough so that he can save himself. The tag at the end is bungled by director Ronald Neame, which leaves a hollow, inert feeling in its wake. "}{"Title":"ugh...why?","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I expected alot more from this piece of...(fill in the necessary profanities)...I really did. The book was excellent and I highly recommend it. In fact, the book inspired me to hunt down nazis myself (laugh, I know you want to). I liked it so much, that I searched on ebay and went through alot of trouble to buy the DVD of the film. Biggest mistake I have ever made (ok, so that's an overstatement, but you catch my drift). It almost ruined my adoration of the book, if you can believe it. Not only that, but never in a million years would I have cast Jon Voight to play the lead, Peter Miller. And oy vay, the cheesy 70's action movie music. If Hollywood would allow me (and sure, I am 15...but God knows I can do better than the people the hire to make the endless stream of junk they keep throwing at us), I would love to do a remake of this film just to satisfy my craving for good cinema and justice to the book by Fredrick Forsyth. "},{"Title":"Very Boring, Very dated, Very bad","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Just as I said in the subject, beware! This movie is very boring, very dated and very bad. A bunch of %*&!#, and to make it worse it is very long - way to long! I was expecting something like The Day of The Jackal, also a book by Forsyth, but instead this movie was a cheese contrived story they may have been valid in 74' but has no stance in believability today. The plot is quite far fetched and screams fiction trying futily to disguise itself as non-fiction. Completely absurd while the acting is good the movie meanders like a lame camel in the desert. Do not even bother renting this movie for you will be bored of two hours plus if you do. I rated it a 3/10 and I was being generous. "}]