[{"Title":"One viewing will make you a Pam Addict!","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I bought this movie for $2.99, thinking it would be amusing trash. I had no idea how awesome, wrenching, complex, invigorating, and just downright GOOD it was. A lot of comments here have focused on how fun and awesome it is (and it totally is), but I don't see anyone talking about it as a legitimately good movie, so that's what I'm going to address here.First of all, they just don't make movies like this anymore. Movies today are so sanitized and wiped free of emotion that one doesn't have much of a reaction to them. This movie features RAW emotion, mainly rage and anger. It also doesn't play nice on the brutality. I could not believe Foxy was actually going to be raped... that would NEVER happen in a movie today, and if it did, it would never be treated as casually as it was here. The way she is brutalized in this movie is genuinely shocking, and the ways in which she gets her revenge are equally shocking... and exhilarating. What I'm saying is that you have a real visceral reaction to this movie, and that's a lot more than can be said for most movies nowadays. Secondly, I don't see anyone talking about the moral complexity of this movie. The whole thing of it being Foxy's own brother who sets the plot in motion brings a lot of ambiguity and depth to both his and Foxy's characters. And then there's Juanita Brown's performance as Claudia. The scene where she goes from drugged-up laughter to hysterical shrieking is just breathtaking... I've seen lots of Best Supporting Actress statues given out for a LOT less. I also liked how the movie didn't make a big deal of how Foxy arranged for Claudia to get out of the business and get back to her husband--and I like that the movie had Foxy do this i.e. she's helping others around her, not just out for her own revenge.Finally, there's Pam Grier herself! This movie made me a convert. There's just something so compelling about her; tough, vulnerable, tender, and MEAN when she has to be. There was a moment in this movie where the thought flitted through my head How am I going to survive in life if I don't have Foxy to protect me? I am offically obsessed. I have the DVD of this film on order, and have plans to watch Coffy with a friend in a few days. Pam, you are a national treasure!And let us not forget the awesome title sequence and catchy song by Willie Hutch!As I was watching, I was thinking I'm amazed no one has tried to remake this. Who would they choose? probably Halle Berry, though there's no way she could hold a candle to Pam. Well, it was no surprise to see that next year a remake is due out with Halle Berry. (But is Halle's Foxy going to get raped? I highly doubt it). You can just imagine how that's going to be. It will be all sanitized with some decorative suffering, and then some bloodless revenge. That's why I keep harping on the rape in this movie it was balls-out NASTY and BRUTAL and pulls no punches. Let's just see how Halle does.One thing more I'm not a Tarantino fan, but this film provided a lot of insight into a) Why he would want to make Jackie Brown, and b) a lot of the form and conventions (including the rape) that he followed in Kill Bill. Too bad, in my opinion, this movie is four times as complex and emotionally involving and cathartic as Kill Bill. A lot of that, I think, has to do with how technically proficient and writerly composed Kill Bill is, and a lot of the power of this comes from it being low-budget and without a feeling of being guided by a ironic and proficient director. What the world needs now is Pam, sweet Pam.--- Check out my website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"A chick with drive who don't take no jive","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In 1973, the film Coffy made Pam Grier a star, a permanent icon of the blaxploitation films of the era, and a symbol of female empowerment in the face of racial tension.  She also kicked a whole lot of tail.  Writer and director of Coffy, Jack Hill, had finished a script for a sequel when the studio decided at the last minute that it didn't want to film a sequel to Coffy.  Re-working his script, Hill gave birth to what could arguably the seminal female blaxploitation film Foxy Brown.Foxy Brown (Pam Grier) is a strong woman striving for a better world.  While she attempts to help her drug-dealing brother Link (Antonio Fargas) change his ways, she waits for her federal cop boyfriend Dalton (Terry Carter) to recover from plastic surgery designed to hide him from the drug lords he informed on.  Renaming himself Michael, he plans to run away with Foxy to a new life.  All of his plans crumble, however, when Link discovers Michael's true identity, and informs on him for a hefty sum to the devious Miss Katherine (Katheryn Loder) and the suave Stve Elias (Peter Brown).  When Katherine's goons kill Michael in Foxy's house, Foxy swears revenge.  She infiltrates a call girl ring run by Katherine in an attempt to bring the crime lord down in the name of vengeance.Hill has created an iconic character in Foxy Brown, a character who has been copied and referenced to varying degrees of success since her inception (most shamefully in Beyonce Knowles' character of Foxy Cleopatra in Austin Powers in Goldmember).  It's not difficult to see why.  As embodied by Grier, Foxy is the ultimate female beautiful, sexy, intelligent, and undeniably fierce.  Grier is such a pleasure to watch on screen that you sometimes forget about the lack of support she has around her or the simplistic morals of the story.Loder's Miss Katherine Wall is a villainess of operatic proportions, filled with delightful malice and sadistic impulse.  Brown's Steve is just as good, every inch the handsome mid-70s man.  Fargas is also memorable as the weasely and cowardly Link, but outside of these three, the supporting players are only adequate.  While Junita Brown's doomed call girl has her moments, the rest of the supporting cast is fairly flat, with line readings not having the right amount of emotion (either too much or too little) and often hitting just off-key of the psychological and emotional core that they need to strike.  While Hill's script taps deep into the racial biases of the 70s, and is filled with the appropriate amount of slang and tension, his characters are often moral absolutes with little in shades of grey or complex motivations.  Often, this exists on a similar plane to race with the exception of Dalton/Michael's fellow agents, every white person in the film is shown as uncaring at best, evil of the highest order at worst.  By the same token, with the exception of Link and a fellow dope dealer, the black characters are heroic and upright.  In the context of the film, the conceit is appropriate, but it can lead to some viewers being upset or failing to take into account the politics of the time that would lead to such a depiction and dismissing the film out of hand.Despite these flaws, Foxy Brown is definitely a film to watch not just for historical value, but for the remarkable performance of Pam Grier, an actress just as strong and beautiful today as she was in 1974.  Whenever she's on the screen, you immediately forget about any imperfections in the movie.  As the theme song says, she is superbad.  And that's good.  7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Action-packed, afro-sheened cinema!!!!!!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the most violent, nonhorror films that I can recall from the 1970s.  Beyond the blaxploitation label, Foxy Brown is a solid adventure film, that remains timely to this day.  Kudos to Jack Hill, who worked up another treasure with the lovely Ms. Grier. Peter Brown and Kathryn Loder truly deliver unforgettable performances as depraved, sadistic villains, who love each other, but care little for anyone else.  The love their characters share is a contrast to the evil that Mr. Elias and Ms. Wall do. As a note, I try to keep things in perspective, and stick to reviewing each film that I write about.  But to whoever chooses to read this particular comment, please keep something in mind about the blaxploitation films1. They are action films, for the most part, beyond race. 2. These movies were made to play up the social issues of the  time, and even today; so yes, most of the villains were white--deal with it!! 3. Because the blaxploitation films were produced in Hollywood, you should take note that the strong, physical prowess exhibited by the heroes and heroines of the films eventually find their way into the mainstream, as the Die Hard, Lethal Weapon, Commando, and Cobra movies of the 1980s and 1990s utilize the same, over-the-top action in urban settings.  These films, with white leads, are more inline with the blaxploitation formula, than Dirty Harry and Death Wish pics; the Eastwood and Bronson characters mainly used their guns, and rarely duked it out with any villains.So maybe I am rambling, but my point is this  enjoy each film for what it's worth.  And keep in mind, the target audience for blaxploitation movies was ignored by studios during the decades before the 1970s.  If you are white, and like blaxploitation, or of any race and think of these movies as cliched slices of the 1970s, please open your minds and keep a proper perspective of the times. "},{"Title":"Action-packed, Afro-Sheened excitement","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Foxy Brown is one of the most graphically violent urban action films around.  Jack Hill delivers a solid story to compliment pulp-style action sequences.  Peter Brown and Kathryn Loder are remarkable as the villainous couple, whose passion for oneanother contrasts the hateful crimes they commit. Pam Grier is marvelous as Foxy Brown, both visually and emotionally.  Foxy Brown, like Grier's previous character Coffy, is a strong-willed and able woman, who wants justice in her community, and personal life. The film's content, while slightly dated, is still timely enough to resonate with some viewers. Finally, I would like to address some rather ignorant critics of this film  yes, the villains are white.  THIS IS A BLAXPLOITATION FILM!!!!  WHAT DO YOU EXPECT????!!!!!  While it is not easily stated, Foxy Brown and so many of the blaxploitation movies were originally produced so that Hollywood could capitalize on the vibe of the black community.  These films were created, marketed, and displayed to an audience that was often belittled and ignored during the decades leading up to the 1970s.  They are action flicks that pull on the heart strings of some, while others get a cool chuckle watching them.  Trust me, whenever a bigot ruins my day, it is always nice to watch Foxy Brown bring whitey down!!!  Power to the People!!!!  And as the immortal Bob Ross always said, God bless. "},{"Title":"She'll put you on ice!","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Damn, this movie is so supa-bad it's supa-good!  Pam Grier is great as the jive talkin' lady who's out for revenge after some snow-pushing honkies didn't treat her so nice.  There's no messin' around with Foxy Brown!  The clothes, the characters, and especially the talk (dig this, jive that) is so '70's it seems to be a parody.What's bad about this film is the excessive violence (Foxy's drugging and raping and her gruesome revenge), but maybe it's necessary in order to have a film like this.  Throw censorship to the wind and have a no-holds-barred action/revenge flick, complete with mutha-f***er this and that, pickle jar prothetics, and propeller dismemberments.The trailer for this flick is the coolest.  If it doesn't make you dig Foxy straight up, you're in the wrong scene! "},{"Title":"Hilariously over-the-top, cheesy sex and violence.  And Pam Grier is hot.","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is shamelessly trashy. And very cheesy. And aside from Ms Grier, the acting is soap opera-grade. And its hilariously dated. And just all around hilarious. And Pam Grier is one sexy bad-ass chick. Or rather Superbad! Can you dig it?The gun hidden in the afro was a nice touch.So was the death-by-airplane-propeller. And the brawl in the lesbian bar.And the revenge-by-manhood-removal.We get to see her boobs. Large, shapely boobs.I was hugely entertained.There really isn't more that I need to say. "},{"Title":"Damn Maltin, this is the s**t!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Foxy Brown is one of Pam Grier's best blaxploitation movies (topped only by Coffy).  From the James Bondish opening sequence of Pam dancing to the Foxy Brown theme song, to Antonio Fargas (That's my sister...and she's a whole lotta woman!) to the spectacular ending which I will not spoil, this is a must see for any a) Pam Grier fan b)blaxploitation fan c)anybody who wants to see a strong female character beat the crap out of her opponents.  That being said, it does feature the standard Grier sleeps her way to the top of crime syndicate, a plot ripped off of Coffy.  With scenes like the famous Afro as holster sequence and the inclusion of a Black Panther-esque anti-drug group this movie is fun from start to finish.  Don't believe that Maltin; Mr. Charlie gave LaserBlast a better rating; he gave Sheba Baby, which is awful, a better rating.  See Foxy Brown tonite! "},{"Title":"A Supa-Good Flick!","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  With Coffy, Pam Grier showed that she could cream both the bad guys and the box office, but it was this film that catapulted her to a level of iconic stardom that not only preceded Charlie's Angels, but provided the blueprint. Supa-bad Foxy Brown is a smart and sexy renegade out to exact revenge for the murder of her lover, who was an undercover federal agent.  Behind the death is Miss Katharine (played with delicious, lupine subtlety by the late Katheryn Loder), a wicked madam who orders her bumbling drug-running henchman to do her evil bidding. Katharine's aided by her right-hand man, Steve, who later finds himself in quite a pickle when up against the fury of a woman scorned. Foxy's a whole lotta' woman who's got what it takes to beat the baddies at their own game---a voluptuous body (perfect for going undercover as one of Miss Katherine's prostitutes), a pistol-packin' Afro, and, most importantly, a black belt in barstools. Backed by Jack Hill's slick direction and a crunchy, soulful Willie Hutch soundtrack, this movie is a modern classic that surpasses the Blaxploitation genre in which it evolved. "},{"Title":"Cool and funky flick!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Foxy Brown is probably the prototype of a typical blaxploitation classic. It´s full of sadistic violence and explicit sex. If you´re in search for political correctness, forget it - this flick delivers sex´n crime en masse! Okay, because of the thin plot and the low budget Foxy Brown was made of the film seems more to be the episode of a TV series than a production for the theatres, but its amazing main actress Pam Grier will blow you away! Next to Dyanne Ilsa Thorne Pam´s my absolute favorite actress from the 1970s and I know I´m not alone with my opinion... Foxy´s hot, unbelievable sexy and moreover one of the toughest heroines ever brought onto the screen. Not to forget Willie Hutch´s fantastic funky discosoul score, which brings the 1970s spirit back to life! The world needs more women like Foxy and more films like that!! "},{"Title":"An awesome action, chick-flick with sweet soul/funk music","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" After watching this film, I love it, it is an awesome action, chick-flick with sweet soul/funk music. Now I know what you are thinking when I said chick-flick, well I meant that chick-flicks aren't just about romance, comedies or films about girlfriends. They are about women, and the love and tragedies they go through; also about the bad-a** women like our Foxy Brown.Well anyway, this film starts with a street hustler named Link Brown, cringing in a bar full of police officers, he's trying to wait out a bunch of thugs who want to beat him for holding out on a loan from losses incurred from street gambling schemes. In desperation he calls his tough sister Foxy to bail him out yet again. Foxy runs some of the thugs into the river in her car. Afterwards, Link pleads to her that he'll live the straight life if he can hide out at her pad for a while. Foxy reluctantly agrees.Later, Foxy goes to visit her boyfriend in hospital. He name is Dalton Ford, an undercover officer who has been investigating the same crime-ring that Link owed money to. The hoodlums thought they'd killed him, but he really ended up in hospital for plastic surgery to give him a new and safe identity. Emerging as handsome Michael Anderson, he and Foxy hope to start life anew. On the streets, they encounter a black gang who beat and run drug pushers out of town. Foxy introduces Michael to the freeloading Link, and Link acts suspicious. Links leaves Michael and Foxy to themselves, but later looks at some newspaper cuttings and adds two and two together. There is an enormous debt to pay ... and this kind of information could clear that debt. No sooner does Foxy think her life will be smooth, than Michael crashes through her door, breathing his last and shot to death. With some detective work, the grieving and raging Foxy soon tracks Link down at his white girlfriend's, and as they snort coke she storms in on them. Livid with anger, Foxy won't kill her own brother, but she does force the identity of Michael's killers out of him, then force him to leave the city. And so Foxy is out for vengeance.So that is all I am tellin' you folks, you will have to see the film for yourself, and see how it ends. I also recommend it for fans of soul/funk music (the music and songs by Willie Hutch), seventies cinema or blaxploitation cinema. Of course I would say Soul Cinema because the term blaxploitation sounds kind of offensive to me, I mean come on! Barrack Obama is the new President of the US, and he is a black man...what would he and others like him think? "}{"Title":"Juicy slice 70s Blaxploitation.","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Foxy Brown, was one of the gems of the Blaxploitation era. It's positively campy, gritty, and exciting. The fabulous, drop-dead gorgeous Pam Grier, played Foxy Brown with a seething conviction. After her man was gunned-down by drug-dealers, Foxy is out for blood. And she makes sure that the bad-guys shed their share, while she goes about the task of settling the score.Pam Grier made Foxy's rage and obsession with revenge, seem palpable. Foxy did whatever she had to do, to make the villains pay. The viewer really gets caught-up in Foxy's quest for justice. You want to cheer, when Foxy gets even with those who did her wrong. Pam Grier's stunning good looks, and her athletic grace, made her a perfect choice to play Foxy Brown. I can't imagine any other woman starring in this role. No other black female actress, was as compelling on-screen as Pam Grier was in the 70s.The cool funkiness of 70s Blaxploitation cinema, is certainly in evidence in Foxy Brown. The outrageously tacky clothes, giant 'fros, jive-talking' characters, slick cars, sexy mamas, gun-totin' urban thugs-it's all here in this film. If you're looking for a fat, juicy slice of 70s Blaxploitation, then Foxy Brown is just the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Foxy rocks!","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Originally intended as a sequel to the Blaxploitation hit Coffy, it was re-tooled at AIP Studios insistence into a separate entity while retaining many aspects of the prior film. Grier plays a sassy, sexy woman (of fuzzy occupation) who is eagerly awaiting the return to society of her intelligence agent boyfriend Carter, whose face has been redesigned following his turning over of information regarding a major crime ring. Before they can bask in their reunion for very long, however, her brother Fargas, who deals in drugs and is in debt to a drug czar, messes things up for them in a major way. From then on, it is Grier against darn near everyone as she struggles to bring down the operation, led by the intense Loder and her shifty lover Brown. Grier is memorable in this fairly highly regarded entry in the genre. She shows off a lot of funkalicious 70's clothing and kicks butt in the many action sequences (one notable, and hilarious, one taking place in a lesbian bar!) Her take-no-prisoners attitude is fun to behold, yet she retains her femininity. Fargas delivers an interesting performance, as well, though his character is lacking in appealing characteristics. Brown isn't given a great deal to do, but is fine and has a memorable comeuppance. He doesn't show any skin here, though he would pose semi-nude for Oui magazine shortly after filming this. Carter is attractive and likable in his brief role. As the queen bee of the crime syndicate, Loder gives an entertainingly demented performance. The writer-director Hill wrote the role for her and then had trouble convincing the head honchos to let her play it. Looking sort of like a fleshier Carolyn Jones, she brings a hysterical nervous neuroses and overemphasis to her scenes. Other cast members include Holcombe, the Country Time lemonade guy, in a big departure as an unethical judge caught with his pants down (!), Brown as a practically captive call girl, Stroud (Don's wife) as Fargas' drug-addled girlfriend and cult-favorite Haig (who pops up only for the final 15 minutes of the film) as a helicopter pilot. Among the memorable vignettes are Grier's confrontation with her brother when she finds out he fingered Carter, the sequence with Holcombe in which he's humiliated publicly, the aforementioned bar fight scene (with the lesbians being enacted by real life stuntwomen), Grier's horrifying captivity by two skeevy men in a desolate cabin and Grier's final confrontation with Loder. Like so many of the other films in this genre, it's breathtakingly incorrect and at times guerrilla-like. It's one of those things a person either likes or doesn't. Sadly, Loder would be dead within a few years of this film from diabetes complications. Grier would later be given a magnificent comeback in Jackie Brown, whose title was partially inspired by this film's through director Quentin Tarantino. "},{"Title":"A fun revenge B movie a cult black exploration picture at it's best!","Date":"5 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I know a lot of 1970's movies were B type and films of anti establishment and against the grain and even exploration like, I've checked many out recently. So I decided to give 1974's black flick Foxy Brown a watch since it featured the sexy Pam Grier(and she certainly doesn't let a viewer down with her breast scenes!) and the film though it seems a little quick does entertain with drama, action, and revenge all topped off with plenty of sex! The story is simple set in L.A. in the world of drugs, and scandal involving the mob and Pam Grier is one sexy lady who has a government agent boyfriend murdered and this now causes her to go to any means to find the truth so guess what the Grier character goes undercover as a high class prostitute at a model agency that's a cover for sex and drug trafficking in favor for bribes to bring the killer or killers to justice. Overall this is a fun feel good film that entertains it will seek to any means for justice and Pam Grier's work is memorable as she was too an eye candy treat! "},{"Title":"You don't truck with this big bad mama.","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Foxy Brown is probably as trashy and entertaining as they get, and the best thing about this movie, hands down, is the pitch-perfect casting of Pam Grier in the title role. She's tough, vulnerable, unbelievably superfine and able to kick some serious ass. This woman is a force, and the movie is a surprisingly harsh revenge flick. Sure, she goes under as a prostitute to get the mobsters who killer her boyfriend, but it was her brother that ratted the guy out in the first place. Damn. And the people she squares off against are are some supreme scumbags. It gets kinda dark there for a while. But it pays off, and there's some fun to be had with weaponized coat hangers, not to mention some uncomfortable dismembermeant. Also, boobs. That's what kind of movie this is, and we can all be thankful for it.7/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty good.","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I thought this was a pretty good movie-with a pretty good plot line. It's interesting to see some guys in the film beating up a drug dealer because the cops didn't care about stuff like that in a poorer area which looked pretty OK to me compared to tons of places out there. Pam Grier was good in this movie which doesn't really feature explicit sex but you do see some gals in short dresses. OO la la. Considering the way gals dress these days i.e. the show no skin brigade-it might appear risqué when its actually pretty tame stuff. Not bad action sequences help the picture along. Worth a look if you've never seen it. You can see what Pam Grier looked like as a younger actress since most people have seen her in Quentin Tarantino's 1990's film Foxy Brown which isn't a remake of this one but is a separate entity. Pan Grier faded from films by 1981-having only a bit part in Fort Apache The Bronx in 1981 and that was pretty much the last we saw of her for a long time. It's definitely 'blaxploitation' to give PG the part of a crazed hooker in the Fort Apache movie-as in they typecast her like someone in casting had a vague idea about the 1970's Foxy Brown movie but hadn't seen it. She was a good bet for more than a bit part. Fo' sho'. "},{"Title":"Solid exploitation fare","Date":"7 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" After the huge success of Coffy (1973), American International Pictures wanted more blaxploitation, namely in the form of Pam Grier's sexy, female empowered ass-kicker. Coffy made Grier an overnight star, but not wanting to make a sequel after seeing a few sequels of other franchises fail at the box-office, they hastily re-wrote the script for Burn, Coffy, Burn!, and created Foxy Brown. They kept writer and director Jack Hill, and made a film about basically the same character. Yet Coffy and Foxy Brown are arguably as popular and as iconic as each other - Foxy maybe even more so - and this is mainly due to Foxy Brown being a pretty decent film, despite familiar plotting and genre tropes.When her boyfriend is gunned down by a bunch of gangsters, Foxy Brown goes undercover to infiltrate a prostitute ring posing as a modelling agency. Her dead-beat brother Link (the amazing Antonio Fargas) tells Foxy that the group - led by strange and kinky couple Steve (Peter Brown) and Miss Katherine (Kathryn Loder) - are the people responsible. Violence, drugs and explosions soon follow as Foxy pursues her thirst for vengeance, and helps fellow black woman Claudia (Juanita Brown) to escape a life on the game,It's a revenge premise seen a thousand times before, but Foxy Brown is often a blast. Grindhouse trailers often dazzle and confuse us with endless action scenes and violence promising a wonderful experience, only to submit us to 90 torturous minutes of amateurish crap. Yet Foxy Brown certainly delivers on its promises. It's noticeably more violent than other blaxploitation films, with Jack Hill's wit surprisingly shining through moments of forced heroin addiction and pickled cock. But it's Pam Grier that steals the movie, pulling guns out of her 'afro and simply being 'a whooooole lotta woman!' (as recognised by her own brother) throughout, displaying the charisma that would make her a 70's icon. It doesn't break any boundaries, even by action standards, and there are certain plot holes you have to try and ignore (what does Foxy Brown actually do?), but it's 95 minutes of solid exploitation fare.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Wam-Bam, Watch Pam Dole Out Revenge!!!","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Writer & director Jack Hill's classic Blaxploitation thriller Foxy Brown stars Pam Grier as a soul sister who gets what she wants after the villains gun down her boyfriend. Dalton Ford (Terry Carter) is a Federal narcotics undercover officer who is surgically given a new face. He also happens to be the boyfriend of Foxy Brown. Incredibly, Foxy's own flesh and blood brother Link (Antonio Fargas) squares himself with the mob when he alerts them that Foxy's boyfriend is one of their adversaries. They erase the $20-thousand debt that Link owes them and allows him to go back into the heroin business. After the mob knocks off Ford, Foxy swears vengeance. She joins the organization that Katherine Wall (Kathryn Loder of The Big Doll House) runs and starts a chain reaction that topples these unsavory criminals who traffic in prostitution and narcotics. She begins by humiliating a judge that another call girl and she are supposed to pleasure in a big downtown motel. They push Judge Fenton (Harry Holcombe) out into the hallway, and a group of outraged ladies attack him when it appears that he is molesting another woman. Actually, all he is doing is trying to get out of sight because he doesn't have any pants on. This corrupt judge is responsible for letting drug runners off the hook in his courtroom. The villainous Steve (Peter Brown of Laredo) kills Link and his girlfriend with a sawed-off shotgun. An African-American vigilante gang castrates Steve when he tries to escape from a rendezvous in Mexico. Foxy tells the lead villainess that Death is too easy for you bitch. This savage soul sister thriller is pretty hardcore, and Pam Grier comes out on top at fade-out. Foxy Brown was the last of the four films that director Jack Hill and Grier worked together on; the other films were The Big Doll House, The Big Bird Cage, and Coffy. Not for the squeamish! "},{"Title":"She's Creamin' Us Again!","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I am a huge fan of blaxploitation goddess Pam Grier, and Jack Hill's Coffy of 1973 is both my favorite Grier-film and one of the absolute greatest Blaxploitation films ever made. While this Foxy Brown of 1974, which is very similar in its premise, is not quite as cool as Coffy it is yet another immensely entertaining and bad-ass blaxploitation classic. It is funny how director Jack Hill often repeated a successful idea - he made two WIP (Women In Prison) flicks, The Big Doll House (1971) and The Big Bird Cage (1972), both starring Grier, and then went on to make two 'Female Avenger' themed Blaxploitation flicks, also both starring Grier, Coffy (1973) and Foxy Brown (1974). And it is no wonder that the ravishing Miss Grier was always chosen to star as the foxy female ass-kicker. Grier unites incredible sexiness and incredible coolness, and is therefore predestined to play exploitation heroines of the kind. Storywise, Foxy Brown is quite near to what Coffy was, a film about a black beauty with style, Foxy Brown (Pam Grier), who is taking on ruthless mobsters in order to take bloody revenge for a loved one... At first I had the impression that the film would be a little tamer than Coffy in sleaze and violence, but Foxy Brown really catches up on these qualities a bit later in the film. It is not quite as cool as Coffy, but still stylish enough. I personally preferred the character of Coffy to that of Foxy Brown, as well as the reasons of the revenge, and I especially preferred the villains in Coffy to those in this one. Out of all the blaxploitation films I've seen so far, however, Coffy is my favorite, and while Foxy Brown is certainly inferior, it is nonetheless great fun and a must-see for blaxploitation lovers. As mentioned above, sexy Pam Grier is great in the role, and the film has an overall wonderfully funky atmosphere. The groovy theme song in the very beginning (Supabaaaad) already promises 90 minutes of great fun. The supporting cast includes the great Sid Haig, who was in plenty of films with Grier around the time, in a small role. Overall the film is no Coffy, but it is definitely an immensely entertaining blaxploitation classic that cult-cinema fans should not miss! "},{"Title":"My kind of Avenging Angel ...","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" My first real acquaintance with the reigning duchess of Blaxploitation cinema, and I'm literally overwhelmed with feelings and sentiments. First and foremost love! I'm in love with Pam Grier already and I have yet to see the predecessor (and supposedly even superior) Coffy. Secondly, I'm truly furious at myself for all my years as a die-hard cult-cinema fanatic during which I was reluctant to get involved with the genuine highlights of Blaxploitation cinema. I watched Pam in a handful of Women in Prison movies and, of course, in Quentin Tarantino's homage Jackie Brown, but THIS is the real stuff that made her an immortal cult siren! Okay, Foxy Brown is thin-plotted and often exaggeratedly gratuitous, but notwithstanding it's an incredibly fun movie to watch and Mrs. Grier simply represents total coolness. She literally shines as the strong & street-smart girl who single-handedly takes on a sleazy network of drug traffic, extortion and prostitution, run by the deplorable white Katherine Wells and her hunky lover boy Steve. Her primary motivation is retribution for the cowardly murder of her undercover narcotics officer boyfriend, but she soon inspires the entire black neighborhood to join the battle. Foxy infiltrates as a luxury call-girl, deliberately screws up bribing deals and prevents major drugs transfers from happening until the mean white criminals want her dead. There's few originality in the story lines, but the soul-soundtrack is fantastic, the action sequences are spectacularly violent (guy mauled by airplane propeller!) and Pam Grier is &#133; well &#133; mega-HOT! Every new outfit she puts on, every different hairstyle and every small peek at her luscious cleavage nearly makes you slaver. The rest of the cast is impeccable as well, with Antonio Huggy Bear Fargas as Foxy's unreliable brother and a small guest appearance from Sid Haig as a sleazy airplane pilot who hopes to get lucky. "},{"Title":"Fabulous stuff","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This may seem a high score for a film that has rather a lot of very average acting, gaping plot holes and continuity mistakes a plenty, but, it works. And how! Most 'blaxploitation' has good bits, slow bits and bad bits culminating in a rousing ending. This one goes from the very start and doesn't stop. Moreover, whilst like in others, we see lots of outrageous costumes spread across amazing bodies, here the action is rugged throughout. These people don't just seem mean, they are mean. The scenes of Pam's abduction are painful, shocking (and sexy!) and she plays hurt just as well as she plays kick ass. And does she play kick ass! In a surprising scene in a lesbian bar a challenger tells her to watch out and says something like, 'I'm a black belt in karate.' Pam decks her with a stool and yells back, 'I'm a black belt in bar stools.' Fabulous stuff. In fact this innovative film has great dialogue as well as action and there are scenes that would fit well into a movie dealing with racial issues even today. You wouldn't be permitted to show a lot of the action, however. Not too many leading ladies get raped a couple of times and have to suffer the indignities this young lady does before she can get back on top and then show herself to be just as torturous! "}{"Title":"Pam Grier - looking fabulous and taking names","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Pam Grier is dressed fabulously as she gets revenge on a prostitution ring that killed her man. Among the highlights/lowlights Ms. Grier gets in a brawl at a lesbian bar, pilots a small plane through one thug and into a couple others (this must be a rule with low budget action movies as I've seen it in other movies of this ilk), demonstrates another use for a coat hanger and performs a rather bizarre striptease with Juanita Brown. Antonio Fargas plays the usual knucklehead that doesn't make it to the second reel. As for Grier's revenge? Considering the villainous duo's, Peter Brown and Kathryn Loder, bad acting skills - what happens to them is only fitting. "},{"Title":"Butt-kicking blacksploitation with real depth and overall awesome film","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It may be haunted by an era of 70's blacksploitation and excessive racially-charged language against Pam Grier's character of the butt-kicking Foxy Brown, but it definitely has a fluid-moving plot and easy-to-access material and relations between the characters.Foxy Brown was the sequel to Pam Grier's role as Coffy (and in the movie of the same name). The director was pushed to create a different name for the movie/character after the studio didn't want to create sequels at the time because they were not bringing in as many dollars to the theaters. But this movie did fine on its own for good reason. The Shaft-dominated time of the 70's had tons of these action-stars on the rise with these cookie-cutter scripts and characters who were larger than life.The 70's cheese factors in this film are here, but they are easy to forgive. At the time, directors and special effects persona didn't exactly have everything down when the movie had to continue being shot, so the quick cuts were used and multiple squibs were presented on people more often than not. So there are plenty of moments when a modern audience might scoff at the effects used, but it provides a humor to the movie to help the fighting sequences. I like movies that have bad special effects in them if you can look past them, and you really can look past bad moments in Foxy Brown.This movie has everything for 70's cliché action movies, but in a way, that was good because that's where the humor started getting popular towards the action crowd. This movie boasts excessive nude scenes, gun blazing at every turn, horribly crass language towards the black population, and awesome revenge methods, which Foxy uses at every turn.I gave the movie an 8/10 because this movie is a classic, even when these movies were referred to as garbage. This plot and on-screen action drives the message home to leave Foxy alone, but it also shows a more intimate view of her awesome character. Even with Shaft and James Bond ripoffs plenty, this movie stands the test of time because of a great director and wonderful acting from everyone. This is a must-buy. "},{"Title":"If You Dig Blaxsploitation......","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you dig Blaxsploitation films the way I do, Foxy Brown will not disappoint. It's a wild story of sex, drugs, vengeance and adventure. Best of all it features Pam Grier, the undisputed queen of the genre.The movie features Antonio Fargas as Foxy's brother, and he has some fabulous lines. I love how he tries in vain to persuade the cops to stick around by praising the quality of coffee they are drinking. Outrageous!I have about 500 films in my collection, including Citizen Kane and The Bicycle Thief. Unfortunately, many of the so-called classics don't feature 1970's fashions and fights with barstools in lesbian bars, plus a remarkable combination of over the top/wooden acting. I need these things in my life, and films like Foxy Brown do the trick.Damn, Pam's SUPER-BAD! Other great Blaxsploitation pictures include Shaft, Superfly, Truck Turner and Black Caesar. Dig it, if you can. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  From Greer's costumes and stupendously bizarrely-fitted bras, to her black belt in bar-stools, this is a must-see. As for the ending--any girl who has ever been wronged will squeal with joy.Go Foxy! "},{"Title":"A film with plenty of foxy and brown, but not much else","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" While arguably Pam Grier's best known work from the period when she owned the Blaxploitation genre, Foxy Brown is unfortunately the least satisfying offering from that chapter of her filmography. While Grier is always delightful to watch, this rather silly outing doesn't offer enough action or originality to distract the viewer from how ultimately stupid the premise is.None of the plot turns that propel the story forward are the least bit feasible, and while I'm certainly aware that films like this aren't meant to be taken seriously, seeing how well Coffy balanced the camp elements with a gritty urban realism makes this follow-up seem disappointing and disjointed.The general plot concerns the murder of Grier's government informant boyfriend, who has been given facial reconstructive surgery to protect his identity from the underworld figures he infiltrated. Apparently, the surgery wasn't all that radical, because despite the sincerity with which Grier and boyfriend's fellow Feds marvel at his unveiling, Grier's sleazy drug addict brother is able to recognize him upon seeing him in his new guise for approximately 10 seconds.Her brother, of course, drops the dime to our resident drug carteles, who are looking for revenge against the man who irked them, although it's not entirely clear why they want him dead. Obviously, the members of this underworld family are not in prison, and are still free to orchestrate their dope trade unhindered, so one has to wonder exactly how this former agent wronged them so significantly that they're willing to risk a broad daylight hit against him. Anyway, he apparently did, so they shoot him down in front of Grier's house. It's worth noting that the two assassins ALSO are able to ascertain his identity after seeing his new face for 10 seconds... This is apparently the most piddling facial reconstruction in the history of film, and one can't help but think that he might have been safer if they skipped the plastic procedure and threw a pair of Groucho glasses on him instead.Grier is, of course, devastated, and immediately sets a revenge plan in action. Once she finds the parties responsible, she does what any rational person would do poses as a hooker to get inside their organization. Surely, there must be an easier way to get close enough to them to hatch an egg of vengeance (especially since her audition for the call girl position allows her to walk right into the midst of their home-base and stand face to face and alone in the room with the woman who ordered her lover's death).But we wouldn't have much of a movie if Foxy's plan was that simple, so we follow her on a call-job, where she befriends a fellow working gal who is content to continue hooking even though she has a husband and child, who storm their way onto the cartel's compound to confront her as she and Foxy leave for their assignment. (Security at the estate that serves as base of operations for both a call-girl ring and a lucrative drug pushing syndicate must not be a high priority, since this random guy can just walk onto the grounds carrying a small child). This subplot is rather meaningless, and the hooker she befriends eventually disappears from the film without any explanation, but the whole point of this detour seems to be for the cartel to find out Foxy is playing spy so that they can send her to a pair of their henchmen to be raped, tortured, and force-fed heroin.Now armed with even more incentive for revenge, Foxy escapes, enlists the help of a local vigilante crew, seduces Sid Haig, and eventually has her bloody vengeance, producing a few memorable bits along the way, luckily for us. One of these involves a thug meeting an airplane propeller head-on to delicious effect, and another finds Foxy castrating the lover of the cartel's chairwoman and delivering his cash and prizes to her in a pickle jar.There are plenty of cheap thrills here to make Foxy Brown a worthy view, but nothing that will encourage repeat viewing the way that Coffy's much more violent, sexy, and solid template does. Having an original title doesn't disguise the fact that this film is, for all intents and purposes, a sequel, thus subject to the familiar rule of diminishing returns. Foxy Brown may not be an Empire Strikes Back, but it definitely isn't a Phantom Menace, so Grier completists won't feel much pain while crossing this one off their list. If that sounds like a meager recommendation, it is, but if you're a fan of Blaxploitation films or Pam Grier, you already know you're going to see this. So why do you care what I think anyway? "},{"Title":"Okay...but Coffy was better","Date":"30 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Okay...but Coffy was better.A woman's boyfriend is murdered by a drug gang. She, Foxy Brown (played by Pam Grier), then sets out to avenge his death.Interesting and action-packed but, if you've already seen Coffy, the previous Jack Hill-Pam Grier collaboration (Hill being the writer and director), it seems largely second-hand. Very similar main plot to Coffy, with less plausible twists and escapes. Characters are less well developed and there's less engagement. It all just feels like Coffy Lite.However, still entertaining and Pam Grier, as before, puts in a great performance in the lead role. "},{"Title":"One of the Better Films of This Genre","Date":"7 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When a pusher by the name of Link Brown (Antonio Fargas) loses half a kilo of of cocaine worth about $20,000, his suppliers become irate and send two thugs to work him over. Desperately needing help he calls his sister Foxy Brown (Pam Grier) to rescue him from the two goons. She manages to get to him before they can grab him and puts him up at her place for a few days completely unaware of the exact nature of his predicament. In addition to that, her boyfriend Michael Anderson (Terry Carter) is an undercover cop who has just undergone a face-lift and assumed a new identity because the same suppliers have a contract out on his head. Now, rather than reveal what happens next I will just say that things begin to take a severe turn for the worse and Foxy Brown suddenly has a score or two to settle with some major league drug dealers. Be that as it may, Pam Grier puts on an exciting performance which I believe is even superior to her role a year earlier in Coffy. However, like many blaxploitation films during this time the dialogue and fashions cause this movie to seem quite dated. Likewise, while there is some nudity, violence and course language that may not be appropriate for a general audience, it all fits in with the overall plot and adds a rough character which in my opinion enhances the film. One of the better films of this genre. "},{"Title":"Jack Hill, a Legend","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A voluptuous black woman (Pam Grier) takes a job as a high-class prostitute in order to get revenge on the mobsters who murdered her boyfriend.I love Jack Hill. I love his work with Spider Baby and Blood Bath, and I love his attempts at making Sid Haig and Pam Grier stars. He may have succeeded more on Grier than Haig, but they have both done very well for themselves.This film tends to fall under the title of blaxploitation, which may be strange coming from a white director. Personally, while I do not see a problem with a white man directing a black film, I do see a problem with this movie being called a black film. It is neither black nor white (or any other color). It is a story of corruption and revenge and has actors of different colors telling a very universal crime story. "},{"Title":"That's my sister, baby, and she's a whole lotta woman.","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" One of the better blaxploitation films with Pam Grier kicking butt and looking o so fine as she does it. The yellow dress that she wore as a hooker was mouth watering to say the least.Rape and revenge are the main threads running through the film, as she is on the warpath to avenge her lover, who was killed by the scumbags she is now working for. Lots of people die.Also features Sid Haig, who is familiar not only in director Jack Hill's other films like Coffy and Spider Baby, again, with Grier in Tarantino's Jackie Brown, and also in Rob Zombie's films House of 1000 Corpses and The Devil's Rejects. "},{"Title":"fun stuff","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Foxy Brown Low level 70s blaxploitation- starring Pam Grier as the title character- she is lovely- but this flick does not age well- the fight scenes are ludicrous and the plot extreme- her brother fingers her bf to the mob- she becomes a hooker- what?This movie is a hoot with a decent Willie Hutch soundtrack and cameos by Sid Haig and Antonio Fargas.If you looking for some 70s action with a strong female lead than this will be a decent 90 minute ride.On the audio commentary the director said that he wants to try his hand at romantic comedy- you know I think a catfight in a lesbian bar might of helped Wedding Date. C "}{"Title":"Pam Grier is Amazing","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" - Foxy Brown is a great example of the Blaxplotation films made in the 1970s. It's a product of its time and (even though a remake is in the works) could not be made today. The PC crowd would go nuts if such a movie were released in 2005.- Foxy Brown is the story of a woman looking for revenge after her boyfriend is gunned down in front of her house. She's not going to let anyone, not even her brother, stand in the way of her mission.- Foxy Brown works primarily because of two key ingredients - Pam Grier and Jack Hill. After watching just a few minutes, it's easy to forget that your watching Grier and, instead, think you are really watching Foxy. Grier is perfect as Foxy. I honestly can't imagine anyone else in the role. She's one of those smart, tough, caring, and honest characters that you don't often, unfortunately, see being played by a black woman. She is the ultimate in her own butt-kicking, outfit-changing, pulling-a gun-from-her-afro kind of way.- As for Jack Hill, he was able to make a movie on a very tight, limited budget that looks much larger than it really is. There are a few instances where you would have liked to see Hill do a re-shoot, but for the most part, the movie's flaws are not obvious. "},{"Title":"My first Pam Grier Film","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Without Pam Grier, I wouldn't have found this movie half as entertaining. I had never seen her stuff before. Her screen presence is huge. You just want to watch her.Saw it for the first time tonight. That RED suit. I don't think I've ever seen a leading lady look that good on screen.Halle Berry can't compare. Pam has that hard edge to compliment the beauty. Tough and sweet. Why haven't I watched more of her early stuff.Oh well better late than never.Coffy next!!!!! Without Pam (and maybe Antonio) I would have voted this a 3. But 6 in this case. "},{"Title":"my second comment on this film","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In my second comment, I'd like to touch some other points about the filmWarning SpoilersFirst of all, as much as I admit that I loved this film, because it has really touched me, I did notice a couple problems with consistency - minor, not even worth mentioning beyond thatBut I am left with some other feelings as well.  Jackie tells Max that she didn't use him.  In my life, I've learned to read those kinds of statements as confessions, and in fact, upon reflection I think she did use him.  All these characters in this film had some endearing parts about them, even Melanie and Luis, but the only one who was motivated by something other than money and self advancement, the only one who would take a risk to advance someone else's interests, was Max.  It was his character that was the endearing one in the film, behind those sad poker faced eyes, who pulled Jackie's fanny out of the fire, and didn't ask anything for it, beyond his professional 10%.  Sure, Jackie's the fascinating character, the expressive, passionate beauty that men like me fall in love with, men like Max.  But it's Max's obsession that makes it all worthwhile.  Without him, Jackie would have been just another two bit con artist.  With him, she was enobled.  He brought out the very best qualities in her, you could see it during their morning coffee.  Instead of being a hustler, for once Jackie could play the part of a mature friend.  I've already commented on this film's debt to aging, so I won't dwell on that this timeI have a couple questions.  I don't understand the switch between Sheranda and Simone.  I don't see bags change hands between them, and yet we know that the bags did change hands.  I don't understand how Max knew about that second switch, and why, if he did know, Jackie pretended not to know about it, which was, I think, the basis of her argument with Ordell.   And I don't understand why Simone positioned her chair looking away from Sheranda and Jackie, when Ordell said the whole point of her being there was to watch it go downI don't understand why Max is hanging so close all the time.  In the mall, the first time, he arrives just as Ordell is leaving.  Assuming Max's meeting with Jackie was pre-arranged, why was he so careless?And again, during the big switch outside the fitting room, why is Max hanging so close to the cashier?  Why not step back a few yards, especially after Luis arrives?  I don't see what he stood to gain by standing right on the edge of the periphery, when he was supposed to pretend that he was arriving looking for a bag of beach towels.  He could have been at least 100 feet away, just a little distance at least.    And again, it cost him and almost foiled everything, since Luis saw him and later told Ordell about it.I don't understand how the ATF agent, the cop and Winston all manage to show up at Max's office just in the nick of time, at the end, and are all prepped and waiting off to the sideI don't understand why Jackie put $40,000 or so in the bag for Ordell.  I guess she must have had some pity on him, or maybe she was trying to rub his nose in it, like Ordell suggested.  It's not totally impossible to understand this, it's just slightly unusual when I think about itI don't totally understand why Max would leave a gun in his glove compartment  "},{"Title":"my second comment on this film","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" ....But, much more closer to the heart of the film, I wonder if Jackie played Max.  When Max shows up at her door looking for his gun, at first she seems a little bit, slightly, less than cordial, as if she'd rather he hadn't shown up at her door.  But then, after she emerges from her bedroom with the gun, all of a sudden her voice takes on a different demeanor mature, friendly, inviting, and even, if you'll pardon me, and even her accent seems to become a little more mainstream.  She needs Max   one way or another, as a partner, if she's going to take on Ordell, and she gives Max what he needs a friend.  All in all, she isn't unlike many women I've met opportunistic  "},{"Title":"Pam Grier at her finest, first rate blaxploitation","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Pam Grier at her finest in any movie. This is her as a no nonsense white ass kicking ho in the finest sense of the word. Pam holds up well in this clichefied movie with its tired all the black dudes are pimps, hustlers, gangsters, hos or concerned cops and the whites all criminals and of course racist. Pam is great when she is kicking ass try the old wire coat hanger scene and the way she escapes. It is also disturbing when you see how racist it was back then. I also thought Kathleen was magnificent, a total bitch to everyone else when really all she needs is the love of her man. Well I guess she got to have it all the time afterwards. Not bad, but do not go crazy over it "},{"Title":"very cool blaxpoitation flick","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I love blaxpoitation. Why? Because it's honest. It doesn't claim it's going to be action and then show only PG-13 material. If you see a Blaxpoitaton movie you know it's going to be all out. Cursing, nudity, sex, and violence. But all that doesn't make a movie, it just helps. It's details. The plot is what counts and most (not all Dolemite) of these films know that. That's why they construct an  interesting plot that surrounds crime and allows for these details to fit the story. Shaft was a great action movie, but they got better from there. Coffy, Superfly, and now Foxy Brown, all great movies in a similar way. They are fun. Foxy Brown is possibly the best of all of them because it has the best plot. It's similar to Coffy but not so similar that you only have to see one. Foxy Brown takes Coffy and goes even further. It has a  nice, complex story involving gangs, ranches, murders, and betrayal. All the good things that contemporary action movies leave out. Sometimes you have to go back to the classics to get a rush. This movie is one of those classics.  "},{"Title":"Pam Grier Kicks Butt!","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing Jackie Brown and loving it, I decided to see what other films Pam Grier had done in the past.  As a result, I discovered the world of the blaxploitation films of the 1970s.  Foxy Brown was the first of these that I saw, and it just blew me away.  Pam Grier delivers a knockout performance as Foxy Brown, whose federal agent boyfriend is gunned down, and who sets out to fight for revenge and justice where the System has failed her.  Though the script is flawed, and has some unrealistic characters, this only adds to the fun, campy nature of the film.  The music is great, and the opening sequence rivals those of the James Bond films.  Foxy Brown is a definite must-see.  "},{"Title":"All the bad guys are white","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  (Unless you count a dope dealer who is thrashed and apprehended by vigilantes early in the film and Foxy's own brother who sells out her beau.) That strikes me as the most hilarious aspect of the film, but it's not without it's truth and sort of works as a metaphor for real life. "},{"Title":"Compared to 'Coffy' it's a let down, but Grier is magnificent, and that's enough reason to watch it.","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Former Roger Corman protege and writer/director of horror cult classic 'Spiderbaby' really struck gold when he started to work with Pam Grier, helping her to become a blaxploitation icon. The first two Hill/Grier collaborations were women in prison movies with Grier an important part of an ensemble cast (which also included Hill regular the legendary Sid Haig). Then came 'Coffy', one of the best exploitation movies of the 1970s. Grier really shone in that movie, and along with 'Spiderbaby' it's arguably Hill's best film. 'Foxy Brown' comes across as a rather self-conscious attempt to recreate the success of 'Coffy', but sadly something is missing. Both movies follow a similar revenge formula, but there's less realism this time round. The opening credits are kitschy and fun, but it's very hey, look at me, Pam Grier Superstar!, and the movie reflects this. 'Coffy' was great because it was the story of an average working class black woman who must find it within herself to do some extraordinary things. In 'Foxy Brown' things just come too easy for Grier's character, and she is much closer to Roundtree's John Shaft or even Tamara Dobson's Cleopatra Jones. I feel this movie loses a lot of what was unique and compelling about 'Coffy', and gets too close to just being a generic action flick. However Grier with Hill is still better than her subsequent movies in this genre like say 'Sheba, Baby' or 'Friday Foster', so I can't say it's a complete waste of time. Grier is sexy and charismatic throughout, and still one of the best exploitation stars of the mid-70s. Grier really dominates 'Foxy Brown' but the much-loved Antonio Fargas ('Shaft', 'Cleopatra Jones', but best known as Huggy Bear on TV's 'Starsky And Hutch') plays her shifty coke-dealing brother, Katheryn Loder (who some might remember from Hill's earlier 'The Big Doll House') is great as a sadistic Madame, and Sid Haig has a nice bit as a horny pilot. I wish the supporting cast had more chances to shine, and that Grier's character had a bit more depth, but it was not to be. This was Jack Hill's last movie with Pam Grier. He went on to make the marvelous 'Switchblade Sisters', she went on to a very uneven career until Tarantino's excellent 'Jackie Brown', possibly her best role to date. I really wish Jack Hill would make movies again, and I'd love to see him team up once more with Pam Grier and Sid Haig, because I think they have some unfinished business and the results could really be something special. "},{"Title":"Good Fun","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Foxy Brown (1974) *** (out of 4) Enjoyable, over the top blaxploitation classic about Foxy Brown (Pam Grier), a woman who seeks revenge on the evil white people who killed her fiancé. This is an incredibly silly, racist and over the top film but I really enjoyed it. The performances are beyond bad but Grier still has a style that's able to carry the film and her nude scenes aren't too bad. The violence is so crazy that you can't help but laugh. The stereotypes also get major laughs especially one politically incorrect scene where Foxy enters a lesbian bar and fights some manly women. "}{"Title":"shows the attitude of what was really on folks minds.","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" great movie for the time it was movie display of how blacks always thought they had to stay one step ahead of the man unfortunately the man always got his in the end but still manages to slip away.this movies show some great styles of the era and those who were of the same age of the character will always fill a sense of regaining a youth of times past but brought back today,you will really enjoy this movie even though you have already seen it see it again and drift away to that time i know i always like to watch it again ans again.look for the other Pam Grier movies they all seem to have her playing the heroine so if you don't mind a woman taking charge this is the movie for you "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  foxy brown is a hot hot mama in this movie the title say's it all.She has a very nice body but get's beat up bad but she also kicks butt too.when they take her up to the farm and there shooting her with smack, she try's to escape but is caught,than they have there way with foxy brown they wrestle with her which is very sexy tie her up to the bed the other guy walk's in to give her more smack.look's at her and say's I'm getting that feeling again, grab's her nice black breast + rips her bra off to get down with foxy brown.by the end of the movie she get's her revenge one of them has a shot of feeling her up,but foxy brown win's at the end but a lot of uncut part's in the movie which was no good,looking for the real version of this movie.....  "},{"Title":"Politically incorrect, gritty, compelling and fun to watch","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jack Hill's FOXY BROWN is not a film for the faint-hearted. It's got disgusting seventies fashions, outrageous dialogue, butch lesbians, girl fights, rape, forced drug addiction, corrupt judges, castration, dismemberment by aircraft propellor, punch-ups and worse. It's almost as if the film's makers had a checklist of things that were likely to upset the members of the nascent political correctness movement, which they worked their way through whilst the shoot was in progress. So if you think this kind of thing might be a little raw for your tastes, do yourself a big favour and stay away. For a long time, blaxploitation and exploitation films were regarded by 'serious' critics and film buffs as little better than pond scum; to these people, these films were dismal, pandering, cheap and inept fodder for the thrill-seeking drive-in crowd and deserved to be brushed aside without a second thought. How times change. Now, FOXY BROWN and dozens of other titles from the same era have been brushed up and remastered for high-profile DVD releases on respectable major labels, and have been rediscovered and reassessed for what they are - pacy, gritty, tightly-constructed thrillers that demonstrate decent film-making on a shoestring budget. They may not be artsy, but who cares?FOXY BROWN features a brilliant lead performance from the hypnotically attractive Pam Grier, who is matched at every turn by Antonio 'Huggy Bear' Fargas as her no-good younger brother. The rest of the performances are variable, but give 'em a break, the budgets of these things did tend to preclude brilliant method actors! Jack Hill's direction keeps things ticking over nicely and the screenplay swings wildly between shock-horror tactics, tongue-in-cheek theatricality and even the occasional stab at gut-level farce. In short, it's all very entertaining stuff. Fans of THE HILLS HAVE EYES will be interested to see a small supporting role for Russ Grieve (Bob Carter in the aforementioned Wes Craven classic) as a corrupt high-up with a naked redhead on his knee, and Bob Minor turns in a sympathetic performance as the Black Panthers-styled vigilante that is light years away from his banal turn in CARNAL MADNESS as the stereotypical sex-crazed vaudeville black. Well worth a rental on a slow night, and the funky score is another bonus that doesn't hurt a bit.  "},{"Title":"Foxy kicks a lot of butt, including Shaft's","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If I'd be asked with whom I'd rather spend the night with, Foxy or Shaft, the answer would be easy FOXXXY!!! Not only because she is hot, but also because she kicks more butt than does Shaft. But seriously. Foxy Brown is a pretty good film and one of the better crime films from the 70's I've seen. This is due to some good one-liners, a good soundtrack and the fact that the story remains interesting throughout. I just never had the feeling that the film lost momentum, a feeling one gets quite frequently when watching films from the 70's. I think this is a good effort and maybe even a great one considering this was a low budget film. I mean the effects are great (the plane scenes) and the acting is quite good as well. Nevertheless, of all the crime films Charley Varrick remains my favorite, then comes Foxy, followed by Dirty Harry (The Enforcer actually) and Shaft. Where Coffy will end up? Check my comment after I've posted it!7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Veers close to blaxploitation parody","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  From the start of its pop art James Bond credits, AiP's Pam Grier vehicle Foxy Brown veers close to blaxplo parody.  An unofficial sequel to Coffy (1973), director Hill & co are evidently finding it hard to take the whole ghetto revenge scenario seriously any more.  No matter - the film's a winner.  Foxy's boyfriend, a former undercover agent recovering from plastic surgery, is sold out by her coked-out brother (Antonio Fargas) in trouble with loan sharks, and are both gunned down by the Mob.  Foxy infiltrates the Mob's call-girl racket (with a miniature pistol packed away in her afro!) and in one of the finest moments in exploitation films, presents the head of the Mob with her boyfriend's dick in a jar (!).  Other highlights include a barroom brawl in a lesbian club, and a gangster chopped in two by Sid Haig's propeller.  Grier finished her contract at AiP with a series of similar but decreasingly successful roles Sheba Baby (1975) as a black private eye, and as a comic-strip journalist in Friday Foster (also 1975).  "},{"Title":"Grier is foxy but the film is mediocre.","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Pam Grier's beauty and the not-so-subtle attempt at social commentary make this somewhat overhyped blaxploitation film worth seeing. But it's a lurid, sometimes overly brutal picture, and despite what many others have said, I found the pacing to be not half as fast as it should've been. The catfight in the lesbian bar (which is prominently featured in the old video box cover) is also majorly disappointing in its staging. (**) "},{"Title":"Overly violent but enjoyable trash","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Foxy Brown (Pam Grier) goes after some vicious drug dealers after they kill her boyfriend.  Not as good as Coffy for one reason--it's way too violent and Grier's character is treated horrendously.  She's beaten up repeatedly, raped, shot up with drugs, tied down, whipped in the throat and dragged around and tortured--it just goes too far.  However, she gets her revenge very brutally too.  It's all fairly enjoyable trash.  There's bad dialogue, loads of blood and violence, a lesbian bar fight and some truly terrible acting by Kathryn Loder as the head villain.  Also she wears the worst 70s outfits I've ever seen!  Still, worth seeing--it moves quickly, Grier is fantastic (as always)...but it's still trash. "},{"Title":"A little taste of honey ain't enough for me. I gotta have the whole beehive.","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When her undercover cop boyfriend is murdered, bombshell Foxy Brown (Pam Grier) is out for revenge. She goes undercover as a call girl for a sleazy couple (Peter Brown, Kathryn Loder) that runs a prostitution and drug syndicate. Voluptuous and tough Pam Grier is the whole show, kicking ass and looking good doing it. Antonio Fargas plays her weaselly brother. Sid Haig has a small part as a horny pilot. The fight in the lesbian bar and the airplane murder are highlights. Foxy's final moment of revenge left me speechless. Cool theme song, nice nudity, and lots of violence like most of the great blaxploitation movies. Contains some pretty rough scenes and racist language so be prepared for that if you're squeamish. Not quite as good as Coffy but still entertaining. "},{"Title":"it's OK.","Date":"30 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Of course I enjoy watching blaxploitation flicks just as much as the next guy (or girl) but that doesn't mean I also regard those movies as particularly good ones. One thing they always have going for them is that they are incredibly entertaining to watch, no matter how bad and silly things can get at times. This for most part also goes for Foxy Brown, though the genre has definitely produced better movies.I feel somewhat disappointed by this movie, since it's often regarded as a classic within its genre. I have just seen far better and more entertaining blaxploitation flicks to call this movie one of the best ones out of the genre. I had some fun with it but was not throughout entertained. This is all really due to the quite badly written- and simplistic story.It's a movie that seems to have all of the right ingredients; Sex, violence, nudity and Pam Grier is a whole lot of woman, as even her brother says in this. However the movie is really not edgy enough with any of its ingredients and the movie even seems to be a bit a tame one, especially when it comes down to its violence. And because it's not edgy enough; the movie is not constantly entertaining enough, throughout.But again, this really is due to its story. It has a really standard story in it, that just seems to consists out of a couple ideas that got thrown together but never really feels like one great, likable, big whole. Sure, it provides the movie with plenty of good and fun moments but overall the movie would had benefited more from a far more consistent and also more original script.Still a thing that makes this movie special and somewhat above average is the presence of Pam Grier in this. You could say that she really was a too good actress for these sort of movies but it didn't seem like she minded playing in this sort of movies, since she became quite a popular actress because of it and it paid for all of the bills of course. Her presence really uplifts the movie and her acting does the same to some of the movie its story elements and dialog as well. Fore everyone else isn't really impressing with their acting and most performances are quite weak, to be honest (Sid Haig excluded of course!).It's an OK enough movie to watch, though nothing too impressive or entertaining.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"2 - Terrible","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film was a total snooze. Generic plot. Same old gangster blaxploitation crap. Nothing intelligent, deep or creative. I'm not sure whether this is supposed to be funny or it's a serious attempt at telling a story, but it fails at both.One thing this movie never fails in trying to do is have Pam Grier enter each scene with different clothes for male viewers to ogle her in. She's proved to be a talented actress but Foxy Brown doesn't give her any room to be more than a sex object.Foxy Brown was a snooze. This is the lowest rating I've had to give so far. I guess a 1/10 would be a Nazis are great movie. "}{"Title":"Ultra-cool slice of women power","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Exploitation king Jack Hill made FOXY BROWN as a follow-up to COFFY, another blaxploitation epic starring Pam Grier. FOXY BROWN starts off on a slow, rather uneven keel, and I wasn't too sure what I was making of it. The acting is adequate rather than entrancing and the occasional threadbare parts of the storyline are pretty difficult to miss.Sure, the story is enlivened with a funky soundtrack, bizarre supporting characters, and the odd burst of violence, but overall it feels very predictable. And then things change around the halfway mark. Pam Grier kicks into high gear playing a female avenger, out to take vengeance on the various hoods, thieves, murderers, and rapists who stand in her way, and the film becomes a fantastic slice of exploitation entertainment.What follows is an odyssey of ultra-violence featuring some fantastic and gratuitously gory effects sequences. The bit with the plane is my favourite, but there are customary immolations and castrations and it's all played out in a matter-of-fact way by the great Hill. Grier is obviously in her element here and there are fun supporting parts for Antonio Fargas (sleazy), Kathryn Loder (kooky), and Sid Haig (funny). As FOXY BROWN comes to an end, you realise you've been having a great time - at least, after that slow start. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining--a definite guilty pleasure!","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" My score of 5 is indicative of the quality of the production--not the entertainment value. Sure, the film is silly, occasionally poorly directed and produced and it sure would never win any accolades for its artistic merits. But on the other hand, it is very entertaining and is a definite guilty pleasure--you know, a film that you love but isn't a particularly good film. While it was not as exciting as Pam Grier's prior film, COFFY, it was a little better aesthetically--with less of the cheesy violence (no exploding heads in this one) , but it still packs a mean punch and it's nice to see Grier's acting has improved.Like COFFY, FOXY BROWN is about a one-woman demolition team out to destroy a drug syndicate. In this sense, the film isn't so original and at times it's more like a sequel than a stand-alone film. This isn't all bad, as the action is still there as well as all the excitement. But this time it's all a bit more tame and not quite as shocking. Also, sadly, FOXY BROWN ended rather poorly in my opinion. By the end of COFFY, every drug dealer was stone cold dead--but in FOXY BROWN, she oddly left a couple of them beaten (and in one case BADLY damaged) but alive. To me, this just wasn't as satisfying--I wanted to see them all bite the dust! Like most so-called Blaxploitation films, this one is super-violent and full of nudity. It's a film you best not show your kids or to a nun! "},{"Title":"God awful","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Terrible movie that doesn't stand the test of time. Seeing it for the first time in 2003 everything looks and sounds very bizarre. Pam Grier actually says sho nuff in one scene. Curious to know who the art director, clothes & set designer were. I couldn't be bothered to check the credits. 4th rate work. "},{"Title":"What is That ? Pickles ?!","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Well, they told me take it as it is !! OH, I'm a scriptwriter myself, and how this is the sentence that I want to hear the most about anything I may write. Actually with principle like that not only life will become easier, but also there will be no more existence for something called the art of criticism !, however let us see how far can I abide by this principle?Things I'll take them as they are- (Pam Grier)  not only for being this outstandingly sexy, but for being this mass destruction weapon. She was historically one of a kind, with no antecedent, a heroin nearly all longed for, AND not that mannish like others (Tamara Dobson as Cleopatra Jones, totally torturous !). There is something in her charisma that may tell you I can love you greatly or blow you away.. Greatly too without any chance to be cynical !, in brief, she can be all woman, and all man being all woman in the same time ! Things I'll never take them !- I'm not that bad as a person, and I think nobody ever was that bad to be doomed by (Kathryn Loder) !, it's horrible appeal, and even more horrible as an actress (remember her being in hot love with her lover, that was hot to a hellish extent !), and foxy let her alive at the end, why to be that merciful ?, she's evil, look at me while watching her to know how she's evil FOR REAL !, I know that every person got to be loved by at least someone on the plant, but as for miss (Loder) I think that I'm the wrong person for that, No ..I'm certain ! (Huge discussion  who was worse, Kathryn Loder or the actress who played the sad whore?, I think both will go to hell anyway !)- (Antonio Fargas) is one big star who can act for a lot of times, this evidently is not one of them. In fact that proves closely that Blaxploitation movies are not about acting. Things I'll take them as they're ..So laughable- When Foxy was talking (precisely making some speech) about terminating the evil guys, she was curved in front of all the black gang, and her bra was just, as the entire movie, close to exploding with all of her remarkable assets. That's distracting !, so it's basis of one comic scene for sure ! - When Foxy took the &#133;.. of the lover boy to his lover girl (Kathryn Loder) at the end, and just showed it. How the evil woman recognized that this &#133;.. belongs to her man ?!, whatever the answer is, it made me laugh for a long time during the watching and after it, and maybe till now ! (When you love a woman like that I think castration is more merciful !)- When Foxy's man got killed, she goes directly after that to her brother with a threatening gun, real anger, and in the most happily flashy clothes ever !!?? The clothes' fast absurd changing which has no logic and no attention to the storyline, is devastating yet in a funny way (every time they kill someone I love or I hate, I'll put on something more colorful and more sexy !??) - Foxy is having no job ! Cool ! I want to be super bad too, it's nice to fight crime, and have revenge, and get victory in 90 min ! (and there is no jail too at the end)Things aren't be taken as they were !- (Jack Hell) filmed it through 17 days. He's not Orson Welles, he's maybe a smarter luckier Ed Wood, who could pack this kind of slangy rough flicks where all the white people are competently pure evil, and nearly all the black people are the opposite. But those days have gone. And this rage cinematically became near to be under control. So (Hell) stopped giving them, and us, this hell. And the major studios now manufacture their own kinds of hells, yet without this precise point of view. - (Hell) loved to assure the strength of the women (with all the possible meanings of the word). These works had hysterical violent and ceremonial of femininity, and to tell you the ironic truth I miss the last one very. Back then James Bond movies or their likes focused on that powerfully. Now all the movies, including the new James Bond movies, are nothing but hysterical violent ONLY !? Let alone the lamentable matter of not having a voluptuous chicks like (Pam Grier) anymore. I've never felt that there would be one negative side out of the Blaxploitation's contraction ! ..And finally Thing you can take it as it is, or not !- For the first time, I deemed it the 1970s' indie trash. After a while, I understood how it was different at its time ultra violent, sexually bold, offensively lawless, vulgar language, pure action and so effective for the next eras so it could be sort of god father to movies you really love and respect, therefore I may deem it spicy, with low budget and low points. Like any cheap restaurant's saltcellar nevertheless got some hard condiment. Long story short it's pickles, and NOT like the movie's end ones ! "},{"Title":"the rushed production shows, but it still makes for a fun midnight viewing","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" According to Jack Hill's commentary on the Foxy Brown DVD, there was only so much time to make Foxy Brown, as the surprise success of Coffy sent American Interational Pictures into a Pam Grier frenzy- they had to have something ready on the double. So Hill pumped out this little quickie of an exploitation flick that was meant to be a sequel to Coffy, but then got lopped off due to continuity, among other things, even though a lot of the plot points back to many things in the original Hill/Grier collaboration (i.e. boyfriend getting knocked off, Grier playing the perpetual bad-ass, surrounded by corruption she must rid, etc). So in that sort of manufactured way, I liked it, and it actually gets into some really tough and gritty material when Foxy gets into trouble, deep trouble, when taken as a sort of slave-prisoner (following this is a really excellent scene of swift revenge, maybe the most exciting scene in the whole movie). There's some good character actor work by Antonio Fargas as the sort of flunkie Link, brother of Foxy's, and by the very cold Katherine, played by Kathryn Loder (and, true to the 'black-exploitation' fold all of the villains are white). It's a shame though that there isn't more of a really knockout spirit to the whole production, even when Grier is at her best (which is pretty constant as her character has the charm and the sass and the real conviction to be a real star in these vehicles) there seems to be not as much of a punch as with Coffy. The big action climax is a bit of a letdown too with the airplane chase. But I'd say there are worse things to see from the period, and Foxy Brown is definitely not one of them. "}]