[{"Title":"My Favorite Kurosawa","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"94 out of 106 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I own many of Akira Kurosawa's films. I have Ran, Throne of blood, Seven Samarai, Roshomon, Dreams, Hidden Fortress, Jojimbo, Snajuro, Red Beard, and even Kurosawa the documentary. I guess you can say that I like his work. The Kurosawa documentary narrated by Sam Shepard and produced by thirteen / WNET I recommend for anyone at all interested in Kurosawa's films as it will really wet your appetite.Of all of his films, Dersu Uzala is my favorite. It is also one of my favorite films by anybody. It was done shortly after Akira had went through a very dark time in his life and had attempted suicide. It was his first film afterwards and the content of the film appears to reflect more than a little of his mindset at the time. Dersu Uazla is both a feel good film and also a sad film. It touches the way that people as they grow older have a more and more difficult time adapting to life as it changes and has its affect on them. The end of the film can certainly show light on the inhumanity that appears to be growing more prevalent in our society. But, I think what you remember from the film is the love between two individuals, and that is what feels good.Many of Kurosawa's films have a great deal of spectacle, and he is perhaps known best for his Samarai films. There is none of that in this movie. Dersu Uzala is a statement by Akira of life. Akira was fighting to keep making films and was not having an easy time of it. If Akira Kurosawa could not make films, he could not feel that he was living. As a result, he attempted suicide. He survived to make this film plus many others that we all enjoy today. Dersu Uzala may be the most important of his films and the one that shows the great director's true personality. Just perhaps, it shows more about humanity than any of his other films. Again, it is my favorite. "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"83 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my definite favorites.It tells a story of a man who is one with the wilderness and nature and cant live any other way.Dersu Uzala is an old Goldi(siberian asiatic minority) hunter who thinks he has been cursed after he kills a tiger.To him,every being,every part of the nature is equally worth as humans.The film gives us accounts of one Russian captain's friendship with Dersu.They are together through thick and thin and Dersu even rescues him from a blizzard when they are stuck on a frozen lake.Dersu has all the natural senses and therefore knows when he is in danger.He knows everything by looking and observing the landscape around him.So when he kills the tiger,its like a spell has been cast on him.Or is it just his imagination?His people believe in a ghost that rules the taiga,Kanga.He thinks Kanga will punish him in some way.Soon his fears start to get real.He cant kill his prey for food that he needs for living because his eyesight dramatically worsens.One frightening night(my favorite scene) it gets too much for him,listening to the howling wind in the dark,waiting for Kanga to send a tiger to kill him.And captain Arseniev,seeing the horror that struck him,offers him to come with him to his hometown.It happens so.Throughout the film,you cant help but wonder what will happen to Dersu.Not only because in the beginning Arseniev searches for his grave,in retrospection,but also because he is one lonely,sad man who lives only by hunting.There is no place for him but the taiga.And when the tragedy happens,its hard not to feel remorse and pity the old Dersu.His world has come crashing down.The end specially is painful and shows that there is no mercy in this world for a man who falls from grace in his own homeground.In the end,this film has outstanding photography,outstanding music,outstanding cast,beautiful scenery and do i need to say anything about the director? A  timeless work that can never be surpassed.  "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"80 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  After the box office failure of Dodes'ka-Den, Kurosawa was extremely depressed and attempted to commit suicide. After his recovery, he got over his depressive state and directed the Japanese/Russian co-production, Dersu Uzala.Set in the forests of Siberia in the 19th century, Dersu Uzala is one of the most important films about friendship ever made. It tells the story of Captain Vladimir Arseniev (Yuri Solomine) as he leads an expedition through the woods. While his group is camping one night, a small mountain man named Dersu Uzala (Maxim Munzuk) comes across the men and agrees to act as their guide. The friendship between Dersu and Vladimir grows over the years and Vladimir urges Dersu to return to the city with him but the latter always refuses. Finally Dersu agrees to go, but finds that it is a very difficult adjustment to make.This was the first Kurosawa film that I ever saw and it amazed me in so many ways. The beautiful landscapes, the well-developed characters, and most importantly, the great friendship between Dersu and Vladimir make this one of my favorite films. "},{"Title":"Once upon a time, there was a director...","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"69 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  ..and his name was Akira Kurosawa. Once upon a time there was a simple man a hunter, and simple story of friendship and reflection about life. Once upon a time a magnificent director and film crew have put a beautiful story on the screen with such perfection, that in our days we look back and we wonder why movies like this are not being made anymore??It doesn't matter if you like any other Kurosawa's works or any other 'Russian' films, because this one would touch you so much that you would go back and looked for similar films&#133; I wish I could see this film in all his beauty on a big screen, in the original format (70 mm), as I felt that I missed a lot of details from the TV format.There are directors and there is Kurosawa, there are dramas and there are Russian stories, so when you put both of them together, what do you get? Dersu Uzala!Enjoy it, at least as much I did&#133;  "},{"Title":"Dersu!!  Kapitan!!","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"64 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" A wonderful film. It showcases the natural beauty of the Taiga and presents a contrast between the technological and the pastoral. Dersu is one with the forest. He knows its ways and its moods. The Russians scoff at his ways and his 'primitive' belief system, but eventually come to rely on him, and even love him. It is a beautiful story that takes place in an world that very few of us in the West have had a chance to see. I thought the fact that the film was set in the pre-revolutionary period gave it a peculiar sort of charm - Russia before the Great War and the Russian Revolution was innocent and even naive, the same way the Russian soldiers were innocent of the wonders and the dangers of the Taiga. One of the things I loved most about this film was the cinematography - there are long, lingering shots of the landscape, the endless steppe, the forest, the rivers, the mountains. We believe ourselves to be powerful because we have been moderately successful in our attempts to harness nature for our own uses, but the film shows us that we are deluding ourselves, that nature cannot be controlled or resisted, and the truly powerful are those, like Dersu, who co-exist in harmony with nature and learn what the wilderness teaches. "},{"Title":"Still the best movie I have ever seen","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"49 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Dersu Uzala is slow, serene, beautiful, but nevertheless gripping. It tells of the friendship between a nomadic Siberian native and a Russian army explorer, and how the former is able to help the latter and his team to negotiate the many obstacles presented by the Siberian wilderness. We see how traditional survival methods and intrinsic common sense can help the more urbanised army men to cope with the extremes of climate and geography. Eventually the nomad is persuaded to join the general on his trip back to a town. His ignorance of urban life is apparent, but interesting nevertheless, as we do not imagine such people nor meet them in everyday life today. Kurosawa is on top form here, letting the camera take in the vastness of Siberia, and still allowing the viewers to observe the characters closely. The story is interesting too, with a sadly ironic ending (won't say any more!). I think everybody should watch this film, because everybody will have something to learn from it. "},{"Title":"Art!","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"50 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Akira Kurosawa was a masterful director and powerful storyteller, Dersu has always been my favourite of his films. It was also the first I saw - on Christmas Day afternoon 1978 on UK BBC2 - would that they were as adventurous nowadays! Since then of course I've seen all of his films from Stray Dog on, Rashomon and Ran being especial favourites, but I keep on coming back to watch this one, ostensibly the simplest tale Kurosawa ever filmed.The understanding and bonding that develops between the two men Arseniev and Dersu is wonderful to see, and over two hours holds your attention with expertly observed minutiae of character and scenic interplay. The last ten minutes cover a lot of ground (no pun intended) but it's all so logical and sad that I always need to see the end credits to recover.So many marvellous scenes the tiger in the forest in the morning; the phlegmatic reclusive old Chinaman; the raft; wispy blue shaded smoke from night-fires; the conclusion of course; the view of those two great men, the Moon and the Sun in the same shot. Not everyone would like Dersu, their most likely comments being boring - but how wrong they are they'll never know!A film not fit to lick Dersu Uzala's metaphorical boots (or even Plan 9 from Outer Space's for that matter), Blazing Saddles was filmed the same year in America and a generation on still gets more praise than this poetic masterpiece! "},{"Title":"Cinematic Masterpiece","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"48 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  One of the most beautiful  films I have ever seen.Simple, gentle gold hunter-guide Munzuk teaches Russian explorer Solomine the rules of survival in Siberia; they develop mutual respect and friendship. The acting by Maksim Munzuk is wonderful and this is one of Kurosawasgreatest films.You never forget this amazing film.5/5 "},{"Title":"a tribute to the endurance of man and nature, featuring a masterpiece of a performance","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"42 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" For a variety of reasons (that are well known in the darker period of the director's history at this time), Akira Kurosawa left Japan to make a film in Russia (Siberia to be exact). Instead of an epic action picture, he went to one of his other passions as a storyteller- the drama of pure humanity (like Ikiru and Red Beard, this film follows in that vein). The film runs two hours and twenty minutes, but it is a kind of epic story, that does have that pulse of adventure from his other films. But this time he combines that method of a big, spacious environment in the wild with a deep character study. His craftsmanship as a 'painter' of the frame is top-notch as always (all pretensions aside, he is one of the masters at finding the textures and moods in a scene's look as in its character and action), and the use of locations brings a quality that directors today would brush aside with via special and visual effects. Simply put, it is one of, if not the, ultimate testaments to man vs/with nature, with a character that remains one of the most memorable that Kurosawa's envisioned.To give an idea of who Dersu Uzala is to someone who hasn't seen the film, picture Yoda without the ability to lift objects with his mind and to kick ass with a light-saber, but still contains all of the direct wisdom and strength that make him one with his surroundings (and, as well, uses his own kind of 'force' for knowledge and defense, and for attack as an ultimately final resort). As a lonesome hunter and drifter with a family tragically lost, Dersu comes upon a team of explorers led by Captain Aseniev (Yuri Solomon, not the best performance but sturdy enough to sustain the physical scenes). He goes along with them as a guide of the sights and smells and feelings that the others just can't sense (out of lack of experience). Aseniev and Dersu end up becoming friends as they brace a torrid windstorm over a bare, wintry landscape, as Kurosawa brings out one of his towering sequences (topping anything David Lean could've drummed up for sure).It's always of interest to me to see characters doing things on screen, having to go against the elements that almost dwarf them in the face of nature (i.e. Cast Away's hour and a half second act). Dersu Uzala seems to be of few words and mostly actions, and soon gains respect and admiration after an odd introduction to the team- he shoots with a keener than keen eye, he spots tracks, he sets up protection in the harshest of conditions, and is always a step ahead of the pack. And bringing all this out is actor Maksim Munzuk, who appears here (like Falconetti in Passion of Joan of Arc) in the performance of a lifetime out of an otherwise obscure and small career. Munzuk never brings anything to Dersu that isn't in his character, and he makes at least a quarter of the film's success a reality (the other three-quarters could be attributed to Kurosawa alone). He can be tough, smart, funny (in an off-beat way), and if nothing else, humble. But more than anything, Munzuk makes Dersu seem alive in a way no other actor could've accomplished, and also brings out the better in Solomon's performance.The story itself has a superb appeal most of the way, but it is in it's last act that 'Derzu Uzala' reaches an intensely tragic plane. Dersu does something (which I won't reveal here and has been discussed elsewhere on the message board) that brings great shame to his own self-worth. In this part of the film, Kurosawa brings out what can be said to be some of the saddest moments in any of his work, however not without logic. While it was likely a major dramatic function in the novel, Kurosawa doesn't just throw these last twenty minutes or so to let steam flow out of the picture. I sensed something almost cathartic about these scenes, that rose the qualities of the rest of the story to a higher level, to one of almost spiritual in nature. It's hard to really pin-point to one who has not seen the film (and, indeed, I have seen the film all of one time). But once its over, you may feel you have seen a work far more rewarding than imaginable- even in awe. "},{"Title":"A Potpourri of Vestiges Review Simplicity can sometimes be painful as well as majestic","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Dersu Uzala is not just the quintessence of pristine cinema or a landmark in art cinema, but is also a living proof that brilliance can be achieved with absolute simplicity. Storytelling is undoubtedly one of the most potent tools known to man from the Illiad and Odyssey of Homer to the tales of Jataka, to the 1001 nights of Arabia, to the tales of Panchatantra, to the plays of Shakespeare, man has always found ways to amuse himself by spinning the yarn of his imagination. These tales, though picturesque, fantastic and resplendent, mostly overlooked the potency of austerity vis-à-vis grandeur as an element of revelation powerful enough to transcend the effects of all other affects know to man. Only a handful of storytellers like Akira Kurosawa and Satyajit Ray have shown the grit and perspicacity to use simplicity as the weapon to incite and hence portray the deepest of the human emotions on the celluloid. Kurosawa demonstrated the might of simplicity as an element that can pack a punch for the first time in Ikiru and followed it up with an unending list of pristine cinematic masterpieces including Seven Samurai. But, even Kurosawa's greatest critic would not find it hard to concede that cinema does not get any purer than Dersu Uzala. Dersu Uzala is a poignant tale of human bonding of trust, friendship and adoration between two contrasting individuals a nomadic hunter and an army explorer. Captain Arseniev and his troops are on a topographic expedition and while camping during a night, they come across Dersu, who happens to be an aboriginal (Goldi) tribesman. Being fully aware of the handicap of being in a remote and tricky territory and of the indispensability of having an indigene in the ranks, Arseniev asks Dersu to be their guide. Dersu being humbled by Arseniev's courtesy obliges his offer almost immediately. We soon witness a great sense of camaraderie developing between the two of them as Dersu rises in status from being a comrade to a stalwart and a friend in the eyes of the captain. The long years of experience had equipped Dersu with a great sense of intuition and psychic-like abilities to anticipate change and danger. Dersu uses his skills to good effect as he maneuvers captain and his troops through the harsh Siberian terrain, sheltering and guarding them from the cruelties and wilderness of the Tundra. Behind the façade of a rugged hunter, we see a man of profound intellect and deep compassion in Dersu which is most conspicuous in his respect for the old Chinese and his selflessness in rescuing Captain Arseniev and one of his men. After the expedition is over, Arseniev embraces Dersu and bids him farewell as Dersu returns to the wilderness. Few years later, when Arseniev returns to Siberia on another expedition, he once again encounters Dersu, who again proves to be handy, only this time round he appears to be aging really fast as time, which can be a great healer as well as a great leveler, had begun to take a toll on the Goldi. His eyesight deteriorates under the superstitious effect of a self-imposed curse after having killed a Siberian tiger, which the Goldis worship, in an act of self-defence. Arseniev, in his pitied adoration for Dersu, takes him to the city to live with his family. Arseniev's son gets greatly attached to Dersu and his story-telling abilities, but Dersu finds it difficult to adapt to the relatively restricted and significantly tamed urban life and soon realizes that his life has been reduced to that of a captive. He implores the captain to let him return to the wilderness of the woods. With great reluctance, Arseniev grants him the permission to leave, but not before presenting his savior with a brand new rifle as a parting gift and a souvenir. Few months later, Arseniev receives a letter informing him that a dead body of a Goldi has been found with no identification on it barring Arseniev's visiting card. As Arseniev pays a visit to the place of burial, he identifies the dead Goldi to be none other than Dersu Uzala. The investigating officer speculates the Goldi's brand new rifle might have lured someone into killing him.Dersu Uzala is not just a movie, but is an experience of a lifetime. Dersu Uzala is the only movie that Akira Kurosawa shot in a language other than Japanese and he proved it once and for all that cinema at its most pristine, knows no bounds or barriers. Kurosawa uses his auteurist mastery to bring the memoirs of Russian explorer, Vladimir Arsenyev to life as he inexplicably metamorphoses cinema to new levels of poignancy and pristineness. The cinematography is breathtakingly picturesque and it evokes a sense of melancholy that makes the majestic Siberian wilderness appear hypnotic and at times, surreal. The panoramic shot of Dersu and Arseniev looking at the horizon caparisoned with the juxtaposition of the setting sun and the rising moon is also indicative of their respective lives Dersu is long past his prime and there is no hope for revival, but Arsieniev's is still in his prime and has a promising career ahead. Dersu Uzala is strongly suggestive of the sole consistency in human life change. It also demonstrates the might of nature as an unforgiving force, strong enough to humble even the most savage of the creatures. Dersu Uzala can also be termed as an allegorical account of the environmental imbalance that unrestrained human intervention is causing. Dersu Uzala, besides being one of Kurosawa's greatest masterpieces is one of those rare cinematic gems which can be relished again and again, each time with a completely different perspective. It's a must watch for everyone who loves and understands cinema. 10/10For more on cinema visit http//www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/ "}{"Title":"A hauntingly beautiful film set in the wilderness of eastern Siberia","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  On the face of it, Dersu Uzala would not seem like a candidate for a great film. The story is about a young Russian (Imperial Russia) officer is sent to the far east of Siberia to explore. He meets with a native of the region and they form a bond together. The territory in question is the wild, rugged eastern Siberia (north of Valdivostok). I would say that you have not lived until you have seen what Kurosawa can do filming nature in its raw splendor and magnificence. The scenes in this film like the wind rushing through the tall reeds, or the mist draping the forested hills, are images of haunting beauty.Kurosawa, one of the greatest film directors of the 20th century, made his final masterpiece with film. The characters are well drawn, the sub-text of the story (the clash of civilization vs. nature) is nuanced, but most of all it is the wild beauty of nature which is the focus of this film. Once you see it, I don't think you will forget it, I know I never have.  "},{"Title":"Possibly the best movie I have seen.","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Dersu Uzala is without a doubt one of the best films I have seen.  It is a film that haunts me still.  It is a story of a lone hunter that befriends some explorers and guides them through the wilderness of Siberia.The cinematography is spectacular (Kurosawa--need I say more?) and the story is so well told.  The story is both obvious and subtle at the same time. The old man guides them and they survive.  Also the old man represents the ways of the hills--even represents the hills and wilderness itself--and we see how he fails to fit in with civilization and progress.  It is a story of great triumph and great sorrow.  It it does not move you, then you are truly dead inside. "},{"Title":"thank you, Akira","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" i have watched thousands of films and some are truly magnificent. this is the best film i have ever seen. i would have said that back in 1975 if IMDb had been around then. and no, i wasn't around during Tesla's time. this is a story of a man who didn't care if his good deeds were ever known, a man one with our mother earth. he was a simple, gifted, altruistic, spiritual man with grace and magnificence, and a human being that we can all aspire to be. this is an unforgettable film that all film buffs can try to see. the cinematography, art direction, acting, theme, score, screen play and direction are superlative and beyond description. Dersu is a man that any creator can be proud of. if we are space dust, then he is the shining star. thank you Mr Kurosawa. you are missed. "},{"Title":"One of the best films i ever seen","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This one is an incredible film from Kurosawa. Filmed in natural scenarios with natural light, brings you a very special set of feelings i have never seen in other films. It transports you to the middle of the forests, the mountains and the rivers of the Siberia, a place close to the border between Russia, China and Korea in the 19th century. A team of Russian army explorers leaded by Capitain Arseniev, met with Dersu, a native hunter. The decide to continue their path together. The film shows the everyday experiences and how a real friendship born. I feel very fortunate because i first saw this movie on a theater and then i bought it on DVD. Is that kind of movies that once seen stay with you forever. If you have the chance of watching it on a theater don't miss it.David "},{"Title":"Haunting Work Of Art.","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Think of Kurosawa, and, most likely, you will think first of his Samurai epics. However, his genius stands apart from any particular genre, and this film is a stunning case in point.Faced with such unpromising material as a story about the friendship between a Russian army officer and an aging hunter, set in Siberia in the early 1900's, most film-makers would run screaming for cover. Kurosawa revels in the story, and creates a true cinematic masterpiece.While the heart of the film is the human relationship between the Capitan and Dersu, the main star of the film is the Siberian wilderness itself. Rarely can such loving care have been lavished on ensuring that the natural beauty of a location comes through onto the celluloid. Some of the scenes have to be seen to be believed the group round the campfire with the river in the background and the wind whipping up; the sequence where the captain and Dersu have to cut reeds to make a shelter as night falls and a storm approaches; the night-time scene (I kid you not!) of the group dragging a sledge across an icy waste.The simple story of exploration, man versus nature, and the evolution of a true friendship is both thought-provoking and deeply touching. The tiny Maksim Munzuk is superb as the title character and Yuri Solomin is a study of restraint in the role of Captain Vladimir Arseniev (upon whose actual journals the story is based).This is one of those rare films that you can watch twice back-to-back, or at any time to restore your belief that, in addition to being a means of mass entertainment, movies really can be an art form as well.  "},{"Title":"Sheer beauty","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Kurosawa's co-Russian production film 'Dersu Uzala', a tale about a bonding friendship between a Goldi Siberian hunter and a Russian surveyor, is filled with classic touches of cinematic beauty, great character development, and sometimes edge of the seat survival.This has to be one of the most beautiful looking films put to screen that I have ever seen.  The landscape is filled with the change of the seasons of great autumn colours, lakes that mirror great reflections, smoke over fire in a blue hue, to winter desolate landscapes and sheering sun that sets on the fateful band of men who dare to pass through the dangerous terrain.Throw in a great bond of characters and a lesson about a time when humanity was more in touch with nature instead of trying to dominate it, a classic Kurosawa ending, and you have cinematic gold.  A film not to be missed on the big screen.Rating 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Perfect Story","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Even though in many of the other writeups, there is said that it is a sad tale and not real easy to watch. I don't think so. It is my belief that the story of Dersu had to end as it did. The alternative the broken down old Chinaman at the beginning of the story. How far do you think he got walking out of Siberia in the winter? I belive the Chinaman knew exactly what was going to happen. And, as so often in the character of Dersu Uzala you find that he thought of others instead of himself. I believe that the Chinaman surrendered his home to otheres because he knew his time was at an end, anyway. He could no longer support himself in the woods.That character trait is what made Dersu so appealing to us and to his Captain. Dursu was completely in tune with his humanity even though most people would look at him in Russian society as a barbarian. He always knew what to do and what was best in the woods. Which is actually a great deal like what the rest of the world really is, and what is best for the whole world. However, modern society, as we all know, will not embrace Dersu's beliefs. We will not give even though we have no use for the item, Dersu did. And, Dersu gave often when he could have used the item, remember the leaving of food in the shelter for others who might be in need.SLIGHT SPOILER The death of Dersu Usala was somehow correct. It is well that it happened as soon as it did as he went to converse with the Chinaman. Dersu didn't have to suffer. Dersu could no longer survive in the woods. Modern society had no place for him as he could not support its behavior. Dersu was honest about life, about himself, and saw things absolutely clearly. It is sorta sad that a gift caused his demise but as I said above, he possibly gave him a more humane death that the slow starvation he was facing.  The only real sadness is that his grave was lost to someone who truly loved him.  It is an absolutely beautiful story that is true to its characters. It is really sad that Hollywood cannot bring out stories about the goodness in humanity rather than how to kill each other with as much flashy aplomb as possible.  As near a perfect film as I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"A great film from one of the all-time masters","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This 1975 joint Japanese-Russian film is a celebration of simple virtues, friendship, loyalty, love, and respect for nature. Based on the journals of the Tsarist explorer and surveyor, Captain Vladimir Arseniev, it is the story of the relationship between Captain Arseniev and an Asiatic hunter of the Goldi tribe named Dersu Uzala. With a love and understanding of the forest that is extraordinary, Dersu guides the Captain through several deadly encounters. He saves the Captain's life by building a shelter out of reeds during a ferocious wind storm. Maksim's performance as Dersu, the ancient woodsman, is very Yoda-like wonderous, dignified, and very natural. The friendship between the two main characters grows over many years and several expeditions in the wild. Their relationship is beautifully developed and moves to an inevitable climax when Dersu and the Captain move back to the Captain's home in the city.There is in this film a sense of the beauty, tranquility, and timelessness of nature. It takes place at a time in the early part of the last century when people had closer ties with nature and felt a kinship with animals, plants, and the elements. Dersu endearingly refers to all elements of nature including the river, the wind, the trees, and the animals as men. As the English writer, Hugh Trevor-Roper said of Shakespeare so it is true of Dersu, He sees mankind almost as part of nature, sometimes basking in a delightful, smiling Nature; sometimes caught up in a fierce, cruel, inexorable, insatiable Nature.I was totally absorbed in this film and in its regard for the essential goodness of man and the beauty of the natural world. Dersu Uzala is a great film from one of the all-time masters.  "},{"Title":"A Man with a Beautiful Soul","Date":"5 December 2009","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" In 1902, a Russian army expedition is assigned to explore Siberia under the command of Captain Vladimir Arseniev (Yuri Solomin). He befriends the Goldi (Nanai) hunter Dersu Uzala (Maksim Munzuk) and invites him to guide the explorers through the stark forest up to Khanka Lake. Along their journey, Arseniev discovers that Dersu Uzala is a man with a beautiful soul and they become close friends. When his assignment ends, Dersu Uzala says goodbye to Arseniev. In 1907, Captain Arseniev is assigned for another expedition to the Ussuri River; when he meets Dersu Uzala in the forest, the lonely hunter joins his team and guides the group. However, he is older and has problems with his vision and Captain Arseniev invites Dersu Uzala to live with his family in Khabarovsk City. But the old man does not adapt to the urban lifestyle and decides to return to the forest. In 1910, Captain Arseniev is called to Korfovskaïa to identify the body of a man that has his calling card and might be Dersu Uzala.Derzu Uzala is a simple and unforgettable tale of friendship between a Russian Captain and a lonely hunter with a beautiful soul. This wonderful movie has one of the most beautiful cinematographies I have ever seen and the camera work is impressive, with awesome angle and locations that seems to be of pictures in movement. I had watched most of Akira Kurosawa movies and I do not know how I could forget to see this magnificent must-see movie of his amazing cinematography. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Dersu Uzala "},{"Title":"10 not because it is perfect...","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" When the movie ends and your breath still can't calm down and you want to share what you've just seen with the closest ones... it deserves 10.Definitely not the perfect action/adventure. But I don't suppose it was meant to be such.People, he repeated all the time - people were everywhere. People were the soldiers, people were the trees, the fire, the wind, the beasts in the wood...It amazed me enormously the idea of a man so well living with the nature (not in), so respecting it that it has been turned into a part of him.A great example of how surviving does not make you necessarily mean and angry man. ...But a truly loving one. "}{"Title":"Kurosawa looks deep into the soul of man","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Like Nora Inu (Stray Dog), High and Low, and Ikiru, Akira Kurosawa looks deep into the soul of man in Dersu Uzala.  This movie, however, has another plus The scenery, filmed in Siberia.  Outstanding film!Despite the cast of actors unknown to westerners, this film is very much a Kurosawa vehicle, with its deep looks into the hearts of both Uzala and the Captain in their original meeting, and years later.This ranks as one of my favorite Kurosawa films.  It's at least as good as Do Des Ka Den and some of the others that portray the inner workings of men in conflict with their world. "},{"Title":"Human nature","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Kurosawa is one of the great story tellers of all time. If he had been living a thousand years ago he would have been the one that created fables and legends. There is often a moral in his work and there is always a portrait of humanity. In Dersu this is more naked than ever as it focuses on just two people, the Captain, a Russian military surveyor and a clever old hunter called Dersu Uzala. They are set against a backdrop of the harsh, but stunning Siberian landscape. This is where we get to see the beauty of Kurosawa's direction with his amazing ability to paint skies with his camera and make you feel the cold wind blowing across the land. Dersu and his Captain quietly wander the forests charting the land. The unspoken communication between them and the feeling of immense respect that grows is warming.  A truly magical story. "},{"Title":"Pure Genius","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Before today I never heard of this film, and I only watched it because I was required to for a college course. In fact while watching the movie I found it rather boring. It was only by the end of the movie and through analyzing the film that I have come to discover its pure genius. This movie is a work of Art. The landscapes are amazing and the interaction between the captain and Uzala are in creditable. Add on top of that an amazing underlying story and an ending that unfortunately, correctly sums up the movie perfectly. In today's society there is no place for someone of Uzala's character.Pure Genius     "},{"Title":"The best film of Akira","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  When I feel lost I know that the only that I have to do is put The Dersu's cassette in my video and wait two hours. After this story I feel in a different way my stupid loneliness, I become a man in a big space. "},{"Title":"The ice flakes, the withered leaves, the lush green river banks and forests, and a friend to remember- from the diary of the Russian Captain","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Winner, Best Foreign Language Film, 1976.Kurosawa's best film in color. It is one of the most beautiful movies ever made. Kurosawa takes you to the colorful and picturesque forests of Siberia; a treat to sore eyes.Dersu, a hunter in the forest, is a true son of the forest. He converses with all the life forms and treats them as fellow men with respect and fear. The soldiers ridicule his old-fashioned behavior but the captain sees him more than his customs- as a professional hunter and a guide. Dersu leads the troop into the Siberian forests, leaves them spellbound with his perfect aiming of the gun and his ever-alert ears that would sense even the faintest of the sounds. Dersu saves the life of the captain when they get lost and are caught in a fierce storm and the design of the cave-like-structure that saved captain's life further increases the admiration the captain has towards Dersu.Years later, the captain leads another troop on an exploration into the forest and the soldiers happen to meet Dersu. Dersu becomes a senile, crotchety codger and his sharp eyesight diminishes. He is persuaded by the captain to rest at his place in the town but he feels he doesn't fit among the fast-moving and weird world where people pay for water. He is later found dead after being killed by a thief who stole the gun gifted by the captain and the captain performs the obsequies in respect for their friendship. "},{"Title":"The only movie that moved me from inside","Date":"25 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I have liked the work of kurosawa and satyajit ray. Satyajit rays movies are most moving but now that i have seen dersu uzala. I would say It is the only movie that has ever brought down a smile and a tear in my eye. I am myself a filmmaker of course very small one but i have never been moved so many times in a single movie.To put in short this is the cinematic masterpiece a perfect example of how a simple story can be told in a way you cannot imagine. The cast of this film is perfect the acting better and the direction and screenplay are the best that has ever been. If you are a avid movie goer see this film, its not those boring art movies, or movies you think are experimental. Watch this if you too claim that you been never moved by a story. "},{"Title":"An indescribably-beautiful portrait of friendship, survival and progress in the wilderness","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The Sikhote-Alin region of Siberia &#150; cold, bleak and unforgiving &#150; stretches towards the horizon, an endless haze of snowy rocks and stunted forests. There is seemingly little happiness to be found in the icy, windswept plains of the wilderness, where overexposure has claimed the lives of hundreds of under-prepared explorers, and where the nearest human being might not wander within one hundred miles of your present location. Russian explorer Vladimir Arsenyev made several journeys into the area in the early years of the twentieth century, charged with performing a topographical survey of the vast region's many mountains, valleys, rivers and lakes. Arsenyev released countless memoirs detailing his explorations, but his most well-known work is Dersu Uzala (Dersu the Trapper), published in 1923, which details his three expeditions into the Ussurian taiga of Northern Asia, particularly his interactions with a Nanai/Goldi native guide named Dersu Uzala, who has acquired incredible knowledge, instincts and observation skills through his lifetime of living as a lone nomad in the harsh frontier wilderness.If I ever had any doubts that Akira Kurosawa was my kind of film director, then I may now consider them groundless. After two solid but flawed efforts in 'Stray Dog (1949)' and 'Rashomon (1950),' I have finally uncovered my first genuine masterpiece from the famed Japanese director, an awesome 70mm epic that emphasises the harshness of the Siberian wilderness, the detrimental consequences of human progress, and the ever-important bond of male friendship. 'Dersu Uzala (1975)' uncovers indescribable beauty in the sheer malevolence of the isolated forest region, where the sunlight, glinting off the fractured layers of snow and ice, offers only mild relief from the bitter winter cold, and where men cluster eagerly around a roaring campfire to absorb the glowing heat from its flames. In the maddening seclusion of the forest, it is only through teamwork and friendship that travellers can hope to survive the elements, and, in lonely hunter Dersu Uzala, Arsenyev discovers a genuine friend, whose intelligence, awareness and compassion can only be admired with the utmost reverence.Akira Kurosawa, working with cinematographers Fyodor Dobronravov, Yuri Gantman and Asakazu Nakai, has committed to celluloid some of the most strikingly-gorgeous images since David Lean's 'Lawrence of Arabia (1962).' The wilderness of Siberia is, at first glance, exceedingly mundane and unremarkable, but, out of the sheer isolation and purity of the landscape, Kurosawa uncovers a noble beauty about the trees, rocks, waters and, indeed, the people who survive there. The film's most breathtaking shot shows Arsenyev and Dersu perched before a pristine sunset, the pair perfectly-framed between the blazing red Sun and the ascending Moon. Out of a bitter windstorm on the frozen expanses of a lake, Kurosawa crafts an intense episode of nail-biting suspense, as the two frantically attempt to gather grass for the purposes of constructing a crude but vital sleeping shelter, their only opportunity to avoid freezing to death in the relentless cold of the Siberian night. Recognising the inherent beauty in the landscape he was photographing, Kurosawa often makes excellent use of long takes, allowing the viewer to simply sit back and absorb the majesty of the wilderness with which he has been surrounded.Another important theme in 'Dersu Uzala' is the cultural and environmental toll of progress. It was only during the early years of the 1900s that the Sikhote-Alin region of Siberia began to abandon its old-time traditions and lifestyles in order to catch up with the more advanced civilisations that surrounded it. Dersu, who has lived alone in the forest for much of his life, proves a final victim of society's progress, a tragic symbol of a culture that has been irretrievably lost in the past. With his dwindling eyesight, and an escalating superstitious paranoia of the forest caused by his senseless murder of a tiger, Dersu finds that he can no longer provide for himself, and so accompanies Arsenyev back to his home in the city. His spirit crushed and broken, Dersu spends his days staring soullessly into the burning fireplace, consumed by memories of his lifetime in the free and peaceful isolation of the forest. He eventually resolves to return to the wilderness, but is shortly murdered for his expensive rifle; the lone hunter has now been completely destroyed by the unstoppable march of progress, which brings along both its benefits and its unavoidable evils. "},{"Title":"Nature vs Culture","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This excellent film by Kurosawa is truly inspiring to me. It is beyound human feelings in the sense that it is about a clash of nature and culture, represented by Dersu, and culture, represented by the Russian officer. As I was seeing the movie, I got really carried by the actor's performance, both Maksim and Yuri Solomin, in the forest (nature) and the city (culture), the two major sets in the film.... I'm sorry if this opinion sounds a little simplistic and reducionist, but well, it's my point of view. Anyway, I think that if George Lucas really was inspired by Kurosawa's masterpiece, it is perfect, because the Star wars story is one of my favourites ever! The similarities are well noticed in Yoda, who looks a lot like Dersu; again, there is nothing wrong if one person got inspiration from Dersu Uzala.... "},{"Title":"Russia meets the far east","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Akira Kurosawa's breathtaking Dersu Uzala looks at a meeting of cultures in pre-revolutionary Russia, as a captain in the czar's army befriends a hunter in Russia's far east. Even as Dersu helps the platoon negotiate the forest and tundra, it is clear that his way of life is dying out as the Russian Empire expands and swallows the indigenous peoples of northeast Asia.The movie has some of the most amazing cinematography. I wouldn't expect a Kurosawa movie to be anything except great, but this movie has to be seen to be believed. There is no description that I can give that will do Dersu Uzala justice. It is one of the movies that you must see before you die. "},{"Title":"please release a BluRay version for this world-class treasure","Date":"23 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is one world-class piece of work desperately in the waiting line for a BluRay revamp, watched this Kurosawa's Soviet Union film in DVD format, the quality is discouraging, but the film speaks for itself in shedding bells and whistles and homing in on a camaraderie between a Soviet military explorer and a seasoned local hunter among the bleak Ussuri inhospitable region. Storyline-aside, it is another Kurosawa's awesome visual spectacle, a tremendous field shooting endeavor, epitomizes by the sun-moon co-existence with solemn placidness, furthermore, it is a hymn to mother nature, Dersu personifies as the harmonious co-habitant of the mighty wilderness, a sublime soul with well-versed survival skills, on the contrary to my recent watched documentary TOUCHING THE VOID (2003, 8/10), DERSU UZALA owns a purer and more admirable prospect, instead of conquering the insurmountable to chase a spur of glory and invincibility, it is far more intrepid and unpretentious to be a part of it with reverence and be respectful to its law and act, in addition to its indefatigable undertone against industrialized modernism (it is the brand-new rifle, a token of friendship, actually wreaks the somber demise of Dersu). Strictly speaking, there is merely two characters in the film, Dersu (Munzuk) and the Russian Captain (Solomin), a bond is tenably formed through their expedition in the wild, from lush jungle to walking-on-the-thin-ice frozen river, the life-saving bravado during a squalling night when they lost their track on a snow land or a torrent peril, Kurosawa molds a great range of topography with taut excitement where it is required. The character study of Dersu also is been executed through the observation and the interaction from Captain (viewers' proxy), who is enthralled by Dersu's simple yet ethereal nature, a rare bird may or may not be extinct now. The dual-acting from Munzuk and Solomin is the fruit of naturalistic emancipation and unassuming engagement. Also a memorable presence is Isaak Shvarts's accompanying score segues from lithe to menacing, eerie to sonorous, with Russian folklore and shanty as well.Being a Chinese, I cannot avoid mentioning the sensitive timing (after China and Japan's rapprochement in 1972 and China and Soviet Union's dispute in 1969) of the film-making, which prompted an accusation from Chinese government concerns a so-called political libel on Chinese people, mainly by vilifying Hunhutsi (which literally means red beard in Mandarin) as the villain and the nature-balance defier. But honestly, this episode is largely overstated since there is no direct confrontation at all in the film, at least for my compatriots, don't let this smokescreen blinds your eyes, DERSU UZALA is a spirited ethnological oeuvre could inspire whoever has a chance to watch it, preferably on a big screen or at least a BluRay edition. "}{"Title":"A beautiful and Simple Film","Date":"7 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Dersu Uzala takes the best bits from, say, Andrei Tarvosky - the languishing and poetical visuals but omits his often gregarious and incomprehensible plots, to leave a fine mixture of storytelling, character building and epic scale. The cinematography is often breathtaking.In two parts, the two and three quarter hour film, introduces us to an almost Siberian Indian, the sort we might have seen in westerns from the '50s. Dersu Uzala is a simple trapper in his 70's, living from hand to mouth in the wastelands of Siberia. Lush in summer, bleak and raw (and arctic) in winter he relies totally on his instinct and experience. He has also escaped from a previous 'life'. In the 19th century, a group of Russian army surveyors are mapping the area and become out of their depth in the relative wilderness. They stumble upon Dersu and they soon form an unbreakable bond and through a series of survival adventures and near death skirmishes with the inclement weather and nature itself the film moves with dignity and statesmanship. What will happen to the ageing Dersu? Can this wild man ever be tamed? These are all the questions that this Oscar winning fable addresses - and more. Kurosawa's own life mirrored Dersu's alienation and for those of more used to the director's ruggedly brilliant black & white masterpieces made thirty odd years prior, will find this refreshing - and moving. This is one film that can be enjoyed by all. Take it in one, or two sittings and let the warmth, frailty - and harshness - of one man and his surroundings wash over you. "},{"Title":"Arseniev as a narrator","Date":"9 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" One important issue was yet not touched in previous reviews - it's the Vladimir Arseniev books, that became Kurosawa's Dersu Uzala story. Not just memoirs or journal, but books that were written by Vladimir Arseniev based on his experience as an explorer of Sikchote Alin. These books were and still remain popular and well known in Russia. The books are based on memoirs and journals of Arseniev, but he made a good work to create a literature of them. And this he did exactly by focusing on friendship between him and Dersu (which indeed took place), and on unique character of the latter. And a great part of the books is a beautiful depiction of nature. The film Dersu Usala follows these initial focuses and ideas to make perfect visualization.So, please also pay some tribute to the soul and talent of Vladimir Arseniev, whose work is a masterpiece in itself, even if there were no any films based on it.There is a wiki page about this writer and some of his books were translated and can be found by non-Russian-speaking readers. "},{"Title":"Russian-Asian character study set in turn-of-century Siberia","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Dersu Uzala is an interesting look at how two men (one a Russian military officer working for the geological survey, the other an Asiatic gold-hunter/guide) of different cultures change while living through trying experiences.  Commendable development of both the Captain and Dersu.  Great cinematography of a bleak area.  If you like it, keep an eye out for other Kurosawa films! "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a beautiful film by Akira Kurosawa starring Yuri Solomin (as Russian captain Vladimir Arseniev) and Maksim Munzuk (as Dersu Uzala).I see the name Vladimir Arseniev in writing credits. Has Kurosawa read his journals and then made the film out of them? Maybe this story has actually happened.Brilliant camera work throughout the movie. A lot of nature, wonderful nature in Russia, great characters and acting, especially Dersu. He was portrayed brilliantly I reckon.*MASSIVE SPOILER WARNING* Without mentioning too much of the film, it's interesting to see what Derzu experiences when entering the city. There is a huge clash between nature and civilization, which he can't take. I find it incredibly ironic that the only reason he was killed in the end was that he received a brand new rifle, from the man he had saved so many times before! The Captain only wanted well but it turned out to be so devastating for the old man. Ironic, I really do think. *END OF SPOILER*Anyway, this is a brilliant film which I can recommend to everyone who wants a great story of love, friendship and brilliant shots of nature in all seasons. "},{"Title":"An understated masterpiece of cross-cultural interaction","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Dersu Uzala has remained my favorite movie from the time I first saw it.  I don't think the movie has a single weakness, from plot to visualization, to acting to social relevance.Although Kurosawa is one of my favorite directors, this film is like nothing else he has done.  It is the simple story of a Russian military surveying party around the turn of the century that has the task of surviving far eastern Siberia.  Early in the course of the survey they meet Dersu, an ethnic Goldi who hunts in the forests for a living.  The friendship that develops between the head of the party, Arseniev, and the Goldi is one of the most beautiful stories of cross-cultural interaction I have ever seen.After seeing the film, I was very impressed with the story line, but I was thinking that he had been perhaps a bit overdramatic in his script, including more dangerous incidents than he needed to, and it might seem melodramatic to some people.  Some years later while browsing in the library, I came across a book by Arseniev called Dersu, and sure enough it was the real life story that Kurosawa had based his script on.  What was most surprising was that Kurosawa had actually understated the dangers faced by Arseniev and his surveying party in that there were several incidents that he had left out.I suspect that there are no Goldis like Dersu remaining in the far eastern forests of Siberia today, that they have been long since overrun by the superior cultures of the Russians and Chinese.  But this movie remains a powerful testimonial to what will be lost as we continue to try to assimilate the remaining ethnic minorities with little regard to the special gifts they can offer. "},{"Title":"A precious, ennobling experience...","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film depicts the breathtaking beauty of the soul as adeptly as that of nature.  The story reminded me how profoundly any one person can effect another, even without realizing it an important reminder in the midst of the information age, which seems to be desensitizing people to our relationships with nature and with our fellow man.How ironic, that the vast, forbidding landscapes of Siberia host the birth of a true friendship, while the warm confines of the  city stifle the passion for life!  I don't believe Kurosawa is denouncing modern times entirely; I believe he's reminding us that true sophistication comes from the depths of the soul, not of the pocketbook.While similar in theme to Being There, Forrest Gump, or The Rain Man, Dersu Uzala is superior, because unlike the subjects of those films, the central character here is merely not well-educated, as opposed to mentally deficient.  Kurosawa must have been too lofty a soul, to suggest spiritual simplicity is a result of a defect.Dersu Uzala is a celebration of love and innocence everyone should see. "},{"Title":"There Is No `Try;' Only `Do'","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Kurosawa's genius was in envisioning a story in visual terms, then translating that through masterful framing, and direction of actors. Along the way, he became an absolute master of editing -- editing each day's shoot that night. And he invented a vocabulary of multiplanar storytelling with often three planes of action flattened by his telephoto lens.Then, success crept in, and his studio forced him to make more and more samurai pictures with plots not conceived in his mind. These are still wonderfully photographed, but you can see that the narrative itself wasn't fertilized in his visual imagination. That integration of visual narrative and the various production skills was broken, most clearly with `Red Beard,' and the realization led to collapse, a suicide attempt, and a long, long crawl back to `Ran,' possibly the most narratively integrated film in existence.Along the way, he went through a new apprenticeship and this film is one of the tests he endured. It has one of the Kurosawa master touches it has an abstract, intelligent, sometimes beautiful camera. But it lacks nearly all of the other elements that add to the hypnotizing mastery of his earlier, integrated efforts--he had no control over the story, which is quite second-rate and ordinarily conceived (meaning it is literary like Tolstoy and not visual like Tarkovsky)--he could not edit at night because of the cumbersomeness of the 70mm process and the insistence on using remote, Soviet processing labs--he had to work in a language that is not only different, it is profoundly so Japanese phrases have a staccato rhythm that builds with an emphasis on the end. This is something Kurosawa uses to project to the next scene, or cut within the scene. Russian is a matter of lingual brushes that peak in midphrase and tail off. Each phrase has its own arc, its own closure that one cannot use to sew continuity between utterances. (There is the whole matter of noh gestures as well, but the structure of phrase is more basic and leverageable.) --he was forced to live in an `open' environment.This last is the primary test of this film (which incidentally bears fruit in `Ran'). Hitherto, all of his visual compositions were a matter of manipulating physical constraints to `contain' the frame. He would use buildings to frame village scenes and valley tree and rock elements to frame wilderness (the best of which are `Hidden Fortress'). `High and Low' is an exercise in inside/outside constraints, but always constraints. Here he is faced with an openness, where the openness is the unescapable soul of the environment. How to frame and focus when all his framing and compositional tools are unavailable? You shoot from the inside out, rather than the outside in as is traditional in all Japanese art.Lots of this film is unsure experiments in managing this new visual cosmology. The running along the bank of the rapids and the waking up in the emergency grass yurt were irresistably with the old eye for instance. But the lost wandering on the lake bed is an example of him struggling for a coherent frame. There is not a tree, nothing at all. So see how he uses nothing as a constraint, and he shifts that nothing of the open air to the surrounding grass sometimes when they frantically cut it. Framing with open space. See how he plays with this space constraining the fabric constraining the men in the opening of `Ran.'Its a painful journey, this film, not a joy, often tearful for us as we participate.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"A pearl in (my brain's memory)box ...","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I term it as a 'masterpiece' ! Being a Nature adorant, the blissful AND intimidating aspects of the Nature were a treat for me. Sadly, there aren't many(any?) movies that focus on the mankind's ambitious projects like surveying but this movie has an adequate depiction of the perils faced by the surveyors. Dersu's skills alarmed the timid person inside me who has been afraid for years regarding the lack of survival skills if sent out away from the civilization ! The movie impeccably underlines the timeless truth - the one staying close and integrated with Nature, knows how the Life on the planet should be respected !!! The plot is strong, the actors have done their parts flawlessly and the cinematography is majestic. Dersu's instincts, the naive but warm-hearted and cheerful soldiers, the sober and emotional captain Arsenyev, the Chinese hermit all touch the Heart. At the beginning of the first expedition, the soldiers sing a song, then Dersu arrives and at the end of the expedition, they sing the same song and that is when the viewer realizes that it, in a way, depicts the hunter Dersu. When the captain is merry on meeting Dersu during the second expedition, the fellow soldiers sing a song about a grey(aging!) eagle which is a pleasant humor. Maxim Munzuk has portrayed all the simple, yet, deep emotions of a benevolent man living in the wilderness - the pangs of his family loss, the respect for Nature and other living beings, the shock and grief of loss of strength due to aging, a man from the wild feeling smothered in the civilization and the brave decision to go back to the wild even if it means death.Yes, one cannot ignore the perpetual dark mood of the film, I speculate it as a result of Kurosawa's melancholic and unstable mental state just before he begun directing the film. To summarize, the movie will go as a pearl in (my brain's memory)box ... "},{"Title":"A sweet oddball in Kurosawa's catalog","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Akira Kurosawa's Dersu Uzala, winner of the 1975 Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film, is as heartwarming as a cartoon from Disney's golden era, but only the title character can understand the talking trees and animals.Filmed in Russian in the Soviet Union, Dersu Uzala has the distinction of being the only film Kurosawa made outside Japan. Released in 1975, it was made at a time when the Japanese film industry was beginning to discover that children's movies were cheaper and easier to produce, thanks to the low-cost of animation and a less discerning audience ensuring a reasonable return on the studios' investment. The studios, concerned only with profit and not the artistic merit of films, could no longer justify the bloated costs of Kurosawa's epics. This signaled the beginning of the end for the Tokyo film industry, which once rivaled Hollywood and Paris in terms of innovation and quality, and eventually changed the Japanese aesthetic to kawaii (cutesy). Kurosawa would later depend upon foreign patrons to finance his films, such as George Lucas, Francis Ford Coppola and Steven Spielberg. And in the case of Dersu Uzala, the Soviet Union.The film is based on the 1923 travelogue, Dersu the Trapper by V.K. Arseniev, which explains why it doesn't follow a conventional story line. The story is basically broken into three parts. The first part is an account of Arseniev's exploration of the Ussuri basin in the Russian Far East. He and his men encounter a Nanai trapper named Dersu Uzala, and commission him to be their guide. At first Dersu is like a magical woodland spirit. Speaking awkward Russian, his world-view is considered quaint to the Soviets, but engenders him with a brand of common sense he needs to survive in the wilderness. Dersu saves Arseniev's life several times.The second part of the story picks up a few years later when Arseniev is making another survey of the Ussuri basin. He runs into Dersu again by chance, and again hires him to be his guide. Dersu is growing older now, and is becoming too senile to survive on his own in the wilderness. Here he relies on Arseniev to save him. Where Dersu came off as the stereotypical noble savage in the first part, he now seems more fallible and human.The third and final part is a fish-out-of-water story, as Dersu, believing the wilderness has grown hostile to him, moves to the city to live with Arseniev's family.While something of an oddball in Kurosawa's catalog, the film still has the director's distinctive style. Kurosawa uses his characteristic long takes, in which he leaves the camera stationary and allows the acting to dictate where the viewers' eyes should look.Dersu Uzala is not just beautiful for its cinematography, but also for its touching human relationships. Arseniev and Dersu come from two different worlds, and they will never be able to fully understand each other. However, they find friendship in each other despite their differences.Unfortunately the U.S.S.R. allowed 20 minutes to be cut out of this 141- minute epic for the Italian release without consulting Kurosawa, which turned off the director from ever making a film outside Japan again.While certainly not Kurosawa's best film, this sweet, but unusual tale is worthy of the director's better-known classics. "},{"Title":"My favourite Kurosawa... End of the movie you'd want to be like Dersu!!","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie literally made me develop a bit of annoyance (to be polite) towards Hollywood movies. Every time I am set to watch a drama, there are few movies that come to my mind which set my expectation. But post this movie, this is the one that comes first to my mind. This has also helped me distinguish clearly between American culture and Asian culture (European here) and what to expect and what not to from Hollywood movies. Don't mean to write off Hollywood movies entirely. There are multiple masterpieces there and I continue to watch and re-watch many of them. However, very clearly, as Robert Altman once said while reviewing Rashomon, Hollywood probably portrays everything with the same causal and logical relationship but in an American setting with American characters portraying American culture, spoken language and body language. That really is the distinction which brings out, in all its glory, the Great American Arrogance (GAA).At the outset, great script, great cinematography, clinical direction, engrossing background score and performances by the actors that does justice to all the technicians' efforts.A bit of background about the movie - might not be new for Kurosawa fans. Kurosawa, after a series of failed movies from later 1960s to early 1970s, Kurosawa unsuccessfully attempted suicide. Thereafter Kurosawa set to work on a film based on a novel by a Russian explorer. Shot for more than a year under extremely harsh conditions, this movie won the Oscars in the foreign language film category apart from many other wins at various film festivals. This marked the re-entry of a master.The movie's beauty or its backbone is in the characterization. To verbally narrate this as a story to someone could be boring and futile as the impact lies in the characters and the screenplay. Extremely adorable characterization of the hunter. He would make you want to be like him or meet someone like him. He would make you think that such God-hearted souls exist only in the wilds away from the cynical and hypocrytic man-made parts of the world. In fact there is a similar line in the movie where the army men discuss that people like Dersu can be found only in the wilds. The character of the Captain is also extremely important as his thoughts and body-language impress upon the viewers Dersu's selflessness (viewers can see that the Captain literally admires him). Both these characters make the movie what it is.The movie is simply about what happens over a few days between a few Russian army men, their captain and a hunter in the Siberian forests. No real start nor finish. Nothing like a specific mission, specific event, specific incident, specific life story, etc. Yet it will totally have you in grips and you wouldn't want to get up before completely watching this movie and until you've seen what happens to the sweet characters in the movie and the relationship between them.At the risk of sounding tangential and biased / prejudiced I must compare, at a very high level, 2 Hollywood movies that quickly come to my mind with Dersu Uzala. Shawshank Redemption and Bucket List. Granted that both have a completely different theme and talk about something different. Yet there is a very striking similarly and a commonality. Both of them are about friendship between 2 adult men and mature. While I don't have much to talk about the portrayal of relationships in the 2 movies as that is purely driven by what the movies called for, I would merely compare the characterization which is what I came to realize as the GAA. While the character of Morgan Freeman in both movies is almost comparable (in terms of his personality and composure) to that of Yuri Solomin (who plays the Captain in this movie), the real difference is seen in the characterization of Jack Nicholson and Tim Robbins in Bucket List and Shawshank Redemption respectively. Both exude a bit to extreme levels of arrogance. And this difference is also seen in the characterization of support roles. This characterization, if not the comparison, is very important as that is really the highlight of this movie for which you'll fall in love with it.This movie reinforces Kurosawa's view of humanity and how he sees the world today. This is one of the movies that can have a lasting impact on one's personality (it did on mine). Fans of pure drama movies MUST watch this. 10/10. "}{"Title":"An epic tale of small things","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" DERSU UZALA just blew me away. Set prior to the Russian revolution it tells a deceptively simple story of a small band of Russian soldiers on a challenging mission to survey a Siberian wilderness that's forbidding in summer and absolutely treacherous in winter.Fortunately for them, along the way they encounter Derzu Uzala, a little man who lives his life alone, at one with the forest and its creatures, and who agrees to serve as guide for the expedition. He's at one with his surroundings; he refers to animals and plants and stones and everything else in his world as men; he's short; he's initially perceived to be a fool but it turns out he's incredibly strong and capable and wise; he can handle a weapon more skillfully than any of the soldiers -- it's almost as though the Force is with him. Yes, I realized when I heard (read) his mangled syntax that Artoo and Threepio clearly weren't the only characters George Lucas lifted from an Akira Kurosawa movie.But that's a side issue. This film is gorgeous and gripping I was hooked from the opening scene and I hung onto every small thing that happened from then on. And really, in this film only small things happen, but they add up to an epic tale of nature and the ultimate wonder and tragedy of life itself. And it's all set against the backdrop of breathtaking Siberia.My only regret about seeing this wonderfully photographed film is that I didn't see it on a huge screen in a proper movie theater. The Kino DVD transfer just made me sad. There sat the movie on my widescreen TV like a pitiful postage stamp surrounded by an ocean of black border. Sure, I could enlarge the picture to fit side to side, but then the subtitles were chopped off at the bottom. I think Kino could have done better and I hope Criterion will someday give this film the loving care it deserves. "},{"Title":"Beautifully composed and brimming with emotion","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" For a filmmaker so often credited for his bold action scenes and epic storytelling, it is always somewhat disarming to see a picture like Dersu Uzala (1975), a film that sees Akira Kurosawa dispose of his trademark samurais and sweeping battle sequences and concentrate on a more humanitarian story. The film focuses on the strong friendship that grows between a Russian soldier and a mysterious Goldi hunter in the forests of east Siberia. The Russian, Captain Vladimir Arseniev, enlists the strange and mysterious Dersu as a guide through the stark, dangerous and uncharted deserts and forests. As the two men trek even further into the unknown, an unspoken bond and deep mutual respect grows between them. When Vladimir finds out that Dersu has developed a serious problem with his eyesight, he invites him to stay with his family in the city.The film makes points on the clash between nature and industry, beginning with the destruction of a forest, as well as the more obvious ideas of loyalty and friendship. Both Yuri Solomin and Maksim Munzuk are great in their respective lead roles, displaying a warm and believable chemistry, even if the overwhelming beauty of Kurosawa's frame at times overshadows them. Dersu Uzala is a slow moving film that rewards, with the filmmaker clearly understanding the value of character and the importance of subtle detail. The second act detracts from the grace of the story by trying to say too much about the loss of nature within the growth of industry, but this is a minor flaw that does not ruin the overall effect. This is exemplary film-making worthy of classic status, interesting and enjoyable, and a good place to start for anyone interested in the work of Kurosawa. "},{"Title":"a different kind of beauty","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Dersu Uzala is a surprising movie for me. It is the 13th Kurosawa film that I have seen, and to me it is so different from the rest of his work that I might not have guessed who the director was if I had simply stumbled upon it at random. For one, it is a Soviet-Japanese joint production, and is spoken entirely in Russian, not Japanese. There is no Mifune or Nakadai at the helm, but rather some relatively unknown actors, although talented nonetheless). There are no samurai that Kurosawa became known for, neither is it a noir-esquire type of film like High and Low or Stray Dog. And yet, among all these differences, it is one of the most beautiful films that Kurosawa created in my opinion. And to me, it is a different kind of beauty. It is a raw, pure beauty. The stunning cinematography adds so much to the story. Nature is alive in this film, from the crackling flames to the cascading rivers to the shredding winds, Dersu even refers to all these natural aspects as men. This film is not driven by ambiguous symbolism or a complex plot, but by strong themes and tremendous character development. One must be rather cold to not be affected by some of the heartwarming scenes. I have seen some call this film too slow or too long, and while Kurosawa definitely does exhibit a lot of patience in his shots, none of it is wasted. The relationship between the two primary characters is so well developed that I could not help but be captivated throughout the whole story. This is truly one of Kurosawa's most overlooked, under appreciated works. Kurosawa succeeds in telling a very touching tale without making it sentimental, but rather filled with a beauty that deserves to be witnessed. "},{"Title":"DERSU UZALA (Akira Kurosawa, 1975) ***","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The 1970s was not a particularly happy decade for Akira Kurosawa, Japan's foremost film director. It started with his being taken off of helming the Japanese sequences for the ambitious U.S./Japan co-production of TORA! TORA! TORA! (1970), was followed by the critical and box-office disappointment of his first film to be shot in color &#150; DODES'KA-DEN (1970) &#150; and culminated in a horrible wrist-slashing suicide attempt which, thankfully, failed! All of this, however, ensured the consequent dissolution of a recently-formed partnership with other major Japanese film-makers &#150; namely Kon Ichikawa, Keinosuke Kinoshita and Masaki Kobayashi.It's not all that surprising, then, that Kurosawa wandered off to Russia for his next venture &#150; but it is doubly ironic that his sole work away from his home-ground and made during such a lean creative period would eventually win him the Best Foreign Language Film Academy Award! Among the other contenders for that honor were Dino Risi's SCENT OF A WOMAN and Andrzej Wajda's PROMISED LAND, but it was this slow-moving adventure &#150; redeemed by its stunning visual splendor (in spite of the color fluctuation in the battered Kino print I watched!) &#150; which emerged triumphant.Not top-flight Kurosawa, then, but generally compelling nevertheless and providing a good balance between his trademark humanism (although the majority of the Russians are tritely depicted as fun-loving and rather immature) and action (a scuffle with bandits, a river rescue, a tiger hunt). The best sequence in the entire film is a spectacular blizzard which bonds together trapper/guide Dersu Uzala (remarkably played by Maxim Munzuk) and the narrating Russian captain (Yuri Solomin).This clash of cultures, therefore, turns into a celebration of friendship with its succession of dramatic, poignant, even humorous vignettes. Dersu's incompatibility with modern civilization &#150; an oft-used device during this particular era in cinema &#150; brings to mind THE ENIGMA OF KASPAR HAUSER (1975) and THE ELEPHANT MAN (1980); curiously, all three films were inspired by real events (DERSU UZALA being based on his companion Vladimir Andreyev's memoirs, and which had been adapted for TV during the previous decade).By the way, knowing George Lucas' fondness for Kurosawa, the amiable and pint-sized titular character here &#150; who has an awkward way with words but displays infinite wisdom throughout &#150; may well have inspired the puppet Yoda from the Star Wars saga! Curiously enough, the film itself was distributed in the U.S. by none other than Roger Corman's New World company!! "},{"Title":"Struggle against nature","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" It's impossible to name the greatest movie Akira Kurosawa has directed, but it just might be this one.. But it also might be for example Ran or Ikiru, and I haven't mentioned Rashomon or Seven Samurai yet.Well there's still something special about Dersu, not only that it's made in USSR and it's filming took years, it has something unique powers. It still has it's Kurosawa elements. The scene where Dersu and Captain are struggling against the storm, is one of the most powerful.Dersu is a hunter, who lives in Siberia, and a Russian expedition meets him. A special bond is created between Captain and Dersu. They separate when the expedition's have to return home. Dersu couldn't live anywhere else than in the nature. But they meet again when Captain and his crew returns..In the beginning of the movie, you'll see what is going to happen eventually, but the story that is told is beautiful and touching. You'll return to watch this movie again sometime if you just manage to watch it once. "},{"Title":"i am human too, dersu.","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Dersu Uzala is probably one of the most inspirational movies of all times. Akira Kurosawa is such a great director even we, as urban yuppies, can feel deep inside this picture with full of nature. Dersu is the primitive but also kindness model of human being. He has lived all his life in the forests of Siberia and he was so happy there with his bear and lynx friends. The scene that consists of Dersu, captain, captain's wife and his son at the same time is the one of the most influential scenes i guess. In this scene, we see all these 4 characters. Captain's wife is sewing, captain is reading a book and son is playing piano. Dersu is sitting at the right side of the room and looking down to the fireplace. We can't see his face at that time but we are sure that how sad he is and maybe he will cry soon(of course we are crying) He stands up suddenly and tells the captain that he should turn back to forests. Dersu is half-blind at that time and we all know that turning back to the forest could kill him but in spite of this we want him to turn back. Why? Because we, as urban yuppies!, wanna be happy in this big city lights and we don't. We have nowhere to run and hide but Dersu has. So we want him to go to forests and be happy. Maybe he will be killed by a tiger soon but we don't care. We have been killing by many many stupid things in our daily lives. And then. And then..This movie is one of the most powerful movies that i've ever seen.p.s Kurdish guerilla movement Pkk, which started its acts as a socialist group in 70's to reach the idea of free Kurdistan in Turkish land and then turned a terrorist movement in 80's, had been affected of Mao Zedong. As Mao defended guerilla war in the forests, Pkk activists fought there. And many of these activists were the fan of Dersu Uzala. "},{"Title":"A captivating film of beauty and tragedy.","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Everything about this film is beautiful.  The locations (in Siberia) and the relationships that develop are brought together in a construct that without even raising one's pulse, manages to pull one's full attention.It is certainly a film for the sentimental type although anyone can enjoy it with a little application.  It is by no means and easy film to watch but if you apply yourself to reading into the nuances and the feel of the film then you will enjoy it.  I think that it is a film that has even more of an impact now as it describes a life that is foreign beyond belief to the western world.If you appreciate the beauty of cinematography then this is a must see.  "},{"Title":"Hymn to Nature","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Fresh from the disappointed Dodeskaden and a tragic suicide attempt, Kurosawa went to Russia for a fresh start, where the Soviet authorities invited him to shoot a film of his choosing. Kurosawa opted for Vladimir Arseniev's titular travel log.Dersu Uzala follows Soviet cartographer Arseniev and his crew through the Ussuri region, where they meet the title character, a local trapper living in harmony with nature. What follows is a deliberate, contemplative road movie of sorts, the record of an unusual but touching friendship.This was nothing short of a resurrection project for Kurosawa a clean break with everything he had ever done, and with almost anyone he had ever worked with. While it is daunting to watch it knowing that the director managed collaborators in a foreign language in hellish conditions and still shaken from a life crisis, discarding all that in no way diminishes the film's merits. It is an immaculate tone-poem, haunted by the ghost of Kurosawa's erstwhile friend Andrei Tarkovsky. It is a hymn to nature, turning the landscape into a character in ways none of Kurosawa's earlier films had done. Given the language-barrier, the performances deserve special mention, especially from the central duo Maxim Munzuck creates a character for the ages with his proto-Yoda Dersu, but Yuri Solomin anchors the proceedings as the subdued, likable Arsenyev. The photography is more than up to the usual Kurosawa standards, and all the tech credits follow suit. The film won that year's Academy Award for best foreign film and begin the master filmmaker's last trio of epic masterpieces. It might stand out as somewhat of a black sheep in his oeuvre, a moment of contemplation in between the bursts of fury and energy of his other films, yet it managed to transcend its status as a career footnote to become one of his greatest achievements.Do not allow yourself to overlook this beauty. "},{"Title":"Another masterful offering from Kurosawa","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Based on the journals of Tsarist officer Vladimir Arseniev who set out at the end of the 19th Century to explore and map some of the wildest and most hostile areas of Russian territory - the Sino-Soviet border regions of the Siberian Taiga. The story unfolds when he meets the wise and enigmatic Dersu, a nomadic hunter, who quickly becomes his guide and friend. They remain companions through several expeditions and Arseniev owes his life to Dersu, whose understanding of nature and the elements saves them both on more than one occasion.Kurosawa plays the familiar theme of the struggle of man against the implacability of nature beautifully. The narrative may sometimes meander, but Dersu is brilliantly played by Maksim Munzuk, who portrays the lonely and fiercely independent hunter as tender and humorous, and Kurosawa misses no opportunity to indulge in long, sweeping takes of the breathtaking scenery. A poignant gem.NB George Lucas apparently based the character of Yoda on Dersu. "},{"Title":"Second half of the film disappointed me","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Akira Kurosawa's 1974 Russian film about man and nature has been sitting on my shelf for years and I finally got around to watching it.The story, told in flashback of a Russian Captain's encounters with a Monoglian hunter named Dersu Uzala as he makes several mapping trips into Siberia.This is a very good film. I would like to report that its a great film but its not. I enjoyed it but to me the story was lacking, I wanted to know more. I also had problems with the second half of the film which seemed to be straining to go into a man made direction instead of one that flowed naturally.The first half flows. I was just going to take a peak at the film only to find that 45 minutes had passed as if in a blink of an eye. The second half of the film is less natural, it moves in fits toward a conclusion we know from the outset of the film, but which is arrived at via a journey that doesn't seem natural. (the events are fine, its the foreshadowing and thrust to the end that doesn't work.) Technically this is a beautiful film... The march across the ice under a red setting sun is now one of my favorite images..Don't get me wrong, I like the movie but I don't love it.If you get a chance to see it please do so its a wonderful film, that simply disappointed me in the second half. "}{"Title":"Two cultures collide and yet a common understanding of life's values prevails between two people.","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I too loved this movie when I saw in cinema, I have just bought a copy from Amazon and hope with my wide screen TV that it will give a satisfactory viewing. I was so impressed with the relationship between the two main characters and considering that this movie was made during the height of the Cold War in an area of Russia that was very restricted to visit, it is a wonder that it was ever made. I wonder if Russian censors ever got to see this film as it shows an official wavering between duty and his personal sense of right and wrong.It has subtitles but do not let that put you off watching this marvelous film that has spectacular scenery and dynamic interplay between the protagonists plus a political comment (between the lines) about Russia of the time and the world in general when first world meets third world... ~) "},{"Title":"Progression and the end of an era","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" While at first for me it was a bit strange watching a Kurosawa film that didn't have Japanese actors or language (it's not a racist comment, I don't think; seeing his staging and framing without Japanese people, if you've seen a lot of his films can be a bit off- putting at first) the movie grows on you and you start to accept everything that's being chucked at you.The characters of Arseniev and Dersu are just pleasant to watch. You feel they really care for each other, as Arseniev is very accepting and understanding of the way of live that he has never confronted before in meeting Dersu. They just get along so well and love and respect each other so much and in every way, it's hard not to like watching them interact and go through situations together.You never see Dersu without Arseniev close to him in his life (either in context of their lives or physically), as the story is told from Arseniev's perspective, the years which Dersu wanders as Arseniev briefly returns to society in the middle of the film remains untold; but you do see Arseniev in the absence of Dersu (even if only for brief lapses) but you do feel the absence and wait in anxiety for Dersu to make his way back into the story.There's one bit at the beginning of the 2nd segment of the film, where Arseniev is told by one of his men that he came across a hunter, but when the hunter asked the name of the leader of his unit he was not allowed by regulations to tell him who his commander is, Arseniev then rushes into the forest and in frame there is a far off speck of a man climbing through the brush and as you hear Arseniev shout Dersu! hearing Dersu reply, Captain! as they rush to hug each other is just such a heartfelt moment. Towards the end of the film, Dersu's eyesight fails and accepts that he cannot keeping living off the woods like he has his whole life and Arseniev offers him a place in his own home, back in the city, which Dersu accepts. After a time, it becomes apparent to both of them that Dersu's soul is being broken as he tries to adapt to society and he cannot live as freely as he's used to, so he breaks the news to Arseniev that he must go back to the forest. Arseniev without saying a word, walks offscreen and goes upstairs and brings back his new rifle of the latest model and gives it to Dersu without a second thought. And the fact that Arseniev is so accepting of Dersu's choice and doesn't take offense to his leaving but accepts his decision and supports him is the heart of the movie.The movie seems to be about the end of an era and in the ever- progressing society that we live in, Arseniev discovers this life- force that walks to the beat of it's own drum even as everything progresses and becomes more civilized. Well that's how I explain the beginning of the movie and everything that follows.The cinematography and the editing are gorgeous, by the way. And, of course, the direction. The lighting CAN be a bit BIT outdated, like when they film night scenes by the campfire, but it's such a good movie anyway. "},{"Title":"Kurosawa Does Russia","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The Russian army sends an explorer (Yury Solomin) on an expedition to the snowy Siberian wilderness where he makes friends with a seasoned local hunter (Maxim Munzuk).In 1971, in true samurai fashion, Kurosawa attempted suicide due to a bad moment of his career, questioning his creative ability after the commercial failure of Dodes'ka-den the year before, and the subsequent denial of funds for his productions by Japanese studios. Luckily, he survived.How crazy this is. Apparently he had wanted to adapt the story to a Japanese setting, but ended up with the original Russian tale with Russian actors and crew. Did Kurosawa speak Russian? Did they speak Japanese? The sheer logistics of bringing this production to fruition is impressive. "},{"Title":"A Tragedy of Loss","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Akira Kurosawa's Dersu Uzala (1975) is an oddity in the director's oeuvre, but nonetheless, or precisely because of it, beloved by many. It has a historical setting, though it has no samurais and very little action. It focuses on the lyric moments of humanity which have always been integral to the beauty of Kurosawa's cinema. The film is based on Vladimir Arsenev's novel about his expeditions to Ussuria in the early 20th century during which he became acquainted with an aging hunter living in the woods, gathering all he needs from the environment. The simple charm of the story probably fascinated Kurosawa and offered a perfect basis for that time in his career. Before making Derzu Uzala, Kurosawa had suffered both a professional and a personal tragedy as his first film in color Dodes'ka-den (1970) became a huge financial flop, and subsequently Kurosawa tried to commit suicide. Thus, in the early 1970's Kurosawa had truly lost his faith in cinema, the modern world, and life itself (for a moment at least). For this level of desolation, Arsenev's story offered a perfect means of meditation since its setting was far from capitalism and modern life as well as contemporary cinema. After all, Derzu Uzala is, at its heart, a story about total unselfishness, utter humility, and the beauty of life in touch with nature. What is more, Kurosawa uses a veritably lingering narrative which is combined with ascetic aesthetics. Overall, the style is very stripped. The gorgeous shots of the Russian landscape may be sublime, but it is really the landscape that is sublime. The form that shows it is naturalistic. Dersu Uzala is far from the surrealistic poetry combined with Gorky's realism that characterized Kurosawa's previous film, Dodes'ka-den. It is much simpler. It gave Kurosawa a moment to contemplate the values and ideals of life that were dearest to him.In all its simplicity, Dersu Uzala tells us about the friendship between two different men a Russian soldier, Arsenev, and a self-reliant hunter, Dersu. It studies the conflict of nature and civilization which forces a life of nature to diminish. The heart-rending tale is heavy with nostalgic yearning for the past and a melancholic sense of emptiness for the future. All this might sound sentimental, but somehow Kurosawa manages to create a character out of Dersu that is not idealized in a sentimental fashion. Yet, it is very difficult to point out the elements in the film which cause this effect; that is, the believable disposition of Dersu's character. On paper, it sounds naive and sentimental, but on screen -- in Kurosawa's images -- it gathers a new dimension. Arguably Dersu Uzala is the simplest story Kurosawa ever told, but maybe even more importantly it is also the story which he told in the simplest fashion. "},{"Title":"Dersu Uzala","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" From director Akira Kurosawa (Ikiru, Seven Samurai), this Russian film featuring in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die was one that sounded like an interesting watch, I was surprised some critics only gave it three out of five stars and more sources give it higher praise, so I was interested which opinion I would gain. Basically, set in 1902, an army of Russian soldiers are on an expedition and under the command of Captain Vladimir Arseniev (Yuri Solomin) they are assigned to explore Siberia, and as they trek through the forests they meet Goldi (Nanai) hunter Dersu Uzala (Maksim Munzuk). Captain Arseniev becomes good friends with Dersu Uzala and he is invited to become the guide for the explorers to tread through the forest to Khanka Lake, and as they continue their journey the Captain finds his new friend has a beautiful soul. One time the two friends are caught in open space where the temperature will drop dramatically, and they only have a field of straw that they can cut down and use to make shelter, and after they survive this the hunter says goodbye to move on. Five years pass, and the army are assigned to head for the Ussuri River for another expedition, and Captain Arseniev is happy to meet up with Dersu Uzala again in the forest, and he once again joins them to become guide for the group, but he is much older and his eyesight has become problematic. The Captain invites the hunter to Khabarovsk City to live with his family so they can look after him for a while, but the old man finds it very difficult to adapt to an urban lifestyle, so he returns to life in the forest,l and as a parting gift he gives his friend a new weapon, a rifle. Five years later in Korfovskaïa the body of a man has been brought in and Captain Arseniev is called to identify it, they only have a calling card as any indication of his identity, they are sure it may be Dersu Uzala, he confirms it is and that he must have been killed for the weapon. Also starring Aleksandr Pyatkov as Olenin, Vladimir Kremena as Turtwigin, Suimenkul Chokmorov as Jan Bao, Svetlana Danilchenko as Anna Arseniev and Dmitri Korshikov as Vova. Solomin gives a nice gentle performance as the leader of the small army group, but Munzuk almost steals the show with his wonderfully wise and charismatic performance as the wild hunter who has great knowledge for survival techniques, I can sort of agree that there are shots where we are looking at something for a period of time, like a field, snowy places or forest trees, but I think these moments are interesting besides the action sequences and whatever, I found it a great poetic period drama. It won the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film. Very good! "},{"Title":"The beginning of autumn","Date":"31 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Sometimes, it is possible to see how a movie director's changing life has impacted on the way in which he or she approaches making a motion picture. Don't worry, I'm not some crazy auteurist; I'm not talking about themes or symbolism, just the changing relationship between the camera and the material. In 1970 Akira Kurosawa suffered the disastrous commercial and critical failure of Dodesukaden, a picture he had poured a lot of his own funds into producing. Soon after this lifelong humanist made what we can assume was an earnest but thankfully unsuccessful suicide attempt. Dersu Uzala was his the picture he made next.Dersu Uzala is often categorised as an anomaly in the Kurosawa filmography anyway, as it was his only feature made outside his native Japan. This adaptation of a Russian explorer's memoir is a potentially serious departure for a director who previously wrote all his own scripts and always seemed to have his finger on the pulse of Japanese society. Still, the wilderness setting and interaction between humanity and landscape in the story ultimately makes this a tale that could be of any time or place. The largely Russian film crew seems particularly in tune with the Japanese director's sensibilities. The musical scoring by Isaak Shvarts has that beautiful haunting quality of Mussorgsky and Rimsky-Korsakov, which Kurosawa would no doubt have appreciated. His long-term director of photography Asakazu Nakai works with a pair of Russian cinematographers to great some wonderful images that have the warm softness of impressionist painting.This last point is particularly important for the late-period Kurosawa. He had long been an accomplished amateur painter, but never has this been more apparent in his film work than in Dersu Uzala. We now see in him a desire to create smooth tonal patterns for the screen, creating compositions that are primarily for aesthetic value, even something as mundane as the shot of sleeping soldiers before they meet Dersu, in which everything is arranged in harmonious diagonals. Howard Hawks once derided the widescreen format as being a bad move because it was a shape rarely chosen by painters, but Kurosawa manages perfectly with it. Painterly his approach may be but it is still cinematic. His frequent use of movement in depth shows his understanding of the frame as a three-dimensional space as oppose to simply a short, wide box. Often a little movement and sound adds to the overall impression, the ripple of water, the crackle of fire and the noises of wind and creatures. With complete control over every element of a shot, Kurosawa is constantly seeking to evoke the might of the forest, its beauty and its mystery.This may be conjecture, but it may be that Kurosawa, shaken by his recent experiences and advancing age, is here taking a step back, unable to connect with fully his subject and humanity in general. After all, painting is generally a solitary pursuit. There are no close-ups in Dersu Uzala, and an unusually low proportion of mid-shots. We are rarely encouraged to focus on facial expressions, and almost always take the place of detached observers, lurking in the bushes. Also contrary to much of Kurosawa's earlier pictures, in which the acting was often flamboyant and hammy, the players here are subdued and realistic &#x96; something which incidentally lead players Yuri Solomin and Maxim Munzuk respond especially well to, with Munzuk's performance being incredibly moving at times in its subtle expression. And yet Kurosawa barely allows us to feel as if we know these characters. The physical sense of distance makes us feel like voyeurs on their lives, and while the picture is filled with breathtaking beauty the director's tendency to envelop us in the human warmth of a story has vanished.However as an uplifting postscript, Dersu Uzala was a considerable success, especially at the Russian box office, also gaining recognition elsewhere including an Oscar for Best foreign picture. This veteran director, back from the brink of despair, would soon make some fruitful collaborations with Hollywood producers, and his career would end in a blaze of glory. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Love Story","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Yes, it sounds corny, but Dersu Uzala is (to me) really a love story as well as one of friendship; I cannot think of a more complete, platonic love between two friends. Just think of the scene in which Dersu and the Capitan spy one another through the dense woods, reunited after years, and rush towards one another, shouting each other's names. It was a giddy moment, and tearful.As much as these two very different men bond, they remain different. Though Arseniev is changed dramatically by Dersu's influence (as are his men, to some extent), Dersu remains pretty much the same. He is organic, part of his wild environment, as much as the trees, rivers or animals. His inner thoughts, though partly understood by Arseniev, remain largely a mystery to the sensitive Captain. In some ways, I think the latter likes this better than knowing all about Dersu, as if he ever could.Much has been made of the stunning scenery and Kurosawa's lingering way of filming it, which was so perfect. There were also very intense scenes, in which the two men were pitted against the very active forces of nature, such as a snowstorm and a raging river, not to mention the mysterious and symbolic tiger that stalks them. Add to all that the humor that bubbles up regularly, from both men, usually in surprise at the odd way the other does things, and you have a very dynamic film, despite its apparent tranquility. One of my favorite scenes is the Christmas encampment, in which the men have decorated a tree with various things like tin cans, forks and even chunks of ice. It signifies the turning point, especially for Dersu. At first it is comical, but this is also when he becomes obsessed with the tiger's ghost.I can't imagine anyone finding the pace of this film slow; it is just right. Any faster and we would have The Edge instead (which makes me wonder if some of that was inspired by Dersu Uzala). Not that the latter film was bad--I actually like it quiet a bit--but it is no Dersu Uzala; few films ARE.-SPOILER- I agree with the person who wrote that Dersu's death seems appropriate; for, once his sight was almost gone, how could he live in his natural environment? And he could not handle modern, city life. It was the only way out for him, though quite sad. To me, it symbolized the death of the old hunter-gatherer culture across the world, and the triumph of industrialization. Even Arseniev, despite his respect for Dersu, makes no attempt to change his modern lifestyle to go live in the wild. He is content to be part of the 20th Century.The fact that the two men bond so deeply WITHOUT becoming like one another or trying to imitate each other to any great extent, is what makes this a love story, I think, and a tragic one. They know that they can never live in one another's worlds for long, try as they may.Some have compared Dersu Uzala to Yoda, but I think the old man would laugh at this. Unlike Yoda, he did not seem to see himself as particularly special, which was part of his charm. He reminds me more of Jeremiah Johnson or later, Lt. Dunbar, or better yet, Kicking Bird in Dances with Wolves. He craves simplicity and merely living off the land, not wisdom, nor even enlightenment, as Westerners see it. Perhaps that's because he already has it. "},{"Title":"modern man meets his primitive self","Date":"20 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Kurosawa is first and foremost, a story-teller. Through his stories we see much of ourselves--who we are, can be, the limits of our ethos and preconceived notions of who we are or capable of. Kurosawa amazes us with his range. Stories set in contemporary Japan. Ancient Japan. From businessmen to detectives to .... a strong little man living alone in the most desolate land on earth--Siberia. It is based on memoirs? of a Russian Army Captain who encountered Dersu at the end of the 19th century, when Russia was still mapping what it was--something that George Washington did when our country was unexplored. The story, of course, cannot avoid the necessary comparison of modern man with paleolithic nomadic man. What is good, evil, the measure of men specific to one's time. What senses have we lost or have been dulled by living in cocoons of civilization, warm houses and shared responsibility for warding off cruel nature and the creatures who inhabit the shadows outside the firelight. How important are fire, salt, matches, ammo.... all precious things that should be husbanded and even left in forest shelters for those who might need them in times of privation and soul lost wandering. Dersu says, You bad man! and You very good man. and sometimes to the same man! He sees that no man is either all good or evil, but is capable in each moment of becoming either. We see men whosenormal lives in civilization were shattered, and they went out into the wilderness to die or live, and let the gods determine their fate. I fell in love with this movie. And I laugh at many of us--the most modern and out-of-touch with nature nature as beauty and as cruel harvester of our bodies when we can no longer push headlong into the dark blizzard. Now, so many of us dishonor the remaining tigers, bears, apex predators and a world seemed too green and gauzy and nonthreatening to so many. Why not go for a jog in the Colorado mountains? How many are killed, eaten by mountain lions, because they didn't respect nature as she is. Bears, wolves--why they won't hurt you if you but sit and gaze upon them with zen-like concentration--I fear you not, my brother. Yet this movie shows that we need not hate what ultimately comes to take us away to that land from in no traveler returns. The tiger is a god. And when one cannot kill him, clean and swift, and he runs away, then the gods say you will die soon. Not just a pretty creature to aim one's camera or rifle at and sigh. Or that fool in Herzog's Grizzly Man. Anyone who knows the out of doors and the power nature still has over us, can only laugh at the idiot who pranced and danced amongst the grizzlies. Well, joke's on you, mister. It just so happened your hubris and modern sensibilities and lies you've told yourself about nature came around to bite you..... et' you.Dersu Uzala is the divine opposite of Herzog's either ironic or stupid Grizzly Man. Nature was neither a winter playground or an ugly place at all. For Dersu reveled in the smells, sounds and cornering winds that made the fire become something different with each poke of an ember reddened stick. Where life is now in the living. And nature is neither Disneyland nor a living hell, but is the relentless earth, moiling and seething, buckling up and taking one finally, in the end. A superb movie that should be seen by many many more folk. "},{"Title":"My love will kill you","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a great movie. As noted by other reviewers, the cinematography is fantastic. I saw it on DVD on a large screen and it was majestic. My comment is not so much on the movie effects and the acting, all of which has Kurosawa's signature of an art film, but on the complicated message that it weaves. So complicated that it is hard to see if you watch the film once. Ursu is a clever man because he knows the forest, but in the city he is not clever at all. On the contrary, he stumbles on inane things such as paying for water to the water delivery man, or trying to fire his rifle in the middle of the city or trying to camp on a curbside. It is as if the man is very good in certain contexts and not good at all in other contexts. Now, if you think about it, the same can be said of any one you know, unless he happens to be Albert Schweitzer. The Being is the sum of a man and his milieu. Captain Arseniev is not very good in the forest. He makes many mistakes and Ursu must lend his helping hand on many occasions to save poor captain from his own follies. In the city he seems to be doing OK, with a nice house, a beautiful wife and a real cute boy. So what would the good captain think is good for Ursu? Obviously, what is also good for him city life. And he takes the man who saved his life to the city, to his house, but that breaks the sum of man and milieu, and the Being becomes miserable. Then the captain finally gets it and lets Ursu go back to his world of hunting in the forest he loves so much. But the captain botches it up again. To express his love for Ursu, he gives him a great rifle and that will bring death on Ursu because other greedy people would kill Ursu to get his rifle. Captain Arseniev knows that Ursu's eyesight is going downhill so a great rifle would not do as much good as a pair of glasses. Captain Arseniev also knows that the forest is inhabited by evil people and has seen the damage and pillaging that nasty guys to do animals and people in the forest. But he sends a half-blind mind with a valuable possession to a place infested with thieves. The end was easy to predict Ursu will be killed by thieves who want his rifle, which is exactly what the bureaucrat at the crime scene tells Arseniev. The moral of the story is that you should not try to make other people happy with things that make you happy, unless you both share the milieu where the happiness occur. Arseniev should have learned to appreciate the Being, the sum of man and milieu, rather than the man alone. Kurosawa is inviting us to be more thoughtful when we try to do good. "},{"Title":"A Tale Of A Man Who Truly Was One With The Earth","Date":"24 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" When Akira Kurosawa's film, 'Do-Des-Ka-Den'(1970)was deemed both a critical,as well as box office failure,Kurosawa found it difficult to obtain financial backing for film projects. In 1974,after a failed suicide attempt,he decided to seek money from outside Japan for a film. Good fortune came in the form of a trip to the former U.S.S.R.,where he was offered to direct a film adaptation of the classic Russian novel, Dersu Okhotnik,by Vladimir Arsenyev,a tale of a friend ship between a Captain in the Russian Army & a elderly man,Dersu Uzala living in the forest. Kurosawa jumped at the chance,and to make a long story short, in 1975,'Dersu Uzala' was released in the U.S.S.R. to acclaim,and eventually released world wide. It's easy to see what would make this beautifully shot,edited & directed tale of a simple man of the Earth, and the friendship he shared with a (so called)learned man,who would learn much more as a result of that friendship. Akira Kurosawa (The Seven Samurai,Ran)directs from a screenplay written by Kurosawa & Yuri Nagibin,from the novel Dersu Okhotnik,by Vladimir Arsenyev. The film's breath taking cinematography is rendered by no less than three directors of photographyFydor Dobronvov,Yuri Gantman & Asakazu Nakai. The film's editing is supervised by Lyudmila Feiginova. The lush music score is by Issak Shvarts. The cast is headed by Maxim Manzuk,as Dersu Uzala & Yuri Soloman as Captain Vladimir Arseniev,with Svetlana Danilchenko,as Mrs.Arseniev,and Dimitri Korshikov as their young son, Wowa. With Suimenkul Chokmorov,Aleksander Pyatkov,Nikolai Valkov,and others. A well written screenplay,superb acting,lush cinematography,and a sublime musical score make for this,a film that should be experienced by those who are sick to death of the usual garbage from the septic tank that has become Hollywood. This film was produced in two editionsthe original Soviet version,filmed in 70mm,in six channel stereophonic sound,and a 35mm wide screen scope version (alas,in mono sound,only). Sadly,there are only two surviving 70mm stereo prints of Dersu Uzala available1) in an unsubtitled print,that is currently in a film archive in Moscow 2)The only other 70mm,stereo print is only available in Sweden (with Swedish subtitles)in a film archive in Stockholm (all other prints are 35mm scope,in mono). Spoken in Russian & Mandirin with English subtitles. Rated 'G' by the MPAA,this film has absolutely nothing to offend,making it a perfect family film "}{"Title":"Beautifully filmed, requires some patience","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The bulk of this film concerns two expeditions made by a group of Soviet soldiers to map out regions of the Russian Far East in the early twentieth century. In the first expedition in 1902 the soldiers meet Dersu Uzala, an older hunter wise to ways of living on his own in a harsh environment; Uzala accompanies them and serves as a valuable guide. In the second expedition in 1907 the soldiers happily meet Uzala again by chance. I came to appreciate this movie more when I realized that it is based on the memoirs of one Vladimir Arsenyev who made three major expeditions and did indeed encounter a hunter called Dersu.The expeditions are filled will dangers and drama. A most memorable scene has Dersu and Arsenyev cutting grasses to make a shelter for themselves in order to survive a bitter cold night where they would have died if exposed. Kurosawa is a master of filming such scenes.However, the movie is much more than an adventure story. At its heart is the somewhat improbable friendship that develops between Uzala and Arsenyev. When not out on explorations Arsenyev lives comfortably in Vladivostok with a wife and young son whereas Uzala makes it on his own in the back-country. Arsenyev does not have the skills to live like Uzala, nor, as we come to see, does Uzala have the temperament to live like Arsenyev.A person who feels he cannot live without the internet probably has lost a lot of the basic skills and appreciation of nature that Uzala has. The ultimate irony is that the explorations of Arsenyev to document and map the areas pave the way for the development of interdependent social institutions that lead to the extinction of people like Uzala. Kurosawa tends to exaggerate for effect, which I suppose we all do, but I had a hard time believing that Uzala could shoot an early twentieth-century rifle and hit a swinging string at fifty yards. Initially I felt that some of the scenes went on much longer than their welcome. Did I need to watch an old Chinese man walk away into the snow for a minute and a half? But then I began to appreciate the pacing--it gives you some time to absorb and think about what is going on. This film is in stark contrast to most current movies that assault your senses and are tuned for short attention spans.Maksim Munzuk is near perfect as Uzala. Not much is demanded from the Russian actors as soldiers but, even at that, their performances seemed a flat to me. "},{"Title":"Small correction","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" While I agree with all the glowing preceding praise, it's worth noting that no part of this story takes place in the taiga, nor even in Siberia. It's set in Primorsky Krai or north of there near the Amur River and Sea of Japan. That's well north of Korea, and possibly Manchuria, but east and south of Siberia. In fact, it's south of nearly any other bit of Russia. If you look, the forest is thick wet hardwoods and the plains are full of water. Tigers are everywhere. Men sleep outside in winter and don't trust ice. That isn't steppe; that isn't taiga; that's nowhere near tundra. That's temperate maritime jungle. Nor is the setting Kurosawa's invention, it's in the book. Part of the appeal in Russia was probably because it so graphically describes a province most Russians never see, dramatically different from the severe and sparse landscapes west of there. The combination of proximity to the Sea of Japan and latitude of the Black Sea makes it Russia's banana belt. Beautiful yes, taiga no. "},{"Title":"sweet and charming","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie is slow paced and uneventful, and yet it held my complete, captivated attention for the duration of the movie, leaving me wanting more and wishing it wasn't over so soon. The story is simple, touching, and sweet, and you can't help falling in love with the characters and natural surroundings. There are a few moments of suspense and danger, with modest amounts of tension, but the highlight of this movie is a character study of two men who form an unlikely friendship. I don't have much to say about the movie itself other than to give it my full recommendation. It has a certain innocent charm reminiscent of certain Chinese films from the 80s and 90s (Zhang Yimou and Wu Tian-Ming come to mind). This is truly a hidden treasure in the Kurosawa filmography! "},{"Title":"Lovingly filmed tale of male comradeship and culture clash in Siberia","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The film captures beautifully the clash of cultures when a supposedly sophisticated Russian surveyor befriends a Goldi hunter in Siberia. Its a story of comradeship in a harsh and lovingly photographed Siberian landscape. Ultimately tragic, as the two cultures cannot co-exist, the film is uplifting and life-affirming. Dersu believes that when he shoots at a tiger, to save himself and his Russian friend, he has upset the natural order and incurred the wrath of the forest spirit. Dersu's ensuing eyesight problems and loss of confidence seem to the Russian to be based groundlessly on superstition. So when he takes Dersu to the town to live he believes he is being helpful. His friend cannot live in the town and returns to the forest with tragic results. "},{"Title":"Captain meets Hunter","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is the most atypical Kurosawa film, and a somewhat compelling one at that. If you are used to his other works in Japanese, you may feel thrown off by the Russian cast, setting and language, not to mention the fact that it's based on a true story. To be precise, it's based on the memoirs by cpt. Arseniev. Dersu Uzala had a problematic shooting; among other things, there were disguised KGB agents present on the set to overlook Kurosawa.Dersu Uzala is a dainty flick about nature and survival with likable characters. Apart from the beautiful winter and autumn scenes, the cinematography was surprisingly rather dull and lit too dimly. All in all, the film is a mix of engaging and tedious scenes, and because of that it's a bit hard to perceive it as a whole. I'd like to know what the other Soviet movie based on the same memoir is like. Dersu Uzala is one of the more forgettable Kurosawa films.7,5/10 "},{"Title":"Clearly NOT a film for the casual Kurosawa viewer...","Date":"15 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" If you haven't seen many or any of director Akira Kurosawa's films, I strongly recommend you don't start with this one. It's not that it's a bad film (it isn't), but it's because the style is so unlike the rest of his work and the film is amazingly slow. The casual viewer might easily give up early on, as it is a difficult film to love. But, if you are able to get past this, it's a very rewarding film.This film is set in remote areas of the far Eastern portion of Russia about a decade before the Revolution. A group of soldiers have been sent there to explore and document the region and it's clear that they are a bit out of their element in the bleak steppes. Fortunately for the men, they meet up with a nomad named 'Dersu Uzala'--a guy who has wandered this region his entire life. I say fortunate because Uzala has a lot of experience and wisdom. His know-how is able to save the men and aid their journey repeatedly. The contrast between the man and the rest of the group is striking--and not just for the physical differences between them but because of Uzala's unusual animistic beliefs. And, when Uzala leaves to go his own way, the men are sad to see him go and are filled with admiration for this odd but likable man. Fortunately, he does return later and once again, his wisdom saves the men on repeated occasions.Later, the Captain from the expedition brings Uzala home with him. However, Uzala cannot cope with the city--it is just too foreign. It's obvious he's miserable and wants to return to the East. Uzala leaves and soon he's found dead--and the film ends on a very sad note.The film definitely has scope and you can't help but admire Kurosawa and his Russian-Japanese crew. They obviously spent a lot of time on this movie and braved many tough days in the snow and rain. In many ways, it's reminiscent of the Lewis and Clark Expedition that explored much of the US in the very early 19th century. Like the Russians, Lewis and Clark also found a native who assisted them...much like Uzala.One final note. This film is based on a book written by a member of this actual team of explorers. Yes, he was a real trapper and the story was also filmed in 1961. "},{"Title":"Perfection","Date":"6 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Once in a while, very rarely, I have the pleasure of watching a movie that reminds me of how much good humans are capable of. Told in a simple, linear way, director Akira Kurosawa and his co-collaborator Yuri Nagibin adapt Vladimir Arsenyev's novel Dersu Uzala, about a Russian army captain that befriends a hunter in the Siberian regions. In charge of a military expedition to map out the terrain, Captain Arseniev invites Dersu, an experienced and tough-as-nails old hunter, to guide him and his men across forests and polar deserts back into safety in civilization.Maksim Munzuk, at the age of 65, plays Dersu. At an age when great actors start becoming parodies of themselves &#x96; who can stand Al Pacino or Robert DeNiro nowadays? &#x96; this unknown Russian actor played the greatest role of his life and arguably left us one of the greatest performances in film history. He is short but robust, silent but expressive in his manners, and always honest and outspoken in his words. A simple man, he seeks no glory or profit; he helps Arseniev and his men out of genuine kindness.Yuri Solomon plays Arseniev, a humble officer who appreciates the help Dersu can offer him. Unprejudiced and curious, he observes Dersu with great interest and eventually forms a friendship with him that lasts for as long as they live. This is the movie at its core friendship and humanity amidst a world that can easily kill us, as the Siberian regions proves several times throughout the movie. Using wide shots throughout the movie, Kurosawa shows how insignificant men are in comparison with the nature surrounding them, how beautiful the world is and how blessed we are to live in it.Every element of Dersu Uzala contributed to making this one of the best movies I've ever seen the acting by the main actors; the cinematography by Asakazu Nakai; Isaac Shvarts' score. Watching Dersu Uzala is almost contemplating perfection. "},{"Title":"best of the best!","Date":"24 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" this film is so good, it surely deserves 500% points. it was the first Russian-Japanese movie that made me cry. it was better than good. it showed me a lot of things I already knew but in a different way and it made me think about it in another way. it also proved me a lot of things I couldn't tell anyone about. it is probably the best Kurosawa ever made, way better than Shichinin no Samarai, a genre I loved too, but not anymore. well, maybe still, but Dersu Uzala is so much more. it's so BEEPing good, it has so much emotional levels many of the films on the IMDb top 250 don't have. if you read this, you'll know I can't find words to describe this movie and that doesn't happen a lot. it's a beautiful picture. "},{"Title":"Great Kurosawa","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Kurosawa made this Japanese-Russian co-production after a three year hiatus, reportedly after a suicide attempt caused by the failure of his previous film. This film won the Foreign Film Oscar, so it was sort of a comeback film for Kurosawa. Based on a real story, the movie is set in the Russian far east in the late 19th century and early 20th century. Basically, is about a Russian captain and explorer befriending a native called Dersu Uzala (of the ethnic group which today is referred as the nanai), after he saves his live during a snow storm. Most of the movie then deals with their friendship as they explore and hunt together in the wilds of eastern Siberia. When Dersu's vision no longer makes him able to hunt, the Russian brings him to the city to live with his family. But for a man who has always lived in the woods, urban civilization seems very strange, so he pleads to the captain to return to his native place. Unfortunately, time has not passed in vain, and in the woods he will find an early demise. It's a great adventure film, though one wonders if the relations between the Russians and the Siberian natives were always as friendly as this movie shows. One detail though some of the movie was shot on location, other parts are shot in a studio, pretending to be a forest, and sadly, that shows. Still, I think this is one of Kurosawa's good films (though not among his best). "},{"Title":"Maybe not Kurosawa's last masterpiece, but it is his best!","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Dersu Uzala was my introduction to Kurosawa's work; since that time, I've probably seen somewhere between 7 and 10 of his other films. Some have been quite powerful, and I'd probably enjoy seeing them again. But Dersu Uzala is a love story -- about love of the land, and of two men; and tigers in Siberia! I can't give any better summaries of what's so magnificent about the filming and Kurosawa's genius than the other fan's comments have indicated. But where so many other of Kurosawa's films are about fighting and wars (like Ran) -- this film has more of a lyric or pastoral quality to many scenes. If I ran the world -- if you've every played that game with your friends or with your kids -- if I ran the world, every great filmmaker, or novelist, would be required to write at least one film (or novel) about a person from another culture or another religion who inspired them, or taught them something unforgettable about the mysterious nature of life. Well, here's one of the greatest directors ever, and that's just what he's done here. Hats off to Akira-sensei, the humble master; may he live as long as Hokusai or longer, learning to the last minute. "}{"Title":"When Yoda was a man...","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Kurosawa's genius has been fully outlined all over the IMDB so let me just add a few quips about this seldom discussed film.  First and foremost, one of the best nature films ever shot in 70mm and second, a refreshing handling of cosmotheism without grandstanding.  The creation and development of the character Dersu Uzala was stunning and Maksim Munzuk's portrayal brilliant.That being said, one point of contention.  For the wily Captain Vladimir Arseniev to lock Dersu down in the hell of a 20th century city simply because he needed glasses, bothered me when I saw this film fifteen years ago, and it stills bothers me today.  Oh sure, many would say chiding Kurosawa about that is like bringing up slaves and Jefferson but by God even Leo X used glasses to improve his hunting in the 16th Century!  Surly there was one affordable pair of spectacles in Eastern Russia in 1907.  Couldn't the tiger have ripped his leg off instead? "},{"Title":"Orpheus_Reborn, kukavice bedna...","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The photography is good, occasionally terrific even, and the casting is impeccable, especially of the title character. The relationship between the two guys, who are very likable, seems genuine and not overly sentimental. It's a breath of fresh air to occasionally get away from American movies and watch something different.Now to the negative side. As is typical with many non-American or non-British movies, everything moves too slowly often. The early parts of both sections (1902 and 1907) have scenes that are simply dull. Americans have understood and learned early on that a movie cannot be told in real time or anywhere close to it. Only relevant moments/scenes should be in the final cut. Story-telling in a movie cannot be like that in a novel, not even close. Kurosawa is nowhere nearly the kind of pretentious, almost useless director like Bergman, but he does make some of the same mistakes. Who wants to watch a group of soldiers walk for 3 minutes without any dialogue or anything at all relevant occurring? This kind of slow-paced tool can be justified only when it serves to build up suspense or when the scene is extraordinarily beautiful (see Kubrick).Send me an e-mail, Orphy, I cannot answer your brilliant message on this site... "}]