[{"Title":"The Stockholm Syndrome","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"92 out of 114 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Many people have thought this was a loathsome one, and I can't blame them. When I saw this movie for the first time, it left a depressive and nauseating feeling. But I cannot agree that this is barely nazi sexploitation sleaze. In fact, the Night Porter is a perfect psychological study of masochism. And masochism is not cheap sleaze, it is a terrible addiction that even basically normal people can get trapped into, even though they know it will destroy them. Very much like drug addiction.Besides, if you're into movies, it's pretty obvious right from the start that this is the work of real professionals. Director Liliana Cavani was not famous before she did this, but she certainly knew how to make a movie, and had learnt the best lessons from her more famous counterparts. As for the acting by the two main performers, Dirk Bogarde and Charlotte Rampling, it is just top class, no more to say.The movie starts on a bleak day in Vienna in the 1950's. It focuses right away on the character of Max (Dirk Bogarde), who works as a night porter at a fancy hotel. We soon find out that this ungrateful job is a hideout, as he is a former nazi. And the hotel is actually a secret meeting place for gatherings of former Nazis, who are well determined to let nobody track them down. One day,a group arrives at the hotel. Among them, a beautiful woman (Charlotte Rampling). Her deep blue gaze freezes as her eyes meet the night porter's. They have recognized each other. She was kept years before,as a young girl, at a concentration camp where the night porter was operating as an SS guard. It gets soon hinted at by flashbacks that they had a close relationship, which helped her survive physically, even if she was left mentally destroyed.The woman, Lucia, is married to an orchestra director who tours in Vienna. He is just vaguely aware of her wife's past, and as she demands him to depart immediately, he convinces her to stay for just a few days. Lucia is in fact desperately asking for help, but her bland husband doesn't understand. As for Max, he is both afraid to be reported, and at the same time irresistibly attracted. He attends the opera performance where Lucia's husband is playing, while she is in the public. They sit there in the dark, obsessed by each other's presence while the Magic Flute is playing, but none of them makes a single move. That's a chilling scene.Lucia's husband is surprised as, when they are about to leave, she demands to stay for just a few days. It is already too late. Lucia has lived through hell, then built a new life abroad and more or less forgotten. But it seems life doesn't taste anything for her anymore, just no more suffering that's all. With Max, she experienced a horrible but passionate love affair, and in the deep of her heart, she remained addicted to that atrocious intensity. She is like a former alcoholic who has quit for years but suddenly falls back.The rest of the story is predictable. Max and Lucia find each other again, and cannot part anymore,whatever it may lead them to. Actually, it can only lead them to death. Max's nazi colleagues spy on each other constantly, and soon find out about the affair. Both Max and Lucia become dangerous people who must be eliminated.We learn more through flashbacks about the past relationship between Max and Lucia. The key scene of the movie takes place in a smoky and sinister officer's mess, where masked men are playing a gloomy tune on an accordion. Half naked Lucia wearing an SScap performs a song by Marlene Dietrich which says If I were to wish for something, I would like to be just a little happy, because if I were too happy, I would long for suffering. Couldn't be more explicit. As she has finished her show, she joins Max at a table, and he has a present for her in a box. A horrible present. The severed head of a prisoner who kept bothering her. Lucia recoils incredulous as she opens the box, then looks in Max's eyes and sips in her glass of wine. What more extreme love present can a man make than killing for the woman he loves? This scene is almost unbearable, and it's precisely the film's essential five minutes.So if you don't like this film, it sounds like a normal reaction. It's actually difficult to like it , but one can find it interesting and important. Especially those who have experienced sexual abuse by relatives, drug addiction or alcoholism, or people who are related or engaged to such people. That makes quite a few. When one is plunged into destruction, a solution is to take a liking for it. But it's an extreme solution, which gets you intoxicated for life, and may lead you to seek total destruction as an only way out.The phenomenon described in the movie has been observed many times, even though it is difficult to understand or accept for an outsider. When people are abused and isolated for a long time, whether in prison or in their own family, it usual that they develop a bond with their abuser, as he or she becomes their main affective reference. This is commonly referred to as the Stockholm syndrome.Better you don't watch this if you're feeling down. "},{"Title":"A movie that dares","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"55 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Even though I was planning to watch something else that Saturday night, I came across BBC2 where The Night Porter was on and saw it once again. The first time I saw the movie I was a bit disappointed. I had heard so much about this movie that the film couldn't live up to my high expectations. But some scenes found a place in the back of my mind and stayed there. The second time I saw it I was intrigued more and more and ever since I see it as the classic it should be.If ever there was a difficult movie, it was The Night Porter. The pace is slow and the characters are all weird. There aren't many movies where you get a homosexual Nazi wanting to be a ballet dancer and a sadistic Nazi still in love with love with a masochistic girl from the camps. (There's more, but I don't want to spoil the plot.) Only a spark of the plot could have been the subject for lots of raunchy exploitation movies, but The Night Porter manages to keep its class. The movies is set years after the war. Some Nazis were fortunate enough not to be caught and got on with their lives. Unfortunately one person has survived the camps as well. She immediately recognizes Max (Dirk Bogarde), her cruel S&M-master, and he (now a night porter in a hotel) recognizes her (Charlotte Rampling) as well. The only problem is that the other living Nazis cannot know she's still alive, or they would assassinate her. The passion between Max and his former slave returns and the Nazis find out about their relationship. Max tries to keep her out of their hands, so madly in love that he wants to die for her. (Again, more information would spoil the movie.)The Night Porter is one of the few movies where S&M-relationships aren't immediately reduced to a bunch of idiots and losers playing around with whips and leather masks. It also dares to show you other Nazis than the Pavlovian dogs you normally get to see. And above all it stars Charlotte Rampling as Lucia. Watch her as she performs the dance of Salomé and gets a present from Max (know your Bible and have an idea of what's to come). Watch her face and her near-skeletonlike body very closefully that is how you should act disgust. Watch her as she locks herself in the bathroom and tries to hurt Max's foot with some glass. Listen to the music, the perfect addition to this murky movie.Due to the difficulty of the movie it'll never raise above its status as cult classic and actually that's a shame. Be brave and try it.  "},{"Title":"Shocking without being vulgar. A gem.","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"58 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In some ways this film is still very shocking. Although it is neither violent nor vulgar, the situation is disturbing and violent -actually it's something we DON'T see with our eyes a psychological violence.Some years after the end of Second World War, a woman meets in a hotel her jailer during her concentration camp period. He was an SS officer, now he's a night porter. With him she re-starts a relationship made of attraction and sadomasochism.The film is shocking because it describes an insane situation, led by two insane people. These are the disturbing elements of the film, because spectators don't feel well in seeing that. The atmosphere has something very icy and miserable. I think it's precisely Liliana Cavani's goal a study of insanity, without self-indulgence.After 30 years Night porter remains a gem. An intelligent movie, full of provocation. Charlotte Rampling and Dirk Bogarde are extraordinary.   "},{"Title":"There Is No Cure","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"40 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A controversial and shocking movie? Definitely, and the way some people today profess to be jaded about The Night Porter says more about our current culture than about the movie itself. Other persons who experienced the Holocaust first-hand have reacted negatively towards it for its portrayal of a destructive but loving relationship born amidst the Holocaust. Their objections are certainly understandable. There has also been, though, an awful lot of politically-correct garbage and pretentious nonsense written about The Night Porter, much of which has missed or misinterpreted some of the strongest elements of the movie.When I first saw The Night Porter in the early 1980's, it certainly had the power to shock me and many others, yet at the same time it offered a depth of aesthetic experience well beyond just shock for its own sake. These aesthetic qualities produce a sense of doom and sadness, yet also show beauty and love amidst the hopelessness.Dirk Bogarde gives a really masterful performance as Max, a former Nazi SS man who bears a huge burden of guilt. After World War II, Max works at the main desk of a gorgeous old hotel in Vienna. Here he re-encounters Lucia, who survived the Nazi concentration camps, where she was a victim of Max's sadism. Bogarde's Max, and Charlotte Rampling as Lucia, do not say a word at first during their unexpected postwar encounter in the hotel, yet their understated expressiveness speaks paragraphs. The most controversial parts of the movie show the sort of sado-masochistic relationship which the two resume soon afterwards. While this relationship is very disturbing, with Max's sometimes cruel nature and the destructiveness of the mutual attraction, there is also a kind of love expressed by the two towards each other. Lucia is certainly a victim, yet she also consciously holds a power over Max. The sado-masochism is not glamourized, and I don't see any suggestion that these two lovers are any sort of role models. Yet they also evoke sympathy.Throughout the movie, Bogarde is able to show a wide range of thoughts and emotions by just a slight movement of the corner of his mouth, or by the raising of an eyebrow. Rampling shows vulnerability and also the power that she has over Max. She sometimes appears like a sleek, sly cat, and at other times clearly like the victim of the camp horrors. Other actors such as Philippe Leroy, Isa Miranda and Amedeo Amodio also do a nice and sometimes subtle job of expressing the psychic state of their characters. Another character, an Italian who survived awful times, appears like a dog who has been beaten and fears another whipping.The Night Porter can be slow-moving, yet this is punctuated by some very vivid scenes. For me, the most striking one is a flashback to a time during the war when Bert, a Nazi associate of Max, puts on a performance for a group of SS men and women, to the accompaniment of some gorgeous classical music. Not only does the scene seem to have a very sinister quality, but Amodio as Bert expresses an emotional longing which has important repercussions. There is also another very eerie flashback showing a musical, cabaret-style performance by Lucia for her SS captors. Something of the corruption, moral bankruptcy and hopelessness of Nazism is conjured up by this scene.On the downside, some of the minor characters are portrayed in a caricaturish way, the voice dubbing can be off-putting, and some plot elements towards the end of the movie are at times very silly. Through those failures, though, I think the movie still succeeds aesthetically. Partly this is due to the appealing yet melancholy and ominous musical score by Daniele Paris and others, the disturbing magnetism of Max and Lucia, and the cinematography. Throughout the movie the beautiful, fascinating city of Vienna almost seems a character in itself.The Night Porter is certainly not for everyone. In addition to its portrayal of a very disturbing, unconventional love relationship, it has a few brief scenes of graphic sex, and small bits of the ugliness of the camps. For those who don't mind getting through those parts, its aesthetic qualities can be very rewarding. Be warned though that the movie contains much ugliness along with its beauty. As Lucia says to someone who is trying to use pschoanalytical games to avoid his guilt and shame, There is no cure. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece.","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"40 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A jaw-dropping study on love in the most obscure of circumstances. It's an intense and compelling study of these characters who flow in the most opposite of circles (one a Nazi, the other a Jewish prisoner in the concentration camp he works at) and a love that transcends anything I've imagined experiencing. I've heard the film called dull numerous times and I could see why one would think this, but I thought the haunting silences only made the film more engaging and had my eyes further glued to the screen. The structure of spasmodically switching from scenes in the concentration camp to when the two lovers see each other again in 1957 really helped put the viewer into the mind-set of the two main characters. It jars the mind and keeps us aware of this inordinate love and why these people are so confused and attracted to one another. A truly original technique that I really admired. Liliana Cavani uses angles and wide-shots that create a haunting sense of passion and really made the cinematography rank high among my all time favorites. Dick Bogarde and especially Charlotte Rampling are phenomenal. Their performances are passionate, intense and natural. The film certainly lived up to my expectations. "},{"Title":"Very flawed but interesting and often beautiful film","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"31 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's easy to dismiss a film like this or Salo or In the Realm of the Senses as garbage. It's too easy, in fact, and not very fair. These films are all very interesting, if you can take them. And, if you can't stand the heat, hey, stay out of the kitchen.Among the ranks of what I'll call the Artsploitation flick, The Night Porter is rather tame. There are only a couple of hardcore sex scenes, and there are really only two scenes with nudity.What I like about this film is, first and foremost, the performance by Dirk Bogarde. The subtle guilt and shame he projects is simply amazing. He really builds a three dimensional character, and mostly without dialogue. Other performers are weaker. Charlotte Rampling, his captive, gives a very uneven performance. Sometimes it seems on the money, other times it seems forced, or blank. None of the others are really worth mentioning, except for that one actor's ballet dancing, which is quite remarkable.Cavani's direction is sensuous. I saw this film for the second time today,and I had failed to notice before that it was directed by a woman. Unfortunately, that doesn't affect my reading of the film any, but it is interesting. This definitely seemed like a male project. Cavani's direction has a certain grace, a certain elegance. The film contains several scenes that could be called masterpieces in the midst of a lesser work. My favorite in the entire film is the one where Lucia locks herself in the bathroom, breaks a bottle in front of the door, and then allows Max to run in after her. This scene is so marvelously directed, it would work particularly well when seen as a separate entity. The famous nude cabaret song, the one depicted on the Criterion cover, is also exquisite.Technically, it is perfect. The cinematography is beautiful, as I've mentioned. The musical score is also gorgeous. It's possibly one of the greatest. The biggest failure of the film is definitely its script. The story is very difficult to follow. It's never clear exactly what has happened since the war, and what these former Nazis are doing in Vienna. It's also unclear what exactly the trials are that are always being brought up. And I'm not sure what they are afraid of, what they originally plan to do with Lucia, or anything like that. Or why they can't break into Max's apartment again. A lot of this stuff seems silly. I would have also liked Lucia's character better developed. We get the sense that she accepted Max's advances so quickly so that she could get his protection, which she receives in that biblical dance scene. I want more yet. With Max so well developed, Lucia feels somewhat like an object for the plot.I rate this a high 7/10. "},{"Title":"Bleak","Date":"8 July 2009","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is quite dark. If you are seeking material that can be described as happy or light, you will not find it here. I didn't know anyone in this prior to viewing. This deals with Max, the night porter of the title, who has tried to put his past in the SS behind him. One night, he spots a woman, Lucia, and they both recognize each other... she was one of the concentration camp prisoners, and the two had a specific relationship with one another. The plot is captivating. This is deliberately paced, and those who have short attention spans, and/or wish for a lot of developments in a feature are not the intended audience for this. I found the behavior of all of the characters chillingly psychologically accurate, and this definitely takes a long, hard, unflinching and uncompromising look at human nature and the mind, and not everyone is going to like the observations. The acting is excellent. All of the leads disappear into their roles. They are all well-cast, too, talent as well as physical types. I don't know if anything similar to this has truly happened, but I can imagine it, and this does pay respect to the historical events. The editing mixes flashbacks and the present effectively. This has disturbing content, including violence, sexuality that is not graphic and explicit nudity. None of it is gratuitous. The DVD has credits and posters, and while the print starts out looking shabby, it turns out to be perfectly fine. I recommend this to anyone who believes they can handle it, and is mature enough, from reading this review. 7/10 "},{"Title":"I can't get this out of my head!","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"33 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this film quite by accident last night on IFC and have been walking around in a state of near tears ever since. What really struck me about the story was not the sadomasochistic aspect which I actually found to be rather minor, (He slaps her around a bit and there is a scene where she is chained to a bed), but rather the tenderness and love shown by Max. He calls her his little girl throughout the movie and indeed that seems to be the most accurate description of his feelings. I couldn't help thinking of Lolita and indeed it is a similar idea. In both stories the man is both the tormentor and the tormented. Because he is in a position of absolute power of course he is the exploiter, but also it is almost as though he is held captive by her, the illusive girl/child/women he want to both take care of the way one would a daughter and also penetrate like a lover. And in both stories this proves of course to be impossible as the mans very nature (in one case he is a pedophile, in another a Nazi) prevents it from being so.  "},{"Title":"Eroticism + Nihilism = 1970's Art-Films","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Way back in the mists of time, in the early 1970's, there were some directors (both male and female) who made sincere efforts to make films that dealt with themes of fringe-sexuality and dark nihilism, but create  them with seriousness, mood, and poignancy in other words, they tried to raise the fringes up to the level of High Art. Along with films like Last Tango in Paris, The Night Porter is a story about a very implausible encounter between 2 people who willingly descend into self-destructive behavior and death. The story involves a female Holocaust-survivor who accidentally reunites with a man who used to be a Nazi guard at her concentration-camp, and who had sexually tormented her. But we're to believe that she actually loved this man, and fondly remembers his sexual exploitation of her in the camp, portrayed through many flashbacks. The very idea of this occurring in real life defies belief, but perhaps that's not the point. I assume the director, who is a woman, wants the viewer to accept the scenario as-is and then ponder the many gray areas of sexual morality and emotional bondage between men and women, and then question the dark side of the soul and where it leads us if we explore its power too deeply. I assume the film's nihilistic ending is the director's answer to these questions.The film's pace is very ponderous and pensive, with long periods of silence and wordless flashbacks to the Holocaust. The film is very moody, includes some very pretty Classical music scores, and the camera frames scenes with may creative angles and reflections. Charlotte Rampling is really quite good in her role as the Holocaust survivor. Most people remember her topless dance in one of her flashbacks, where she dances seductively for several Nazi officers, but it's actually quite tastefully done, filmed as an odd analogy of the New Testament story of Salome's Last Dance. It's probably one her best roles, despite the unbelievable context.This film is very much part of that genre of early 1970's films known today as Cinema of Alienation. The early 70's was a time of some pretty serious artistic Angst, which is a mindset that can sometimes produce very powerful art. The film's ending would never get past Hollywood today, since American audiences are supposed to walk out of theaters feeling happy and secure, not disturbed.I recommend the film. It will linger in your mind for quite a while. But it's not a date-movie, so choose your co-viewers wisely. Remember, this is High Art... ;-) "},{"Title":"Passions","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers.  The story is mechanically simple.  A Sturmbahnfuhrer more or less falls in love with, and adopts, a beautiful young inmate of a concentration camp.  After the war he joins a group of men with similar backgrounds who are devoted to the task of erasing all evidence of their iniquitous pasts, including the rubbing out of living witnesses.  By accident, the ex-Nazi, now a hotel porter, runs into his former victim.  They fall in love and reestablish their sadomasochistic relationship.  The other members of his group discover that he is now living with his lover.  The ex-Nazi refuses to turn her over and as a result they are both murdered.Why this simple story arouses such hatred in viewers and critics isn't easy to understand.  The general feeling seem to be that the Nazi program of extermination shouldn't be treated lightly.  Here we have nudity, male homosexuality, fellatio, sodomy, rolling around and having intercourse on a jelly-covered floor.  (Did I leave anything out?)  And of course anything with a radiant young Charlotte Rampling running around in the nude can't be all tragic.But the movies treat the holocaust lightly all the time, if by lightly we mean exploitatively.  The most familiar stories center on survivors, all of whom carry with them an undeniable moral weight.  (The power of survivorhood is so intense that recently a number of stories have come to light in which individuals invented histories of concentration camp experiences.)  And, of course, all Germans must be the devils in a living hell.  These are convenient myths but they cheapen what actually happened and lead to a misunderstanding of the kind that perpetuates racial and national hatreds.  Historically the episode was worse than the media seem to imagine.  The inmates were not all saints.  The guards were not all sadists. (At least some of them must have been capable of love.)  The Nazis didn't kill six million people in the camps.  They killed more than twice that number if you count not only Jews but homosexuals, communists, the mentally retarded, gypsies, and political undesirables.These considerations rather complicate matters.  Evil there was, without question, but as is usual in human affairs, it was mixed in with other very common personality and social traits.  The media treatment of the holocaust is usually so simple minded that it relieves us of the need for thought.The Night Porter is unsettling because it violates these strictures. With his past, Max, the Dirk Bogarde figure, must not have any redeeming qualities.  Lucia, his victim, cannot possibly care for him.  Since we don't want to believe any of this -- and it IS implausible -- it's easy to hate this movie.But actually it isn't so terribly done.  There is, first, Charlotte Rampling, unbeatable in this sort of role.  Then there is Dirk Bogarde, who has never given a better performance, except perhaps in The Servant. What he does with an ordinary scene, sitting at a table or desk, is outstanding in itself.  He seems to compulsively rub a napkin or piece of paper slowly and methodically across the surface.  Absent the cloth or paper, he quietly squishes his fingertips against the wood.It isn't a great movie but neither does it deserve the scorn that's been heaped upon it.   "}{"Title":"An unsettling trip into decadence, eroticism, and bondage&#133;","Date":"7 October 2008","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film is excellently photographed and edited&#133; There is much artistry in the acting, especially by Dirk Bogarde, who is able to genuinely convey strong mixed emotions&#133; An ex-Nazi scientist hides out as a porter in a German hotel after the War... One day a very rich woman enters the place, a woman he recognizes as one of his concentration-camp sex-experiment subjects... She recognizes him too, but instead of turning him over to the authorities, she strikes up a dead and perverse relationship with him and slips back into her role as a sex slave&#133; The movie carefully moves from a slightly romantic byplay to a sexually perverse relationship between the two people, ending in a controversial scene where the woman is chained inside an apartment and repeatedly raped&#133; Most disturbing is the film's accuracy, despite its rather unorthodox development...The motion picture is not necessarily stimulating, but seriously portrays the damage that can be done by sexual abuse&#133; "},{"Title":"Portrait of a Zeitgeist","Date":"26 March 2012","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Some films which deal with the issue of the Shoah usually end up repeating certain, rather stereotypical narrative mechanisms, depicting shocking images of war, its casualties and concentration camps, which usually end up 'distancing' the viewer from the events. The Night Porter isn't one of these films.It submerges you in the warped world of two people reunited by very unusual circumstances, while managing to perfectly portray the Zeitgeist. Lucia is a camp survivor, who, while imprisoned, develops a weird bond with one of her torturers, Maximilian. In a way they depend on each other to survive. They reunite by chance in a Vienna hotel, where Maximilian works as a night porter, 13 years after the war.Their lives spiral out of control as they struggle to stay together, blocking out the outside world, along with its moral principles (what is considered normal, acceptable).What Lucia feels for Maximilian could be dismissed as a manifestation of Stockholm syndrome, but I believe one could view it entirely different. Lucia never got over the events in the camp, those were the strongest memories, and the encounter with max reactivates all these feelings of masochistic nostalgia once more. Even the song she chooses to perform for the Nazi generals allows us a glimpse of her personality, of her way of seeing things I would like to be a little bit happy. Because if I were too happy, I would long for sorrow.Maximilian sees Lucia as his only means for redemption. If he can protect and 'love' Lucia, all his act will be forgiven. It is clear the years of cruelty have had an effect on his mind, and that also, he never really agreed with the methods used (he refuses to give his former Nazi comrades the salute). Lucia is his way out.With its cold colour scheme, haunting music, and brilliant acting, The Night Porter brings us in the middle of a very personal drama. By showing us the story of two very strange characters, the film succeeds in recreating the atmosphere after WWII.SPOILER. The ending is what makes this film a work of art it's not a pleasant walk in the sunset, a happy ending for a traditional love story, but a depiction of the brutality of real life, a sudden end to a relationship seen as unnatural. This is one of the best films I've ever seen, and I cannot recommend it enough. "},{"Title":"Unsettling, Haunting, Beautiful, Chilling, Poetic, Disgusting and perhaps even Romantic. All at the same time.","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is both disturbing and effective. This film stands out as one of the 70's bleakest contributions. It's very hard to obtain just one feeling towards the film since it has so many layers and creates so many emotions.The lead a night porter who used to be a Nazi officer in charge of a concentration camp encounters his past when one of his previous captives checks into his hotel. A relationship between captor and captive is then revealed. As a matter of fact in some (sick) way they are very much in love. Whether it's the Stockholm syndrome or something else is never quite revealed but when her fiancé leaves she stays behind and the two of them pick up where they left off.Of course it can in no way be a idyllic relationship and of course problems occur. The fear that she can be used as a witness spreads among the Nazi underground which he is still very much a part off though he wants to leave and stay in the shadows. The movie is about what the night porter does to protect his love from danger and might I say it's quite poetic.Fabulous performances from both Dirk Bogarde(my favorite actor of all time) and Charlotte Rampling. The frames are nearly perfect and the film itself was so complicated and well done that the director (Liliana Cavani) should be considered a master.But lets get back to the emotions this film contains. I just can't makeup my mind how I feel about these two people and their love. One side of it is quite beautiful but the other side is both disgusting and incredibly chilling. Unsettling, haunting, beautiful, chilling, poetic, disgusting and perhaps even romantic are the words I would use to describe this film. It's these mixed responses that makes me love this film so much. "},{"Title":"Compelling character study and explosive drama","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Compelling character study of a man (Dirk Bogarde as Max) who is both eager to erase his past and determined to cling to its pleasures. Max is the ex-SS officer who enjoyed a complex, sado-masochistic relationship during WW2 with Lucia (Charlotte Rampling), his Jewish captive. When, more than a decade and a half later, Lucia turns up at the hotel where Max now works as a night porter, old pains and pleasures are reignited.Liliana Cavani's film is potent, powerful stuff, a kaleidescope of human observations and ideas. Bogarde's performance is an intense and tortured one, as is Rampling's essaying of the fascinating Lucia. A central plot thread concerning a core of ex-SS officers battling to erase their official records while fighting just as hard to maintain their inner power structure is the material of explosive drama.Bogarde and Rampling's addiction to their checkered history rings absolutely true and provides for a series of potent erotic interludes. Cavani's handling of the script's multiple layers is expert, while the stately, inventive cinematography by Alfio Contini is striking and truly an example of style following substance.A thriller, a love story, and a study of grotesque sexual politics, The Night Porter is an outstanding achievement, and a prime exhibit of a type of cinema that has now vanished. In every sense, a work that begins with the intellect. "},{"Title":"Controversial story will have you talking!","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a very controversial film when it first came out in 1974 and they're was a lot of backlash towards it in the same manner that accompanied all of Pier Paolo Pasolini's films. I never liked Pasolini but I did find this film much better. Certainly more interesting than some have said. Liliana Cavani does have a focus point to this story and even though its an old fashioned one, its surrounded in an unconventional manner. Dirk Bogarde is Max. The night porter in a seedy hotel who also happens to be a former SS officer. One day he notices a woman that is staying in his hotel and its a women that was his prisoner in a concentration camp and he had a sado-masochistic relationship with. Charlotte Rampling plays Lucia and at first she is stunned and wants to leave after seeing him but then she is unsure. One of the more remarkable scenes is when Max confronts Lucia and yells at her and slaps her asking why she had to pick his hotel. Lucia shows both hate and love in her reaction. It shows the viewer what kind of a strange but powerful bond was developed years earlier. Bogarde is terrific. His character is very neat and orderly and demonstrates his loyalty to the people staying at his hotel. Bogarde says so much without speaking and just using his fingers to run along edges of things. Ramplings beauty is needed in this film and her acting is also top notch. She does get very quiet towards the end but she has always been a brave actress and its needed here. Another scene that stands out is when she is a teenager in the concentration camp and in a skimpy leather Nazi uniform she performs Like Marlene Dietrich as Lola.  ****SPOILER ALERT**** Later in the film other former SS officers learn of Max and a former prisoner and they want to get rid of her since she is a witness and Max refuses to give her up. Both of them are targeted and they hole up in an apartment. Cavani doesn't seem to care about how these two found each other or the circumstances, she does though want to show that despite all the things that are going on nothing will separate them again. The last scene in the film shows this. They are dressed exactly the way when they first met. She in a dress for young girls and he in his Nazi uniform. Cavani does show some kinky and disturbing images but at the core of this film is just an unconventional love story. Its certainly worth a look. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing but not for any insights into fascism","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Liliani Cavani's 1974 film, set in 1957 Vienna, is a puzzling and uncomfortable study of a sado-masochistic relationship, and is worth seeing for the performances of Dirk Bogard as night porter/ex-SS officer Max, and especially Charlotte Rampling as former concentration camp inmate Lucia. But it would be wrong to draw from it much in the way of generalised messages about fascism, concentration camps, or the holocaust. That some Nazis were sadists is hardly a revelation; that among their millions of victims a few might have enjoyed being dominated shouldn't surprise us; and that such a relationship should voluntarily be renewed after the war may be unlikely, but not entirely incredible. So far as we can see in the film, the only point of contact between Max and Lucia is their physical relationship, based on mutual cruelty and pain, which we are shown via graphic, sometimes shocking, images. Apparently, they have no real desire to go beyond this physical relationship, which they lock themselves into, until it leads to their deaths. (They could easily evade the siege of their apartment by a group of ex-Nazis, if they so wished.)The film enters the area of the overtly political in its sub-plot about this group of ex-Nazis, who try to come to terms with their pasts by confessing their crimes to each other; while at the same time taking direct action to file away both incriminating documents and awkward witnesses. The film leaves this story unfinished, with these fascists going about their business; in view of the recent resurgence of the extreme right-wing in Austria, this seems an appropriately open ending. Music is prominent in the film. One scene takes place at a performance of Mozart's The Magic Flute. As well as reminding us of the sublime heights to which man can rise in contrast to the depths we have witnessed in the concentration camp scenes, Mozart's opera seems  relevant because, like this film, it deals enigmatically with themes of good and evil, imprisonment and freedom. Also relevant is the song Lucia sings in the key scene where she imitates Marlene Dietrich's Lola in the Blue Angel; it was written by Friedrich Hollander and, roughly translated, it is about how the singer finds it difficult to choose between good and bad times, because happiness and sadness go together.      "},{"Title":"Reunited and it feels so good!","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* SPOILER ALERT*Max and Lucia embrace their fate. They didn't meet under the most ideal circumstances. Best not to let the Holocaust get in the way of a good S/M relationship. They are in love. No one will stand in their way. Not the police nor the former SS officers who want to file Lucia away with the rest of their past. Max was in some sort of self help group for former Nazi's. Having a cathartic confession wasn't going to work for him. He needed to hang on to his past and Lucia was part of it.I guess you could look at the movie two ways. One, as sort of classy exploitation. It's not too brutal but anything with Nazi decadence gives off a sleazy vibe. Two, as a story of obsession between former lovers who won't let go. Either scenario worked for me. Both actors were quite good at conveying obsession over each other. They were happy again although they knew it wasn't going to last. Besides, there are a ton of movies about old lovers finding each other again. This one just happened to be a little extreme. I liked it.  "},{"Title":"This film explores the mystery of human relationship in extraordinary circumstances","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  On the surface, THE NIGHT PORTER will be at a minimum, politically incorrect to some, repugnant and perverse to others. How can one find redeeming virtue in the sado-masochistic affair between a former S.S. Officer and concentration camp survivor who chance to encounter one another after the war and resume their affair?  But indeed, the power of this film is in that very choice.  Charlotte Rampling's postwar concert pianist is beautiful, refined, successful and married.  Dirk Bogard's former S.S. officer is resigned to quietly living out his days incognito as a night porter in a hotel, secretly preserving his true identity and trying to avoid detection by authorities.  In his servile role as a night porter, it's hard to believe he was ever in a position of power over anyone else. But we see in flashbacks what he became when he did have that power, and it isn't pretty. Yet, as E.M. Forster said, Only connect.  And therein lies the mystery.  For no matter how one points a finger at these lovers and declares them to be sick, they are indeed lovers and their attraction to one another compels them to act in spite of the danger to both of them.  I believe this is one of the most intriguing stories of human connectedness you will ever see!  If you can get past the impulse to respond like the rest of the pack, you may get a glimpse at the mystery of the human condition. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and unforgettable story of a deadly passion","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have mixed feelings about this film, owing partly to the way it was promoted on its original release in the U.S. in 1974, as a titillating quasi-porn movie. In fact, the movie is actually somewhat restrained, considering the grim subject matter.My most recent viewing leads me to consider it as a better movie than I had thought before, with genuinely disturbing overtones, and a far more serious exploration of a desperate and unhealthy love than one would expect. By the time the film ended, there was no question in my mind that ex-Nazi Max and former prisoner Lucia were in fact hopelessly in love with each other and needed each other in a way that far transcended a more normal relationship. The almost casual way that Lucia abandons her bland and clueless husband for her former captor/lover is amazing in its down to earth simplicity. Nothing is more important to her than Max, and he is willing to die for her.Not that this is a beautiful love story, or a perfect movie. There are a lot of unanswered questions about the backgrounds of the two main characters, and I wish Lucia's personality and motivations had been explored in more detail. There are moments that risk seeming unintentionally funny, despite the somber approach. I found myself wishing that the writer and director had skipped all the intrigue with the Nazis spying on each other, and concentrated more on the affair between Max and Lucia.The acting is generally good and the storyline made fairly credible. It's hard to imagine anyone but Charlotte Rampling in the difficult role of Lucia, and she is amazing in her passion and perversity. The problematic role of Max is handled well by Dirk Bogarde, managing to evoke some sort of sympathy for the character, which is certainly not easily earned, considering his background as an SS officer at a concentration camp during the war.This is an odd, thought-provoking movie, that can be both frustrating and fascinating to watch, and is definitely not for everyone. More than one viewing is required to begin to appreciate the depths of the performances undertaken by Bogarde and Rampling, but it can leave a bad taste in the mouth. The film is probably best regarded as a sort of highbrow guilty pleasure.One more thing I kept finding myself thinking of the Italian film Kapo, a seldom seen movie with a young Susan Strasberg as a camp prisoner who does what it takes to survive. These two pictures might make for an interesting double feature. "},{"Title":"The Night Porter","Date":"16 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Liliana Cavani's Il Portiere di Notte is one of those movies where the characters are more interesting than the story. The story is straightforward enough. A former SS officer Max (Dirke Bogarde) goes into hiding as a night porter at a hotel. He lives a gloomy, uneventful life until one day he sees a former concentration camp inmate, the beautiful Lucia (Charlotte Rampling), in the hotel lobby. He becomes obsessed with her because all the memories he had about torturing and molesting this young girl come to the fore again and he wishes to relive them. But more than that Lucia wants to relive those experiences too, though whether this is because she has not quite recovered from her Stockholm syndrome experience is a question that this film chooses wisely not to answer. What follows is a perverse, strange, painful and sad love affair that eventually ends in tragedy.If this movie was entrusted to typical Hollywood actors, it could have been a disaster. But Dirke Bogarde gives a mesmerizing performance as the cold, tortured, perverse and somewhat loving (though it almost always comes out the wrong way)night porter, Max. He not only delivers very complicated lines in a very believable way (imagine someone else saying the lines he was given without sounding scripted and you will see what I mean), but he even draws in the audience with something as simple as his facial expressions. Charlotte Rampling is also extraordinary as Lucia. She does not have many lines, but she does give a remarkable performance nonetheless which consists of strange body language that forces the audience to ask themselves what she is thinking.But the truly great achievement of this film is that Dirke and Charlotte force you to care about Max and Lucia and their love affair, even though their lifestyle is so perverse, so masochistic and so different from our own. Film director Pier Paolo Pasolini tried to make a perverse and sado-masochistic film called Salo (1975), but his film was quickly brought done by its own disgusting subject matter in large part because he failed to create characters that we could actually give a damn about. But Cavani has created a film that does that. So even though the subject matter is perverse, cruel and disgusting, it has a logic all its own that intelligent viewers can appreciate. Even though this film's plot challenges social mores, the characters still inspire sympathy. The Night Porter is about people behaving in perverse, sometimes cruel, sometimes disgusting and often degrading ways, but at the same time it talks about these things without becoming a degrading and disgusting movie. The Night Porter is a challenging, profound and brilliant film. "}{"Title":"A Woman's Strange Addiction","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a complex movie, and I didn't like it the first time I saw it; I thought it invited us to take pleasure in the degradation of the character Lucia. Later viewings led me to see that this is a sympathetic study of a woman damaged by her youthful experiences.The story is simple enough an opera-conductor's work takes him to Vienna, where he and his wife Lucia stay in an elegant but somehow decadent hotel. Here she recognizes the night porter as the concentration camp guard who had abused her when she was a teen-age inmate. The expectation is that she'll call the cops, but no she abandons her husband, he quits his job, and the two throw themselves into a doomed and passionate amour-fou.I'll probably be pelted with bricks for suggesting that this is a chick flick, but I notice that female reviewers treat it much more respectfully, and give it a higher rating. Tracy Hodson has written an excellent appraisal at amazon.com which goes into much more detail than I ever could. Anyhow, novelist Barbara Alberti and director Lilliana Cavani put a lot of effort into it, and deserve serious attention.The film achieved instant notoriety when it came out, but anyone looking for cheap thrills is going to be bored silly. The Nazi background is not essential to the story, it simply sets the scene for an abusive relationship in a way that viewers of 1974 could understand. Lucia does the unthinkable because her soul has been warped by her experiences - alas, this sort of thing is more commonplace than we care to admit, other viewers have had something to say about this.Charlotte Rampling gives an excellent performance, once you know what she's trying to achieve - you'll notice that she's actually the one who calls the shots in the relationship, contrary to surface appearances. Dirk Bogarde is good at playing the sort of elegantly sinister character that was his specialty. The imagery and pacing owe a lot to Visconti films like The Damned. The pace was actually too slow for my liking - I missed the concentrated fury of Repulsion - but it at least contributed to the atmosphere of elegance combined with decay. I recommend this to people who enjoy intense character studies, but not to those looking for excitement. "},{"Title":"A Completely Unique Film","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw The Night Porter it was on an old VHS copy and it did not do it justice.  Now, however, after owning the DVD put out by the Criterion collection - it is a totally different experience - I would assume almost as good as it would have been to see it in a theatre.  Alot of people have called this film sleazy but I find it far from that.  Indeed, it is classy if not classic in it's exploration of the human psyche and how damaged people are permanently imprinted by the experiences they have suffered.  If one takes away the Nazi and his holocaust victim, it could just as easily be the imprints and possible repercussions left through incest, rape, domestic violence, post-traumatic syndrome, whether in war or any other realm.  Yes, the beauty of this film is that it far surpasses just the circumstances of the two characters and because of this is universal in the nature of human behaviour between those that have not had the luxury of having it easy and have undergone in their lifetimes something so traumatic that the scars are indelibly etched upon their souls whether they know so or not.  Charlotte Rampling is awesome - she just is.  She resonates so much without the need to utter a single word.  She is vibrant and kinetic and full of complexities.  She makes it easy somehow to believe that this woman could actually fall back into such a cycle with her one-time captor and torturer.  Dirk Bogard is almost equally as good as the Nazi now relegated to working as a night porter in a small hotel.  He has the natural makings of a man that shows only so much on the surface and yet you constantly feel that there is more that it to that.  There is nothing more powerful in the world than the human imagination and he allows us to endow what we choose upon his inner most thoughts.The world is not a perfect place.  The world is not a place where everyone just gets on with it.  There a millions of people in the world still struggling, still dealing with aftermath.  In a millenium where dysfunction has become a universal theme, so The Night Porter remains a universal film. Not often seen by the masses, but brilliant in it's portrayal of the price many unknown faces across the globe pay for the pasts and the mistakes of others. "},{"Title":"Bordering on the exploitative","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This little disturbing film is often deemed responsible for the flood of Italian nazi-exploiters.  I would say that this is not entirely fair.While Cavani's film certainly borders on being exploitative, it does not overstep the line.  The Italian nazi-exploiters were clearly mostly modelled on another 1974 flick, the infamous Ilsa, She-Wolf of the S.S. and on the earlier Love Camp 7, the granddaddy of the genre.  Still, we find a few motives from the Night Porter in sleazier genre entries, in particular L'Ultima orgia del III Reich borrowed the idea of the tormentor/victim fascination. "},{"Title":"See it and Weep","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A slow, mesmerizing, naughty film that is raw and so good - it will not be truly embraced and appreciated for all that it is - for years to come. This film is bold - and after you see it and you read the reviews around it - you see the funny little joke that comes out of the wood works.  The reviewers come off like repressed, stuck up - uncomfortable morons.  This film is an inspiration because it is brutal.  And it is ugly.  And it is uncompromising.  And sadly and sorry to say - so is life.  See it and Weep. "},{"Title":"Darkly intense insight into a polical stained amour fou.","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In my opinion The Night Porter, Liliana Cavani's most original and complex film, is the most intense entry in Italy's nazi/sex-cycle of the seventies. In it's difficult, nearly philosophical structure the film comments on the twisted system of character-corruption and mistrust the German Fascism is based on. If you can read German, you might be interested in my book on this topic Marcus Stiglegger Sadiconazista. Faschismus und Sexualitaet im Film. St. Augustin Gardez! Verlag 1999, 256 Seiten, 40 Fotos. "},{"Title":"How do you ruin a premise like this?","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I simply cannot fathom how a film with a premise like this can fail on every level to strike one iota of interest in the viewer. What should be a dark, seedy, erotic, subversive journey through Nazi sadism and sexual obsession becomes a bland, stoic, embarrassing disaster. There is simply an unending buffet of explorable ideas with the lingering pain of concentration camp imprisonment/sexual abuse and transgression, yet somehow this film seems content with not really exploring anything. Despite this, the subject matter is never taken far enough to even be called exploitation. It's just&#133;.nothing. It feels as if Liliana Cavani saw this material as a challenge. Feeling that it was far too interesting, she would see just how much she could whittle it down until no one would care one way or the other. There is an overwhelming feeling that perhaps the material actually was too risqué or subversive for her, and as not to offend by going to any extreme, it was kept generic out of safety. One cannot say for certain. Generic cinematography captures the lifelessness of the director's vision with dull grays pervading every shot. Watch Pasolini's Salo if you want to see how to portray decadence visually. Charlotte Rampling and Dirk Bogarde are about as interesting as cacti, lazily looking forlorn in every shot, other than when they roll around giggling and lightly humping for three minutes at a time. Rampling, in particular, gave me no reason to care at all what happened to her. She walks the world, machine-like, occasionally giving a quick shocked glare, as if the director finally admitted that she needed to do SOMETHING. Concurrently, every one else in the cast defies all reason by staunch adherence to expressing less emotion than Caligari's Somnambulist. Claiming they are Nazi's or she is scarred from her past! do not excuse lazy direction and wooden performances. These people make Bresson's actors appear radiant and full of life. There is a key scene where Charlotte Rampling dances and serenades multiple SS officers while topless, adorned with a Nazi commander's cap. This scene is not disturbing. It is not titillating or erotic. Yet it appears that the director's goal was to induce both feelings of attraction and repulsion in the viewer, perhaps to have us realize her brilliance in making us question how we could be attracted to something so despicable (though, judging from the rest of the film, Cavani may not be talented enough to create such a scene or think such a thought). What should be both haunting and beautiful turns hokey and irritating as it drags on. Overall it seems as if Cavani is desperately trying to be Catherine Breillat before there really was a Catherine Breillat. She failed. "},{"Title":"Uncredited song","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film's big number, the song in the nightclub scene, is uncredited. Its title is 'Wenn ich mir was wuenschen duerfte', and it was written by Friedrich Hollaender, aka Frederick Hollander. Hollaender was the leading cabaret composer in Berlin in the 1920s, and achieved international fame with his songs for Marlene Dietrich in 'The Blue Angel'. Coincidentally, Dietrich recorded 'Wenn ich mir was wuenschen duerfte' in 1930. "},{"Title":"Exploitation? No way.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie disturbed me for several years, but I kept watching it every six months or so. Living in a country where people were deported 58 years ago and where now fascism threatens us again does not help.It took me quite a while to understand this film. Until I read about The Stockholm syndrome, where terrorists captured hostages and finally one of the hostages married the captor. OK, I know, women are strange -)  I think once you survived such a camp something breaks in your mind.The scene with the jam jar is extreme but never unreal. The end is justified. They both cannot return to normal life and choose for their sort of bliss.Bogarde shows us what an actor he is and the same goes for Rampling.If you rent this movie, rent a second one to view afterwards. Something like Throw Mama from the train. There's a hell of a difference (this really happened) than watching a Hollywood farce. "},{"Title":"Mildly interesting","Date":"6 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Some time after World War 2, a survivor of a Nazi concentration camp, Lucia (played by Charlotte Rampling), stumbles across the Nazi officer who tormented her, Max (Dirk Bogarde). He is now a night porter at a hotel. They resume their sado-masochistic relationship...Mildly interesting, and not anywhere near the classic it is sometimes made out to be. Plot wasn't predictable though - has one huge twist about halfway through, which drives the second half of the movie. Not the great exposition on the effects of Nazism and the concentration camps I was was expecting though. Not overly profound at all, in fact. Drags at times - a bit of editing and it could at least been less dull.Decent performances by Dirk Bogarde and Charlotte Rampling. "},{"Title":"Dingy, bad taste vibes","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" THE NIGHT PORTER is one of those Italian art-house movies that goes out of its way to shock and as such has gained some notoriety over the years. In essence, the film charts the torrid love affair between a Nazi who managed to escape from the clutches of the Allies and one of the victims he tortured in a concentration camp. Instead of hating him, his victim finds herself falling for him, and the two embark on a painful, sadomasochistic relationship years before FIFTY SHADES OF GREY made the whole thing popular.I admit this whole set-up isn't really my cup of tea and I prefer films where the Nazis are being shot at rather than presented as broken, sympathetic people. Still, THE NIGHT PORTER is undoubtedly a well-shot movie, and Dirk Bogarde (VICTIM) is always fine playing these dark characters with their hidden secrets. I was a little cold where Charlotte Rampling's concerned, but then I've never really warmed to the actress. The plot is slow moving in this film but it always holds your attention and I appreciated the bleak ending, but it's the sexually-charged midsection that left me rather bored. "}{"Title":"A Game For Freaks","Date":"23 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" *WARNING!* - Don't let this DVD's tantalizingly provocative cover art of a young Charlotte Rampling in leatherette, Nazi gear fool you - 'Cause, believe me, when it comes to the likes of kink and depravity (with a bitter slice of S&M thrown in for good measure), The Night Porter plays it way too safe, and, unfortunately, doesn't deliver the wallop that it most certainly should have.Yes. This train wreck (of a Romeo & Juliet story) did contain some interesting and intriguing moments, but, overall, its unconventional storyline was set (throughout its entire 2-hour running time) at a very low simmer and never once did it reach the boiling point, as far as I'm concerned.Perhaps, now 40 years later, The Night Porter is about due for a remake.... And, in this mighty grim day and age (of insatiable tastes for unbridled violence and cruelty) that we now live in - I'm sure there's bound to be some no-holds-barred director out there who's capable of wetting the whistles of all those boys and girls across the nation, and beyond, who crave it dished up totally rough and raunchy, Nazi-style. "},{"Title":"Nazi and his lover prisoner","Date":"19 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's 1957 Vienna. Max (Dirk Bogarde) works at the front desk of a hotel at night. He's trying to hide the fact that he was in the Nazi SS with the help of other Nazis. Lucia Atherton (Charlotte Rampling) was a prisoner tormented by Max. She is haunted by her past and is shocked to discover Max working at her hotel. They fall back into their sadomasochistic relationship.I don't dismiss this movie for it perverse take on a Holocaust survivor. I don't think it's disturbing the collective image for those times. I do want better emotional clarity for the two characters. They are both playing their characters so quietly. Charlotte Rampling is amazing as always with her dead eyed smile but Dirk Bogarde lacks the intensity. Granted, he's playing a meek character as a hotel concierge. I just don't see him changing gears in his performance when they're alone together. I need him to shift to a higher gear. I also want their relationship to grow in intensity and devolve into depravity. Also the ending is a bit of a cheat. It needs to grow out of their relationship instead of coming from the other characters. "},{"Title":"Salacious and Silly","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Imagine you live in Germany. Only a decade has passed since the end of WWII. The Cold War is in full swing and your country is separated by east and west. Infrastructure is back to normal but the scars inflicted by the war have only begun to heal. You were an SS officer who used to have a job that was unpleasant, yet in your mind necessary. Now you're a lowly night porter for a swanky hotel in West Berlin.Thus starts the story of Maximilian Aldorfer (Dirk Bogarde) a man who lurks in the shadows along with a small cabal of surviving Nazis. They quietly meet to conduct trials to conceal any inkling of their past before the authorities find out, going so far as to kill possible witnesses. Max's life is unassuming and guilt-ridden; I want to live like a church mouse he says. That is until the arrival of Lucia (Charlotte Rampling), a former concentration camp prisoner whom he had a sadomasochistic relationship with and was her pseudo-protector. They recognize each other right away and the question becomes what will they do about it? The movie devolves from its tension inducing premise to a sensationalistic exploitation film. Don't get me wrong its leaps and bounds above Ilsa She Wolf of the SS (1975) but the intention is artistically the same and the fact that director Liliana Cavani tries to claw for deeper meanings beyond its trashy premise makes the film more manipulative than engrossing. There are references to the book of Mark and John the Baptist, a near naked ballet sequence of Mozart's Die Zauberflote and comparisons between Pelleas and Melisande all of which amount to a bucket of filth. It a film that attempts cultural literacy but makes the fatal mistake of being alienating, unpleasant and ultimately wearisome to watch.The Night Porter (1974) is not so much a movie as it is a forceful invitation into the minds of two severely damaged people. As the relationship between Max and Lucia turn into a despairing echo of what it used to be we see the extent of Lucia's Stockholm syndrome and the depths of Max's depravity. Yet what is forced upon us is the notion that this sordid love story 1 matters and 2 is tragic in a saccharine Romeo and Juliet kind of way.There is an uncomfortable, long-running juxtaposition between sadomasochism and Nazis. Perhaps it's because even today we equate Nazism with death, destruction and absolute authority. In some circles it's hard not to get aroused by staring death in the face (especially when it's carrying a whip). But while I'm sure this sexual predilection pre-dates The Night Porter, Salo, or the 120 Days of Sodom (1975) and The Producers (1967) I can't help but feel this kind of treatment makes light of the Nazis and their resoundingly negative contribution to world history. Perhaps instead of dressing up in black leather and swastikas it would be wise to downgrade to a Vichy Greatcoat and Kepi, you know, just in case a friend goes rummaging through your closet.Ultimately while the premise is intriguing and there are touches of artistic merit, The Night Porter is an insipid, opportunistic treatment of history. It makes menial attempts at making its characters believable and relatable but sequentially removes them from a realm of reality within the films final, grueling half hour. What should have been a movie about history, human frailty or lacking that credible love, became a kinky provocation offering little other than cheap thrills.http//www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Room service at a Hell of a cost.","Date":"9 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Night Porter is a tough, confrontative but rewarding psychological thriller about two people thrust together under very different circumstances to what it was they were both experiencing the first time they met. In the present day, that is to say 1950's Vienna, they are an extremely wealthy female Countess and a shrewd, brash male boss of a small group of staff that do well to keep a luxurious Austrian hotel running as well as it does. What they once were, however, is a male who was fairly high up in the Nazi pecking order of a concentration camp and one of the many female inmates inhabiting it. In short, the film is a depiction of power play and sadomasochism - but a power play and such wherein both parties seem to enjoy playing both the roles of the dominant and submissive. When they meet much later on, and much deeper into their newfound relationship these years later, they enjoy the dynamic that comes with it one half of the twosome allows themselves to be chained up and spoon fed under these controlled conditions, whereas the other needs to constantly be aware that their identity and history are both at threat of being exposed in an instant.Dirk Bogarde plays Maximilian, or Max to most around him; the said character in charge of a group of staff at a Vienna hotel in 1957 whose job it is to meet, greet and help new arrivals of an often affluent nature. Max strikes us as a bit of an animal, badgering and ordering his crew around as if with some sort of experience in running a tight ship and getting what he wants. Upstairs, the quarters wherein the live-in staff rest sport pictures hanging from the wall depicting separate images limited exclusively to topless women and two duelling boxers going at it in a ring. This overwhelming presence of sex and aggression apparent in this collection of images will come to define the central pairing we observe play out. This pairing, consisting of Max and one other, is complete with the hotel's latest arrival a young woman named Lucia Atherton (Rampling), who arrives with what we presume to be her usual entourage but immediately makes us aware of something not quite right when she spies Max behind the front desk and vice-versa as she stands there in the lobby. His nervous behaviour during the immediate thereafter is distinctly different enough to suggest something has truly thrown him, whereas Lucia's experiences of PTSD that evening (as she flashes-back to her time in Wartime Europe) allude to a greater truth.It is out of these beginnings that the two come together and go through the tryst that they do. It is one built on an enforced power exchange of the past that was initiated by a greater power beyond either of their control as well as the fresh control over the participant, whose role in any work or casual relationship is usually of a dominant nature, the submissive participant now has. The pair of them were based at the same Concentration Camp during World War Two, he has a guard; she as an inmate. We observe how he would shoot live rounds at and around Lucia's person where it's inferred many other inmates have already lost their lives. To this extent, it is a game; someone playing out their designated role of aggressor and forcing the other through metaphorical hoops for their own pleasure.Away from the central tract are Max's peers a large group of other war criminals hiding out in the Austrian city who meet around large tables in grand drawing rooms when they need to discuss something. They object to her presence, but Max wants her to stick around. Another aside arrives in the form of an odd, homo-erotic tie he has with a man named Bert (Amodio); a dancer who performs near-nude routines in the sanctuary of his own abode in front of him. He too is dissatisfied at Max's presence in his own life when Lucia comes along.Issue and controversy will always come with a film such as The Night Porter. It's a film dealing with very morbid triggers for sexualised urges, but it's a film distilling all of this through this back story of a prisoner/inmate Stockholm syndrome situation that is initiated in a Concentration Camp. One scene which will kill the film stone dead for those whom do not take to it arrives during an opera; a sequence with both parties present, although away from each other, and peppered with these flashbacks of varying sexualised activity in the camps whilst the tenor's performance acts as a deeply juxtaposed overture to what we're seeing. The point being we're not supposed to know whose flashbacks they are; whose memories are being shown and thus, remain unsure as to whether each of the person's reactions sync up with how much they're enjoying the evening or the fact their head's are being reignited with pleasurable instances from the past. In 1995, Katherine Bigelow would direct Strange Days wherein there was a scene depicting a rape. Through the certain means therein, rapist and rape victim could be conjoined in their experience and could both systematically share the pain and pleasure, agony and ecstasy of what the other was feeling. It could be argued Italian director Liliana Cavani was using similar ideas of power dynamics and enforced shifting emotions all of twenty years earlier, and in films that did not need fiction technological USP's to do so. The film has upset some, as did Strange Days; I happened to find it a quite engrossing and really rather well made drama. "},{"Title":"Nazis Remained a Problem","Date":"23 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" We Americans are, of course, famous for, among other things, our simplistic view of history. Most of us learned that Germany lost WWII, end of problem. I think The Night Porter is of value mainly because it points out, rather vividly, that Nazis did not disappear, they went into hiding. Not many other films seriously deal with that reality. So, yes, all the trappings of Nazism are indeed on display and that is understandably controversial. But if you look a little deeper you will see a more penetrating analysis of the problem of evil. The end of WWII was not end of story. The fact that this film dramatizes the continuation of Nazi ideology makes it, perhaps surprisingly, worthwhile. "},{"Title":"One of the most challenging films of the 70s","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The past catches up with an ex-Nazi officer who was in charge of a concentration camp when a victim of his stays at his hotel with her husband. They begin a very dark and strangely beautiful romance. After her husband leaves, the two continue with what they started many years ago.Deeply emotional and pitch dark, THE NIGHT PORTER is one of the most memorable films of the 70s. When things go bad for the characters, which is pretty much inevitable, it gets quite heart wrenching to watch. There is a lot of meaning behind the strange behavior and the sexuality, but the film doesn't try to hammer the point, nor does it turn into exploitation.The performances of Dirk Bogarde and Charlotte Rampling are outstanding. Their presences in this film is so haunting and, at times, difficult to watch due to their natural way about them. The one scene where she's dressed in the Nazi bondage gear and is dancing is so beautiful and so deeply disgusting. You aren't ever sure what's supposed to be enchanting and what's supposed to be disturbing, and th film pulls off this tone very well.It's an extremely difficult film to swallow. It's not one that I would ever see again. However, it will more than likely have an effect on you. Whether you love it or hate it, the film works. The film is all too effective. You may love it or you may hate it, but you're going to remember it. "},{"Title":"War Crimes and Sexual Obsession","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Max (Dirk Bogarde) is the definitive night porter in a Vienna hotel. In his prior life, however, he was a Nazi SS camp officer who kept a 14 year old girl (Charlotte Rampling) for his special attention. Thirteen years after the war, Lucia, now grown up and the wife of a symphony conductor checks into the hotel and encounters her former captor and lover behind the night desk. Both survivors of the war experience, Max longs for a quiet existence and will kill to ensure it, while Lucia, a stunning woman, decides to stay in Vienna and rekindle her previous relationship instead of following her husband to Berlin. Flashbacks to the camp reveal that Lucia's survival instincts were honed by her sexual services to Max, as well as her entertainment skills for other SS officers. Max's little girl grown up however, means that she can identify him and the small group of former Nazis who want Lucia out of Max's life set about to ensure the couple's demise. As Max and Lucia fall back into their former master and slave roles, the Stockholm syndrome or the perversity of love under duress is examined.Dirk Borgarde gives a brilliant as well as subtle and sympathetic performance in the role of an evil,guilt-riddled, obsessed man who is incapable of letting go of the past, nor wants to allow Lucia to be rid of him. Stunning Charlotte Rampling, once touted as the most beautiful woman in the world in the 70s, is his willing victim of their sick, deteriorating situation. Unable to break away and incapable of denying the reality of her past lover, the doomed Lucia repeats her shame with Max in Rampling's exquisite performance that is pathetic and magnetic on screen.Written and directed by women, this unusual film examines topics of victimization, obsession, and guilt as a sick, extreme form of love, a subject a head of its time in 1974. With the sub-text of Nazis seeking to avoid discovery, continuation of the decadence, and the seedy, twilight existence of jaded outsiders to society in Vienna, The Night Porter remains an outstanding adult, complex film that leaves viewers in an uneasy limbo to ponder in the end. "},{"Title":"Strong 1st half followed by disappointing 2nd half.","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although, Dirk Bogarde just doesn't come across as believable in the role of a former SS officer now moonlighting seventeen years later as a seedy night porter (of all implausible employment options), the first half of this film overcomes that in large part to strong story structure. In my opinion, the writing deftly explores Charlotte Rampling's character's background as a surviving victim of the holocaust whose Cinderella-like transformation is shattered by a brief chance encounter with her evil former molester. There are sequences that illustrate perfectly the reach of long ago nightmares into the present-day. What is now termed as post traumatic stress disorder is visually communicated in a Hitchcockian-like sequence where a conductor leads his orchestra while Rampling's character is stalked from a polite distance by Bogarde's SS officer. Later, when a glance over her shoulder reveals her tormentor's now-empty seat the hair on my back stood up.Unfortunately, as the film enters the 2nd half and Rampling's character initiates (to me an odd choice) an all-but-too-inevitable face-to-face encounter with the Bogarde character, there the film falls apart. It become's a romance played against some The Odessa File/The Boys from Brazil, ex-Nazi conspiracy to kill them both. It isn't well-written or very believable and, more importantly, uninteresting!!! Although, the last scene on the bridge is sad, very, very, sad and even tragic... by then I didn't care. "},{"Title":"Requires brainpower.........Hollywood film lovers beware!","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A deeply disturbing and beautiful film, The Night Porter still manages to arouse emotion so many years after it first appeared. The performances are superb, with Bogarde and Rampling in fine form. I particularly liked the scenes involving the ex - SS men and their 'alcoholics anonymous' - style meetings. There is a slight problem with the synchronisation of speech and film on my copy - and the quality makes it sound like it was very hastily re-dubbed (with the original actors). I wonder if anyone else has this feeling? In any case, the film works on many levels. The atmosphere established by the director is oppressive and dingy....you can feel it yourself.....its like a cold day in autumn when it is steely-grey and rainy outside...SO...watch this movie! (Unless you enjoy films like 'Rock Star'!) "},{"Title":"Before she could testify against you, you must file her away.","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you are looking for a nazisploitation film, then look elsewhere. While this film takes place 12 years after the war, and has frequent flashbacks to life in the concentration camps, it is a psychological study of sadomasochism and the Stockholm syndrome. Two-time Golden Globe nominee Dirk Bogarde (The Patricia Neal Story, Song Without End) is a former Nazi guard (Max) who is in hiding as a night porter, when he is placed in the proximity of Charlotte Rampling (Swimming Pool), a woman (Lucia) he loved in the camp.Bogarde is magnificent, and can say more with his facial expressions than many actors can say with words.While Max and Lucia are renewing their old relationship, a group of Nazis are trying to eliminate all traces of evidence from the camps. They are particularly interested in a woman recognized by and informer.Things get very desperate and Max and Lucia are in hiding. She can leave at any time, but won't, even when they are almost out of food. One can only imagine the twisted forces at work here. He is in love with her, and she is attached to him in a strange and unexplained way. They will starve rather than give in.Excellent direction by Liliana Cavani,and an absolutely beautiful soundtrack. "}{"Title":"Relating to Nazis who had mercy on their victims","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie shows us that once a Nazi always a Nazi, but Nazis, like all humans make certain concessions to their lust for pleasure, especially the pleasure to be had from a woman, especially when she is at their mercy. From the woman's point of view her gratitude for the mercy the Nazi has shown her, knows no bounds and she is ready to place herself, once again, but this time voluntarily at his mercy, when she meets him after the war and she suffers the consequences. These actually could have been good, that is she could have ended up having a happy marriage with the Nazi who had rescued her. But loyal Nazis still thrived even after the war and a pure blood German living with a Jewess was intolerable in their scheme of things. Their pursuit of the couple creates the tension that makes this movie an excellent thriller. This added to raising the question of how we are to relate to Nazis who had mercy on their subjects, makes this movie great. "},{"Title":"Nazism and Mozart - the two extremes of Eurooean culture...","Date":"7 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" W.A.Mozart wrote sublime music - surely the ultimate expression of the beauty of the human mind - including The Magic Flute,referred to by Neville Cardus as The only opera that could conceivably have been written by God which features extensively in The Night Porter. On the other hand,the Nazis - presumably God's worst nightmare - fulfilled the polar opposite expression of the human mind and it is the clash of these two cultures and their affect on men and women faced with extraordinary stresses that the film explores. Max and Lucia - former prisoner and captive - have a savage and sadistic relationship dating from the Death Camps which is rekindled a dozen years later. Max is outwardly a clever,cultured and charming man,but he is wracked with guilt and fear over the possibility has past will be revealed. Lucia has her own guilt issues because of what she did to survive the Holocaust. Music plays a strong part,from the ballet dancing Nazi Officer to the song Lucia sings to entertain her captors,and its constant counterpoint to the action on the screen. When news of Lucia's re - appearance reaches Max's fellow ex - Nazis,they demand she should be killed,but he runs away with her instead sealing both their fates. Mr D.Bogarde and Miss C.Rampling are both extraordinary in this film, a performance equal to his in The Victim and one she has never approached since. It is not easy to watch but I recommend it wholeheartedly because it shows that love - albeit an unusual kind - will endure. "},{"Title":"This movie is a singular curio might find audience among those who are not feeble-minded and vacant from all the political innuendos","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" THE NIGHT PORTER, is a doomed love story in its kernel while being notorious for its sadomasochistic exploitation between not any random two, but Max (Bogarde), a former Nazi SS officer and Lucia (Rampling), his prisoner in the concentration camp. It is such a campy plot design, blatantly excites for controversy. Directed by the Italian art-house cult- director Liliana Cavani, my very first foray into her filmography, what sticks in my mind after watching is not the sensational perverseness of the sex act, but a tenacious nihilism animated by those two equally impenetrable characters, with the most passive and futile resistance, it is a fearless scenario of two against the whole world, nothing else matters, as long as they can march toward their grim fate together, no compromise or whatsoever, which is intensely heart-rending. Vienna 1957, 13 years after WWII, Max now is a hotel's night porter, and by a mere chance, Lucia and her husband, an orchestra conductor come to perform in the city and stay in the same hotel. This unexpected encounter stirs memory flashbacks in both and instigated by Mozart's MAGIC FLUTE, which is conducted by Lucia's husband, their mutual longing reaches the boiling point, the sadomasochistic torment (more spiritually than physically) which generates the irresistible pleasure, reunites them, Lucia leaves her husband and moves into Max's cramped apartment, even voluntarily being chained inside, if that's so, as long as everything is consensual, they might be the happiest couple in the world. However, Max is an ex-Bazi officer, and is currently involved with a coterie of former SS comrades, lead by Hans (Ferzetti), they are intent on destroying any documents and dispatching all the possible surviving witnesses in order to clear their names so that they can live in peace. So, when they find out Lucia's presence, both her and Max's lives are at critical stake. Well, one major drawback in the plot is the elliptical motivations of the coterie, on the surface, they arrange a certain trial of its members individually, yet, an ultimate purpose is to eliminate all the evidences associated in the war crime (as Max mercilessly murdered one of his witness, we can only hear the voice-overs playing while on screen it is Max in his apartment, disconcerted), so why on earth they need such a trial? Some kind of remedial therapy? Moreover, in the scenes where Hans faces Lucia alone in the apartment, obviously, it is much easier to whisk her away or simply finish her off, so she will no longer be a threat, but instead, Hans painstakingly wheedles her to be the witness in the so-called trial against Max, which is rather perplexing.From then on, the narrative steers towards the hungry strike in a claustrophobic status, aimlessly hemmed in the apartment, Max and Lucia indulge in their memories, haunted by their memories and can only get excited through their memories, complete devoid of any political agenda, it is a battle between human's primal sex impulse and basic desire to survive. Ms. Rampling is renown for taking unorthodox projects and braving challenging roles, here, apart from her strikingly alluring solo-dancing scenes among Nazi officers, which doesn't connect the story necessarily, instead impairing her vulnerable status as a powerless victim, indeed is a hyped gambit to be shamelessly titillating and contentious. She compellingly conveys Lucia's abstruse psyche through her expressive facial expressions and body languages; Bogarde, symmetrically excellent in veiling Max's complex lust with a chilling sophistication, both can be gauged as the top-picks of their eclectic careers. Shot in lurid Technicolor in 35mm, THE NIGHT PORTER is unequivocally Cavani's most popular work and fairly speaking, it is a singular curio might find audience among those who are not feeble-minded and vacant from all the political innuendos, also one has to accept that it doesn't conform to the formula where in the upshot, those loathsome wrongdoers never get their comeuppance. "},{"Title":"A Potpourri of Vestiges Review An emphatic examination of sadomasochistic love","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Dark, depressing, and, at times, deeply disgusting, Liliana Cavani's The Night Porter (1974) is undoubtedly one of the most emphatic examinations of sadomasochistic love in all cinema.Charlotte Rampling plays the challenging part of a sexually depraved Holocaust victim with such remarkable poise and conviction that it never really comes across as a performance. In spite of ourselves, we can't help but approve of her strange actions and behavior.The grueling part of the Nazi officer who abuses her, both physically and emotionally, is sublimely played by the great English actor Dirk Bogarde. It's a role that a lesser actor could have made appear vulgar, but, vintage Bogarde, we get to vicariously experience the masochistic pain and suffering that his character goes through every time he abuses his helpless victim.The Night Porter is certainly not a movie for the faint hearted and the only way to appreciate is to watch it with an open mind, by letting go of bigotry, conservatism and prejudice. Viewer discretion is advised.For more on the world of cinema, please visit my film blog A Potpourri of Vestiges. "},{"Title":"A movie which dares to shock, but not for its own sake.","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A former top Nazi hides out by being a night porter in a hotel, but is recognised by one of the very inmates he has abused, but rather than turn-him-in she decides to continue their abusive master-and-servant relationship.This is the kind of movie which I came to very cold and so much the better for it. Despite the passing of the years and the shocking things (real and fiction) that have passed before my eyes, this stays and haunts you. Might even have changed me a bit.(If only in the possibility of cinema.) Maybe the only film ever made which dares takes on damaged people and explore their lives without aiming for simple exploitation or entertainment. Hearing the testimony of real holocaust survivors should tell us one thing We don't know how it would affect us.Nor do we know how people feel after trauma. Or what their reaction to extreme circumstances may be. Or even our own if we ever were in a concentration camp or raped. We guess, but we may be wrong.The acting here is superb. Leads Rampling and Bogart at the top of their game. Subtle and yet somehow believable in their reactions to each other.Sadly it has been marketed now as a come and be shocked ghost train ride with every twist and turn now public knowledge. It really spoils it, because the audience are being manipulated into the expected and then having their expectations reversed. Without it the power is diminished.This is a film from an era when film-makers were totally brave and fearless. Big name actors rarely took chances like this again. And you can see why. "},{"Title":"Wild","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After a chance meeting at a hotel in 1957, a Holocaust survivor (Charlotte Rampling) and the Nazi officer (Dick Bogarde) who tortured her resume their sadomasochistic relationship.This film deals with the psychological condition known as Stockholm Syndrome in the most extreme way possible. It also borders on the offensive. Some would say it crosses over into the offensive...For example, film critic Roger Ebert calls it as nasty as it is lubricious, a despicable attempt to titillate us by exploiting memories of persecution and suffering. Ebert is flat wrong. He can take the moral high ground, but this is the same guy who wrote Beyond Valley of the Dolls... "},{"Title":"Atmosphere Like Few Other Films","Date":"3 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I first saw this film at an open air (outdoors) cinema in sunny Australia a hundred yards from the beach and ocean on a warm night. I was immediately captivated by the rainy ,misty atmosphere of 1950's Vienna in the opening credit sequence as Max strolls to work with his umbrella and black trilby hat.It was like reading a period European novel. The 1950's cars (Simcas, Volkswagens,Saab etc.)the clothes , the plush period interior of the Opera Hotel and the carefully chosen locations of the ancient streets around Saint Stephens Cathedral ,Vienna give it a look of period reality and authenticity. The film moves at a real human pace - (no Computer Generated Explosions , Dragons, etc.) and so we are drawn into this human triangle from the start -like watching real life ( it is based on true events).Okay , the film presents religious problems ( Jew and German together) political problems ( hiding fascists) and some odd lovemaking - but whose life doesn't have problems at some point - and it is an over fifteen film. It is great viewing and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Infamous dark drama that explores some very troubling territory","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Night Porter is a film that earned a controversial reputation back in the 70's when it was made. In truth, it still has retained a lot of its infamy even today. The reason for this was that it was considered by some as being exploitative and for trivialising the Holocaust. Perhaps more specifically, its mixture of eroticism with Nazis is one that I am guessing has the power to make people feel very uncomfortable. Its story centres on Max, a night porter working in a Vienna hotel in 1957. One day a young woman guest called Lucia arrives at the hotel and his past catches up with him. It turns out he was an S.S. officer who worked at a concentration camp during WWII and Lucia was an inmate who he used as a sexual slave. Their chance encounter leads them to embark on another dark sexual relationship but with slightly different power dynamics. Meanwhile former Nazi comrades of Max have become aware of the situation and plan to silence Lucia who is a potential witness to their war crimes.The central plot idea that underpins the narrative is the Stockholm syndrome. This is a known psychological condition where those repressed and incarcerated form romantic bonds with their captors. It's especially troubling here in that the master and servant are an S.S. officer and his Jewish victim. The sheer real life horror of the Holocaust ensures that this is dark waters for the basis of a film. But overall, despite pushing several provocative buttons along the way, this isn't a very exploitative film. It's certainly a long way away from the Nazisploitation cycle of films that emerged in Italy shortly after this one. Those films were unashamedly sexploitation flicks that really were pushing the limits of good taste. In fact, one of the more notorious examples The Gestapo's Last Orgy also features a dark romance between a camp commandant and Jewish girl, although that's more or less where comparisons end with The Night Porter. No, this is actually a pretty sober and cold movie with a focus squarely on the psychological aspects rather than the salacious ones. It examines a damaged woman's strange compulsions and the inconsistent impulses of her ex-Nazi captor.Although, to be perfectly honest, I felt the film itself is most memorable cinematically when it does feature the flashbacks to the concentration camp. These scenes are always presented in an unreal, dream-like fashion. They never seem very real and this I guess gives the film a bit of overall distance which allows it a bit of leeway regarding its controversial subject matter. Those scenes do feature some very sinister yet surreal moments like the death carnival ride. Yet they often are simply strange such as the S.S. man who performs a homo-erotic ballet routine for his fellow Nazis or Lucia's erotic song and dance number replete with Nazi regalia, which is a sequence that really accentuates the Nazi erotica angle which is understandably problematic for some.The film benefits considerably for having Dirk Bogarde and Charlotte Rampling in the central roles. These are difficult characters for actors to tackle to say the least but these two are pretty fearless performers. The acting style is very mannered, as opposed to realistic but this fits in with the overall detached feeling that the film has as a whole. This goes against it a bit to be fair, as it isn't always as engaging as it could be and the pace is pretty slow. It means that this is a film with considerable interest in terms of brave subject matter but one that isn't very easy to connect with. Although given the central idea, this may not be strictly such a bad thing. "},{"Title":"An Interesting Opinion about Nazis","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have to say, I usually search films by looking at their posters in the first place. If i like the poster i will take a look at it. Like this movie. I was very interested with the SS woman on the cover. And i decided to watch. I wasn't disappointed. It wasn't the best movie i saw but great piece of interesting opinion about after WW2 era. With it's non stop camera movement and the use of beautiful classical musics it made a great impression on me. With having interesting story about an ex-SS soldier who still believes in Nazi ideology, and a young Jewish girl, Its an unseen reality of WW2 and Nazis.The way of the storytelling was good. Using flashbacks and editing it made the movie quite watchable. The directing was original (Which my priority on a film.) camera was never stable. Using multiple movements and zooms the director created a great atmosphere. With the script, i might say i didn't really enjoyed it because it has some unnecessary parts and its a little bit slow. Didn't worked with the characters psychology. But i have to say there were some brilliant scenes which you just can't get it out of your head.The acting was great. They were sharp,smooth,whatever is necessary for the scene.I recommend people to watch this film because like i sad before, you probably look at the SS the way this movie shows. People should watch and share their opinion. "},{"Title":"love, sex and power, guilt and historical baggage","Date":"17 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Visconti's The Damned meets Bertolucci's Last Tango in Paris in this tale of terrible decadence. Unfairly accused on its release of trivialising the Holocaust and glamourising Nazi sadism, the film is in fact a fascinating study of love, sex and power, while the protagonists struggle under a burden of guilt and historical baggage.The film itself is burdened with a script that is often unwieldy and characters that stumble into caricature. Still, it is redeemed by Contini's cinematography and by Bogarde and Rampling who give excellent, if very mannered, performances. This film is a must-see, if only for the insight into European Art House obsessions in the 1970s and to identify the source of iconic S & M images. "}{"Title":"Nazi goings on in post War Vienna.","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The real issue here is the love story. The use of the war as the backdrop for the relationship between Rampling and Bogarde merely utilises the emotional empathy that comes with the horrors and desperation of war. Perhaps not the most subtle example, granted, but within every relationship the power distribution is either equal or one partner dominates. This film shows how status and power enables Bogarde to indulge his ego and sexual ego in an oppressive environment, but in the free world the roles fluctuate and Rampling has power; the power of nostalgia and familiarity. Bogarde and his former Nazi colleagues hide their allegiances but continue to celebrate their wartime lives, lives that understood that they were important and made to feel important. This threat of exposure is constant but the pull of the sadistic/masochistic love that was inevitably built between Rampling and Bogarde still exists, and self-destructively so. Both understand the consequences but need to reconnect with the excitement and the horror of their previous relationship, even if it results in the ultimate and most literary doomed lovers end. "},{"Title":"Memorable dance scene","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The sequence and song in which Charlotte Rampling dances for the SS officers is one of my all time memorable scenes. Fascinating and extremely suggestive and correctly sung in German. The champagne drinking SS officers, the smoke laden atmosphere of the mess backed by the tinkling piano music truly convey an evocation of the period. "},{"Title":"Too Long...","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Night Porter is an art-house exploitation film that may or may not have inspired the genre of Nazisploiation. It stars Dirk Bogarde and Charlotte Rampling as two lovers who reunite after 13 years of separation, after which they engage in sadomasochistic relationship and so on. There is a great 90 minutes film in there but it goes too long and eventually bored me at the end.As far as the acting goes, it's solid. Dirk Bogarde is fantastic as the ex-Nazi who tries to forget the past and live quiet life as a church mouse. Charlotte Rampling plays the war victim who falls in in love with her torturer and they for a strange relationship. She underplays the part and that's a shame. Because I wanted a more insane, manic performance like Isabelle Adjani in Possession. The rest of the cast are mostly Italian character actors who you might have seen in other disreputable or classy films. As for the actual content, it's neither very shocking or exploitative. There are practically no on screen violence or disturbing torture, decapitations or anything else you might think when Nazisploitation comes to mind. There are few scenes that might raise an eyebrow like the gay sex scene or Charlotte Rampling topless singing a Marlene Dietrich's song. But aside from those few scenes, it's fairly tame compared to other tasteless trash that came from this genre of films. In other words, the whole exploitative and uncomfortable setting is used to explore the characters and themes surrounding a subject matter that Hollywood would never do. And as far as the character study goes, it's done reasonably well. We get the sense what these people have gone through and their obsessions and fears are well explored. But the real problem comes with the films run time. It goes 30 minutes too long, because the last act happens in one apartment and nothing worthwhile or that interesting happens in there. If they could have scrapped that and went for just 90 minutes like most good art-house exploitation films do, this would have been a great character study with a naughty subject matter.The Night Porter is a tough film to recommend. If you get easily offended by the subject matter of Nazis, sadomasochism and the stuff that goes with them, you should not watch it. If you are like me, who thinks that there are no taboos in cinema, then you should check it out and evaluate yourself. Not a great film but interesting nonetheless. "},{"Title":"A movie with so many layers","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movies has been reviewed in depth (reading them inspired me to write this), I just wanted to add a small comment.When most people talk about the convoluted and twisted relationship of the main characters they seem to miss one point, their current positions.Max has gone from a man of great power, life and death by the wave of his hand, illustrated by his present to her at the dance. And she was a dead person, sent to a camp to die, kept alive by his simplest wish, the slightest misstep and she is dead.Now, years later he is a basic servant, reduced to hiding by night and waiting on other people. She has become rich and powerful, people wait on her.Other people mentioned the guilt felt by Holocaust survivors, and here she is knowing that not only did she survive, but she survived by not only collaborating with the enemy, but (possibly) enjoying herself while doing it. Imagine the guilt in that situation. Her return to his control is less of a S/M response and more of a guilt reflex, she cheated death in the arms of the enemy and guilt drives her back to suffer for her sins. He has a chance to return to his former glory, he regains control over her and by opposing his fellow Nazi's, he once again has control over not only her life, but his own.They return to their former roles out of guilt, the love and the sex are by-products, a way of reinforcing the return to their former roles.The Stockholm syndrome might have influenced her actions at the camp and therefore would have added to her guilt, but I think her reaction to meeting him again is driven more by the guilt of her past than a desire to relive it.They are driven by the guilt of their past actions, he deserved to die for what he did, she did not deserve to live while so many others died.By the way...I'm probably totally wrong in my assessment.Also by the way, I'm not a person obsessed by guilt, I just feel in reference to this movie it is an important addition to the plot.All that said, I liked the movie, I found it engrossing and was drawn into the story, others have mentioned how great the cinematography was, but I found that I was too interested in the story to notice (a sign of great cinematography).A movie that to really appreciate you must look past the story and into the dark soul of life. "},{"Title":"Memorable stuff","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If one of the hallmarks of quality movie making is how clearly one can recall it a week or a month later, then this is a good film. The old-world fussiness of the hotel where much of the film is set, and the repressed tidiness and orderliness of the title character in the post-war world are contrasted sharply with the garishly lit, almost drunken camera tilts of the flashbacks to concentration camp life in which the main character lived out sado-masochistic power fantasies with his sometimes willing, sometimes unwilling mistress-victim. Meeting again after the war, she is at first shocked to find him alive and yet is slowly drawn back into their old games as lust and perversity rise to overwhelm their new respectability. Even the need for self-preservation is overcome as other SS veterans stalk the pair with threats to silence the affair permanently. It is a unique portrait of the power of sexuality, and very hard to forget. "},{"Title":"I have a sense of shame in the light","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Liliana Cavani's 1974 film Il Portiere di notte (The Night Porter) is part of the magnificent Criterion Collection (Criterion released The Night Porter on DVD in 2000 being the number 59 of the collection. The DVD is simply basic, no extras!), its been a while since I saw for the very first time this Criterion DVD at my local store and since then I came across with it many times but just this week I finally decided to get it. Certainly The Night Porter was not one of my must-wanted films from the Criterion Collection (right now I can't wait to get and see for the very first time Eyes Without a Face, The Pornographers, White Dog and Mafioso), certainly if you read the reviews on here you will find more or less divided opinions, anyway I will give you my humble opinion of this film. The film has two very defined parts, I found myself very interested during the first part of the film and after Dirk Bogarde and Charlotte Rampling's characters (Bogarde is Max and Rampling is Lucia) are together again I felt we could have much more. During the first part of the film we were going to see something planned, something that our protagonist Max was going to be part of, something that was going to be practically routine. Well I haven't mention this yet so here it is Max is a former SS Officer, the film begins when is 1957 and we are in Vienna where Max works as the night porter of a hotel. We meet other former SS Officers, they and Max certainly know that Max's trial is very near so we were going to see the planned thing, routine for the former SS Officers, another case but this one seemed easy, after all there are not witnesses to testify against you remarks one of Max former SS comrades but by then the expression of Max that we only see is according to what happened before we even knew about Max's past, is according to what allowed us to see something of Max's past. So the change will happen, after all everyone noted how strange Max began to act, I don't know anything about a woman, certainly bullshit so it will be Max and his little girl together again and now 'till death do us part. While The Night Porter is not very close to be a must-see masterpiece for me it is really interesting, great in parts and with fine performances not only from its protagonists Dirk Bogarde and Charlotte Rampling so yes, check it out. "},{"Title":"Another Decent Film Based On An Age-Old Subject...","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Much like EMPIRE OF THE SENSES, WIFE TO BE SACRIFICED, BLIND BEAST, LAST TANGO IN Paris (and several others...) - THE NIGHT PORTER explores the dark realm of sexual obsession amongst like-minded players. The end-result of many of these films are typically similar - and this one is often mistakenly and misguidedly dubbed a Nazisploit film due to the non-mainstream subject matter and Nazi sub-text - but ILSA this film is not...THE NIGHT PORTER centers around an ex-Nazi Officer who ends up as a (what else???) night-porter at a Viennese hotel. During his daily routines, he runs into a former prisoner of the concentration camps that he had an interest in who is staying at the hotel. The two had a strange, mutual sado-masochistic relationship - and although the woman is now married and the porter is trying to hide his war-crimes - the two inevitably resume their previous sexual-antics - much to the chagrin of some of the porter's Nazi pals, who are looking to silence ANY witnesses to the porter's previous wrong-doings...Well-written, well-acted, well-shot - THE NIGHT PORTER is a strong entry for what it is - but honestly - I've seen better (or at least what I personally believe to be better) from this sort of film/subject-matter. All of the films mentioned in the first paragraph are films that I found more powerful at dealing with much the same story-line. Even so - THE NIGHT PORTER will be of interest to fans of more artistic yet somewhat sleazy material...7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant and uncomfortably insightful film","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is certainly not without its flaws. Some of the dialogue is pretty awful. However, it deals with taboo and what many would consider perversion in an unapologetic way. It was groundbreaking in terms of its examination of sadism/masochism and the Nazi issue works well as a psychological backdrop.I think that by far the most interesting question that the film leaves us with is not what happens at the end, but rather who is the captive in their rather strange relationship.People have said that this film explores the connection between perversion and fascism but I find that a superficial summary. I think her aim is even harder to swallow that both victims and perpetrators are pathologically driven to revisit the trauma of events, that both are traumatized, and incurably scarred. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and unforgettable.....","Date":"20 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Directed by Liliana Cavani,The Night Porter is an experience that will stay with you long after it has finished.Based on an idea Liliana had after interviewing concentration camp survivors about how some people are drawn back to the pain and horror of an event in a form of strange comfort.Young Lucia Atherton(Charlotte Rampling)and her husband arrive at a top hotel where Luica is horrified to discover that the night porter is non other than her ex lover,former concentration camp guard Maximilian Aldofer(Dirk Bogarde).The two had a strange S and M relationship and yet in a strange way for Max at least,it was genuine love and she was spared the gas chambers because of it appearing in strange cabaret routines with other prisoners.The two meet and start up their old relationship it's disturbing,disgusting and shocking and yet it's not a film about S and M at all.It's about how some experiences can't be explained and how this relationship is a doorway back to the camp where they both saw and did horrors which we can't even begin to comprehend.For them that is all they see now and it was such a big part of their life that there is no escaping it.As others have commented I find it strange and ironic that Bogarde(who was one of the soldiers who helped liberate the Belsen camp)should have agreed to be in this.But he saw it that Max genuinely did love her and the S and M was just a by product of the relationship not the cause.So the version we see is that love story not the horror it really could have been.The main reason to see this is for the performances of Charlotte and Dirk so intense and raw it's breathtaking.If you don't feel confident about watching this then don't because it is not an easy watch and is for obvious reasons not nice.However if you do you will be rewarded due to the acting and the emotional intensity of what's on screen. "},{"Title":"Offbeat And Controversial","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Max (Dirk Bogarde) is a middle-aged man who works as a night porter for a chic hotel in Vienna. One day a woman and her husband register at the hotel. Immediately, the woman, Lucia (Charlotte Rampling), and Max recognize each other from years earlier, when she was a victim in a Nazi concentration camp, and Max was a Nazi guard. Their relationship at that time was one of master/slave. Now reunited by fate, Max and Lucia resume their strange, erotic relationship.This is a difficult film to sit through, not because of the erotic subject matter, but because of a script that is too timid. It's almost as if the writer and/or the director were afraid to confront the controversial topic head-on. So they set out to downplay it. And did they ever! The plot is circuitous, the dialogue is taciturn, and characters are listless. Frequent flashbacks to the Nazi concentration camp muddle the story rather than clarify it. The only part I found engaging was the sequence at the Nazi sex club.The film has been described as a psychological study of masochism. But I don't know that we really learn much about the topic, as it is approached in such a standoffish way. I didn't like either Max or Lucia. Indeed, none of the script's characters are particularly sympathetic.Color cinematography is adequate, if unremarkable. Background music is low-key and a tad mournful. The film's overall tone is somber and gloomy. Dirk Bogarde gives a dull, mannered performance. Charlotte Rampling's performance is almost indistinguishable from that of a department store mannequin.I admire the attempt to make a film whose story was, at the time, offbeat and controversial. So The Night Porter gets points from me for the courage of its story concept. But the resulting film left me bored and uninterested, as it is terribly drawn-out, aloof, thematically generic, and very, very tedious. "}{"Title":"Il Portiere Sleazy","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As controversial as it has been labeled, 'Il Portiere Di Notte' did not work for me. Generally, I tend to be drawn towards controversial films and this one promises to be an interesting film about masochism and eroticism falls flat. Cavani fails in telling a convincing story. 'Il Portiere Di Notte' starts off on a good note but as it heads towards the second half it throws itself into a mess by losing both focus and direction. The cinematography is incredibly dull. The dialogues are just as lacklustre. The soundtrack is as bleak as the movie. Both lead performers, Dirk Bogarde and Charlotte Rampling are good in the first half but thereafter Rampling really loses it while Bogarde tries to keep his act together. Many people have told me about the aesthetic qualities of this film but to me they are non-existent. 'Il Portiere Di Notte' is very much a pretentious cliché that tries to be an European art film. "},{"Title":"Love beyond ideology","Date":"21 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If ever a film exemplified the difference between 1970s mainstream cinema and today's, it's Liliana Cavani's The Night Porter. Dirk Bogarde plays Max, a middle-aged man who diffidently fulfils the title role in a swanky, if somewhat seedy, hotel in Vienna. One day, a famous conductor checks in with his beautiful wife (Charlotte Rampling) and wouldn't you know it - it's the girl Max had a sado-masochistic affair with whilst she was a prisoner in the concentration camp where he was a guard. In an astonishing contradiction of anything one would expect in a contemporary liberal message movie, the two of them recommence their affair in mutual agreement. This puts them beyond the pale of both contemporary consumer mores and of Max's old friends, a gloomy bunch of war criminals trying to erase all knowledge and evidence of a past they are determined not to feel guilty about. Things turn inevitably tragic...The Night Porter has been seen as a film about so-called Stockholm syndrome, whereby a victim falls in love with their persecutor. But this is to underestimate the daring position the film takes on the central love story. Max and Lucia really do love each other - a twisted, tragic amour fou perhaps, but genuine love all the same. They want each other beyond ideology - their love drags them out of their everyday lives and shocks them from their political positions desire is more powerful than the quotidian and the ideological. Their end is genuinely tragic - to deny ideology is to deny the insane post-war world, and that world will marginalise and starve out of existence anyone who doesn't take a pre-destined function within it. It's fine to be a consumer - work and shop - and it's fine if frowned upon to be a political extremist, as there are support networks of like-minded loons. But to take a position rejecting all politics for personal desire and love - that's fatal. Finally, Max and Lucia die on a bridge, shot down like the poor souls who tried to cross the border between east and west Berlin. Their bodies lie like so much meat on the ground, punished for being physical and emotional beings rather than political robots.The Night Porter is occasionally too outré and arty for its own good. The concentration camp scenes are a little too close to Nazi chic, and the gay Nazi officer who ballet dances for his fellow SS and who Max injects in the bum is rather a ludicrous figure. But at core, this is a lament for a life of desire lived outside the prevailing orthodoxy and the extremisms which prop it up; it's about bodies in extreme connection, and love across all boundaries. You won't see many mainstream movies willing to push the envelope as much as this in 2008. "},{"Title":"It started an even sleazier sub-genre...","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Walking a fine line between compelling drama and utter sleaze, THE NIGHT PORTER is one of those films you're going to react to strongly. Dirk Bogarde gives one of his creepiest performances as the title character, a post-war Nazi-in-hiding who stumbles across a camp survivor he had an uber-yucky ongoing tryst with. Charlotte Rampling is pretty good as his paramour, but it's the supporting cast of Nazis in denial that make this Italian film a sleazoid classic. It also kicked inspired one of the most brazen and despised subgenres of Italian filmmaking, the Nazi sexploitation film. Whatever you think of it, THE NIGHT PORTER is certainly far more tasteful than anything that followed it! "},{"Title":"This is not depravity it is poetry","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Watch this brilliant film and understand what it is to have a passion for somebody who has suffered extremes of violence and depravity. Watch in fascinated horror as the plot unfolds.Can a man who has been party to the greatest horror of all time find salvation in a woman who was actually there? You decide. Dirk Bogarde and Charlotte Rampling in their best ever film roles. Uncomfortable, yes.Unwatchable, Maybe.Uncompromising, without a doubt. See it as soon as possible. "},{"Title":"Good stuff!","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Night Porter really isn't as shocking as his reputation suggests,but still there is a good amount of sleaze featured here.I've heard that the main source of inspiration for Liliana Cavani was her interview with a real concentration camp survivor who was forced into a sadistic relationship with one of her captors.Dirk Bogarde is excellent as a Max,a former SS officer!The film is well-made and a little bit disturbing-I'm fairly sure that it influenced an infamous Ilsa-She Wolf of the SS.Check it out,but be prepared for some rather unpleasant stuff! "},{"Title":"Silly, S&M Nazi soft-core porn that had many in a tizzy.  Skip it!","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Word-of-mouth from Europe created such hype that American moviegoers salivated for its release in the U.S. Even more outrageous and erotic than Last Tango in Paris was the verdict I'd heard from my few privileged friends lucky enough to savor its charms when they saw it abroad. But when Avco-Embassy finally picked it up for domestic release, it hardly made a ripple.  To begin with, this art-house lunacy about a Nazi commander's S&M relationship with a beautiful Jewish prisoner(Charlotte Rampling, the only worthwhile element in a way-overlong two-hours) that is resumed some 30-years-later when they accidentally meet at an elegant party, and resume their affair (get out the jelly jar, whips & chains, broken glass, etc.) was laughed off the press-screening at Embassy.  Furthermore, the studio's expectancy of an automatic X-rating (a great way to mount a publicity hullaboo in the early 1970s) was dashed when the jolly folks at the MPAA let it slip by with an 'R' rating (sans cuts).   And so what were audiences left with? A film of sublime idiocy with each scene of kinky Nazi atrocities attempting to out-do the one before, and leaving audiences in a state of uncontrolled hilarity. The filmed bombed in the U.S., despite the dyspeptic performance by poor Dirk Borgarde, the wretched-excess directorial work of the hideously overrated Liliana Cavani, and the film's only asset, the excellent work of the always fascinating Ms. Rampling, even in meretricious tripe such as this.  If you're truly in the mood for films depicting the actrocities of the Third Reich, allow your neglected dog to take this one out in the backyard and bury it, and rent instead Visconti's The Damned or--for that matter--any of the Ilse She-Wolf of the S.S. delicacies. But skip The Night Porter.  Believe me, you'll have more fun at your neighbors' tupperware party. "},{"Title":"A hand-to-heart attempt that goes terribly wrong at certain levels","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A wayward exploitation of the cinematic 'Nazi Evil' cliché, which prevailed throughout the seventies horror cinema; from mad doctors/scientists to jail guards with a penchant for bondage and puerile victims willingly giving themselves to the morbid fantasies of the script writer.The nonsensical screenplay of 'The Night Porter' pays homage to the latter and also adds to the distress of anti-porn activists by throwing in an uncomfortable-to- watch set piece.A holocaust victim suffering from the Stockholm Syndrome finds herself helplessly drawn to the impeccable and aching charms of a former tormentor and SS officer who has given himself to the succulent comfort of a non-significant existence after having basked in the degenerating excesses, which apparently the SS life offered.In hiding, we are shown, he has become a night porter at a hotel in post-war Vienna and prefers to live like a 'church mouse'. After their chance meeting both are ostensibly pulled into a dangerous game of lurid passion. A passion which is explored with more seriousness and insight in Star 80 (83).While Star 80 shows us the lecherous, conflicted and tragic demise of the American dream and destiny, The Night Porter simply wants us to swallow whole the idea of misplaced feelings and deviant sexual overplay as if it were a bonafide means to post trauma catharsis. If it weren't for the fervor in Cavani's operatic exploration, Charloette Rampling's off the rack and risqué performance and Bogarde's sullen yet decisive night porter the film would have been forgotten. "},{"Title":"A love that is hard to escape.","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Provocative and controversial for 1974. Nudity with strong sexual implications. THE NIGHT PORTER is the story of a bizarre relationship between an ex-Nazi, Max,(Dirk Bogarde), and a stunning young woman, Lucia(Charlotte Rampling), whom he sexually abused her entire stay at an SS concentration camp. Over a dozen years after WWII, they are accidentally reunited and their sadomasochistic affair continues on. Max is working as a night porter at a Vienna hotel and is still struggling with his departure from the past. Former SS friends of Max, meet at the hotel and fear that Lucia will expose them and their war crimes.Rampling turns in her most remembered role. She emotes a shy sexuality; and the scene where she dances and sings topless in a Nazi uniform is a vision not easily forgotten. This rated R romantic crime drama also stars Philippe Leroy, Gabriele Ferzetti, Isa Miranda and Hilda Gunther. "},{"Title":"Without it's original shock value it doesn't have much else","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Former Nazi officer Max now works as a night porter in a hotel in Viennese hotel and is working with a group of other Nazi's to destroy documents and witnesses that can prove that they were concentration camp guards.  When a former prisoner, Lucia, arrives in the hotel Max rekindles the cruel sexual relationship they once had, much to the displeasure of the other Nazi's.This was very controversial once and seen as breaking all kinds of taboos.  However now the plot is a lot less shocking.  Now it has lost it's shock value it is only left with a story that doesn't make a great deal of sense, some soft-porn style fumblings and a script that doesn't have any clear point.  The plot is interesting until the couple move into Max's flat together and are laid siege to by the other Nazi's.  Once at this point it makes less sense (why don't the group just go into the flat and get the pair) however the ending makes perfect sense and is a fitting conclusion (although how it happens could have been better).Bogart is good as Max but Rampling is not given much to do in her very sexually trapped role.  However overall the film has lost much of it's shock value and now makes less sense and at times can appear to be in bad taste rather than any great pushing back of cinematic boundaries. "},{"Title":"weird, sincerely dramatic, erotic-but-disturbing post-holocaust film","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Night Porter - it's the kind of movie if you ask your mom or dad about it (or if you're my mom and dad's age you just remember it) they'll put it as 'that Nazi movie with Charlotte Rampling' or 'wow, hot stuff' (if they're a particular kind of parent, besides the point). It's not a film that won a lot of awards when it came out - matter of fact it might have not gotten great reviews overall, despite this getting a low-key Criterion DVD release some years ago - but it can be worth a try so many years later. Why not with actors like Dirk Borgarde and Charlotte Rampling (also of Luchino Visconti's The Damned)? Or with the premise, which just the first part sounds good enough for a movie an once-Nazi commandant at a camp is a night porter at a hotel in Vienna, and a woman comes with her husband, played by Rampling, and they recognize each other instantly, but neither saying a word. It's mutual shock as she was in the camp herself. But the catch? This is where it gets interesting and kinky and starts to go over into potential Natzi-sploitation territory (for those who know the sub-genre it's from the 70's, stuff like Ilsa She Wolf of the SS, s*** like that), as Borgarde's character during Lucia's time in the camp picked her out as his own. By that, I mean, a dominant/submissive relationship, and leading on to her even performing for other Nazi soldiers. This is all seen in flashback, of course, and intertwined with a story of Borgarde having to deal with the other ex-Nazis that are still around the area - and hey, what's that girl doing here anyway?Liliana Cavani's direction in the first half of the film is mostly very delicate and dramatically so intriguing. We get both the Porter and Lucia's points of reference on what happened, how startling to jump from modern day (of 1957) to being in a cramped space being photographed with a 16mm camera naked in a line-up with the rest of the Jewish people, and then later into the bedroom as Maximilian and Lucia got deeper into their bondage territory. Why would Lucia go for it to start with and, more importantly to what happens in the film, goes with it again when the characters meet once more and reignite the old spark as it disturbingly was? Maybe some attention, some form of psychological game that made things a little more tolerable past the potential death in the camps and then, in Vienna, the... I don't know what. Control, it would appear, is a supremely powerful instrument, and in sex, oh man.There are good erotic moments, of the raw, rough 70's sort (NOT porno, must make that clear), mostly when Maximilian and Lucia do suddenly get back into their NO - YES mode of love-making, particularly in one very long shot where Cavani shows the characters, like uninhibited beasts, on the floor of the hotel room. There are others, in the second half of the film, that veers on the unwatchable - not for being filmed too poorly, just as being too hard to take. For those interested in BDSM it is a kind of essential film, of its or any time, in how it takes on what could make this relationship tick in the scope of Nazis. For those who just want to see good acting, there's that too, especially from Rampling as she almost 'becomes' her former, younger self in the third act when she stays inside the hotel room (sometimes, shockingly for me, chained to a bed). It's certainly got some problems with minor performances, and a side bit with a gay character who dances in one sequence in the camp for the Nazis is bizarre - almost TOO bizarre. But for what it was, and is, it can be revisited and admired, and when it really sticks to its guns as a drama it is convincing and not campy. Probably the most serious' Nazisploitation flick then? "}{"Title":"worth seeing","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is worth seeing if you can handle anything a little out of the ordinary. The characters are very believable in their destiny of meeting each other again. Rampling is extremely beautiful in this I thought. Even though these two didn't meet in the ideal circumstances there is a unique and undeniable chemistry between them. If this were a true story it would be under the heading 'Truth is stranger than fiction'  "},{"Title":"'high' art or drivel?","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think Russel gave a pretty good review of this film. What is there to gain from exploring the sexual relationship between concentration camp victim and SS Nazi?My main problem with this film is not really in the film itself but rather in the collection of films similar to it released around the same time...THE EUROPEAN THE ART HOUSE FILM. These films (along with Last Tango in Paris, Death in Venice etc.) are obsessed with death and difficult/forbidden sexual relationships. There was a whole spate of these types of films during the 70s that considered themselves to be 'high art' just because they dragged their audience (very slowly) through some repulsive and undesirable situations.When I mean 'obsessed' I don't mean that these films take death and sex as subject matter-but rather they &#145;love' death, they 'love' forbidden sex so much so that it is idealised. The camera lingers on a coffin being buried in the ground for ages (the Night Porter), the humanity that there is between an average man and woman (and what could of been explored) is replaced by pretend seedy sexual games and melodramatic mind games (Last Tango).... And possible the worst, forbidden sex (such as paedophilia in Death in Venice) is shown as tragic and romantic.Often I ve tried to watch these films with an open mind due to the fact that they are 'critically acclaimed' but they always make me angry.... What kind of a person would enjoy such a dirge?They take themselves too seriously and the result is a decadent, irrelevant and self obsessed films.  "},{"Title":"Worthless","Date":"6 April 2010","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Watched this movie yesterday. I was expecting to see a dark, artistic movie with strong S/m elements.Instead, I wasted almost 2 hours of my life suffering through mediocre acting, nonsense dialogues and a childish plot.The 2-bit S/m elements are some slapping, some shouting, chaining the woman to the bed and some Nazi camp humiliation flashbacks. But, for most of the movie, the lovers act like drunken sugary-pumpkin-lovey idiots. Completely lame.I give this 2/10 because of some nice takes of Vienna and the dancer and opera scenes which were very worthwhile, but not enough to save the rest of this awful movie.Don't watch this overrated piece of trash. Do yourself a favor and watch Haneke's 'La pianiste' or Sun-Woo Jang's 'Gojitmal', instead. "},{"Title":"The Night Porter","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Night Porter, The (1974) * (out of 4) Controversial Italian film about a former Nazi (Dick Bogarde) working as a night porter who runs into a former victim (Charlotte Rampling) he knew at a concentration camp. Before long the two start a heated love affair even though his other Nazi friends don't approve as she could turn him in. This film might be remembered for starting a storm of controversy when originally released but if should go down in history for being one of the dumbest movies ever made. In Roger Ebert's review he mentions that normally you'd laugh at a film like this but due to its subject matter he couldn't. Perhaps I'm not so nice because I found myself laughing throughout the film and I didn't feel bad about because the subject matter here is just being used to start controversy. When you peel that away you'll notice that this story would come off as being too stupid for even a soap opera. I'm really not sure where to start with this turkey so perhaps I should say something nice first. The two leads turn in good performances and they actually made me want to enjoy the picture but not even Brando could have saved this thing. Now for the rest of the bad. For starters, the film certainly has that art house look but to me this is just the director trying to cover up her trash with something pretty so that she can always fall back on some moral story of trying to tell something about true emotions. I always love it when people put down exploitation movies as cheap trash yet they make trash that looks good and try to pass it off as art. Last Tango in Paris is erotic art, not this thing. Then we've got the entire subplot of Nazi members who are tracking down survivors who might identify them and this too just adds to the stupidity of the screenplay. I'm sure this film has its fans but for the life of me I can't see how anyone could sit through two-hours of this film taking it seriously. "},{"Title":"A bit of esoteric S&M","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A lot of people think very highly of this picture, (Pauline Kael wasn't one of them). Consequently, it has a somewhat vaunted reputation. Directed by Liliana Cavani and dealing with some rather esoteric S&M, (the presence of Dirk Bogarde should give you an idea), it's more hothouse than art-house.Bogarde plays a former concentration camp guard now working as the eponymous night porter at a Vienna hotel, (it is set in 1957), and Charlotte Rampling is the former prisoner who stumbles across him again and is not adverse to continuing the sadomasochistic relationship they once shared. Rampling has a suitably gaunt and ravenous look about her that makes her a convincing victim but Bogarde is miscast as the heterosexual torturer. The gay Bogarde could play gay (Victim/Death in Venice) and could play bitches (The Servant/Accident) perfectly but when asked to act macho, as here and in Viscounti's The Damned, he was like a fish out of water. Still, the film has an icy, eerie beauty like some kind of beautiful but deadly flower and is neither as bad as Kael said it was (junk, she called it) nor as good as those who think it a masterpiece deem it to be. "},{"Title":"Artsy fetish movie.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is probably the movie that started the sleazy Naziploitation sub-genre. As such, it's an interesting study. As a film, it's not really a big achievement A Nazi fetish movie that tries to pass as intellectual art with a touch of sadomasochism. Yes, it is more intellectual than most later Nazi sleaze pics, but that doesn't prove much, does it? It is also slow moving and bizarre but not offensive enough to shock.Rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"Some movies better not be rewatched.","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I first saw Liliana Cavani's controversial film about sadomasochistic love affair between former Nazi officer Max (Dirk Bogard) and a concentration camp survivor Lucia (Charlotte Rampling)whom he used to abuse sexually and physically during the WWII, it had a shock value. I saw it in Moscow in the middle of 80s, and when our friends brought the tape to watch I thought it was a screen adaptation of Irwin Shaw's novel Nightwork which is a completely different story (both were translated to Russian as The Night Porter - hence the confusion). As you can see, the film had a triple-shocking value for me - first, I expected to see a different movie; second and third, for its dark and disturbing subject matter and for the breaking all kinds of taboos in the way Cavani had explored it. I remember that I was very impressed by Cavani's use of flashbacks, music, and her classy cinematography. Both leads were very good as two people who had met at the most horrifying circumstances but according to the writer-director were not able to forget the disturbing relationship and were willing to give anything just to be able to carry on with it. It was a first time I saw Charlotte Rampling and she became one of my favorite actresses. I saw it again couple of weeks ago and I have to admit that without its original shock value it did not impress me at all. The plot does not seem that shocking, the story does not make much sense. Some of the dialog is just ridiculous. For example, Max confesses to his old friend, Countess Stein ( who knows everything about his past) after Lucia had entered his hotel and his life Max I found her. I found my little girl. Countess Such a romantic story. Max It is not a romantic story, it is a biblical story. The second part of the movie when the couple try to hide in Max's apartment and the other Nazi wait outside for days for them to come out is just bad, IMO. The final scene is plausible and makes sense - (***possible spoiler***) there could be never a happy ending to the story like that but, alas, it took too long for the ending to come - I actually could not wait for somebody to finally take the unfortunate couple out of their misery (***end of spoiler***) and I was grateful when it happened - not a good sign for the movie where you should sympathize with the main characters. I am not sure if the movie is one of Nazi chic flicks or a serious and honest even if flawed exploration of the very dark depths of human soul. It sure has the characteristics of both. 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Alright! Who's up for some controversy?","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It isn't exactly my cup of tea, but if you're into artsy euro-exploitation you might want to check out this ambitious Italian examination on the Nazi culture. The film's style reminded me a little of Last Tango in Paris as it equally centers on bizarre and forbidden sexual fetishes. Yet, in this case the setting and characters are even more controversial (and thus more cult-like)  Dirk Bogarde (a former concentration camp guard) who recreates his sexual relationship with the now adult prisoner Lucia (a very convincing Charlotte Rampling). The events are set in the beautiful city of Vienna, in the post WWII-era. Bogarde's character carefully tries to keep a low profile there as a porter in the hotel where Lucia is at guest with her famous husband. For as long as director Cavani simply focuses on the interactions between the two protagonists, this is a gripping and very intense drama! Too bad she eventually attempts to cover too many moralistic topics (remorse, politics, decadence...) and the whole thing starts to feel like a high-school history lesson...only with sleaze. The sequences shot at the opera are beautiful and the flashbacks to the concentration camp are visually astonishing but neither of these aspects can save The Night Porter from boredom. I do reckon it's value in the exploitation field, as this film heavily influenced later shock-films such as The Beast in Color,Salon Kitty, Red Nights of the Gestapo etc etc etc... "},{"Title":"The film makers have done the seemingly impossible--they made a lurid and shocking film that is STILL pretty dull!","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Night Porter is a kinky and risky film that must have ruffled a lot of feathers when it debuted. Yet, it does the seemingly impossible...it's a dull film! So, because the film is dull, daring and VERY artsy, you know that it's bound to be adored by 'smart viewers'. Not surprisingly, it's available from the Criterion Collection--bastion of the artsy viewers.The porter from the title is a man played by Dirk Bogarde. It seems he has a secret--during WWII, he worked for the SS in a prison camp. One of his jobs included selecting inmates to become prostitutes--a horrible life for the poor Jewish women though at least it occasionally spared their lives. In a weird twist, years later Bogarde sees one of these women (Charlotte Rampling) and assumes she'll turn him in to the authorities. Instead, in a SUPER-kinky twist, she wants Bogarde and begins a steamy sexual relationship with him. I am sure this must have offended many concentration camp survivors though at least it could be considered daring (and gross). There is a problem with this sicko relationship, however, as Bogarde is in frequent contact with other war criminals who want to kill the woman because she's one of the few living survivors who can identify them. So Bogarde tries to hide her from his 'pals'. How all this winds up is something you can find out for yourself...if you don't mind the kinky and offensive master-slave sort of implications.While the film clearly is gross and controversial, it is occasionally interesting and daring. However, it also is amazingly slow and dull much of the time. In pace and energy level, it's highly reminiscent of another of Bogarde's Italian-made films of this era--Death in Venice. While I love some artsy films and watch many films that the average viewer wouldn't dare watch, this one bored me...though there was enough to it that I struggled on to the end. This is hardly a glowing endorsement and I can truly say this film is only for a very small and select audience--and I guess I am not one of them. "},{"Title":"Gothic porn","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Night Porter is the film that is considered to be one of the greatest Italian post-war films in Europe and a piece of crap in US. Pauline Kael called this film a gothic porn that proves that women can make trash just as easily as men. In fact, Cavani's controversial film is the perfect example of how differently American and European critics view the same pictures. The film is another Italian entry in Fascist decadence genre, so beloved in Italy. If Japanese view aftermath of WWII with shame and guilt, Germans with sheer nihilism, Italian's views on horrors of the war were always seen in a sexual context. Night Porter in a way is a follow-up to Visconti's Damned and Bertolucci's Conformist. The reason that Americans hate the film so much, is that it has no redeeming social value. Really, what exactly is Cavani trying to say? That relationship between Germans and Jews during Holocaust had sado-masochistic implications? Or was it like the relationship between molesting father and a child, full of denial and love-hate? Even if Cavani is trying to make those points, film offers no explanations. The film is full of haunting, shocking images of brutality and forced sexuality. It is an exercise in showing beauty of the ugliness, or the ugliness of the beauty, or whatever. Which is not bad. Night Porter is all about creating a legend of fascist depravity. In real life, of course, everything was much more boring. But the film creates a right mood. Not because deep inside we were always more frightened by the sexual abuse victims of concentration camps were subjected to more than the violence. That would be too simple. But mainly because, no matter how pretentious it sounds, in our minds political depravity always goes hand in hand with sexual perversions. Your level of appreciating the film depends fully on how much you believe Cavani. Is this really how she viewed Fascism? Or did she just wanted to shock her audience, to show that despite being a woman, she has as much rights to shock viewers as Pasolini or Visconti? One thing is for certain. Everytime people see images of naked men, women, and children being sent to concentration camps, most of them feel nauseous. I guess, Cavani felt sexually excited. "}{"Title":"About shocking as sticking a bit of wood in a plug socket","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Going into this film, all I really wanted was a sleazy love story with some gratuitous sex scenes. However, all I got was a frankly dull art film about a lost love rekindled and a set-up that is unlikely to shock the inhabitants of a convent. This film was an obvious influence on the ultra-sleazy Nazisploitation movies of the seventies and eighties; films with delightful titles such as 'SS Experiment Camp' and 'The Beast in the Heat', but the focus here is more on the central lovers' plot line. The story is served up with a mix of what is going on in the present as the former lovers meet once more, and flashbacks to their lustful past, where we get to see them engaged in some non-too sexy S&M sequences. We pick the plot up in a hotel where former SS guard Max Aldorfer is working as a night porter. When Lucia Atherton happens to come and stay at the hotel, the pair recognise each other instantly; but this new chapter to their relationship is never going to run smoothly with Max's former Nazi compatriots, who are currently destroying documentation and witnesses to the fact that they were once members of the Nazi party.The first forty minutes are ridiculously boring, as the film pulls its plot together by way of some really boring scenes. I soon found myself waiting around for the S&M to start, but even when it does the film doesn't really pick up any steam. It's not until the end of the final third that The Night Porter starts to get interesting, but by then it's hard to really care for the plot or characters. The conclusion to the 'love story' is heartbreaking in its own right, but if it was preceded by a good film, The Night Porter would have had a shot at being a masterpiece. The feel of the film is very arty, and this is not in it's favour if you ask me as a story like this really needs a lower class, sleazy aura in order to work as well it could; and The Night Porter doesn't capitalise on that. The main reason for seeing this film is for the sex scenes. I've always found Charlotte Rampling to quite fetching, but she's not given much to do here and the cold, detached approach saps any sexiness out of the soft-core porn. Of course, you can't expect the film to be too erotic since most the sex takes place in the presence of Nazi's - and this is the film's main problem. It's not erotic enough to be sexy, and it's not shocking enough to hammer home the evil of the Nazis. It all begs the question...what's the point? "},{"Title":"Excruciating, skip it!","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Complete garbage. I can't understand how anyone could sit through this film and like it. I normally grin and bear watching more difficult films in the hopes that upon reflection afterwards I will appreciate them more. Not this one! Completely implausible, silly, pretentious, and just plain dumb. If you are a Criterion Collection fan, and often take a film's release by Criterion as some kind of imprimatur of quality, you will be sorely let down they chose to release this. I suppose this film has some historical value, since apparently it caused quite a stir upon its release, but it being an actual enjoyable viewing experience is another matter... "},{"Title":"Wretched Beneath Contempt","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The fact that this miserable excuse for a film stretches credibility way, way beyond the breaking point is secondary to the fact that it trivializes what is probably the most profound human tragedy of modern times, the Holocaust.  As if that weren't bad enough, its production values make the film look as if it were made by someone who had never set foot on a movie set before.  The mostly Italian cast is badly dubbed into English by monotone voices.  Dirk Bogarde is as wooden and inexpressive as usual.  The only redeeming feature is Charlotte Rampling's performance.  This is indeed a very forgettable period piece, made at a time when porn was chic.  Don't waste your two hours.Rating 4/10 "},{"Title":"Ghastly Film","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Made the mistake of inflicting this load of piffle on myself quite by accident. 5 friends and I had heard this was a work of modern art... after sitting silent through the entire 1st half of the film... we glanced at each other and almost exploded with laughter. incredible! The shock upon leaving the cinema and hearing grown thinking adults spouting the virtues and extolling the wonder of this cavalcade of misery was almost as amusing as the strawberry jam scene itself. You thought Eyes Wide Shut was bad! Well this was the ORIGINAL stinker. Quite possibly the worst case of The Emporer's New Clothes EVER. People who disagree have been FOOLED! Alas Charlotte... we forgive you. "}]