[{"Title":"Quintessential cult movie","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"55 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Mix the Phantom of the Opera with Faust and the Picture of Dorian Gray, sprinkle it all with 1970's electric glam-rock, Gothic horror and uttermost baroque scenery and costumes. And there you get Phantom of the Paradise, a picture that has everything to be the perfect cult movie, and would deserve much more attention than its more famous counterpart The Rocky Horror Picture Show, released one year later. Whereas Rocky Horror remains a farce all the way through, Phantom of the Paradise is a real tragedy in the original meaning  the story of a genial but naive musician who gets his work swindled by an evil baby-faced producer who has sold his soul to the Devil. Besides, Phantom is more a film about music or a film with songs in it than a proper musical, and it's better so because the story is really interesting. Like Rocky Horror,  Phantom is full of parody and incredible gimmicks, but the plot and the soundtrack are far superior, and on the whole, Phantom has a lot more class.Many people who have seen the movie when it was released were teenagers, and it's one of those movies I know many people to have seen ten times or more. Looked at from a mature point of view, it is true that Phantom appears somewhat kitsch and not so profound, and it is obvious that the director must have had great fun shooting such a delirious show. But let's say then that as typical midnight movie, Phantom of the Paradise remains a gripping and creative kitsch masterpiece, and still keeps up with its cult movie status thirty years after. That's what classics are all about.Countless scenes and details would deserve comments, but let's say that two of them are really hard to forget when the hero gets his face destroyed in a record-press after his escape from Sing-Sing in a toy box, and when he murders the campy music-hall star who usurped his music in the middle of the stage, by shooting a neonlight across his chest as the climax of a hysterical rock concert.Interesting to know that the same three singers successively impersonate a parody of a sixties group with banana hairdos and falsetto voices, a nutty band in pants and wigs, and finally appear with ominous black and white make-up in a hard-rock performance that reminds of Kiss. I guess you wouldn't tell if you didn't know.The casting is very good although none of the actors seemed to have achieved real stardom. You don't get to see so much of William Finley because he wears a mask throughout much of the film, but Paul Williams, who has had a rather mediocre singing career, was perfect for the role as machiavelic producer Swan. The angelic blond face and the malign nature of the character make a very powerful contrast.However, I found the most impressive performance was given by Jessica Harper. Her big dark eyes and deep voice make her stand out both as an accomplished actress and singer. Her talent has been unfortunately never used any better than in this movie, which was her first star role, and that's the hell of it.As for director Brian de Palma, I have not seen many of his films outside of this one, so I'm not too sure, but it looks like Phantom really has a place apart in his career. For instance, Carrie, which got more attention, appeared very disappointing to me in comparison, much more like a B-grade horror flick. Mr de Palma certainly seems to have a fascination for blood, and Phantom has of course its fair share of it. Contracts are even signed with blood instead of ink... "},{"Title":"Belongs in The Unnamable Top-Ten List with This is Spinal Tap","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"42 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" My father wouldn't let me see this in 1974 (I was 11) and I recall him reporting a coworker's opinion that the film should have been rated R. So finally, in 2005, I see the film at age 42. The film is disturbing on a variety of levels. First and foremost, I realized that most of the players are now in their late 50's and 60's. Disturbing, why? Well, because there's a band out there called the Undead (Bobby Steele, ex-Misfits) who, turns out, stole (or did he?) his name from Phantom of the Paradise's the Undeads Likewise, the Undeads in this film were doing in 1974 what Scandinavian death metal bands _started_ doing in the early 1990's. Furthermore, did the Damned's Dave Vanian rip off the Undead's gimmick?I felt uneasy realizing that, had I seen the movie when it came out, I probably wouldn't have gotten any of the jokes; I wouldn't have laughed out loud at Beef, the lesbian jokes, the parody of self-important wimpy rockers. And I wouldn't have appreciated the successful composite of Phantom of the Opera, Faust, Picture of Dorian Gray, etc.The acting is top-notch - the only way camp gets laughs. Paul Williams's Swan is the most black-hearted villain I've seen. The wait was worth it for me on this one. "},{"Title":"Beauty and the Cheese","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"37 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is beautiful. Its a consummate midnight movie. Okay, so Paul Williams, Bill Finley, and Jessica Harper may not be the best actors in the world. And sure, the effects, set, camera moves, and acting is SO VERY seventies, but that doesn't take away from the most beautiful score of any made for film musical, heart tugging writing, and a great villain. Also, the humor of this film is great. De Palma was obviously having fun. I mean, this movie can be viewed as a bad piece of overblown trash, or a studio trying to capitalize on a midnight movie craze, but wheres the fun in that? The direction is solid, the music is relevant, and the movie tells a story. Its fun, entertaining, and emotional. What more do you want from a movie? Plus, you have Rod Twilight Zone Serling doing the opening narration! What a beautifully cheesy movie.  "},{"Title":"Great tongue-in-cheek horror film.","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is probably one of those ones that most people either love or hate, so there isn't that much point in trying to sell it to anyone. I've been hugely attached to it since it came out. I don't think I'm alone in saying that it's my answer to Rocky Horror (which to me is simply entertaining - which is no insult). A lot of people seem to really dislike Paul Williams. But, love him or hate him, he threw himself completely into the role of Swan. To me, Swan is one of the best comical or semi-comical villains ever (it took me a long while to think of it, but I wonder whether his use of the word Excellent in one scene might have inspired Mr. Burns' line on The Simpsons). Everyone else was very good in it, obviously Gerritt Graham as Beef, and George Memmoli as Philbin. I wish , in the first place, that there were FEWER tongue-in-cheek horror films (or whatever you want to call them), and in the second place, that they were as original as this one. "},{"Title":"A long lost, but not forgotten Midnight Movie Classic","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Still playing on double-bills with The Rocky Horror Picture Show in England, Brian DePalma's foray into the psychodelic world of the musical excesses that was the 70's becomes more than just another rock musical. With a fusion of Faust, Dorian Grey, Phantom of the Opera, the Twilight Zone (courtesy of an opening narration by Rod Serling)and Psycho, using multiple camera angles cleaved into split screens, we follow the tragic trials and tribulations of one Winslow Leech (William Findley, the scary side splitting surgeon of DePalma's Sisters), composer, whose music is stolen by mook henchman Philbin (George Memmoli, Joey Clams of Scorsese's Mean Streets)on the orders of his boss, rock impresario Swan (song writer Paul Williams, in a role that must have had him giddy) to be used in the opening of his new rock palace, The Paradise.Attempting to get his music back, Winslow befriends a young, up and coming singer called Phoenix (Jessica Harper, who many have accused of being woefully miscast. Watch for her in My Favorite Year). Beaten by Philbin, set up on drug charges by Swan, subjected to stainless steel dentures because of Swan's own campaign to wipe out dental decay in the penal system, Leech escapes prison upon hearing his music on the radio, breaks into the record factory, and when caught, accidentally has his faced mauled by a hot record press, and sent moaning in pain into the East River.Swan continues his preps for the opening, using his former 50's doo-wop group, the Juicy Fruits, now a surfer band called The Beach Bums (Later, they become a Kiss-like bunch called The Undead. The band is made up of the same three actors, Archie Hahn, Jeffery Commanor and Harold Oblong. Watch for Hahn in many more films, including Innerspace as the deadly deliveryman), to perform Winslow's music. A shadowy figure, donning a leather bodysuit, lame lined cape and a hawk-like mask invades the Paradise and starts reeking havoc.From here, all the cliches play out from Phantom of the Opera, but in one absolutely looney twist is the addition of a fay glitter rock star called Beef (Gerrit Graham, singing voice by Ray Kennedy), who delivers a Hitchcock homage that will never let you look at Janet Leigh in the Bates Motel shower the same way ever again. Toss in a bit of Dorian Grey, with a videotape instead of a portrait taking on the years(and we wonder about Dick Clark's never aging profile!), a strange transformation of several musical themes, all familiar but somehow morphed into different personnas, and you have a cult classic on your hands.This movie fits into so many different viewer interest groups. First, the DePalma fans, watching his early work before classics like Sisters, Carrie and Dressed To Kill; for musicians/soundtrack fanatics, the mutation of a handful of themes into different works, as well as an incidental soundtrack filled with string quartets, classic piano and organ; for movie trivia fans, the appearance of the star of one of DePalma's all time suspense/horror classics as a production associate, not as an actress (I'm not telling you. watch the credits!).For the rest of us, a great popcorn night movie that will leave you laughing, tapping your feet and wondering Where was I when this movie came out and how did I miss it the first time? "},{"Title":"Different but brilliant reinterpretation of a classic!","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Phantom of the Paradise is Brian De Palma's outrageous blend of horror, comedy and rock opera very loosely based on Gaston Leroux's immortal novel Phantom of the Opera. I know it is hard to think of a musical horror movie without thinking about The Rocky Horror Picture Show, but De Palma strikes first with this more horror-oriented (although still hysterically funny) satire on the music industry of the 70s.Swan (Paul Williams) is a powerful and legendary music producer who is making preparations for his greatest triumph in music business The Paradise, a monster auditorium that will serve him as palace. To inaugurate his palace, he is looking for the perfect sound and he fins it in the music of Winslow Leach (William Finley), a young composer who dreams with presenting his Faust cantata to the world. Swan steals Leach's work and in an accident, deforms his face turning Leach into The Phantom. Now, as the masked monster, the Phantom will try to stop Swan's plans by sabotaging the Paradise.The movie is a visually and musically impressive rock opera with a healthy dose of horror and tongue-in-cheek humor. Brian De Palma cleverly conjures the basic outline of Leroux's novel and add elements of his other influences making the movie a subtle yet moving tribute to the books/movies/music he loves. The modernization and the change from opera to rock work surprisingly good and despite of being a bit outdated by now, the music (by Paul Williams) still makes one of the best soundtracks in a horror film.De Palma continues improving his technique in this film and like in the previous Sisters, his style shows maturity and a definitive trademark. Often labeled as a Hitchcock-imitator, I believe that De Palma simply likes to pay constant tribute to his influences, and this film serves a proof of that. Elements of Welles, Hitchcock, Murneau, Whale and Wienne are all over the picture, yet Phantom of the Paradise is like none of the works of those directors.Paul Williams not only composed the soundtrack, he also stars as Swan, the dark and evil genius that leads Death Records and ultimately uses Leach's music for his own purposes. His performance is superb and while not physically imposing he is truly one of the best villains I've ever seen. Finley's take on the Phantom is, like most of the modern interpretations of the character, a romantic tragic figure; but Finley recovers some of the original horror characteristics of the novel creating an attractive but still menacing monster.Jessica Harper, who would achieve fame in Dario Argento's Suspiria, gives a good performance as Phoenix, the young singer that captures both Swan and Leach's attention. Like she would do in Suspiria, she adds depth to the role of the naive singer who wants nothing but to triumph. Something remarkable is the fact that she sang all her songs and did it with credibility and talent. Last but not least, Gerrit Graham portrays a Bowie-inspired Glam rock diva in the unforgettable role of rock superstar Beef.Sadly, not everything is perfect in Paradise, and neither is in this movie. The odd mixture of musical and horror works very good but at times the movie gets a bit too serious to pass as a musical or too silly to pass as a horror film. It's not a surprise that The Rocky Horror Picture Show gained more recognition as it keeps both genres perfectly in equilibrium in all its flamboyant runtime. Still, this is a minor flaw that keeps the movie away from perfection.Maybe I had low expectations or maybe I was just in the right mood, but Phantom of the Paradise was a pleasant surprise that I would not hesitate to recommend to fans of The Rocky Horror Picture Show or fans of black comedy in general. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Deserves a cult bigger that Rocky Horror!","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"24 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I usually detest all musicals, with very few exceptions. 'Phantom Of The Paradise' is one of those exceptions. I still can't say I like many of Paul Williams songs (which he as well as playing the mysterious and egotistical record company mogul and producer Swan), but they don't make me want to stop watching the movie, which has a lot more going for it than his so-so score. Brian De Palma, who can be a most frustratingly uneven director, shows there is a lot more to him than attempting to channel Hitchcock. William Finley, who appeared in De Palma's underrated 'Sisters', and who went on to Tobe Hooper's misunderstood trash classic 'Death Trap', is excellent as flaky songwriter Winslow Leach. Jessica Harper, who would achieve screen immortality by starring in Dario Argento's cult favourite 'Suspiria', is very good as wanna-be pop star Phoenix. The late George Memmoli, who never seemed to fulfill his potential despite appearing in some excellent movies such Scorsese's 'Mean Streets' and Shrader's 'Blue Collar', is very amusing as Swan's gopher Philbin. Finally, if nothing else watch this movie to catch Gerritt Graham's hilariously camp turn as effeminate shock-rocker Beef! Graham had appeared in De Palma's two counter culture black comedies 'Greetings' and 'Hi Mom!' (both with Robert De Niro), and subsequently has had one of the oddest careers of any contemporary actor, working with everyone from Louis Malle to Jim Wynorski, starring as Bud The Chud, and writing for both Disney and the Dead! Graham is a legend in my circle of friends, and playing Beef is a big reason why! 'Phantom Of The Paradise' is a rare beast, a worthwhile rock musical, and in my mind deserves a cult bigger than the incredibly overrated 'Rocky Horror Picture Show'. "},{"Title":"A Super-Cult of My Generation","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The powerful and awarded producer of records and owner of the successful label Death Records, Swan (Paul Williams), steals the Faust cantata composed by the unknown and naive composer Winslow Leach (William Finley) for the grand-opening of his rock-palace, The Paradise. When Winslow bothers Swan trying to meet him to produce his album, he is framed by Swan and sentenced to life in Sing Sing. Winslow escapes from the prison and is accidentally disfigured by the record press of the Death Record. He haunts The Paradise and finds Swan, who proposes a thick contract to Winslow to be signed with his blood. In accordance with the deal with the evil producer, the composer could finish the cantata he was composing for his muse and passion, the singer Phoenix (Jessica Harper), to sing in the theater. However, Swan double-crosses Winslow again, and he finds the dark secret of his contract.The kitsch Phantom of the Paradise is a super-cult of my generation, with a tragic love story that blends The Phantom of the Opera, Faust and The Picture of Dorian Gray. I do not know how many times I have heard the delightful soundtrack of this movie on CD and watched this film on VHS, and today I have just seen it again on DVD for the first time, thirty-three years after the original release and still enjoying and singing the songs together with Phoenix, Beef and the Juicy Fruits. My family also loves this movie and the songs of this underrated masterpiece. The awesome composer of the some of the most important classic songs of The Carpenters, Paul Williams, fits perfectly to the role of the evil Swan, with his blond hair and dark heart. I do not recall seeing William Finley in another movie, at least in a remarkable role. However, the debut of the talented Jessica Harper was stunning, with a top-notch performance and an awesome voice. I could bet at that time that she would become a sensation as actress and singer, but unfortunately I just recall her in Suspiria, Love and Death and Tales from the Crypt. Brian De Palma pays homage to Alfred Hitchcock with the shower scene of Beef. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) O Fantasma do Paraíso (The Phantom of the Paradise)On 18 January 2011, I saw this film again. "},{"Title":"Musical and Horror combine to great effect!","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Brian De Palma is a filmmaker that takes existing ideas, and regurgitates them into something fresh and original (or at least he tries to). Usually it's Hitchcock that comes under De Palma's 'list of things to tribute', but on this occasion it's the classic tales of 'Phantom of the Opera' and the German legend, 'Faust' that get the honours. De Palma has managed to fuse the two stories into one...very, very weird film. Winslow Leach is a musician who has his lyrics stolen by the megalomaniac record producer known as 'Swan'. Winslow doesn't take this lightly, and much less so when he gets framed by Swan and sent to Sing-Sing. However, he gets out and while attempting to avenge himself, he ends up falling into a record press, which disfigures his face...ouch. The plot thickens due to the fact that Swan is planning to open up a new rock club known as 'The Paradise', and it's Winslow's lyrics that he wants to use for the opening. However, now scarred and with nowhere to go; Winslow decides to haunt The Paradise with the help of a silly plastic mask...becoming known as 'The Phantom'. But wait! The fun doesn't stop there, as De Palma, not content with an already thick plot has decided to complete the Phantom of the Opera side of the story by adding a girl singer for the phantom to obsess over - here played by Jessica Harper.This is an important film for Jessica Harper, as it is with this performance that she impressed Dario Argento into giving her a role in her career highlight - 'Suspiria'. It's a shame that Harper didn't make more films, as she has a very cute look that bodes well with the euro-horror feel that is abundant in both this film and, obviously, Suspiria. I'm not sure what Brian De Palma was trying to achieve with this film...there's no real point to it, and the plot is anything but coherent a lot of the time, leading me to believe that he simply wanted to make a flamboyant musical with horror elements, and if that is the case; I dare say he succeeded. Phantom of the Paradise is a lot of fun; the musical numbers are hilariously entertaining, and the movie is very fun overall. Some people won't be able to appreciate it, just because it is so surreal and absurdly weird; but if you're a fan of that type of film, you've come to the right place.While not as well done as 'Dressed to Kill' or some of De Palma's other tributes, and although the plot can get a little messy at times; Phantom of the Paradise stands out because it's so different to almost anything else ever made, and it comes with a recommendation for that reason. "},{"Title":"Salutations from the other side!","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I am bewildered that viewers today think this film is a rip off or they don't see that it is a comedy....in fact I think it is easily as much a cult comedy as ROCKY HORROR, albeit unappreciated and undiscovered. Dismissed in its day it ended up as a double feature with Rocky Horror and then played endlessly across Australia in the 1970s. It is a very funny film and anyone with a sense of humor can see that it is as silly as it is scary. The cinema in Sydney where it opened in 1974 was the 2200 seat Regent and looked just like the theater in the film. The film was forgotten the theater demolished and now everyone moans. .....yeesh.PHANTOM is great fun and has hilarious songs and satire. Just enjoy it. PHANTOM was filmed in the Majestic Theater in San Antonio Texas, and is famed Architect John Eberson's first 'atmospheric' theater with stars and sky as a ceiling. "}{"Title":"A camp classic that deserves it's cult status","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Camp is not for everyone, which has always been and probably will always be the case. But if you're one who likes things absurd, theatrical, and/or in less than good taste then camp may be your style. It can be found in so many different places, from movies to fashion, to people to literature. Many things can be classified as camp, and it's certainly no stranger to the world of cinema. It's popularity began in the 1960s and has continued through the decades since. In the early 1970s Glam Rock, a style of music performed by people in flamboyant costumes, was really becoming huge and was the influence for many films at the time. One year before the cult hit 'The Rocky Horror Picture Show,' young director Brian De Palma came up with his own movie musical that was greatly inspired by this movement. The film initially didn't do so well, but has since gained a much deserved cult following and is now considered a cult classic.Pros Excellent performances from the cast, each actor creating a memorable character. Also Jessica Harper, Gerrit Graham, and Paul Williams all do a bang-up job of singing. A great score and some very cool original songs written by Williams. Writer/director De Palma infuses a lot of style and neat imagery into his film. Well-paced. Some fantastic production and costume designs. Has generous amounts of camp value and humor. Some great musical numbers and set pieces.Cons The film is a satire of the music business at the time, but they could have gone further with it. Some things date the film.Final thoughts A near perfect modern take on the 'Phantom of the Opera' tale blended with the legend of Faust. There's no other film quite like it. Personally I really like 'Rocky Horror,' but feel this film has been in it's shadow long enough. This film has earned it's cult status with good reason.My rating 4.5/5 "},{"Title":"Video killed the radio star","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I've been obsessed with this kind of visual storytelling for quite a while, and so try to create material that allows me to explore it. - Brian De Palma One of director Brian De Palma's best films, Phantom of the Paradise's wacky premise gives De Palma carte-blanche to sustain his now-customary exuberance for a film's entire running time. Satirizing glam rock long before anyone else did, Phantom's a relentless parade of camera wizardry, inventive sets, kinetic storytelling and breakneck wit. But how do you categorise the film? Glam Rock Gothic Classicism? Baroque Camp Opera? I don't know. I call it weird-ass cinema.De Palma's film predates The Rocky Horror Picture Show, MTV, Greese, Saturday Night Fever, and The Little Shop of Horrors by several years. It's based on a French novel written by Gaston Leroux in 1909, but the film's tone is more akin to Andrew Lloyd Webber's campy Phantom of the Opera, itself released almost a decade after De Palma's picture.The plot? Winslow Leach, a talented composer, has his music stolen, is framed for selling drugs and is sent to Sing Sing (a maximum security prison in New York), all at the instigation of Swan, the creepy founder of Death Records. It later turns out that Swan has made a pact with the devil in exchange for eternal youth.The film's plot is a neat reworking of both Faust and The Phanton of the Opera, but De Palma puts his own spin on things. Swan specialises in taking beautiful things and destroying them, corrupting art with his grotesquely commercial hands. Indeed, Swan's immediate reaction upon hearing Leach's wonderful lyrics (Leach plans to write an album based on Goethe's Faust) is to taint them by giving Leach's songs to a talentless singer. That's entertainment! Swan yells repeatedly, interested only in a kind of Frankenstein combination of profit and sadism.Later Leach &#x96; aptly named, he's always leached from - is maimed by a record-pressing machine, literally made into a hideous monster by the music industry. Ashamed of his appearance, now too ugly to perform in what he deems to be the increasingly superficial world of music TV, Leach becomes the masked Phantom, haunting Swan's new rock place, the Paradise, in the hope of rescuing the girl he loves (Jessica Harper).The film anticipates De Palma's later work. One sequence, for example, in which Swan uses a sound mixer to slowly clean up and piece together Leach's damaged voice, resembles a sequence in De Palma's Blow Out in which actor John Travolta uses an editing suite to piece together a murder. Unsurprisingly, Swan's music is preoccupied with death. He creates several nostalgia bands (resurrecting dead genres) and has his Fifties act, The Juicy Fruits, open the film with a song about a musician who commits suicide in order to become a commercially successful legend. The film as a whole contains a number of musical numbers, some of them very funny, others surprisingly emotional. Pay attention to their lyrics.Elsewhere De Palma makes several visual and verbal quotes from The Phantom of the Opera, The Cabinet of Dr Caligari, Hunchback of Notre Dame, Psycho, The Picture of Dorian Gray, Touch of Evil, Manchurian Candidate and Citizen Kane. He also heaps on layers of acid-rock satire and parodies everything from DC comics to German silent films, with their expressionistic designs and frenzied decor. But De Palma's homages in this film are linked by a strong thematic thread. The similarities between Goethe's Faust, Wilde's The Picture of Dorian Gray, Leroux's The Phantom of the Opera and De Palma's own Phantom of the Paradise are too numerous to list.More playful (and pointless?) is De Palma's replication of Touch of Evil's famous opening scene. De Palma's humorous version involves a prop car being pushed onto a theatre stage with a time-bomb in its trunk and an increasingly panicky blonde woman in its passenger seat. Using split screens, this event is viewed by both Swan and The Phantom simultaneously. The rest of the film is similarly gaudy; Swan's thugs are dressed as Hells Angels motorcycle gang members, for example, very fitting considering Swan's pact with the devil.Beyond all this, the film sharpens the political thrust of De Palma's earlier films. In many ways De Palma is creating a cynical portrait of his buddy Geroge Lucas' American Graffiti, released one year earlier. At one point De Palma even called his film the anti-graffiti; the film wages war on the wistfulness of films like Graffiti, mocking its exploitation of the 50s - early 60s nostalgia fad and exposing how, in the space of just a decade, the musical industry had drastically changed. Indeed, Swan himself turns to milking 60s nostalgia (Beach Boys etc) when audiences in the 70s are fed up with 50s nostalgia. He's a corporate vampire, simultaneously milking and destroying history, repackaging everything for a youth market increasingly in search of idylls. Like other De Palma films of this period (Rabbit, Obsession), Paradise is overtly critical of nostalgia. Elsewhere it satirises, not only the greed, marketing ploys and warped ambitions that pervade the music business, but also the lust of audiences for spectacular entertainment, especially if it involves violence and death.With its suggestions that violence is supplied as a response to demand, and vice versa (the product creates the desire where none existed prior), the film thus works as a kind of explanatory prologue to the spectacular violence that would inform most of De Palma's subsequence films. Observe, for example, how the musical acts in the film become increasingly violent as the film progresses, moving away from the innocence of 50s pop, through to 60s hippie music, then toward glittery 70s rock and punk, until it predicts a kind of satanic death metal. Neat. 8.9/10 - Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"Finally getting the praise it deserves","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" For those who are familiar with the great work Brian De Palma did throughout the 1970's and 80's, his bright, energetic glam-rock opera Phantom of the Paradise may seem like something of an oddity. It's a spin on The Phantom of the Opera, with elements of Faust and The Picture of Dorian Gray, told within the context of the music business, who De Palma and scorer/star Paul Williams obviously hold some level of disdain for. While this may differ tonally and perhaps thematically to De Palma's more popular works, Phantom embodies the mixture of flair and homage that De Palma perfected, which many label him a rip-off merchant for (though I strongly disagree).Sad-sack composer Winslow (William Finley) is overheard playing his Faustian opera by the powerful and mysterious music producer Swan (Williams). Swan is on the cusp of opening his new theatre The Paradise, and feels Winslow's music is perfect for his vision of nostalgia and kitsch. Winslow offers his work to Swan, but is never called or paid for his contribution. Seeking answers, he arrives at Swan Records to see an endless line of women, including Phoenix (Jessica Harper), auditioning to be a backing singer and singing his songs. He is thrown out, framed for drug possession and sentenced to life in prison. But Winslow escapes and, after being mutilated by a record press, seeks vengeance on Swan.For all it's visual pizazz, where Phantom lacks is within the casting. Finley, who had worked with De Palma the year before in Sisters and who sadly died in 2012, struggles to make his character empathetic. Williams, while certainly looking the part, lacks the presence to convince that he would be able to wield such a control on his underlings. Harper, while cute as a button, lacks the charisma to really justify Wimslow's obsession over her. The only actor to really impress is Gerrit Graham as glam-rock God Beef, who behind the scenes is a fussy little queen. Beef is no doubt Paul Williams' stab at all those self- important diva's he unavoidably came into contact with during his time as a musician.But with a bright and bouncy film such as this, the acting plays second fiddle to the visuals and the music. While the music may not be catchy in the same way as Phantom's close relation The Rocky Horror Picture Show (1975), in context they contemplate De Palma's camera. All of De Palma's visual ticks are there - crane shots, long takes, split-screen - and it even throws in a homage to Psycho (1960), only with a plunger. It makes for quite an exhausting experience, but you only really need to hold your breath and dive in, and it's really quite easy to fall in love with it. It was unfairly panned by critics and ignored by movie-goers on it's release, but with De Palma's early films getting positive re- evaluation with various Blu-Ray releases, Phantom is finally getting the praise it deserves.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"In the court of King Williams","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Talented underground creators. How great it is to be in their worlds! that's when we get them at the height of their more uncontrolled and pure creativity. unmanipulated, wild. The outcome of what they do when they work within the underground is hardly the best work they produce, but it's often their more passionate creations, and practically always indicates what they will master when they grow up.Here we have a film that exists in 3 levels (at least 3 that matter to me) - this is a film within a social and cultural context. The kind of music we hear here (not the multiple parodies, but the music that is intended to be good) was a reaction to the 60', or the next step of the evolution. Within the same underground spirit that created this film, there was a growing tendency to extend and invent forms that would accommodate the fantasies of new musicians. That's what today we know as progressive rock. This film would pave the way for Tommy, for Live at Pompei, and for The Wall.- Paul Williams, great mind, great talent. Much of what works here is his vision, from the mood even to some roots of the story. His parodies are great, but his real stuff is good enough. I enjoyed getting to know him better, and it Is funny that he comes to perform the guy who steals his own music.- de Palma, who was my first interest when coming to this. The fact is i didn't know so well what to expect, and i ended up appreciating more the other levels than this one of the director. Apparently by this time he had clarified what he wanted to explore, but he was far from mastering any of his enormous visual skills, or this film was such a collective work that he just couldn't make his personal statement so well. Anyway we have here eventually the first split screen of his career (i'm not absolutely sure of this), something he would take all his careers with incredible results. Other than that, we don'te have his magical camera eye yet.The story matters only for the fact that we have a battle between creative and money grower, something that all the people involved here might know pretty well back in those days.Jennifer Harper has a pretty face, and illuminates the set when she sings.My opinion 4/5 http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" For the time this movie was made it compares to anything made these days. I only wish it was available to purchase, I have to look more. I can't believe the number of people that I ask about it who have never heard of the movie. I own the soundtrack on vinyl and I still pull it out from time to time and listen to it. Jessica Harper has an incredible voice as Pheonix, and when she sings Old Souls, I still get goosebumps. Should there be anyone out there read this and know where I may be able to obtain a copy of the movie, could you please post and I will check back. Musicals are not usually one of my favorite types of movies, but I would highly recommend Phantom of the Paradise to anyone. Paul Williams is an awesome actor and his role of Swan, well, I don't think it would have been the same had another actor taken it. Again if anyone knows where I could obtain a copy of this movie, please write. Thank you "},{"Title":"Completely Unique...Beautiful, and Nightmarish Too","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this back when it was new, and it's strange..... At that time, it didn't seem at all remarkable, just another product of the anything goes 70's. At that time, it was easily dismissed--just another strange movie in a world full of strange movies.The film made quite a different impression on me a few years later. I caught it on video around 1990, and was startled, because it became clear that NO ONE had made a film even remotely like it since. This is still the case. Phantom of the Paradise stands out. It's comically extreme and consistently tongue-in-cheek, but in the midst of all the laughter, the viewer's heart chips away piece by piece...DePalma baits us with humor, but the real story does its dirty work with ruthless intensity and unflinching truthfulness. There are so many ugly and disturbing moments in this comedy that frankly I am surprised at how dark the story is.It's a satire of the music industry incorporating elements of both Faust and Phantom of the Opera. If you are into its groove, it is watchable, exciting, and clever. It moves with lightning speed, and tells an unpleasant story--it makes you worry about where it will end up going, and then it hurtles towards a bitter ending for all its characters.Wonderful sad fantasy with dynamite musical score and lyrics by Paul Williams. Immensely entertaining and hypnotic. "},{"Title":"DePalma's best ever","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In this melange of The Phantom of the Opera, Faust, Beauty and the Beast and a few others, musician Winslow Leach's (William Finley) music is stolen by death-obsessed rock impresario Swan (Paul Williams). When Leach attempts to take revenge, his face is smashed in a record press, and he becomes The Phantom and begins haunting Swan's music empire.But it does not end there. The Phantom and Swan make a deal. But part of the deal allows Swan to pull some unseemly tricks. Above all, the Phantom wants to make sure that only diva Phoenix (Jessica Harper) can sing his music.DePalma was clearly showing not only the slimy tricks within the music industry, but also how the performers were starting to get very outlandish. The character Beef (Gerrit Graham) is basically an exaggeration of this.Certainly a movie that everyone should see. "},{"Title":"Too beautiful to be true","Date":"11 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A remake of the Phantom of the Opera in a New York setting, in the days of rock and roll and of show business and of records and rock operas. That must have some kind of filiation or descent from the Rocky Horror Show from London, and it does, but not entirely. I just wonder if it is not also inspired by Anne Rice's Lestat de Lioncourt in his rock star episode of the Queen of the Dead. That sure reveals all the shortcomings and drawbacks of show business and the mythology that goes along with it. But it has another dimension that has to do with Brian de Palma too. He had to criticize society and its over-exploitation of artists. But that was easy. So he had to criticize the gullibility of performers of any type, particularly women, and of the audience. They believe anything that comes from the honey sweet mouth of a producer. The audience comes to the show only to experience the impossible or the improbable, and they applaud to the death of a person because that's too much, I mean it is real, really real, perfect, etc. They yell and clap when someone gets cut up and sliced on the stage because that smells like blood and blood is good on a stage, any stage, provided it is fresh and hot and they can get splashed with it. The audience also come because in a show like that they can do what they couldn't do on the sidewalk outside the theater and there Brian de Palma remains very suggestive but no more than suggestive. But what makes that film in a way superb is the fact that Brian de Palma uses his camera and his special effects so well that we really don't have to suspend our disbelief when something odd is happening; it is just normal in the odd situation we have been soaked in for a while. There is no innuendo or half measures or maybe some interrogations about the fact the main singer is gay like in the Rocky Horror Show. He is so gay that he edges onto the caricature without really slipping on the other side. And the language within the producing team about it is just homophobic enough to be believable, but not too much though, just what we can hear on a sound stage or in the wings of a theater in such a situation, though certainly no diplomacy about it, absolutely none. Just plain and simple homophobically gross. So it can end in a total slaughter of everyone available on the last night with knives, daggers, electricity, weapons, machine guns, you name it you have it. And it looks so nice, all those dead bodies floating in blood galore. Apart from that decadent artistic perfection, the film is nothing but a remake of two or three films and nothing else. The electric guitars are not noisier that a couple of cimbaloms.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"De Palma's got the devil in him","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I haven't laughed as hard as I did during The Phantom of Paradise from a 'rock-and-roll' based movie since Spinal Tap. Or rather, I might have had more consistent laughter from the deliberate style of Spinal Tap, but with Phantom of Paradise the sudden bursts of manic behavior, of the spot-on satire of the period, it's hard to compare how big the laughs get. It might be just from seeing how original the material seems even as De Plama is borrowing so much (there's even a Psycho parody, only this time with Meat, a rock star with the voice of the guy from B52's, and the Phantom Winslow Leach), and how much De Palma reveals his love-hate bond with the music business. But beneath the surface there's also an interesting theme running through the power of creation and those who can just take it away and form it themselves. Who knows if, looking back at the director's history, De Palma was making a thinly guised jab at the producers behind Get to Know Your Rabbit? But it's more than that too The Phantom of Paradise is about selling your soul for artistic force, for vanity, for things that are unknown until the mask is pulled.In the 92 minute running time De Palma starts his film and ends it rocking along, thanks to Paul Williams's great songs and score (he also did the music five years later for the Muppet Movie), as the Juicy Fruits sing a number which Swan (Williams himself) is starting to not like much anymore. Enter in Winslow Leach, who plays piano and sings something fierce, and is approached by Swan's right-hand man to get into business. To be sure, if common sense were around, Winslow might try and get a copyright on his big opus on Faust. But Swan takes it away, forms and shapes it into his own thing, and Leach is set up and thrown in jail. Months pass, and he snaps and breaks out of jail (this, even if it was meant to be played seriously, which it might be, was the most hysterical part of the film), but gets injured and is presumed dead. And he arises- da-da-da!- to be a constant threat to the well-being of the Paradise theater, which is premiering his new musical without, as planned following a fake car bombing, the singer Phoenix (Harper).But there's more, much more, and it's insatiable entertainment, because De Palma understands how to skewer something as obvious to make fun of as the indulgent rock scene of the early 70s by having a product placement for a rock group name (including a singer who does Hispanic dialog mid-song!) and creates the backstage scene to look as vain and cruel as might be imaginable with just *this* much (holds fingers out) exaggerated. While Williams's songs are legitimately good, if not great, at being the kind of stand alone anthems that drag in a cult audience to sing along and jump and sing with it (albeit this is no Rocky Horror Show, this is poking fun at it more than reveling in it, which was the reverse for the big Midnight flick), it's the casting that clicks so well. It's amazing to see a scene like when Williams is looking at the mirror on the old film-reel, where comedy and creepiness merge together depending on when De Palma cuts. Or with the character of Meat, played by the actor so flamboyantly it's near classic. Or Harper, who is the gentle cliché of old who wants to be a rising star and gets it, at a Little Mermaid-type price.But the real star here, for my money, is Finley, who is one of the unsung great character actors of his time. From the rest of the work he did for other De Palma movies (be it an especially villainous role in Sisters, or the one uproarious scene in The Black Dahlia), one might think he was just this quirky, nerdy looking guy. Phantom of Paradise, however, allots him time to grimace and go bug-eyed and operatic to a beat that folds right in step with the typical (but brilliant in this case) style of the filmmaker. He fits in the Lon Chaney role wonderfully, both as a big spoof of it and as an original formation of a classic standard. Tell your friends about The Phantom of Paradise, go to the sold out show, dance in your seats, and don't mind the death and mayhem on stage. It's entertainment! "},{"Title":"Rises!!!!","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was a kid in Churchill, Manitoba... probably like 8 or something, and I remember it being scary. Well, I was a kid, right? I never really understood what the movie was about, but I remember my sister having the soundtrack to it and playing We need a man with a head on his shoulders, a nose that is simply divine... a lot. Also, the song Phoenix sings.... Old Souls... or whatever it's called. ANYWAY, I watched it tonight on TV and understand it now. Of course, it's not as scary, but it made me remember sitting in the theater for it and I don't think there were many people in it. A friend of mine mentioned it had some sort of cult following here in Winnipeg (where I now live) and I then read that on this site. I can see why people would like it. It has it's attraction. Beef? Man, what a character. But, I wanted to say that I remembered this movie, and seeing it now, it makes sense... and I actually liked it this time. =D "}{"Title":"A feast for the eyes.","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This viewer feels obliged to point out that his hometown - Winnipeg, Canada - is one of the two cities in the world to truly embrace Brian De Palmas' operatic spoof of the glam rock era. (The other being Paris, France.) Therefore, it's mystifying that it should have taken me so long to finally watch it, but now I'm glad that I have.It's a thoroughly flamboyant, marvelously designed and decorated rock musical that combines the themes of Phantom of the Opera, Faust, and The Picture of Dorian Gray. William Finley stars as Winslow Leach, a naive, trusting singer-composer who is taken advantage of by conniving producer Swan (who's played by real-life singer-composer-actor Paul Williams). Several circumstances later, the disfigured Leach seeks revenge against Swan while falling madly in love with aspiring pop star Phoenix (the radiant Jessica Harper).The late, great character star Finley and the engaging Williams were never better than in this funny and fast paced exercise in style. It gets off to a great start with opening narration by none other than Rod Serling. Well shot, by Larry Pizer, and designed, by Jack Fisk, it features some thoroughly catchy ditties by Williams. The parodies of such performers as Sha-Na-Na and the Beach Boys are spot on. De Palma is also most effective at capturing the insanity of the emerging shock-rock trend, especially with the effeminate rocker Beef, one of the all- time best roles for top character actor Gerrit Graham.Harper is beautiful and extremely appealing and it's a shame that neither she nor Graham nor anyone else here ever became big stars. Williams is great fun, and Finley fully embraces the tragic arc of his character. Heavy set George Memmoli is also solid as Swans' gopher Philbin.This film manages to maintain that feeling of fun throughout while also being rather sad at the same time.Trivia note Fisks' wife, actress Sissy Spacek, who went on to play the title role in De Palmas' next film, the feature adaptation of Stephen Kings' Carrie, was the set dresser here. And look for such familiar 70s actresses as Jennifer Ashley, Janit Baldwin, Janus Blythe, Robin Mattson, Patrice Rohmer, and Cheryl Smith among the groupies.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very Contemporary. Great Modern Horror And Great Rock Opera","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" this is a excellent horror musical that blends Gothic and modern themes together with stunning effect. it makes the current rock scene and music industry appear like something out of a Gothic novel.the music is just great. i've always felt that Paul Williams was a underrated music genius. the music he's done for cinema is memorable and this work in particular smacks of brilliance. it's too bad it wasn't better appreciated and Williams might have written more ambitious musicals like this one.i also think that Williams is underrated as a actor too. he may be of small stature, but he is very suave and his performance generates a debonair sophistication. his vocal talent is also effective and top notch.the rest of the cast is also swinging and gives off excellent vibes with their rock abilities. Depalma's direction is also hilariously theatrical and fun and lively.a definite must for fans of rock and classic rock in particular, as well as lots to appease fans in the horror genre. a true classic and wickedly gleeful fun. "},{"Title":"A Unique Rock Opera, That Is All I Can Say","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A composer has his music stolen by a big-time record producer and vows his revenge. Things get more complicated after he gets sent to jail and apparently commits suicide in the river...Howard Maxford feels the film is dated, and that is the best criticism one can make of the film. The songs do not hold one's attention well. The plot in general is decent, but the music -- a central focus of the movie -- is just average.Brian de Palma, the director of Carrie and Black Dahlia, is in charge here. He makes a visually appealing film, with angles and colors that call to mind Stanley Kubrick's 2001 and A Clockwork Orange, as well as Dario Argento's Suspiria (which star Jessica Harper would appear in after this film).Gerrit Graham (TerrorVision) as Beef is great, and a nice send-up of glam rock. The critics had called the film funny and hilarious, but both are exaggerations. The humor is very subtle, with this being a musical first, horror film second and comedy third.The references to Dorian Gray are awesome, and unspoken. There are also cues from Poe and previous Phantom films. Some have said there is even an homage to Orson Welles' Touch of Evil (and I believe them, but I have not seen the film yet). Sissy Spacek is credited as a set dresser... you decide what that means. "},{"Title":"The first time I seen this movie","Date":"6 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When I first seen this movie it was on Star Channel, Star Cannel was the first cable channel in Akron Ohio. That was about 1975. I really loved the movie it stayed with me all these years. I even found a copy on VHS and bought it. The music by Paul Williams was out standing and even though I was a kid I still remember all the words to the songs. The only words I really cant remember is to the song when Winslow was walking up to Swans house, It started off  Never thought I get to meet the Devil never thought I'd see him at his place or something like that. In closing, I wish there would be a part two. If anyone knows the words to that song please let me know. This movie is and all ways will be in my top 10. "},{"Title":"Forgotten with time, but I don't know why","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Somehow this movie isn't as popular as it should be. Hopefully the remake will bring some attention to this wonderful piece of work. Brian de Palma really creates a dark and twisted mood throughout this film with his style of filming. Some shots throughout the film remind me very much of Stanley Kubrick's work specifically Clockwork Orange. If you are a fan of either I strongly suggest this film. Also the music is very good. After falling in love with this movie I went and purchased the soundtrack. This is a fantastic movie and as a musical I rank it up with some of my favorites such as The Sound of Music, My Fair Lady, Moulin Rouge, Sweeney Todd, and Dancer in the Dark. "},{"Title":"The MAN Who Wrote It, The GIRL Who Sang It, And The MONSTER Who Stole It...","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Here we are in 2008, nearly thirty-five years after the fact, and I have never forgotten how PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE informed the way I viewed movies forever. The brainchild of writer/director Brian de Palma, PHANTOM was born of his fervent wish to do a musical. At the time of its creation, de Palma was still a critical darling with three previous films to his credit (GREETINGS, HI, MOM!, and his feverish and blackly funny ode to his spiritual mentor, Alfred Hitchcock, SISTERS.) Critical acclaim and box-office success are two very different things, however, and as much as he relished one, he also understood that he would have to achieve the other, in order to be able to continue making films at all. Although he would not reach his goal until well after this, tackling a teen horror film based on a novel by an aspiring author named Stephen King, PHANTOM inspired the director to reach for strokes of creative daring and cleverness that would mark very little of his later work. It also made a huge difference that his co- conspirator, pop tyro Paul Williams, was definitely on the same page when he composed the accompanying music, lyrics and evocative score. Even though another genre-and gender-blending film from Fox made that same year, would eventually overshadow PHANTOM in cult and box-office status, this overlooked gem deserved so much more attention than it got. Using a fantastic scenario to make sly, trenchant, tongue-in-cheek observations about the absurdity, excess and greed that defined the music business back in the Seventies, what it had to say about it all is - strangely enough - just as relevant today, and outlines the biting satire well before the advent of Rob Reiner's sublime THIS IS SPINAL TAP.A mash-up of Gaston LeRoux's timeless PHANTOM OF THE OPERA, FAUST, Wilde's DORIAN GRAY and a parody of several very popular bands and trends of the time, PHANTOM is first and foremost the story of naive and passionate composer Winslow Leach (de Palma favorite William Finley). Leach is seeking maximum exposure for his masterwork, a pop cantata based on the legend of Faust.Like the old saying goes, be careful what you wish for. 'Wunderkind' producer Swan (Williams, whose character is based in part on Phil Spector, which was more accurate than anybody knew at the time) has been in search of the perfect music to crown his latest achievement - the opening of the Paradise, a super-sized music venue for everything from glam-rock to nostalgic do-wop. Thanks to a nefarious scheme cooked up with his toady, Philbin (the late George Memmoli), Swan steals Winslow's music and has him locked up on a trumped-up drug charge. Incensed, Winslow escapes with vengeance on his mind, but his plan backfires when a freak accident leads to facial disfigurement in a record press, he is wounded by a security guard and allegedly drowns. Now armed with the stolen songs, Swan next seeks out someone extraordinary to sing them, and what he finds is two performers the winsome Phoenix (SUSPIRIA star Jessica Harper in her debut role), a backup singer who Winslow developed a crush on, and bisexual screamer Beef (the excellent Gerrit Graham), a conglomeration of Mick Jagger, Rod Stewart, Elton John, David Bowie and every other flamboyant rocker you can name. But there is indeed trouble in Paradise - Winslow, not as dead as originally thought, dons a mask and cape and stalks the theater, with murder on his mind and a tireless determination to finish the job on Swan. The devilish producer strikes an uneasy bargain with his Phantom - stop his reign of terror, finish the cantata and Swan will have Phoenix sing it. Winslow agrees, but doesn't tumble to Swan's plans to pull a bait-and-switch with Beef until later. When he does find out, you can pretty much see where everything is headed, as more betrayals are discovered, secrets unleashed and destinies collide, leading to one of the most outlandish climaxes ever. Serving as a kind of Greek chorus in the background, are actors/singers Archie Hahn, Harold Oblong and Jeffrey Commanor who play a very versatile trio, changing musical styles and looks - though the music they perform sounds strangely...familiar. As the Juicy Fruits, the Beach Bums and the Undeads, they poke wild and wicked fun of several different genres and bands to SPINAL TAP'S one. Now having viewed it as I get closer to age 50, the flaws and the cheesiness are more than obvious, as PHANTOM forever remains a product of its time and place. But it doesn't diminish its kitschy charm or inventiveness one iota, and I long for the days when a master filmmaker like de Palma was still having this much obvious FUN doing what he loved, as did the entire cast. Music lovers, horror film lovers and de Palma fans owe it to themselves to check this one out. "},{"Title":"Brian De Palma's Phantom of the Paradise is one campy horror surprise!","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Having recorded this movie from AMC in 2002, I thought now, Halloween day, was the perfect time to finally watch Brian De Palma's Phantom of the Paradise. This modern-day retelling of The Phantom of the Opera is so '70s dated but that's what I found so fascinating about this cult horror-musical. Paul Williams, William Finley, and Jessica Harper are so right in their roles and the songs by Williams are very entertaining whether in ballad mode or the more hard rocking sound so prevalent in that decade. Ms. Harper is so luminous that when she sometimes seems a little overwrought in both vocalizing and dancing she's still fascinating anyway. Certainly her unlikely love scene with Mr. Williams (with her unbuttoning his shirt!) is very sexy the way DePalma plays it. And the way Finley is pained when he watches is so heartbreaking. There's also some funny scenes concerning Gerrit Graham as the rock star Beef. This is one campy musical horror film that I enjoyed and may see again next year! And what a treat to hear Rod Serling in the introductory narration shortly before his untimely death. "},{"Title":"The man, the girl and the monster","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Wislow love music and for some reason, he begin to play in a piano one of his songs called Faust. The famous producer Swan hear it and stole it his music. Wislow fall in love with Phoenix, a beautiful girl with a beautiful voice. Wislow is sent probably to hell. But he return to take revenge...This could be a kind of synopsis for Brian De Palama cult classic Phantom of the Paradise, a wild stylish film, unique in its kind. One year before of extraordinary Carrie, De Palma brings to us one kind of horror musical comedy (If we call it like that) that is no more or less that based in famous stories Phantom of the Opera and Faust by Goethe, but how are mixed is the thing that we must see. The story is told sometimes quickly, and do things that we really don't expect, but this is a film that can be victim of a public with no patience or, give it the case a lot of times, people who expect a typical horror story, in this case, a kind of The Phantom of the Opera adaptation ... Well, this film is not typical, and that is why Phantom of the Paradise is unique and, at the end, really effective, for those who really have an open mind.As i say before, Phantom of the Paradise is not a typical film, is more, and you can find this at the end, a kind of story ... Phantom of the Paradise is that, is a damn good horror and, in a way, pessimistic fable. The situations can be take it sometimes as funny, then full of horror and then you find a big bit of drama, and all do it successfully. The film have a style hard to predict, and in much cases, hard to take and accept in the first moments, but then you find out at the end, and you really understand that is just a stylish work, something never made, and something really hard, if this exist, in actual cinema.And this is what Brian De Palma offers us with the wonderful music of Paul Williams (Who gives an awesome performance), a mix of nostalgia and Glam-Rock with twisted but beautiful scenarios which fill in this marvelous bitter story. Of course is too, the songs, which are unforgettable Faust, Somebody Super Like You and marvelous The Hell of It. William Finley and Jessica Harper (The fantastic actress of Suspriria and Shock Treatment a bit more young and of course beautiful as her voice) are amazing and unforgettable.There's only the bitter feeling that makes you feel when it ends, and there is, in the final scene, when you understand why Phantom of the Paradise is a bitter fable. Much people could found Phantom of the Paradise as incomplete, but is really the opposite. The ending makes us understand all the suffer of the characters, that simply sold their soul for fame. Phoenix, the only one who is save find this, and found Winlow dead too. A man who really loves her. At the same time all the people believes that all is just another show, and they dance and dance without any worry of the obvious suffering of the others. They have that kind of lust ... so much that they don't care to sold they're soul, just for feel and see that thing that we call fame.*Sorry for the mistakes...well, if there any. "},{"Title":"Amazing musical accomplishment","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Others here have commented more than adequately on the clever blending of Dorian Grey, Faust and Phantom o/t Opera in this remarkable film. I'd like to put in a plug for Paul Williams, whose score and concepts are not just the backbone of the work, but a clever and intricate parallel subtext to the main story.Williams seem to be known mostly for a number of slightly twee songs he's released. Somewhat less well-known is the huge list of hits he's written for others. These, too, are sometimes a bit soppy, but looked at dispassionately they're also extremely well-crafted. This film gave me a new appreciation of his abilities, which he demonstrated again in Bugsy Malone.It seems to me that Williams' musical work for Phantom of the Paradise could be his masterpiece. The fact that he acted, rather well, as a central character could be considered that cherry on the top of what to me is a more significant artistic contribution. The songs he wrote do much more than provide the music in the musical each one is a brilliant package that manages to combine an element of the main story, a clever satire on the changing musical zeitgeist, and a further element of a second story that seems to be the underlying message of the film the Faustian bond between a musician and the music industry.Both Winslow and Phoenix are hugely talented, but that's not enough, it seems both must sell their abilities to the Swan's Mephistopheles before they can emerge from obscurity. Both tell themselves - and others - that what they want is an audience for their work; in reality both, however, ultimately desire fame. The venality of this desire, and the price they pay to achieve it, is their downfall.The songs describe a different story from the one shown in the film. That story is more disjointed - it's a secondary narrative, told in little three-minute windows, where only the theme of sacrifice for gain is repeated The Juicy Fruits song 'Goodbye, Eddie, Goodbye' tells the story of a singer who records an album and then commits suicide, hoping that the publicity will boost sales, raising money for his sister's life saving 'operation'. The Juicy Fruits are archetypal late '50s rock'n'roll Latino greasers, with all the gum-chewing macho sleaze of the species.Winslow Leach's number, 'Faust', reiterates the soul-selling theme - this time in exchange for love. Winslow himself is an awkward 'longhair' composer, very unhip and not an ideal vehicle for his own music. The music itself, of course, is excellent.The Beach Bums are a hideously funny parody of the '60s surf craze music wave, with its emphasis on materialism a la 'Little Deuce Coup' their primary concern is their cars, and their notion of tragedy is a tear in their custom 'Upholstery'. Best line 'Of all life's mysteries, the greatest one I've seen/ My short runs better when it's clean'.Phoenix is introduced performing her number, 'Special to Me', the song of a woman worrying because her partner - presumably a struggling musician - is 'working so hard that you don't even know you're alive'. The sacrifice of life for fame is repeated here.Winslow (as the Phantom) sings 'The Phantom's Theme' a struggle to integrate inner demons and angels. In the film this song is accompanied by a montage of the musical fashions that follow the Beach Bums, including a Revival group, Girlie duet, Country solo, Motown-style female harmony, and finally bringing us up to date at Beef's camp glam-rock.At the Paradise opening, the Undeads perform 'Somebody Super Like You', with its Frankenstinian tale of assembling the perfect music star from components hacked from audience members. The result is Beef, but instead of perfection his song, 'Life at Last', tells the audience that 'All of you donated something horrible you hated' to make a perfect monster.His sudden demise in mid-song brings on Phoenix to sing 'Old Souls'. This song appears to be a happy ending to the tale begun with 'Special to Me', in which the partners have found eternal happiness in an afterlife in which they will never be parted.'Old Souls' is the last song in the subtext narrative. The last actual number, 'The Hell Of It', is really a coda as evil is finally defeated - rather messily, with a blood-spattered Phoenix sobbing beside the bodies of Winslow and Swan. The key focus here is the audience, who've clearly had a whale of a time, and dance ecstatically amid the carnage, enjoying the show as they have done with each previous disaster. Do they know the difference between the show and the reality? The issue is irrelevant to them. Here are the rewards of fame a mindless crowd begging for more entertainment, as spectacular as possible.CD "},{"Title":"A Musical Dark comedy Masterpiece!","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A brilliantly entertaining extravaganza which intermixes the plot of Phantom Of The Opera with The story of Faust.Phantom Of The Paradise's storyline is actually quite timeless, now more than ever in our times, more wannabes will do anything to appear on television or become a 'star' what with all the so called 'Reality' Talent shows gracing our screens at the moment.The songs in this film are all excellent, written by Paul Williams who also plays the Music Tycoon Swan. My personal favourite moments are where the 'Beach Bums' sing 'Upholstery' on a rehearsal stage while 'The Phantom' plants a ticking bomb in a stage prop. This is expertly done in split screen by director Brian DePalma to show you the effect of two things happening at once. Excellent.Another favourite bit is where Jessica Harper as Phoenix sings 'Special To Me' to Swan at an audition. This scene belongs to Harper, who sings another gem 'Old Souls' later on when The Paradise opens.Last scene that truly stood out for me was the trio doing 'Somebody Super Like You' as a sort of parody homage to Alice Cooper and The Rocky Horror Show. Its a great moment as well as a great song.William Finley as Winslow deserves special praise for a funny and powerful performance as the 'tragic' song writer, all through the film your on his side for the injustices the poor guy suffers at the hands of Swan and his henchmen. Paul Williams is both creepy and conniving as Swan, but also comes across as quite witty and amusing. Hes really good in this. Would have made a great Austin Powers villain.I fully recommend Phantom Of The Paradise for people that are fans of Moulin Rouge or just looking for something a little different.A Masterpiece. Ten Out Of Ten. "}{"Title":"Great Music, Campy and Fun","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this when it first came out as a midnight double feature with (the also newly released) Rocky Horror Picture Show. I actually liked it better, but this was before RHPS became an audience participation thing.The music is terrific. Paul Williams has been underrated and it's sad to see people miss out on songs like Old Souls and The Hell of It just because they think Mr. Williams writes EZ listening and Muppet songs.The story is deceptively simple with great acting turns by The Phantom and the wonderfully flamboyant Graham as the rock singer. Williams isn't the greatest actor but he fits the role perfectly. Jessica Harper was a real stand-out and it was heartbreaking not to see her star rise after this film. And what a voice! DePalma's direction, especially his favorite split-screen technique, works very well with this screenplay. It heightens the suspense and adds to the atmosphere. There are even a few actual scares. Halloween is coming... if you want a fun, not-too-scary film - maybe to show as a double feature with RHPS - you could do no better than Phantom of the Paradise. You're Special To Me. "},{"Title":"Silly Parody, Technically Great","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a small movie very few people as ever heard of. The screenplay and the acting don't really matter in this case. I think Brian DePalma wanted to create a satire to the very popular pop stars and the glam rock era. It's a very weird movie; if you mixed The Phantom of the Paradise with The Portrait of Dorian Gray, satire touches and dark humor and set it in the glam rock era, this is probably what you'd get. The settings are amazingly well done and very original, as are the make up, clothes and cinematography. There are some incredibly original scenes that get you by surprise, which is just the objective. This is quite obviously done by a young director, with its wild imagination and ways of changing the direction of the movie (too) quickly. As an example in the scene where you find out what Swan did, and you only have clues, like, one minute before.Though, the direction is greatly innovative. It perfectly captures the madness of drugs, singers trying to innovate the most ridiculous ways and the way pop stars are just images to society. The shots reach, sometimes, a level of brilliance. There's the scene in which Swan confronts Winslow, aside shot that's great; there are the scenes with Winslow writing, the light flickering and Phoenix appearing behind him, also incredibly beautiful, there are the lesbian sex scenes, there's the shower scene, a clear homage to Psycho, and much, much more.The story is full of weird, interesting characters. Winslow Leach is quite an idiot, but I found myself rooting for him to get his way. William Finley doesn't do much, but his facial expressions during the first half of the movie are greatly funny, as are his lines. Paul Williams, who did the score too, is great as Swan, the malefic pop star/producer. His voice and mannerisms create a funny, scary character. Jessica Harper as Phoenix was cool. She was sweet, had just the right looks and sang well. Gerrit Graham as a...weird rock singer is hilarious. Obviously, the script isn't meant to be taken seriously it's all a huge silly parody, with a lot of style and not a lot of substance (even if you can still find a lot of accurate, funny lines).Finally the music. It's just perfect, fitting on the movie and having great lyrics. It's very original and unusual to listen to this type of music all in the same movie.This is an hidden gem from the 70's, stylish and very well made, even if way silly. You need to be in the mood for it, but if you are, you'll definitely enjoy yourself. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The French Version","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I hate to see movies which are dubbed in another language. With one exception Phantom of the Paradise. It took a long time for that movie to come out on DVD or even VHS. When I saw it for the second time, dubbed in French, I was amazed by the quality. Usually, many references and expressions are misunderstood. Here, not only was everything respected, but they added some great punchlines When the cop asks Winslow what he's doing in Swann's place, it French they say Qu'est ce que tu fais du côté de chez Swann which is a reference to Marcel Proust's book. Beef's name is changed to Biceps, which I think is also very funny. "},{"Title":"Excellent songs complement this Rock and Roll Phantom!","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" 1974 was notable for two films that were major bombs at the time, but which have gone on to become cult classics The Rocky Horror Picture Show and The Phantom of the Paradise.The former film garnered its cult following because of many factors, but not least of which is its message of inclusion for all who are different.The latter - the Phantom... - garnered its following because the film is downright fun and full of great performers delivering great performances, plus it has a really excellent soundtrack.Since the Phantom of the Opera is known to just about all, its plot is also well known. With various remakes already having been made, a somewhat unknown director, Brian DePalma took the helm of a film that is a melange of several classic Gothic horror stories with The Phantom of the Opera being the leading one.The Phantom of the Paradise actually more closely follows the 1950's Hammer version of The Phantom of the Opera and adds in The Portrait of Dorian Grey and Faust for good measure.Paul Williams, the diminutive actor/songwriter plays Swan, an evil record company owner who also is the living embodiment of a modern day Dorian Grey. Williams also wrote the lyrics for the entire film.William Finley, a college buddy of director Brian DePalma, plays Winslow, a gifted rock opera writer (as Tommy had just come out and rock operas were seen as a wave of the future), from whom Swan steals his masterpiece - a rock version of the great horror story of Faust - about a man who sells his soul to the devil. Winslow becomes our phantom.Jessica Harper gives us a very delicate version of the old Mary Philbin role in a character named Phoenix.There are some really dynamite songs that permeate the film and I think that you'll find that although this is technically a musical it is not a musical of the Oklahoma variety.The way in which Winslow is disfigured to become the Phantom is truly gruesome and ripe for the era.Humor is rampant in this film and it never takes itself too seriously.Paul Williams is very very creepy as Swan and he really delivers the goods on the music. (in fact it is Williams not Finley who actually sings as the Phantom).Let's compare apples to apples.No, this isn't Citizen Kane or Sunset Boulevard - but it deserves a 10 in its own right as a cult classic.Rocky Horror is great, but take a break from it and check out this awesome addition to the same genre! "},{"Title":"Rock'n'roll horror extravaganza","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is an absurd and wildly entertaining glam-rock twist on the Phantom of the Opera story. Winslow Leach has his rock opera stolen by music biz icon Swan. After terrorizing the record company, Leach is in an awful (but rather hilarious!) accident that renders him disfigured. He terrorizes the opening night of Swan's new rock'n'roll palace, The Paradise.This is the best horror film I've seen by De Palma. While it is mostly tongue-in-cheek, it does feature one of the most suspenseful uses of his trademark split screen. The story is great--a surprisingly clever indictment of the music industry. The music is wonderful if you like glam, though the songs that Jessica Harper (the Christine figure) sings seem out of place and are about as deadpan as her performance. Gerrit Graham is a riot as Beef and steals every scene he is in. I recommend Phantom of the Paradise to fans of over-the-top productions such as Rocky Horror, as well as anyone looking for a unique twist on a classic tale that doesn't take itself too seriously. My Rating 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing matters anyway and that's the hell of it","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I recall seeing this movie in original release and insisting that all my friends see it as well, dragging some to the theater. I would gauge your coolness on how you reacted to this movie. When this movie came out, we were hearing the first few rumblings of glam rock, 1950s retro-rock that would become the Happy Days/LaVerne & Shirley industry, movie rock operas, Alice Cooper's staged atrocities, heavily made up bands like KISS were still a rumor, and corporate rock empires were reported on regularly in magazines like Rolling Stone, or if you were really cool you read Creem. This movie had it all, drugs, sex and rock and roll sell-outs.This movie really does deserve whatever cult status it gets, it was an odd movie when it came out, a film that dared to criticize the music industry itself. Paul Williams' music grows on you and while the songs sound trivial and trite the first go around, they eventually stick in your head and you realize that this is one of his best movie scores. Jessica Harper was THE early 70s chick and plays the part well, although her dancing is rather clunky, her singing is nice and she has good material to work with. William Finley has an odd look but his part works, his Phantom costume was fantastic and his silver teeth made his character! Paul Williams played his role with gusto and you can tell he had fun poking his finger in the eye of corporate rock.All in all, highly recommended. Now that corporations really have taken total control of popular music, this movie could never be made today. An honest look at a world where fact and fiction have their lines blurred. "},{"Title":"Forget Rocky Horror, THIS is the 1970s Glam-Rock (non) musical you should see!","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Say 1970s Glam-Rock musical to anyone and you'll probably get Rocky Horror Picture Show in response. However, while Rocky Horror is all well and good with its transgender alt-sexuality tunes and uber-campy horror-movie stylings, Phantom of the Paradise beats it to the post by a year and furthermore director Brian DePalma (later to direct Carrie (1976)) trumps the more famous Rocky Horror by impressing with visual style, better tunes (in my opinion), and most of all a plot of substance which marries the Phantom of the Opera to the Faust legend at the same time as functioning as a penetrating critique/satire of the entertainment industry before delivering a genuinely tragic (and need-to-be-seen-to-be-believed) carnival-esque finale.Paul Williams (who also wrote the soundtrack) plays Swan, a media mephisto who through his 'Death' record label and club 'The Paradise' is always on the look-out for the next big thing in order to vamprically feed of it &#x96; whether financially or sexually or, presumably preferably, both. As such, he comes across talented but totally unknown song-writer Winslow Leach (William Finley) whose magnum opus, Faust, he promptly steals and who he has sent to prison where he becomes horrendously disfigured in an accident which provides the means of his escape. Thus driven by bitterness and resentment towards Swan, Winslow returns to the Paradise to enact his revenge. However, Swan confronts Winslow and plays on his artistic desire to have his music heard and smooth-talks him into finishing his Faust composition, even conceding to Winslow's provision that only Phoenix (Jessica Harper), an ambitious and talented singer he met once, sings. At this point, Swan tricks Winslow into signing a contract which reveals Swan to be not all he seems.It's hard to recommend that Rocky Horror fans should watch this as, despite superficial similarities (mainly in their lush visuals), the movies are chalk and cheese. The difference? Well, first of all it should be said that Phantom of the Paradise isn't a strictly-speaking a musical as the songs don't drive the narrative. Instead, the songs are self-contained and included as part of a film about showbiz. Another, more important, difference is that Rocky Horror, apart from the subversive element of glam-rock gender-bending, is basically just a bit of fluffy fun. In contrast, Phantom of the Paradise has grander (and darker) ambitions the film is a commentary on show-business and show the very real Faustian deals-with-the-Devil people make in their obsession with fame and how people's souls become grotesquely misshapen as a result and I defy anyone to not loathe Swan, be frustrated with Phoenix, and weep for Winslow as this tragic tale unfolds.Rocky Horror it is not&#x85;and rightfully so as, although considerably less well-known, Phantom of the Paradise is something far, far greater. Watch it. "},{"Title":"Give Rocky a rest.","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" As far as rock/horror/comedy/musicals are concerned, The Rocky Horror Picture Show has by far the most dedicated cult following, but in my opinion, Brian De Palma's oft-overlooked Phantom of the Paradise is just as deserving of such fervent admiration its tunes might not be as 'instant' as those in Richard O'Brien's classic, meaning that an audience sing-a-long is unlikely, but the film manages to blend the same genres in as equally entertaining a manner.To tell his tragic tale of betrayal and love&#x97;a wicked combination of Faust and The Phantom of the Opera, with just a soupçon of Dorian Gray thrown in for good measure&#x97;director Brian De Palma imbues proceedings with a garish comic-book look to complement the outlandish rock opera excess, delivers some neat horror references for fans of the genre (including a hilarious homage to Psycho's shower scene), stages several magnificent musical numbers (words and music by the brilliant Paul Williams, who also stars as the film's villain, powerful record producer Swan), and ends the film in a suitably chaotic manner.Next time you feel yourself yearning to do the time-warp yet again, why not decide to give Rocky and pals a rest, and try the Phantom for a change&#x97;you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie.","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Anyone reading this review to see if this movie is worth watching, rather than seeing if I agree or disagree with your opinion, two words. Watch It. Watch it, learn it, love it. Plot-wise, quite basic, a composer writing a musical based on Faust, ends up living Faust, to get his music heard while pursuing the girl of his dreams. This movie is a classic because it is so much more than this simple plot device. Brian De Palma, certainly one of the greatest directors in Americian cinema, peaked with this movie. As good as Rocky Horror and superior to Shock Treatment, De Palma's frenetic and over the top direction style is perfectly suited to the material (which he wrote), and shows him at his best, before time (age?) tempered him. Of course, this movie is also about the music. Paul Williams at his best, both as a writer and performer, and Jessica Harper's (introduced) hauntingly beautiful vocals are top notch, of course. "},{"Title":"Standing Ovation!","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Wow&#133; Just, WOW!! I've never been the biggest fan of director Brian De Palma's work, but this is honestly one the most awesome and coolest movies I ever had the pleasure of discovering! It surpassed all my expectations and literally blew me away. Personally, I'm a huge sucker for offbeat, dared, eccentric and ingenious cult movies &#133; and Phantom of the Paradise is about as offbeat, dared, eccentric and ingenious as any movie can get. This is probably one of the fasted-paced films ever, with a lot of stuff happening in a span of barely a couple of minutes, and it almost feels like De Palma doesn't grant you any time to stop and contemplate for a moment about how illogical and far-fetched his story lines are. The basic plot is simultaneously brilliant and lucid. It's an amalgamation of the classic and commonly known tales Phantom of the Opera and Faust, yet &#150; and this is the truly unique part &#150; set in a typically 70's environment of untalented rock musicians, greedy record company owners and aspiring young singer/songwriters. Seriously &#133; how ridiculously simply, yet amazingly imaginative is this film's concept? I can't get over it! Horror musicals are already a rare breed as it is, but this movie honestly deserves to play in a league of its own and &#150; like several other fans around here stated as well &#150; it's so much better than The Rocky Horror Picture Show. The nerdy but talented young musician Winslow hopes to get discovered by the eminent but slightly extravagant record company tycoon Swan. Swan adores his music all right, but not so much Winslow's persona and arranges that the aspiring musician get thrown into jail whilst he steals the music for the big opening of his new concert dome; called The Paradise. Winslow escapes and undertakes a first attempt at revenge, but becomes horribly mutilated and doomed to a life of hiding offstage in The Paradise. He then closes a pact with Swan, stating Winslow can rewrite his sonata and only his muse Phoenix may perform the songs, but he keeps getting cheated until violent retaliation is the only answer. The plot is already terrific but there are several secondary elements to truly uplift this movie to the rarely equaled level of brilliance, like De Palma's skilled eye for satirical comedy, the most creative cinematography imaginable, flamboyant musical gadgets and glittery costumes. Phantom of the Paradise is a smörgåsbord of visual gimmicks (split screens, anemographic images) and pleasantly deranged cult-details (lesbian orgies, the Devil&#133;) and manages to be funny and horrific at the same time. The music and lyrics are stupendous and the grotesque showcases are even better. William Finley (as Winslow), Paul Williams (as Swan) and Gerrit Graham (as Beef, a kinky and totally bonkers rock artist) all give away performances of a lifetime, whilst Jessica Harper (later the starlet of Dario Argento's horror milestone Suspiria) is simply irresistible as the Phantom's unreachable love-interest. I usually think Brian De Palma too bluntly copies trademarks and style-elements from other directors (particularly Alfred Hitchcock), but this movie proves finally to me that he's a creative mastermind himself. Phantom does contain several references towards other directors &#150; like a variation on the famous Psycho shower sequence &#150; but they're merely just tributes this time. This is just, simply put, fundamental viewing for every self-respecting cult fanatic. "}{"Title":"Deliberately goofy glam-musical","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I had remembered Phantom Of The Opera as an extremely entertaining movie with fantastic music. Well, as with many things it turned out that my memory has made more of this flick than there really is to it.The story isn't even half bad. A strange mixture of Faust and Phantom Of The Opera it's filled with some ratty criticism on the music industry. Unfortunately, Brian De Palma puts style over matter once again (and of course he didn't forget the obligatory Hitchcock reference, either). While the movie is visually appealing, the story becomes deliberately unrealistic and goofy, which gets a bit tiresome after a while.Musically Phantom Of The Opera is quite enjoyable, but the songs are nowhere near as catchy or interesting as the ones from the very similar and more successful Rocky Horror Picture Show. If you like rock musicals and glam fairy tales such as Velvet Goldmine, you could get a kick out of this movie, too. If you don't, be prepared to yawn your way through Phantom Of The Paradise. "},{"Title":"maybe the best bad movie ever made","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Now, there are a lot of so bad they're good movies in the world. Most of these are poorly made, but have some scenes that are hysterical and you can watch them again and again. Scenes that you are amazed merely at the fact that they exist. Example Reefer Madness. But, people will rarely call these movies good, unless they are joking. The reasons that people like these movies are completely accidental- Reefer Madness wasn't intended to be funny, it was intended to be pretty serious, but it was so poorly made that, when it's not boring as hell, it's hilarious.To me, watching Phantom of the Paradise was like watching a bad movie made up of only the scenes that are so bad they are funny. Nearly every scene is so outrageous that you have to laugh. And, since it's actually a well-made movie, even when it's not being funny and outrageous, it's still entertaining- even if the only thing that's entertaining in the scene is the color of the set, or the music.One thing that's been said about DePalma is that when you say he goes for style over substance, it's not an insult. This movie is a great example of that. It starts off hitting us over the head with bizarre stylistic flourishes, and it never lets up. The style is all that there is to it- you can't criticize it's style over substance because there is no substance to begin with. It never gets realistic, and when it gets more grave in tone, you can't really be disturbed by it, because it's still really outrageous.So, all in all, I still don't know if I can exactly call it a good movie. It's a completely stupid, silly movie. But it's excellent at being a stupid, silly movie. "},{"Title":"Life at Last!","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When Brian DePalma shot Phantom of the Paradise, the name of Swan's(Paul Williams) record label was Swan Song. Signs with the record label name were everywhere, as much of the action takes place in Swan's theater, production office, and lair.Unfortunately, Swan Song was already in use - they were Led Zeppelin's label, among other bands. And thanks to an unfortunate coincidence between an event in the movie and the sad, shocking real-life death of Les Harvey, who had ties to Swan Song, the owner of the real label promised to sue the pants off Brian DePalma and the studio if they didn't change it.Problem is, Phantom of the Paradise was already in the can at this point, and in 1974, it was nearly impossible - and way too costly - to fix the signs in some moving shots. So any shot with Swan Song in it had to be carefully edited out, ruining several long tracking shots by DePalma. I bring this up because the only real flaw of Phantom of the Paradise, a goofy, strange, funny, satiric, unsettling, all-around wonderful midnight movie is the omission of these long, gorgeous shots, shots that remind you that DePalma is a visual artist who took this material very seriously. Fortunately, that's the only way stuff like this could possibly work. The story itself is a complex merger of Phantom of the Opera, Faust, and Picture of Dorian Gray, with several other threads, twists, and homages thrown in for good measure, and it works because it has so much heart. Nobody ever winks to the audience, even when things get incredibly weird.This aesthetic can be seen in the wonderful, juicy lead performances that flirt with the top but never climb over. William Finley, as the hapless Winslow Leach, blends theatrical flourishes with operatic emotion to create an unforgettable Phantom. We're with him, all the way, even when he does some fairly unpleasant things. Paul Williams gives a delicious performance as Swan, the evil Phil Spector-like impresario - watch how he turns the tide on the Phantom in their first scene together, mesmerizing his attacker with the promise of employment (and a healthy assortment of drugs). Jessica Harper plays it completely straight as Phoenix, as she must - any unnecessary flourishes would have broken the spell. But best of all is Gerrit Graham, stealing every scene (as he would later in Used Cars) as Beef, the flaming, paranoid, diva-in-the-making, hand-picked by Swan to sing Winslow's music just to irritate him. No need to say another word about the plot. Sure, there are moments that could have been tweaked a bit - a revelation about Swan, based on an old photograph, would have a stronger impact if it opened the movie, rather than showing up in the third act. But the point is it HAS a plot, and a point. It's stunning, how thoroughly DePalma has seen this nonsense through, finding a line to the end that satisfies the romantic, operatic, classic horror movie, and even satiric setups. You'll want to stand up and cheer at the end. Then there's the music. If you only know Paul Williams for his emotional ballads - Rainy Days and Mondays, The Rainbow Connection, I Won't Last a Day Without You - you'll be surprised by the range he shows here. Sure, there are his trademark ballads, like the maybe-too-slow Old Souls and the song that first captures Swan's attention, the stunning Faust. But there are also satirical throwbacks (Goodbye, Eddie, Goodbye, Upholstery), glam rockers (Somebody Super Like You, Life at Last), even country-rock (Special to Me), and they all matter. This isn't a characters- burst-into-song-and-dance kind of musical - the numbers are naturally woven into the story, into stage shows and auditions, into the heads of characters. But the music is crucial to the success of the film, and Williams nails it. The songs aren't quite as fun on their own, but it's still a kick to play the soundtrack and remember the scenes. Rocky Horror gets all the rock n' roll midnight-movie love. But great as Rocky is, Phantom of the Paradise is its superior in every way; it's funnier, more satisfying, a lot more moving. If you haven't seen it, get yourself a copy, wait until midnight, and fire away. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Looking, Wonderfully Acted and Well Made","Date":"21 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Phantom of the Paradise (1974) ** (out of 4)The talented but hot-tempered composer Winslow Leach (William Finley) agrees to hand his masterpiece, an adaptation of Faust, over to hot-shot music legend Swan (Paul Williams) who of course ends up stealing it. Leach goes to get his music back when he face is horribly burned so he takes shelter at the Paradise where he plans to get revenge as well as make Phoenix (Jessica Harper) a star.Brian DePalma's take on The Phantom of the Opera is a film that I admire and respect more than I actually enjoyed. Over the past four decades the film has gained a huge cult following and it's easy to see why. It's just so goofy, over-the-top but extremely well-made that it's easy to see why so many people enjoy it for what it is. With that said, if you don't get what's going on then you're going to be left scratching your head, which is pretty much where I was. Again, I thought the performances were great, the direction wonderful and visually the film is impressive. With that said, it just didn't click with me to the point where I was fully engaged with the film.Again, there's a lot to admire in the film including the wonderful visual style. DePalma certainly knows how to keep the camera moving and cinematographer Larry Pizer is constantly busy with the camera floating around picking up countless strange but beautiful shots. The set design is another major plus because you really do feel as if you're watching and seeing things for the first time. The alternate universe created really does come across like a new world and this here helps push the story as well. The costumes, of course, are one of the more memorable aspects including the Phantom's look but also the various looks given to the musical performers whether it's a spoof on The Beach Boys or a take off on KISS. The performances are another major plus with Finley and Williams perfect in their roles. I thought Finley was extremely good at bringing across the temper but there's also a part of you that feels sorry for the guy and his broken dreams. Williams, who appears to be acting like Phil Spector, is also excellent in how much of a cold snake he is but he never goes over-the-top and instead plays it pretty cool. Harper is also a delight as the love interest but the real start here is Gerrit Graham as a Queen-like prima donna who easily steals the show. Some might be offended by the type of performance he gives but hey, this was the 1970s. I found him to be extremely entertaining in the part and managed to give the film the shot of energy it needed.So, I've just praised just about everything in the film yet I've given it two stars. That might not make much sense but the film simply didn't entertain meant outside the technical department. Again, PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE is an extremely well-made movie and a very impressive one but it just didn't connect with me. If you are able to connect with it then obviously you're going to be in with a large group of people that see this as a cult classic. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites!","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I love this movie, and is probably my favorite Brian De Palma film. It is excellently written, it has memorable characters, and of course, great music. The plot follows record label owner Swan (Paul Williams), as he searches for musicians to play at the opening night of his rock palace, The Paradise. He hears a song from Winslow Leech (William Finnley), and decides not to politely ask him to play, but steals his cantata, and sell it to female singer. At Swan's palace, he meets Phoenix (Jessica Harper), who is auditioning to perform. He is then caught by Swan's security guards, and after a series of events, he gets his face morbidly deformed with a record press. He attempts to attack the paradise, by putting bombs in cars and electrocuting musicians, but I won't give too much away. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A Very Entertaining Musical","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" One of My favourite musicals. Toe-tapping songs, a disfigured hero, and evil mogul, a pretty girl. It's got most things a good film needs. The witty humor works almost to perfection. I have to say the strongest character is Beef. One of the campest and funniest characters ever to appear on film. And the best song... Life At Last by a mile. I wouldn't say that this is better than Rocky Horror, but it's up there with the great musical comedies. All of the characters have great relationships. And also an ending which, had some more work gone into it, could of possibly been a good tearjerker. This is definitely one of the greatest musical comedies ever. Wonderfully dark, incredibly witty, and the greatest Psycho send-up ever. What more could you want. "},{"Title":"Nuff said!!!!!","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have loved this film for a very long time and have always found it a difficult film to 'sell' to my friends... now I have found the perfect answer.The British Movie Magazine Empire lately celebrated it's 20th year of publication (it which Steven Spielberg guest edited) and when they asked Guillermo del Toro what film did he wish he directed, he stated... 'THE PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE'.Thank you Del Toro - I was a fan of you before and now my love and respect for you has multiplied tenfold!To anyone out there that hasn't seen this film surely that is enough to make you want to buy this DVD and loan it to your friends, who will then buy their own copies and loan it to their friends... and so on, and so on..It may well be Brian De Palma's masterpiece.. but don't tell those Untouchables fans. "},{"Title":"amazing growth","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is really an amazing movie. It's not amazing because it's entertaining, not because it's brilliant, not because of all the many reasons that make it a great movie in a normal conception. This movie is amazing because it grows. The first time you see it you may think it's just good - say a 7. But from the third time you start noticing a whole universe inside the movie. Even the smallest nameless character has got an evolution - a very important place in the story behind the plot. This is amazing. I've never seen a film working in this way and I think it's what every filmmaker would like to do. I will never understand why Brian De Palma stopped writing his subjects and screen writing his movies. It's too bad. I think we've lost ten or fifteen masterpieces. "},{"Title":"Humor So Black it's in the Ultraviolet","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I love this film. It has flaws, but it's such a unique animal I'm willing to overlook them for the sake of lines like Teeth...are a source of infection, and Somebody get a fire extinguisher! De Palma, you adorably sick F***.For years, however, one thing bothered me about it it doesn't make any sense. Think about it Why would a character with as much to lose as Swan risk everything...just to screw over Winslow Leach? Want the music? BUY it. He loves Phoenix? Let's see how he feels after this blonde goes on her knees. Why do everything in your power to ensure this guy is going to come after you? Other prisoners, after all, have to add the tiddly-wink pieces only WINSLOW has to wear the humiliating little hat.The answer, I think, lies in the production design all those mirrors. Swan is the ultimate narcissist, a narcissist so in love with himself he'd sell his soul to preserve his perfect body. Enter Winslow, a fellow narcissist so deluded, he thinks that an audience gathered to hear (essentially) Sha-Na-Na wants to hear his FOUR HUNDRED PAGE cantata on the life of Faust. It is in Winslow that Swan finally finds his Perfect Mirror, the reflection of himself in which, he, like Narcissus before him, with ultimately drown. Once these two characters meet, the end is inevitable.But I wonder does De Palma KNOW he wrote a movie about a homo-erotic death spiral? Maybe someday I'll get to ask him. "},{"Title":"Phantom of the Paradise","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I had the opposite experience with this film, my dad took me and my cousin to see it a couple times a week at the Cinerama Dome in Hollywood. I must have seen it 10 or 12 times we loved the movie. I was only 10 at the time but I was blown away, i love the film now. I do get more of the dialogue now but it's still great. I wasn't a kid who had nightmares, i love horror and suspense and music and this had it all. I watched Phantompalooza on YouTube, it was something seeing the cast now. Paul Williams and Jessica Harper sang and the cast answered questions. Paul Williams was like everywhere when I was growing up, remember? "}{"Title":"Unique & underrated","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" (small spoiler)As a child, I saw a brief TV clip of this film which a friend of mine recognized as being from this movie. It was the scene from the concert with the lightning bolt. I asked my friend if the movie was good, and he said yes. The impression made by that scene, and the fact I had no idea what the title could mean, made me think it must be a very strange, mysterious and interesting film. But 30 years went by before I finally saw it, just a few days ago. From the opening narration, where I immediately recognized the voice and wondered Is this really who I think it is??, all the way through the movie and through the cool ending credits, I sat smiling and entranced. It is so goofy and funny, yet poignant in its own way. Great music too, which I've been listening to almost continuously since I saw the movie. Paul Williams, I never knew you had it in you. I'm sorry I underestimated you before.An unsung classic. "},{"Title":"Completely bizarre, enjoyable movie","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Just a questionably made, weird, bizarre film, but I absolutely loved this the first time I saw it. It's just so laughingly strange that you find yourself caught up in it. Some of the music was fantastic, and the bizarre characters were memorable.This is a cult film, and I don't think it was really meant to be anything but that. Everyone involved seemed to be having a good time making it, even as camp and strange as it was.Gerrit Graham as Beef was easily the best thing about the movie. His performance was hilarious and memorable.Jessica Harper will steal your heart, just the way she stole Winslow's.Good movie, but it is what it is. "},{"Title":"Cult Rock Films","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a must see film for all rock music fans. It was released during a time when Rock music was still innocent but traveling in the right direction for exhibition. Anybody who is a fan of this movie can relate to all of the characters in the film. This movie came out one year earlier than another film (that i won't put in this comment....)that i feel should have received the same media attention and cult status that it's successor. Nevertheless, this film holds a place in American pop culture and always will. Over the years, it has gained it's own cult status in it's own Reich! A definite midnight film that should be re-released on DVD with bonus footage and deleted scenes and audio commentary by the director and the cast and crew as well. "},{"Title":"The Best","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a amazing movie (even though Phoenix should of been played by Diana Rigg) any way rent,buy or see it June 29(2005) at 1031pm on fox movie channel(Cable)65.Brian de Palma's rock version of the Faust legend finds a lowly composer (Finley) seeking revenge on an evil producer (Williams) who has stolen his music, his girl (Harper) and his soul.Cast and Crew Paul Williams, Jessica Harper, Brian De Palma, Gerrit Graham, William Finley, George Memmoli, Rod SerlingI'll start a wiki!Keep Going' Palma! "},{"Title":"I'm Only Saying This Once  BEST... MOVIE... EVER!!!","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE (5 outta 5 stars) When I was 14 years old I thought this was the best movie I had ever seen. Having seen it once again on the big screen some 30 years later... I still think it's the best movie I have ever seen! I am biased, however... coming from Winnipeg, Canada... where this film inexplicably enjoyed a triumphant run of 62 straight weeks (!!!) while the film bombed in every other city in the world (except for Paris, France). The soundtrack went gold in Canada because our city was so enamored of this film... the song Somebody Super Like You was a smash hit single for weeks and weeks. How is it that the rest of the world missed out on how fabulous this movie is? It's a comedy... it's a horror movie... it's a musical... and it succeeds brilliantly in every respect! A brilliant but commercially unappealing songwriter has his music stolen by a powerful music mogul and warped into a 70s glam rock spectacle. Disfigured in a record press accident, he dons a cape and mask and goes on a murderous rampage to insure that his music is sung only by the beautiful chanteuse with whom he has fallen in love. Dead-on satire of the 70s music industry... and it still seems pertinent today! Amazing musical score by Paul Williams... some of the bleakest, most cynical lyrics ever written... wedded to a great variety of music genres. Do yourself a favor and see this movie NOW! "},{"Title":"i love this movie...","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" so much. i wish i could watch it right now. life at last! salutations from the other side...used to have the soundtrack but lost it somewhere and have missed it ever since. Brian de palma - he is always the one that makes these films that get under your skin. i will always wonder why this film didn't garner more of a following. it sure should have. i love the songs, the score and the characters are fantastic. especially Beef, just hilarious. And it really does have moments where its a bit scary. I mean not really but you know, kinda gets your heart going a bit. Paul Williams best effort in front of a camera definitely. Tho the scenes with him and Jessica are a bit forced to say the least but hey - Paul deserves some TLC too right?. Right! And of course there is that underlying poetic justice theme a la Phantom of the Opera that is undeniably wicked but welcomed. We want the revenge to happen. if you have never seen this movie - i don't know what to tell you except u missed a good one! "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I saw it on one of the classic movie channels, I had never heard of Phantom of the Paradise.   Curious, I found out it was a musical, and as a sucker for those, I watched it, completely in awe. The music, wonderful. The sythesized voice was spooky yet somehow alluring. Phoenix and her voice.. wonderful. If I could find it on tv or dvd, I would definitely be one to watch it time and time again. "},{"Title":"One of the best rock operas, or cult films of all time","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have only seen this movie twice, recently, and once when i was a small child, yet a lot of te elements remain constant, though they have faded through the years. Perhaps that is a sublte subconcious atrtack on myself concerning my intellegence; i wouldn't be suprised... anyway, my father had actually taped this off of wgn in the late 80's, and after watching it twice recently, i went on a search for this movie's soundtrack, which by the way, remains in progress.... I really enjoyed every song in the faust opera that was played, even though they played them several times i really liked them. This movie is rich wiith emotion, and is one of DePalma's many homages to Alfred Hitchcock( ie the hilarious scene where Beef is attacked in the shower with a plunger). I liked every song... which is probably why i want the soundtrack.  "},{"Title":"This movie is pop paradise!!!","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has always been one of my top ten movies of all time!!!I first saw it when I was 8 years old when my twisted parents took me to see a late night double feature of Phantom of the Paradise and The Rocky Horror Picture Show... That was the beginning of my moral demise!!! (That's another story...)The Phantom of the Paradise is a Rock and Roll tragedy based on the story of Faust and the Phantomof the Opera! This is Brian De Palma's first film and he really creates a wonderful pop comedy musical with classic references to old classic horror flicks!Paul Williams writes the fantastic musical soundtrack that I also own...This is a must see for anyone who likes their films very campy and out of the ordinary!!! "},{"Title":"Paradise it is!","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I bought the movie DVD yesterday and enjoy so much watching it again another time, even if there is no 5.1 which would be necessary and obvious for such a good musical movie! And even if there is no bonus, I really don't care about DVD bonus. All I care about is THE MOVIE!!!!Trust me, my name is not Swan ))... Phantom Of The Paradise stays a very good musical movie to watch and enjoy! "}{"Title":"Great music and directing","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One of my favourite films of all time. I first saw it as a kid double-featured with The Rocky Horror Picture Show in the early 1980s. At the time, the movie theaters were on strike and this was the only available show in town. While I thought Rocky Horror wasn't very scary, I certainly was taken with the Phantom. I have seen it on television several times since then and have come to appreciate the black humour and music. "},{"Title":"the swan and the phoenix","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A musical cross between 'Phantom of the Opera' and 'Faust', set in the cut-and-thrust of the rock music world, this weird De Palma production teams the music of Paul Williams with the charms of Jessica Harper as Phoenix, the 'new discovery'.  Meanwhile William Kinley is the young composer who sells his soul and becomes the musician in the depths of the recording studio.  Williams himself plays Swan, the nearest thing to a living devil.The songs themselves are in the main, ok, but there is no stand-out power number.  What we do get is a succession of movie spoofs (perhaps the best being the shower scene in Psycho) and oddball characters.  A small film, but a fun one. "},{"Title":"Another of my favorite sleepers","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I saw this on the big screen as a teenager, I thought it was fun and enjoyed the music. Then a few years later, I got a copy of the soundtrack (nominated, btw) and it became one of those favorites you dig out now and then. Some of the tongue-in-cheek songs are fun. The romantic ballads are great (as romantic ballads go). Jessica Harper's sultry, husky voice is quite enough to stroke any boy/man's ego. It does for us guys, what Elvis or Donny Osmond does for the ladies. And to top it all off, a really great hate song (Good for nothing, bad in bed, nobody likes you, you're better off dead, 'Good-bye!', We've all come to say, 'Good-bye!') done in a lilting, taunting tempo. Just the ticket to dredge up when someone ticks you off. Then, years later, I bought the VHS and had mixed reactions. It was great to relive the experience, and it's a fun adventure. But the music in the movie is a shadow of the studio recording.So see the movie, on tape or DVD, at least once to have the visual and musical experience. Then get the soundtrack and get to know it. Listen to it now and then, and soon you'll be intimate with it. Paul Williams put a lot of creative juice into this and it would make a terrific stage show, it's definitely got the tunes.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------  "},{"Title":"More Mental Than Rocky","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film has often been compared to Rocky Horror.  I find that the key difference between Phantom and Rocky is the fact that Rocky is the product of a sexual revelution, almost a comentary on the times.  Phantom seems to be more of an actuall story, focusing on the psychological effects of characters' decisions. Phantom is grounded in a more real universe than Rocky.  This helps the film have more leverage on the imaginations of its audience.  All the songs are usually sung onstage, but still reflect an aspect of story telling.  Rocky is truely a musical, which stops the show for five to ten minutes at a time to sing a song about something that could be sumed up in a 30 second monolague. I have to say that this film, for as outlandish as it comes off at times, is about passion, where as Rocky is about lust.  Passion can last for ages, where as lust is a suge of desire that fades away as quickly as it comes on. "},{"Title":"Weird and wonderful","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I unintentionally caught this on TV as I was about to turn in for the night. Right from the beginning I was glued to the screen, it was electric and funny and just a really clever take on Phantom of the Opera. William Finley plays Winslow Leech, a rather geeky songwriter who gets his face stuck in a record pressing machine thus becoming the 'Phantom'. But not before his entire musical he wrote gets nicked by 'Swan' (Paul Williams). The lovely Jessica Harper plays Phoenix (the obvious love interest) but what made me laugh the most were the 'Juicy Fruits' the annoying little pop group owned by Swan (i think?)Is this Brian De Palma's usual directorial territory, I've only ever witnessed Carrie so to me it's odd he was involved with this. Anyways, really wicked, good fun movie to watch. Of course I ended up going to bed at three in the morning. **** out of a possible ***** "},{"Title":"good review of a good movie!","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This somewhat comical movie is a combination of two other well known stories. The Phantom Of The Opera and the legend of Faust. It's a tragic story of a songwriter whose work is stolen by a music mogul whose name is Swan.This creepy character is played by Paul Williams who successfully does a good job portraying someone very Satanic. The songwriter in this movie seems more a typical geek or a nerd than anything else,but he sure knows how to seek revenge on the one who stole his music. The soundtrack from the film is fair with a few memorable songs and the film despite the story is more humorous  than serious. It was more than likely meant to be a parody or satirical comment on the music business or entertainment industry. It makes you wonder how far some will go for a chance to be a star. If not a cult movie it should become one. Also this film seems to make a good and disturbing observation. In some circumstances it may be impossible to separate fantasy from reality. When one of the performers gets killed on stage the audience thinks it's part of the act and applauds enthusiastically. After all they think it's part of the show.  "},{"Title":"Acid trip meets The Mike Douglas Show","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't believe that I had never seen this movie in the 70's, or even until this last year (2002).  It was the middle of the night, and on AMC, of all things, but I immediately flipped over it.  It's one of those few movies that are truly so bad that they're good--and I think that they knew that when they were making it.I think that it would be unreal to watch tripping on something, but since I'm clean and sober, I only imagine, but it's still wild!  It is able to evoke the confusion and schizophrenia of the times, while being hilariously funny and unsettlingly creepy at the same time. I remember seeing Paul Williams on the Mike Douglas show, and thinking that he had real nerve to actually try singing his songs in public (the songs were classics of the early 70's easy listening genre, but he was ridiculously bad, and looked like a cross between a muppet and Mary Travers).  That was the same time I saw Bernadette Peters for the first time, and didn't understand why she was crying while singing a song.  Why don't they replay that show on T.V.land?The next time I see this title, in a rental store, or advertised on late-night, I'm planning a party around it!  "},{"Title":"A Twist of Fate","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I was growing up in the early 70's, this film and Rocky Horror Picture Show were released almost simultaniously.  I saw them both on a double bill in Westwood CA in an empty theater.  With the ability to compare the two films with no audience participation, this one was definitely the stronger movie in music, acting and plot.  Neither film has aged really well, but Phantom of the Paradise is still the FAR superior movie. "},{"Title":"Possibly the best DePalma film ever!","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If I'd voted on this film in 1975, when I first saw it, I probably would have given it a 10.  I bought the soundtrack album on LP (the *only* format then) and still listen to my circa 1980-recorded tape of it.  But now?The music is better-than-his-average-Paul Williams, but it's *still* Paul Williams.  The story is inventive -- a twist on Dr. Faustus as much as Phantom of the Opera.The set design continues to impress, and the costuming is nifty -- although the clothing of the normal people remind you just how awful we all looked at the time.  Jessica Harper was never lovelier, and who knew she could sing?  And I still love the idea of a rock opera Faust.  Maybe Pete Townshend will one day oblige me.Brian DePalma has never made a better film, with the possible exception of The Untouchables and maybe Sisters.  Overall, recommended as a Trip Down Memory Lane, and as a taste of bad Seventies rock. "},{"Title":"GREAT FUN, IF IN THE RIGHT MOOD","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Brian DePalma's Phantom of the Paradise is great fun, if you're in the right mood. It is bizarre, it is silly, it is campy. Yet somehow, this film works when it really shouldn't.Bill Finley, who co-starred in DePalma's previous film Sisters, this time stars as Winslow Leach (a play-on-words of DePalma's film teacher Wilford Leach), a budding songwriter whose songs catch the attention of Swan (Paul Williams, who's great). Swan proceeds to steal Leach's songs and send him to jail on a false dope charge. Leach escapes and is permanently scarred when he tries to destroy Swan's Death Records pressing plant. He then comes back as The Phantom of the Paradise, hell bent on destroying Swan. That is until Swan makes a deal with him..a costly deal.That's all I want to say because I really don't want to spoil some of DePalma's nice surprises. What I will say is that on one level Phantom of the Paradise is a bad movie. But it's so skillfully made, funny and good-natured that you end up loving it in a very strange way.The performances go a long way to making this work. Bill Finley has a gift for playing strange characters (among his DePalma credits include Sisters, The Fury, and the voice of Bobbi in Dressed to Kill) and DePalma makes good use of it here; you feel sympathy for Leach/The Phantom and root for him all the way to the end. Paul Williams is surprisingly good as Swan, the villain of the film. He seems both benign and menacing; Williams is able to pull it off despite limited acting experience. He also wrote the songs for the film. You will want to own the soundtrack after seeing this. The film's funniest performance is by Gerrit Graham (another DePalma regular; Greetings, Home Movies are among his credits) as Swan's discovery; a very strange singer named Beef.Phantom of the Paradise is not one of the great DePalma films, but it is an entertaining diversion that you'll never forget long after the final frame has played out.***1/2 out of 4 stars "}{"Title":"Not-quite-cult movie shows De Palma at brink of superstardom","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Brian De Palma's Phantom of the Paradise arrived at a time when pop was ceasing to be music and turning into spectacle (a development later clinched by MTV); when talent was no longer a nurtured and cultivated gift but a product cast, processed and test-marketed by business interests.  Drawing on Faust and Frankenstein, Dorian Gray and the Phantom of the Opera, it's a loose and loopy satiric rhapsody set in the world of Grand Guignol rock &#145;n' roll.Basically, it's the story of how a diabolical impresario (Paul Williams, who also wrote the movie's songs) steals the music, and destroys the life, of an earnest young singer-songwriter (William Finley).  But the story serves as a narrative line on which De Palma strings his showpieces, mounted with almost all the panache he would later command in Carrie and Blow Out and Body Double.  He hadn't yet mastered pace, however, and some slack passages only mark time until the next big number.  His signature devices (split screens in precise counterpoint) and leitmotifs (surveillance &#150; especially surveillance within surveillance) are all in place.  And he lays on his best effect &#150; pushing humor past the point of the grotesque.His cast, alas, falls short of ideal.  Star billing goes to Finley, who gets a lot of screen time but leaves a shallow impression, possibly owing to a thinly written part (and he's chief victim of a peculiarity of the movie, which is to be remembered a bit better than it plays). Williams takes up a lot of footage, too, and, owing to his diminutive stature, brings a kind of epicene creepiness to the part.  Jessica Harper (whose career peak was probably Pennies from Heaven) got her big-screen start here, and comes off somewhat better performing (even if dubbed) than acting.  But the movie gets a welcome goose with the arrival, halfway through, of Gerrit Graham, who does a sensational turn as the queenly rock-star Beef.  Also notable are the trio of singers who do triple duty as a 50s doo-wop trio (The Juicy Fruits), a 60s surfer band (The Beach Bums) and a 70s Goth group (The Undead).The Phantom of the Paradise was largely overlooked upon its release, and hasn't seemed to have lured a cult following, as did the vaguely similar The Rocky Horror Picture Show.  But it's a significant milestone in De Palma's career, poised at the beginning of the decade when he was possibly the most dazzling director in American cinema.  (There are ways in which this movie, with its allusive, integrated songs, prefigures Robert Altman's Nashville.)  Almost 30 years later, it's still stylish, bitchy fun. "},{"Title":"One of the best Black Comedies ever!","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't quite give this movie a 10 because it is just a bit too amateurish for that... but it's a solid 9.   Brian DePalma's only venture into comedy is definitely not to everyone's taste -- see the widely scattered ratings for proof -- but if you like dark, mordant humor, this one's for you.  It contains references to Faust, Dorian Gray, and, of course, Phantom of the Opera.  And it has the single funniest moment you'll ever see in a movie. As Swan would say, Trust Me. "},{"Title":"A primo movie if you love great ones","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is my favourite movie of all time.  I cried at the end, I don't care if the entire thing was false.  POSSIBLE SPOILER Watch The Phantom of the Opera with Robert Englund Finley's death crawl at the end of Paradise was mimicked in the other when Englund had his face torn off (nice).  At times stepped in pop culture, at others just a rollicking good time, it had that acquired taste that you either love or hate, like olives.  I love olives. "},{"Title":"Let the music take you there, it's a truly freaky joyride","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has been a family favorite of ours since it's mid 70s release. My big sister got the LP soonest and we grew up on that funky score. Paul Williams just can't be appreciated in any superficial way. You have to let it in, get familiar with it, and soon the marvels of his many talents will begin to be revealed. Is there any better parody of pop music than the story of Little Eddie? Or Upholstery? Can't you hear Pink Floyd learning how to produce the sound they wanted in the Cantata that Winslow scored (Half asleep I hear a voice. Is it only in my mind or is it someone calling me, someone I failed and left behind?).Sit with this film for awhile and focus on the humor. When the composer is framed, what jail does he go to? Sing-sing, of course. What does that music contract he signs with Swan look like? Well, it's got more pages than a NY Phone Book, and statements like Everything deemed excluded is hereby deemed included. During Beef's (not Meat Loaf, mind you) big premiere he gets electrocuted and hits the most fantastic musical note of his short career. When he showers, the psycho scene is one of the funniest things I have ever seen. And while he doesn't exactly lisp, him take on the Paradise being possessed kills me every time. Jessica Harper as the innocent/ambitious singer is lovely in a waifish way, but think about these lyrics she sings so hauntingly.Our love is an old love, baby. It's older than all our years. I've seen in strange young eyes familiar tears. We're old souls in a new life baby. They gave us a new life to live and learn. Some time to touch old friends and still return. Our paths have crossed and parted. This love affair was started long, long ago. This love survives the ages. In its story lives are pages, fill them up, may ours turn slow.   Our love is a strong love, baby. We give it all and still receive and so with empty arms we must still believe All souls last forever, so we need never fear goodbye A kiss when I must go, no tears, in time we kiss hello.As De Palma usually does he has put alot of variety in his pot and stirred it all up together. Humor, horror, camp, satire, love and violence, beauty and beast, magic and menace. And what does it mean that Winslow and Phoenix are both cities in Arizona? For a quarter of a century everyone I know understands the question Where do you go once you've arrived.Check it out. If you don't you are missing an experience with unpredictable results. If you do, try to keep this in mind. We'll remember you forever Eddie. Through the sacrifice you made, we can't believe the price you paid for love. "},{"Title":"Really cool film from way back when...","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie, in my opinion is a good one.  It has weird music, weird photography, and it's just plain.................weird.  It's like The Phantom of The Opera on acid.  It's got costumes, off-the-wall characters, and one huge moog synthesizer.  Everything that is need to make a great film.  Check it out.DON'T MISS IT!! "},{"Title":"Definitely Worth A Look","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Very cool, under appreciated early DePalma film. This is a true homage, unlike the stuff he rips off, and calls an homage. It is a combination musical/parody of Phantom of the Opera, Faust, and The Portrait Of Dorian Gray.  It also answer the age old question, Why is Paul Williams so short? (Answer He sold his soul to the Devil as a teenager for the same deal Dorian Gray got). It also has some nice touches for the horror fan, from the obvious (The Phantom and Gerritt Graham in a humorous PSYCHO parody) to the subtle (Swan's (Paul Williams) main henchman is named Philbin, assumably after actress Mary Philbin, who played Christine in the Lon Chaney POTO.) Speaking of Gerrit Graham, has this guy EVER lived to see the final reel of any horror movie he's been in. Seems like he bites the dust in all of them. Guess I will research that for myself. All in all well worth a look. It shows up every now and then on the FOX movie channel, and is being released later this month on DVD.If you think you'll like it, odds are you will. "},{"Title":"Excellent, but not entirely original","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is truly a work of art. However, what I don't understand is how people can have the audacity to say it came before Rocky Horror! True, POTP was released in 1974, a year before The Rocky Horror Picture Show came out, but please keep in mind The Rocky Horror Show (the play which the film was based on) originally came out in 1973! So, Rocky Horror DID come first.As for Phantom of the Paradise the music is excellent, the characters are excellent - hell, even Sissy Spacek's sets are excellent!! This film is truly De Palma's masterwork.It borrows elements from The Picture of Dorian Gray, Faust, Phantom of the Opera, Frankenstein, and yes, even Rocky Horror (if this offends you, read my above statement, realize you're wrong, and continue reading). It beautifully mixes all of these elements along with glam rock and Paul Williams' excellent music to make for a truly unforgettable movie experience! I won't go into what exactly the movie's about - I'm sure you can figure it out by reading the countless reviews that are actually plot summaries. See it for yourself! If you have the ability to think, you'll enjoy. "},{"Title":"I felt his movie to be Perfect in so many ways!","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Yes, the score is perfect. The music enriches the movie in many different ways --it adds to the plot, deftly underlines the character's emotions, satirizes the pop industry, etc... and is also just damn fun to listen to. And yes, the casting is phenomenal. Not only for the leads, but for the secondary characters, and even the quasi-extras (with at most three lines) manage to shine. And yes, yes, yes, the plot is delightfully clever.  High drama, low comedy, and sharp satire. DePalma in top form.  "},{"Title":"How exciting these Satanic 70's.","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Whenever someone describes Brian De Palma as being all style, no substance, occasionally I'll pull out Sisters, occasionally Blow-Out, but most often, my rebuttal is Phantom of the Paradise. This is, without a doubt, one of my favorite films of all time.  A nearly perfect mix of Phantom of the Opera, Faust, Beauty and the Beast, and The Picture of Dorian Gray, with superior music by Paul Williams (who also excels as Swan).  William Finley is superb as Winslow/The Phantom, and Jessica Harper gives just the right combination of innocence and ambition as Phoenix.  On top of it all is a sly satire on selling out to the entertainment industry.  And how bad can a movie be when it offers perhaps your only chance to see Gerrit Graham in pseudo-glam drag dancing like a chicken?  If your taste runs to the camp, if you enjoy either The Rocky Horror Picture Show or The Abominable Dr. Phibes, then you owe it to yourself to see this.  Amazing stuff. "},{"Title":"I've loved this movie since 1974 when I was 15","Date":"17 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of those rare films that unfortunately flew under the radar. I hope that is no longer the case. I had a copy of this and watched it over and over over the years, but I lost my DVD. Just watched it again and DVR'd it from cable. God how I still love this movie!! Very operatic and melodramatic. If you are a lover of musicals, Faust, The Phantom of the Opera, The Picture of Dorian Gray, and Beauty and the Beast must get the tongue in cheek humor, the glam rock Kiss references, and the ultimate tragedy of a talented geek who had the unfortunate luck of meeting the Devil. Paul Williams' understated and perfect pitch portrayal of Swan is wonderfully perverse with a good dose of wink, wink, nudge, nudge... His cherubic outer image juxtaposing his inner evil was simply delicious! (I'm licking my lips. Can you tell?) And his score is still strong enough to pull me back through the years to a magically specific point in time. I'm really pushing for a musical on Broadway. This is just a natural for that venue! And Mr. Williams could expand on his score. It would be perfection. It's nice to know I can still dream..... "}{"Title":"Best Musical Ever","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film is the best Musical ever and quite possible the best movie ever. Jessica Harper is the most beautiful women alive and I wish she could have followed this up with more mainstream films but either due to lack of interest by studios our her just not wanting to go that route it never came to be. this film however stands as a monument to how hot she is. William Finnley is awesome too and I can't wait to see his return to cinemas in Brian De Palma's Black Dahlie. In this film he rocks as the anti-hero (NOTE That does not mean hes the bad guy, just he only cares about his music, Phonix, and who should sing his music.)Paul Williams as the villain Swan is a menacing portrayal that seems over the top, but in good way. i love the whole contract part of the story and felt it led to a satisfying ending, though sad. "},{"Title":"Brian DePalma's Masterpiece!!","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Phantom of The Paradise is a fun trip back to 1970's where movies had an underlying moral to the story, what could be perceived at first as a long lost episode of The Twilight Zone, Anybody who is a fan of movies like Phantom of The Opera, Frankenstein, and even The Rocky Horror Picture Show will like this film. With references to movies like Psycho (SPOILER ALERT ) and The Picture of Dorain Gray ( SPOILER ALERT ) and great music by Paul Williams such as Goodbye Eddie,Goodbye( A great song about the high price of fame ) Old Souls ( Another wonderful song about a tragic love affair ) and the KISS inspired  Somebody Super Like You.( This song would have been perfect for Gene Simmons!!!, plus a LITTLE Blood Spitting would be a perfect addition to the mood of the song ). Also throw in an eerie narration by Rod Twilight Zone Serling ( Cue Twilight Zone music ), this film is an excellent addition to anybody's Horror movie / Musical collection.( It belongs up there on the mantle with The Rocky Horror Picture Show and Shock Treatment... ANOTHER HIGHLY UNDERRATED FILM AS WELL!!! ) Only one regret that a sequel was never made, Definitely worth the 70's trip!!! Maybe 20th Century Fox will get off their greedy butts and release a Special 2 or 3 Disc DVD Editon for the film's 35th Anniversary in 2009. ( The Die-hard fans of this Cult-Classic film could only hope!!! ) "},{"Title":"Can't you feel the vibes?","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Brian De Palma is a cinematic master, and this film is one of his lesser known gems. It's funny and strange (very strange), and it contains the hallmark audacious camera movements that fans of De Palma's work have come to love. Did I mention that it's strange?I came across Phantom of the Paradise on TV of all places, while living in Boston. My friend--he goes to film school now--watched about 15 minutes and left. I was hooked. The film is just so...so...campy? I think that's an adequate work. Phantom of the Paradise has a remarkable sense of humor that's far more evident here than in many of De Palma's later masterpieces. It's okay to laugh at this man's movies; he wants you to. The story follows a plot similar to Phantom of the Opera, with some Faustian elements thrown in as well. Some musician has his work and his woman stolen by an evil dude; musician becomes disfigured; some stuff happens; evil dude gets his come-uppance from the disfigured musician. It's very basic stuff, but, as it is with all of De Palma's films , the plot is a springboard to amazing visuals. There's one in particular that I remember, where the musician is, I dunno, falling and rolling down a hill or some stairs and as he rolls out of the frame it quickly movies to another location with the musician still rolling, It was wild, man. Phantom of the Paradise is a trifle to be sure, but it's so much fun and so bizarre that it should be required viewing for anyone who has to get the taste of Lars Von Trier out of their mouths. "},{"Title":"Phantompalooza 2  in Winnipeg","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If you're a fan of the cult movie Phantom Of The Paradise, Phantompalooza 2 is happening April 29th, 2006 in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.The entire cast including Paul Williams(Swan), Jessica Harper(Phoenix), William Finley(The Phantom), Gerritt Graham(Beef) as well as the 3 actors who played the Juicy Fruits/The Beach Bums/Undead will all be in attendance.This sadly ignored Brian De Palma film was a flop everywhere but Winnipeg and France where it played over a year in the theatres and constantly sold-out. After the movie screening, Paul Williams will perform a concert with a reception to follow.This is going to be a great party! "},{"Title":"Phantompalooza 2  in Winnipeg","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If you're a fan of the cult movie Phantom Of The Paradise, Phantompalooza 2 is happening April 29th, 2006 in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.The entire cast including Paul Williams(Swan), Jessica Harper(Phoenix), William Finley(The Phantom), Gerritt Graham(Beef) as well as Archie Hahn, Jeffery Commanor and Harold Oblong, the 3 actors who played the Juicy Fruits and The Undead will all be in attendance.This sadly ignored Brian De Palma film was a flop everywhere but Winnipeg and France where it played over a year in the theatres and constantly sold-out. After the movie screening, Paul Williams will perform a concert with a reception to follow.This is going to be a great party! "},{"Title":"Made famous in Winnipeg","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I believe this cult classic has been kept alive by it's loyal followers in Winnipeg Manitoba Canada. A yearly festival is the key to a rapid growth in it's fan base. An excellent soundtrack too. Kudos to Paul Williams for the music. I first saw it when it was released in theaters in Portage La Prairie when I was in High School and immediately went out and bought the soundtrack on VINYL. We used to play the crap out of it at parties and socials. It had fast and slow songs on it so all the bases were covered for dancing. I lost it somewhere along the line and eventually forgot about it until I moved to Winnipeg where I saw a few people wearing Phantom shirts. I got the bug again but could not find it anywhere for rent. In 2005 I found a new DVD in a store for only $9.99 and could not believe my eyes. When I watched it again I remembered ALL the lyrics from all the songs. Amazing movie on par with Rocky Horror Picture show. "},{"Title":"The ultimate glitter rock movie of all time.","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie that pinned down the glam rock movement as it was happening in the early seventies. Perfect send up of Phantom of the Opera and the rock music scene. Check out the hilarious glitter rock performances by The Undead and Beef. A dark classic, which showed the way De Palma was heading with his next film Carrie. "},{"Title":"Trust Me","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a wonderful modernized retelling of many horror standards... Faust, Phantom of the Opera, Frankenstein, etc.  Overall, I do not like DePalma movies, he is one of Hollywood's great wasted potential stories BUT, he did give us POTP and for that we should all be thankful.  When this movie came out, I was only 14 and was immediately captivated by it.  To this day, I know and recognize several members of the cast simply because they were in this movie (George Memmoli, Archie Hahn, Jessica Harper, Gerritt Graham, etc.) but the true star is Paul Williams.  Not only does he give a perfect performance as Swan but he wrote the whole soundtrack, too.  This was only the second soundtrack album I ever bought and I have recently found it on CD so I can once again enjoy it regularly.  Between 1974 and 1979, Williams did full musical soundtracks for POTP, Bugsy Malone (1976) and the Muppet Movie (1979).  I love all of them and would listen to the records constantly. Unfortunately, neither of the soundtracks for BM or MM are currently available on CD which is a true loss to me, specifically (I don't even own a turntable anymore so listening to the LPs isn't an option) and to the public, in general.  Hopefully that will change soon.  As soon as it does, I for one will be adding both of these other soundtracks to my collection. Until then, I at least have POTP.We'll remember you forever, Eddie. "},{"Title":"The Only REAL Cult Movie out there!!!","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Are there any REAL cult movies left? If cult movies means a film which has only a small but loyal following then ROCKY HORROR, PLAN 9 and A CLOCKWORK ORANGE are way out of the running. All those three films have, over time, grossed millions of dollars in box office, video rentals, posters, t-shirts, re-releases and re-masterings and have probably been seen already by millions of people around the world in 25 different languages. Then there's this film POTP, the cult following is small but the loyalty to this glam rock version of Phantom of the Opera is fanatic!!! I cant even begin to state how good this film really is, but I hope to god that one day it will get the praise that it deserves, (and most likely the hype of the three films above). Sadly, as is always the case for good CULT films, it is becoming harder and harder to track down in Australia (I call Blockbuster video and they said they had only one copy in all of there stores in Victoria!!!!). So grab it next time you get your 5 for $11 deals.10/10......oh yes, it is a true cult movie. "},{"Title":"A need to see movie","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  An early Brian De Palma film in the vein of Rocky Horror but oh so much better. The music is strong and the story is compelling. Paul Williams both wrote the score and acts wonderfully as a modern day Faust. I even bought the soundtrack on CD! "}{"Title":"Beat out two other cult musicals by one year and by style.","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Brian DePalma's cult classic Phantom of the Paradise pre-dated and set the stage for the two over-hyped rock musicals Tommy and Rocky Horror Picture Show. While the premise of Tommy is original, Paradise like Rocky Horror are based on gothic prototypes Rocky Horror based on Mary Shelley's Frankenstein and Phantom of the Paradise borrows from Faust,Portrait of Dorian Gray and of course the often filmed Phantom of the Opera. One of the things that distinguish this film is DePalma's sense of humour. One of his early Hitchcock homages are seen in this film with a take off on the Psycho shower scene where Winslow attacks a bathing Beef with a knife(and a plunger). The movie also has a running joke concerning birds of death. Some of the birds of Paradise include the Death Records logo of a dead bird and the two character names of Swan and Phoenix. An interesting trivia note is that the set designer for this film is Sissy Spacek who became a star with DePalma's movie Carrie. Over all, the humour, music and campy techniques make this is cult film par excellence.  "},{"Title":"A campy and highly entertaining flick","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a send up on  The Phantom of the Opera .  It focuses on a dorky, but talented composer Winslow Leach ( William Findley ) who's music is stolen by a demonic, but highly successful record producer Swan ( Paul Williams ).  Jessica Harper who also appears in another campy musical,  Shock Treatment  stars as the Christine-like character who Winslow pines for.  Phantom of the Paradise is a wonderful parody of 70s Glam rock, and is chock full of B-movie references; it even begins with an intro narration by Rod Sterling!  The pace of the movie is electric, and the music done by Paul Williams is fantastic.  Don't miss a diabolical  KISS-like  group as the entertain the crowd during the end of the film. This is a bizarre and highly entertaining film not to be missed!  "},{"Title":"Cult movie explosion!","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This hilarious rock-opera horror parody explosion came out a year before Rocky Horror Picture Show, and is superior in every way. A true cult classic (in other words, too extreme for the mainstream Rocky Horror crowd), it comes complete with a audience-participation horror-show freakout at the end. This movie practically defines the '70s. "},{"Title":"De Palma Shows His Stuff!","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was the movie where Brian De Palma proved himself to Hollywood. A little bit Faust, a little bit The Picture of Dorian Gray, and a lot of the Phantom of the Opera, De Palma mixes the horror classics of old with the drugged out Rock and Roll subculture and the business that runs it. Early De Palma complete with multiple split-screen shots (one of the few directors who could ever pull this off effectivly) and long tracking shots  (a staple of De Palma's). De Palma plays with the art of film the way the character Swan plays with everyone else in the world. Paul Williams is amazing as Swan, part Billy Graham, part Phil Spector, a ruthless businessman who is all showman. Williams also provides a number of great songs. Particularly interesting is the use of a single song three times in the film, with different lyrics, played as a Beach Boys surfer -type pop hit, a heavy metal screaming glam-rock piece, and a traditional woman's pop love song.The move contains the first big roles for Gerrit Graham and the wonderful Jessica Harper (who should of has a singing carreer after this). Both are just great as is George Memmoli as the slimey, sweaty Philbin. William Finley is Winslow Leach, the Phantom of the Paradise, a struggling rock composer whose music falls into the hands of the evil Swan while his heart falls for the lovely Phoenix. Finley plays the character just right, so that as his life is slowly destroyed by Swan we can't help but pull for the hapless Winslow.But this movie is about fun and De Palma and his entire cast are having a ball. Archie Hahn, Jeffery Commanor, and Harold Oblong are the Three Stooges of pop, doing sight-gags in the background of scenes and playing most of the musicians in most of the bands. And nothing it too outrageous for De Palma. From exquisitely produced concert scenes to the Phantom getting his face deformed in a record press, The Phantom of the Paradise is a wonder to behold.  "},{"Title":"You see, I'm under contract too","Date":"21 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Ah, what better film to review for my 50th than Brian De Palma's weird and wonderful Rock & Roll send-up of Phantom of the Opera'. Alternately overpraised as a Kubrickian genius, or dismissed as a lame Hitchcopycat, De Palma is still a genuinely interesting director to study if not exactly easy to understand. While I agree that 'Carrie' is his masterpiece, his most unique and re-watchable film is this bizarre take on Gaston Leroux's often-filmed tale, which is filmed with lots of things which will alternately make you marvel or start scratching your head in confusion, not the least of which being that this version probably features THE most faithful portrayal of the Phantom since the days of Lon Chaney Sr and drives home the Faustian element of the story farther than any other version, and in some ways, much better than even in Leroux's own novel.Yeah, you read that correctly.The film sets its tone with the opening scenes(following a bizarre Twilight Zone'-like voice-over)as we see a greaser nostalgia group called the Juicy Fruits perform a deceptively cheerful song about an unsuccessful musician who kills himself so that he will become a legend overnight so that it will help support his sister. Scenes like this are great, as they pretty much tell you that you will be getting more of the same in alternating doses of effectiveness. The whole film is like this opening Fast-paced, bouncy, but with an underlying sense of menace, tragedy and heartbreak. If James Whale was alive in the '70's, this is the film he would have made.The plot is a comedic update of the 1962 Terrence Fisher version of 'Phantom'. William Finley plays Warren Zevon-look a like Winslow Leach, a character clearly patterned after Herbert Lom's Professor Petrie. The nerdy but easily angered(he goes berserk at the prospect of his music being sung by the Juicy Fruits, whom he despises)Winslow is writing a rock opera based on 'Faust' which he insists on performing himself, and although he does quite a good job in my opinion, record dealer Swan(Paul Williams, playing a cross between Phil Spector, Dorian Gray and Michael Gough's Lord D' Arcy character from the 1962 version)decides he likes the music more than Winslow and steals it. After several unsuccessful attempts to get his music back, Swan has drugs planted on Winslow and he ends up getting life(?). However, after hearing his music performed on the radio by the Juicy Fruits, our hero snaps, kills a guard and escapes in a montage straight out of Loony Tunes, only to get disfigured by, wait for it, a RECORD PRESS. Yeah.....You can tell what happens next, but that doesn't mean things don't become more and more twisted. He may now be the disfigured, caped masked madman, but Winslow is soon going to discover he's not the only one inhabiting Swan's performance house who is worthy of being called The Phantom. Often criticized for his overindulgence(only in the '70's could such a minor celebrity have so many guest appearances) and diminutive size, Paul Williams nevertheless crafts a wonderfully slimy and urbane villain in Swan. The Phantom may be deformed, kill and terrorize, but Swan is the real monster in more ways than one. William Finley shines as Winslow, managing to make us instantly care and sympathize with him despite being a nerdy, naive, egotistical goof-ball. Yet, as the Phantom, he is genuinely menacing. Winslow, much like Erik in the novel, is more at home writing and performing than interacting with other people, and although he is targeting a genuinely evil man, he nevertheless has no qualms whatsoever about brutally slaughtering innocent stagehands and musicians he does not care for, annoying though they may be. It is genuinely disturbing watching him cackle insanely with his high-pitched robotic voice as he maims and kills people. Like Erik, he may be a tragic victim, but he really does enjoy being an evil monster more than he would care to admit. Finley makes his murders progress from bad tempered outbursts, to circumstantial ones to Wheeeee!!! Murder is FUN! in a believable fashion. And his Phantom costume, depending on your point-of-view, is either the best or worst ever created, even though he looks more like a superhero(or villain)than anything else. Husky-voiced Jessica Harper is also good as Winslows' love interest, man can she sing. Despite prominent billing, Gerrit Graham has little more than an overlong cameo as quite possibly the biggest gay stereotype on the face of the earth; a metal singer named Beef(!!!??)who ends up being killed in an outrageously offensive quadruple-visual pun(I'll let the smart people guess what I mean, and no, it's not because of his Frankenstein costume).The film has great songs, and a fun cartoon sensibility that makes several gaping plot holes and outrageous coincidences overlook-able. The film's only flaw, is that it is too short, and too fast-paced. Nevertheless, this is still essential viewing for any cult film enthusiast.~ "},{"Title":"Pre-Rocky Horror","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" One of De Palma's better films, it is far and away his most craziest. The soundtrack alone is equal to the Rocky Horror Picture Show. While the characters are as equal to Rocky's, the science fiction / horror theme of Phantom is more of a drama than a comedy. Many films fall short when they try to be more than just a comedy or a drama. Phantom of the Paradise is at times horror and science fiction while at other times, it is funny and very dramatic. As a musical, Paul Williams produced a great score that is still fresh after 30 years.Jessica Harper is a wonderful surprise as she stars in her very first film. Although Susan Sarandon went from Rocky Horror to the Academy Awards, Harper went from Phantom of the Paradise to doing a series of weird horror and science fiction films. "},{"Title":"Strange Little Time Capsule","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw this movie when it came out and I was about seven years old. I had nightmares for days. Pretty sure my babysitter shouldn't have taken me, but...Having just watched it again I have to agree that it's not a great film. The horror aspects are not just cliched but ripped whole from the story of The Phantom of the Opera and Faust. And yet it stands as a fascinating look at the drug-soaked excesses of the culture and the music industry in the early 70's.It's not unwatchable - de Palma understands the language of film.  It IS highly campy and strange - like an evil, darker clone of The Rocky Horror Picture Show, with worse music and duller characters. Probably best viewed with beers and friends at the end of a horror video marathon. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Film.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It's not at all like Rocky Horror. It isn't likable only as camp. This is the perfect movie. The best movie I have ever seen in my life. Everything works perfectly. Paul Williams' music is awesome and Williams himself is brilliant as Swan. And even if you don't like the movie, I think the film makes up for any complaints with the best credits sequence of all time. Make every aspect of your life 10% better and watch this film. "},{"Title":"De Palma's Satyricon .....","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Dear Brian De Palma,you really hate the American music industry, don't you? You didn't even spare The Beach Boys. The songs in the film were truly awful, lol. I guess that was deliberate. Phantom of Paradise is an over the top depiction of American excess, debauchery and bad taste. That and the characters with grotesque faces and garish sets makes Phantom of the Paradise America's Satyricon (the Fellini film) - a study of how uninhabited devotion to pleasure eventually leads to the decline of a civilization. The exaggerated social satire set to music reminded me of A Clockwork Orange. The film might have had an influence on the makers of This is Spinal Tap. William Finley is such a great actor to have in your movie. His odd long face with the big nose, peppered with the cat eyes makes him almost like a special effect. Jessica Harper was disappointing, it was hard to imagine that the talented song writer (Finley) would be so enamored by her. I wonder what you and Dario Argento saw in her. She did act reasonably well though. Paul Williams nailed the creepy and cruel music producer. I noticed some of your trademarks like split screens, long point of view tracking shots and morally repugnant Italians. I was not enamored by the film beyond a certain level. I mean, I like the fact that you are being tongue in cheek with all the over the topness. But there are times when you lost your way with this style (Get to Know Your Rabbit was also an example of this).Best Regards, Pimpin.(5/10) "},{"Title":"A brilliant and tragic film!","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Even though this is meant to be like the musical Phantom of the Opera, I thought the whole movie involved a musical taste of Elton John, Marylin Manson, David Bowie and the band K!SS. I found the film interesting! It was just brilliant hearing the music! At first, I thought the character Winslow was whiny and just made the movie depressing but I was wrong. As we get to know him a bit better and he becomes the Phantom, it made me realise who he actually is. You do really fall in love with William Finley's personality, this includes Jessica Harper with her character Phoenix. In the end, I was literally devastated that the Phantom died suddenly by being stabbed from Paul Williams' character Swan. I so wanted the Phantom and Phoenix to finally kiss because he did love her dearly from the moment he saw her queuing for singing his songs. Unfortunately, it was too late and I honestly felt the grief! I nearly started crying, it was awful to see death at the end of a movie! I love love love this 70's movie, it should've got that Oscar, I was so surprised that this didn't! I think it deserves more credit to its name and story. Absoulety fantastic! "}{"Title":"Concise","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Excellent acting by Paul Williams.  Creepy and seducing. Showed an interesting dark side to his acting ability.  A side of Mr. Williams we don't usually see.  A refreshing change from the goofballs he usually portrays.  Wonderful music.  "},{"Title":"Great movie! (Contains Spoilers)","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't normally like musicals of *any* kind but this movie was great! I admit that the only reason I ever rented it was because I am a huge fan of Gerrit Graham. However, getting to see the rest of this movie was a major perk.How can you go wrong with Paul Williams cast as a modern day Faust?William Finley was stupendous as Winslow Leach/The Phantom and I felt so incredibly sorry for him after he was double crossed by Swan (played expertly by Williams).Every detail about this movie is great from the campy way the girls dance to the hilarious but loveable character, Beef, played masterfully by Graham. You even have to like the annoying and cretinous Philbin, played with complete realism by George Memmoli. The scene in which Phoenix (played with alarming underacting by Jessica Harper, the really only downfall to the entire movie compared to everyone else) was supposed to make her big debut into the music world, where, as the opening act for Phoenix, Beef is being built by scantily clad assistants before he performs, was incredible and one of the best executed I have ever seen. The audience participation where they sacrifice their limbs in order to build him is incredible. If you want an enjoyable movie with loads of great music, dancing and lots to see, then you'll definately want to see Phantom of The Paradise. "},{"Title":"the first in De Palma's streak","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The unfortunate thing about Brian De Palma is that he started out as an omnivore but about to end as a cannibal. He used to borrow ideas at a prodigious pace in his movies, but he also lent them his unique visual and verbal wit. Now he's mostly doing imitations of his own biggest commercial successes, and he's not improving upon them either. Blow Out was his last great movie, and it was also the last time that he had made a marginal improvement on his previous work. If only he had gotten hold of the right project after that movie, I really think he could have become huge--bigger than Spielberg even. De Palma's ear, his sense of humor, was much more in tune with how America talked and thought, and his appeal is not nearly as sentimentality-dependent as Spielberg's. The middle De Palma is a cross between George Miller and the early Woody Allen.It's amazing how different Phantom of the Paradise is from Blow Out, in virtually every aspect, and yet the movies have one trait in common--De Palma's ability to put together so many influences and make a very good narrative out of it. There is a weakness in Phantom in that De Palma had not yet learned to splice his ideas as seamlessly as he would in Blow Out, so the connecting work between some excellent scenes really drags. Probably the best scene in the movie is Swan, the Paul Williams character, sitting inside a round table and thinking of the best musical act to replace the just-incinerated band that was to headline the Paradise's opening. He rotates in his table and samples the acts as they are suddenly in the spotlight in the vast room. The trick is that the acts are not there; Swan is only thinking about them, and they're projected for us, a twinkle in the mind. It is the equivalent of the cartoon bubble, and it is surprisingly, almost frighteningly, effective. De Palma came up with something that is truly primal here, and there are other scenes that come close, like the staircase scene and the climactic musical number.Sometimes its risky to recommend a movie too much because you risk overpraising, or at least raising the expectation to match what the movie is able to deliver. The peculiarity of Phantom is that it's impossible to overpraise--it's too big a movie, a huge sandwich of material. As someone once said about Anna Karenina, it's not an idea, it's a soul; in this case, probably the soul of De Palma the intoxicated moviemaker. "},{"Title":"Another wonderfully entertaining and over-the-top satire from Brian DePalma","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Something that often flies over the heads of film viewers is that Brian DePalma is often remarkably satirical in how over-the-top he is. Maybe one needs to see all of his output to truly appreciate this, but in no film is it more apparent than Phantom of the Paradise. This glam rock reworking of Phantom of the Opera is a camp cult supreme which is extremely entertaining. Over thirty years later, there's still nothing remotely like it. Also, its one of DePalma's most unfortunately overlooked films. This is a shame, because it deserves a much bigger cult following than the most well known camp cult musical The Rocky Horror Picture Show (a rather annoying film whose appeal I fail to understand).DePalma's operatic excess really works here. His camera work and editing are stylistic to the extreme, and while he sacrifices any real substance (much like his European counterpart Dario Argento), his films are so mind blowing and cerebral it really doesn't matter. He references many early films, but the satiric style of the film makes these tributes come across as parodies instead of mere plagiarism (something DePalma has been accused of in the past). The Psycho parody in particular is uproarious. The only failing is that the songs aren't too good, but the rest of the film is so entertaining it hardly matters. Phantom of the Paradise is one of a great director's most overlooked works and demands a bigger cult following than it has. Its makes it all the more depressing that DePalma hasn't made a great film in many years. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Entetaining and funny, not to take seriously","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Brian De Palma PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE (1974) Young de Palma directed this really bizarre movie that sets stories of Phantom of the opera, Faust and Picture of Dorian Gray to the 70's rock world. An evil publisher Swan, who has sold his soul to the devil to gain eternal youth, is opening his new rock palace Paradise. He steals the music of an unknown composer named Winslow and sends him to prison framed for selling drugs. Winslow escapes but get to an accident where his face is burned. He dresses up in a black leather suit and a strange bird- like mask and becomes Phantom of the Paradise. Here begins the strange triangle drama between diabolical Swan, insane Winslow and talented singer Phoenix.This is really enjoyable movie but it is not to take seriously, as there really isn't anything realistic in it. Music is good and I love Jessica Harper's singing as Phoenix. Neither of the leading men is really a good actor but they pull their roles decently.Last word A highly entertaining and even funny film that contains at least dozen references to different horror movies. Including Phantom attacking a singer in the shower. "},{"Title":"Am i the only one?","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see this picture as a teen! And lucky i was!  I have to say this picture is pure Paul Williams in its intent...  The songs will live with you forever....  Upholstery...  Where my baby sits up close to me! Its the best un-notable movie of all time. Beats the Rocky Horror picture show hands down!   "},{"Title":"From a '70s Head","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Wierd, dark, great music, get the album.  Paul Williams is an under appreciated actor/songwriter.  Jessica Harper's debut shows her versatility. A perfect example of one of the ultimate Mid-Night movies, such as Rocky Horror or 200 Motels.  It has never gotten the cult respect it deserves. "},{"Title":"My review","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this film just a few weeks ago,and I really enjoy it. It kinder feels like how the music business is today!!!!.  "},{"Title":"Before DePalma went mainstream...","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" ...he made this unpretentious little flick, a straight homage to numerous horror movies.  Phantom is debatably his best movie  it certainly ranks among his best.  It's well cast, Paul Williams is amazingly effective as the evil manipulator, Gerrit Graham is at his funniest, all of the musical numbers are fun, and everyone else is highly entertaining.  The plot is a bit much at the end, and resolves a bit too neatly, but other than that a must-see. "},{"Title":"Underappreciated Gem!","Date":"29 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is on my personal list of top ten favorites of all time. Vastly superior to the similarly themed Rocky Horror Picture Show and featuring great music by Paul Williams, a fantastic performance by Gerritt Graham as BEEF, and the cool intro by Rod Serling...it deserves much more recognition than it receives. WATCH IT!**** "}{"Title":"Much better than Rocky Horror!","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There really is a phantom! He was just in my shower!This is one of the few films where Brian DePalma's sometimes stilted and melodramatic directorial methods (screen wipes, split screens, etc) are used to perfect effect. This satirical, extremely funny rock opera is an adaption of the original Phantom of the Opera, with some Faust and a bit of The Picture of Dorian Grey thrown into the mix.Paul Williams portrays Swan, a devilish music producer who steals composer Winslow Leach's original rock cantata score. Leach (William Finley) is disfigured while trying to wreak revenge on Swan, then succumbs to Swan's invitation to re-write the cantata if Phoenix (Jessica Harper) is allowed to perform it. The music alone is worth having, as Paul Williams is an excellent songwriter, with beautiful songs such as Old Souls included along with the campier fare. Several scenes and characters stand out Beef, portrayed by Gerrit Graham, is my favorite a mixture of the ridiculous glitter rock musicians of the time, with an ultra-effiminate side. Jessica Harper, in her first screen role, is sweet, pretty, effective, and her little dance around the stage as she auditions (I call it her chicken dance) for Swan never fails to make me laugh out loud. Paul Williams is kind of creepy-looking any day, and is perfect for this part, resembling Bud Cort in a way (if Cort were blonde) of Harold and Maude.I'd recommend owning this over Rocky Horror Picture Show any day. This is as good a movie, if not better, in my opinion, but it unfortunately never achieved that level of popularity. It's worth watching over and over, run through the stereo speakers, and LOUD! "},{"Title":"Take it for what it is A good musical","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was flipping through the channels and I happened to stumble upon this film. The movie is really funny. It seems to satire the dark stage of rock n roll in the mid 60s. I find that this isn't a film for everyone, but it's the first musical with laughs, that are meant to be there in the first place. Most musical fall flat because the songs are uninspired and my key example for this would be Purple Rain, Singing in the Rain and about 99% of other musicals. I mean the story is a take on the phantom of opera tale. We have Winslow the writer of a musical for his beloved Phoenix however the evil Swan is destined to come between them. The movie is really quite funny. Swan seems to steal the show his over top mannerism. Plus the plot revolves around the Devil and how he is trying to steal people souls. So then we have the rock opera being performed by cocaine addicted singer and his band of guys who chop each other limbs off. Add a rocking soundtrack and some funny scenes such as The car bomb scene, Phoenix's near gang rape (trust me they make it funny) Also this film seems to showcase the fact that drugs was apparent in all forms of entertainment. So mock this film if you want but watch it first then makes fun of it.  "},{"Title":"Outrageously over-the-top flashback to the 70's era rock opera.","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie. I laughed so hard. The original music, creative story and outrageously obserd characters that take you through this devilish tale are uncommonly entertaining. It embodies all the different stereo-types of the great music and cool people of the times with surfers, doo-woppers, hippies, bikers, pop stars and wannabes. Its mysterious, freakish, hilarious and flamboyantly stylish all at the same time. If a movie about selling your soul to the devil for rock and roll while rooting for the down-trodden underdog hoping he gets the girl appeals to you, this is the cult classic you should see. This movie reminds me of another great movie of the times, The Rocky Horror Picture Show. If you liked Rocky, you'll like this.  "},{"Title":"once my favourite, still a good film to watch","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Once upon a time this was my favourite film. Saw it when it first came out at a small theatre in St. Augustine, prompted by a local radio DJ I knew who was doing a promo from a coffin in the theatre. I was about 14 at the time, and somehow this film just caught me at the perfect time, making me into a DePalma fan for years. I won't go into too great detail on the plot or story summary, as that has been well covered elsewhere by others, but I will comment on the cast. Paul Williams is indeed creepy as Swan, and when I view the film now at age 44 there is something jarring about his performance. The man is not an actor, that's for sure, yet I can't imagine anyone else playing the role better. William Finley is also an odd casting choice, a bit long in the tooth yeah, metal teeth...I know to be a young composer, but in other ways an interesting choice because he is not the pretty boy Hollywood would put in the role if this film were made today. The man is actually an interesting actor who DePalma used a few times the doctor in Sisters and the detective in The Fury. I've often wondered why he didn't become a staple in character roles. Jessica Harper actually doesn't have much to do in this film, but the one thing she does outstanding is sing, and yes, that is her voice on Old Souls. A note about the Paul Williams score...it's brilliant, and that song stands alone as the cream of this crop. Finally, Gerrit Graham is a comic genius, and if you don't believe me, rent Used Cars and watch his Marshall Lucky commercial. You get the impression that this guy's career has just sort of happened to him, like he hangs out at Hollywood parties, and somebody sees him and remembers how damn funny he really is, and puts him in a film and he just sort of says, What the hell and does it. He is the Roy Hobbs of comic character actors. In later years I moved away from DePalma, but at the time this film meant something to me as an adolescent boy. The scene of the Phantom watching Phoenix and Swan through the skylight, and despite the rain you see tears in Finley's eyes...this hammered me on an emotional level that is still faintly echoed when I review the film today, and the final scene when the dying Phantom crawls towards his great lost love, as the world dances blindly around him in an orgy of hedonism that fades into a lone piano, moves me still. That first time I treated it as many of you treated Star Wars, seeing it a half dozen times in a one week run, buying the soundtrack, eagerly awaiting DePalma's next film, Obsession, which became an even greater favourite.  "},{"Title":"Twenty five years ago was the future of rock and roll.","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It's great that this film is on video, but it should have played more midnight movies in the eighties.  I am afraid it lost a big audience. Does anyone even remember who the Oscar winning songwriter-turned-actor-turned-Love-Boat-guest Paul Williams was.  Clockwork Orange, Rocky Horror, and Pink Floyd's The Wall are all cousins to this colorful pop wonder. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Phantom of the Paradise is an absolute masterpiece. One of De Palma's finest moments with Carlito's way, Scarface and The Untouchables! Paul Williams score for the movie is a work of genius as well and anyone of good taste should possess both the DVD and the CD of the Soundtrack. The best Musical Fantasy of the seventies. Even better than The Rocky Horror Picture Show... All the ingredients that will make the trademark of de Palma's brilliant cinematography are in this early movie. Circle panoramics, wide angles, Sequence Shots. In 1974, De Palma gets into the small circle of american italian geniuses alongside with Martin Scorsese and Francis Ford Coppola!!! "},{"Title":"Cult film from a green Brian De Palma looked for many years like a misfire...","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Time has been kind to this glitter rock musical-horror movie from a young Brian De Palma, who both directed and penned the screenplay; audiences in 1974, however, were bewildered by its mixture of decadent camp and Gothic kitsch, and shunned the picture. Plot is a grab-bag of Faust and Phantom of the Opera highlights, with music-biz impresario Paul Williams (a latter-day Dorian Gray) stealing the cantata of a sensitive singer-songwriter, but not exactly living to regret it. Williams' super-oily Swan forms an uneasy partnership with the musician, who has been maimed by a vinyl record press (!) and now wears an owl's head helmet over his disfigured face. Williams, who also composed the hit-and-miss score, saunters through the film in gravelly monotone; he never quite cuts loose, which is in direct contrast to De Palma's fruit-loop handling. The mismatch of ingredients can be felt elsewhere, too, particularly in the character of the Phantom (who remains a cloaked enigma). The film, though with flashes of interest, has gloppy, dated color and disappointing musical performances, however its view of world domination via rock music is amusing, as are the various cartoony characters dotting the scenario. ** from **** "},{"Title":"For a musical it was somewhat entertaining for me.","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Yes, for me to rate a musical a five means it really must have done something right as this one almost had me won over. Just a fix here or there and it would have gotten an even higher score. The plot is sort of a take on the phantom of the opera of course. In it an aspiring musician with a huge crush on a potentially hot new act gets disfigured and does what he has to to help his beloved succeed. However, he is most certainly not the villain in this piece as that mantle goes to a man named Swan who gets people to sign music contracts in blood, so yes there is something sinister afoot. Well in the end the Swan sort of gets control of the Phantom (also known as Winslow) and hatches a fiendish plan in regard to the woman Winslow loves. The movie almost really works, one of its main problems is the guy playing Swan, I am not saying anything bad about him as an actor or his singing voice, however he just does not have the looks to be playing the part of Swan as this part seems to have been written for a more vain actor, someone sure of himself, you know a pretty boy and the actor here just does not really look the part. The movie also seems to need a lot more development as it has a short running time and the Phantom just does not seem to get enough time to wreck a little havoc on Swan which I would like to see more of because they really seem to like to inflict the torture on him. Still the movie really has a sad ending that kind of gets you in a way that makes you remember the movie. "},{"Title":"Plain weird","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Brian De Palma's playful riff on Phantom of the Opera succeeds in being very original. The story, however, is familiar. Most everyone can catch a synopsis on the page anyway so I won't go into that.This has got to be considered a detour in the De Palma canon. He's never made a film like this since. Every conceivable idea seems to have been thrown in for good measure. It's incredibly fast paced and full of energy and excitement.But it's weird. The costume is weird, the characters are weird and some of the goings on are absurd. While it's funny in some spots it's never remotely scary (so the horror label should be dropped) and as a commentary on the glam rock era it's superficial at best. I'll admit that I liked the character Beef and numerous rockers from the period sprang to mind.The visual aspect of the film is to be admired though. It's quite lovely to look at, but then again, that's always been something De Palma always pulls off with style. I dug the music score as well.As for the actors; Not so much impressed. Never liked Paul Williams and that didn't change with this film. William Finley is way off as the composer turned Phantom. Jessica Harper is lovely eye-candy and she does OK. Gerrit Graham comes off best as the glam rocker.Not highly recommended. The music is fun but if you like that you'd be better off buying the soundtrack. The visual aspect is where the film excels but other than that; It's just plain weird. "},{"Title":"Weird, but great.","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Phantom of the Paradise tells the story of an aspiring musician whose life work is stolen by a ruthless rock producer known only as Swan, and then framed. After escaping from jail and setting out for revenge, his face is caught in a record press, and he is disfigured. Now he is terrorizing Swan's new club, the Paradise. He begins writing a new cantata meant for a young back up singer named Pheonix, but when Swan betrays him again, he sets out for blood. This is a very strange little film, but it is highly entertaining.The plot mixes together some key plot points from other various works. This movie mixes The Phantom of the Opera, Faust, and The Picture of Dorian Gray to create a strange but entertaining plot. I always liked movies that were kind of weird, so this film is right up my alley. Brian De Palma wasn't very established at the time this film was made, and it was a great start for him. Everything about this movie makes it interesting to watch. The movie is both a comedy and a horror, and the humour is priceless. The campiness makes it all the better, because sometimes, campy is good. The music is very good as well, written by Paul Williams who also stars in the film. The movie is weird but good all throughout, but the weirdness factor jumps off the scales during the last 10 minutes. All the deal with the devil stuff just makes this movie whacked out.The acting isn't too great, because it's low grade 70's actors, but the characters were amazing, so I can't give anyone the credit but the actors.Overall, this is not a serious film, and it doesn't claim to be. It is a fun rock and roll comedy/horror that is worth renting/buying just to check it out.7.5/10 "}{"Title":"HMMMMMMM","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Saw it for the first time last night.  The folks who brought it over and the younger friends who viewed it for the first time with me were all totally dazzled by this film, but I'm not yet ready to swoon.  Too self-aware and high budget to be endearing camp, but enough of a box office failure to be legitimately cult.  Predates Rocky Horror,  at least the film, and certainly can serve as a reference point for that genre.  A fascinating, ignored period piece; certainly a must-see for fans of '70's cinema and DePalma, and a touchstone  for all 'philes, but just not weird, cool or amazing enough to fall in love with at first sight.  If I was younger, or saw this film when I was, I would be more enthusiastic, but I felt that it just wasn't clever enough to be compelling.  If John Waters or David Lynch had directed this it could have been hilarious or freaky spooky, but of course they were busy concocting stunning, seminal works of their own during that period.   But quite fun. "},{"Title":"Very odd, but interesting flick","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I can see why people consider this a cult classic, it has all the elements Some familure faces, recognizable story, and some good music.  But be prepared, this is one weird version.  Paul Williams provides some great 70's tunes, but the acting is often just bad.  Want to see a weird flick, try this one "},{"Title":"Watch out for the record press...","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This looks nothing like a De Palma film, which is to say it's watchable. It may freak you out when you first see it, but it'll probably grow on you, much like a fungus. ) The songs are interesting, Paul Williams and Gerritt Graham camp it up, and Jessica Harper gives the performance that led her to Shock Treatment (why could she never again live up to the promise shown in Suspiria?). William Finley is good as the Phantom, and actually tugs your heartstrings as Winslow. Watch for the psycho-freakout at the end! "},{"Title":"Get this *** outta here.","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A PG-rated lesbian orgy?  Only in DePalma's world!Brian DePalma is one of the most remarkable directors, even after 30 years in the profession.  As was once attributed to Robert Altman in '73, he has an excellent batting average  one embarassing strikeout for every grand slam.  (He gave us the loathsome Snake Eyes two years after the high-tension/high-tech Mission Impossible)The opening scene, an excruciating send-up of '50s doo-wop, may put you off. Don't be hasty--stay with this one.  It's one of those films where the director shaped every aspect of the film to his own personal vision, and this time it pays off miraculously from the script (constructed from scraps and whole sheets of older classic films) and casting, to the gonzo sets and costumes.  William Finley is first-rate in the lead, as is Paul Williams as the Hefner/Flynt-like pop music magnate, an update to the mythical Dorian Gray.  Jessica Harper isn't given much to do (she would later excel in Dario Argento's Suspiria) but here she is the camera's best friend and also has a nice dance bit at her audition for Swan.  Williams also did the score, which most will agree is the very best part--from it, I particularly liked the ambitious songs (reminded me of ABBA's Chiquitita and Alan Price's work) that were attributed to the Winslow Leach character, which figured crucially to the story and ran with the closing credits. "},{"Title":"Visually entertaining, musically painful,  dramatically  insignificant","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" DePalma at (almost) his best, which is not too good but intermittently entertaining, mostly for the visual aspects.The problem is that everything else is obviously a subordinate concern to the effects and scenes that DePalma (who wrote as well as directed). This holes in the narrative and lack of internal logic are made all the more painful by awkward scenes of exposition that are either unnecessary (But I'm innocent! Swan framed me and stole my music is not something that needs to be stated to the audience immediately after showing it) or shoehorned in, putting the brakes on the movie.The lack of internal logic undermines dramatic effect, but that's no surprise, as DePalma's inability in that regard is amply illustrated in his attempts at serious movies such as Bonfire of the Vanities and the Untouchables.In his best films (the underrated Greetings and the effectively unpretentious Carrie), DePalma doesn't overreach himself. In most of his movies, however, his homages to classic scenes of other movies only serve to underscore that he is not in a league with the filmmakers that he idolizes.Phantom of the Paradise could have been more than an amusing curiosity if the music wasn't so prevalent, interminable, and awful. The music that's supposed to be good is the worst sort of sensitive balladeering. The music that's supposed to be trashy rock bastardizations of the artist's vision are way more Broadway than rock and not trashy enough the character Beef deserved better. "},{"Title":"Rock version of Phantom of the Opera","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Evil record producer Swan (Paul Williams) steals Winslow's (William Finley) music, imprisons him, he escapes, gets his face caught in a record press and is believed dead.  He isn't, of course, and haunts Swan's new rock palace (the Paradise) as the Phantom.  He also falls in love with the lovely Phoenix (Jessica Harper)...but Swan wants her too.  An early movie from Brian DePalma that was a bomb at the box office.  Easy to see why.  It has it's good points--DePalma direction is excellent (as always), the film references fly fast and furious and Gerrit Graham is very funny as the bisexual Beef.  But the movie is horribly paced; Phantom's character is tortured needlessly and cruelly; the music is so-so (VERY early 70s sound); Williams is seriously miscast; Finley overacts; Harper underacts (having her dance was a bad idea too) and the film's tone wavers uncomfortably between comedy, horror and tragedy.  Worth a look for some incredible sets and the great direction, but not really a good movie. "},{"Title":"An darkly satirical look at the music industry","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Whilst the theme of the film 'Phantom Of The Paradise' is one which is well tested (selling your soul to the devil in exchange for something that you always wanted), each Paul Williams song on the soundtrack cleverly uses different styles of music to paint different images music industry.It starts with a rock song 'Goodbye, Eddie, Goodbye', a song full of satirical comment on the rock industry. It's about a rock singer who sacrifices his life in order to sell his records to raise money for a life saving operation for his sister. (Oh such devotion!!) After introducing our hero (Bill Finley) with the ballad 'Faust', which introduces the main theme of the film, we rock again with 'Upholstery' ('Phil Spector' meets 'Meat Loaf') about our worship of inanimate objects as status symbols.Our heroine (Jessica Harper) then takes the scene with a ballad ('Special For Me - Phoenix Audition Song') about the dangers of working yourself into the ground to fulfil a dream. After 'baddie' Swan (played by Paul Williams himself) reflects on the battle between good and evil ('Phantom's Theme - Beauty and the Beast') which takes place within all of us, we then rock again ('Somebody Super Like You - Beef Construction Song') as we go in search of the perfect hero, with a Hollywood smile and a perfect profile, to help make our life a 'ball'.Then the devil takes the scene ('Life At Last') constantly craving to be fed and satisfied by it's makers (us). Our heroine then returns ('Old Souls') with a beautiful ballad, presenting the case for love as the answer to all our fears. After returning back with a repeat of the theme of the film ('Faust'), but this time with 'Swan' reflecting on the striving for perfection at any cost, the piece ends with a 'knees-up', ('The Hell Of It') a homage to the results of living a life full of evil.Let that be a lesson to you.Throughout Paul Williams skilfully uses the music to augment the visual images. It is a great reflection on the talents and versatility's of the man who in latter years would turn his talents to music for such dark rock films as 'Bugsy Malone' and 'The Muppet Movie'!!  "},{"Title":"Relentlessly silly film","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is certainly not the worst movie I've ever seen, but the silly factor is WAY out of hand in this. I love campy horror films, but the 70's stylings and goofiness of this one made it hard not to cringe. Thankfully, the music is actually fairly well-written and most of the acting is passable, but the whole movie is so ridiculous that it is more of a mess than a fun camp-fest. "},{"Title":"A good example of how insufficient originality can be on its own.","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This off-the-wall but mostly dull comedy/thriller/horror/drama/musical fails to adhere to some basic laws of logic. It isn't clear at all why Finley would escape jail to exact revenge on Williams and everyone involved, but then fails to kill him, signing a contract instead. (Oh, how veeeery clever and symbolic that contract is Faust, get it?... get it?...) Hence we have to assume that Finley is a total moron. Yet, as a moron he would not be able to fight Williams and his Paradise with such inventiveness and skill. We also never find out why it takes Finley the whole movie to finally hurt someone who ruined his life, as opposed to killing off various people in the theater who had nothing to do with the whole affair. That, of course, is another proof that Finley's character is a cretin.Some people might say that I am nit-picking, but even fantasies, comedies and horror films have to be based on some logic; otherwise the story makes no sense hence cannot be interesting or involving. Still, what was to be expected from someone like De Palma? His thrillers are the dumbest in the history of cinema, every single one of them being utterly illogical, far-fetched and just plain stupid.I also fail to understand why De Palma liked Finley that much; he cast him not only here but in his idiotic thriller, Sisters, made around that time. Finley is an uncharismatic, uninteresting actor, who looks more like an overgrown young accountant than a leading man - even for a wacky film like this.Oh, yeah and the film is totally unfunny. The music is alternately mediocre and awful. Paul Williams was not only allowed to spoil the movie with his garbage songs, but was even allowed to play a main role, and very unconvincingly at that. That's what is known as stretching one's talents a bit thin.Nevertheless, I can see the positive at least de Palma didn't make any other musicals after this. If only he had not made any thrillers after his first attempts... "},{"Title":"The reason I hate rock operas.","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I must first say that I hate musicals. I am amazed that movies of this sort are actually made!  And what gets me even more is that there are people that seriously like them.  Well not me, and here is the reason why...just watch this pile.  This one was even more rancid that I thought I could ever withstand.  Sloppy, rushed adaptation of the Phantom of the Opera, way over acted, bad music, Terrible, horrible, pile of trash. If I need punishment by the government for my crimes against society, they can just play this movie repeatedly and I would be in a hell worse than any prison alive!!!!  "}{"Title":"Oooookay.  So then there's this thing.","Date":"14 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Like a dog playing the bassoon or Rush Limbaugh delivering the keynote address at the annual convention of the NAACP, there are some things in life you have to see to believe. Phantom of the Paradise definitely falls into that category. A willfully campy stab at creating a Rocky Horror style midnight movie, this film inherently defies critical analysis. Almost everything about it that's goofy or terrible is intentionally that way. All you can authoritatively say about it is that it features a lot of great music by Paul Williams and it shows that Brian De Palma had no freakin' idea what to do when his characters started singing.As the title implies, this is a take off on The Phantom of the Opera but one where the origin of the Phantom is acted out twice in the story. It's also a musical version of Faust where the a main character has actually written a musical version of Faust. Then if that wasn't enough for you, the movie also throws a heaping portion of The Portrait of Dorian Gray into the cinematic stew pot. The end result is an intentionally bizarre muddle that you have to enjoy for its own dreadfulness. William Finley stars as Winslow Leech, the talented musician who is betrayed, disfigured, becomes the Phantom and is then weirdly betrayed again by the same guy. Of course, since Finley looks like the genetic results of a four way orgy of Barry Manilow, Randy Neuman, Gene Wilder and Marty Feldman, he's probably the only Phantom in history to look better after he's disfigured. Paul Williams is Swan, the mega-successful and manipulative record producer who steals Winslow's music to christen the opening of his new theater, The Paradise. Jessica Harper is Phoenix, the young singer caught between Swan and the Phantom. Harper appears to be the only one in the cast to not understand that she's in a deliberately bad film, resulting in her giving both the best and most incorrect performance in the whole mess. There's also George Memmoli as Swan's chief stooge and Gerrit Graham as a glam rocker Swan recruits to perform Winslow's cantata about Faust, which somehow transforms into a rock opera about Frankenstein.I could go on and on about how Phantom of the Paradise sucks in this, that and every other way&#x85;but that would miss the point. Even the abominable 70s fashions on display are so obviously exaggerated beyond what even people in the 70s wore that you can't really comment on it. All I can say is that the music, written but not usually performed by Paul Williams, is quite catchy. If they'd been part of a straightforward musical, even a terrible one, some of these tunes would probably have become standards that get covered over and over again by different artists. The other noteworthy thing about this movie is the direction of Brian De Palma. I t's interesting to see him work before he threw in the towel and became a Hitchcock drag queen, but the experience is somewhat spoiled by De Palma being completely out to lunch when it comes to making a musical. The singing and dancing in Phantom of the Paradise is so blandly staged and lamely filmed that you could show those scenes to the most devoted De Palma fans in the universe and they would never guess he directed them.If you can imagine The Rocky Horror Picture Show starring The Monkees, you have a fairly good idea of what this film is like. If that sounds like something you would enjoy, you can either rent this DVD or get yourself some much needed therapy. "},{"Title":"woah, think before you pick this one up.","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I like brian DePalma. he's a great director who grabbed my attention with the great yet under rated Pacino film Scarface. After realizing that he did mission impossible, that made me like him more. so I sat back and watched Phantom of the Paradise and was shocked at what i saw.Every director has to start somewhere, and although this wasn't his first movie it was clearly just a flick to get recognized. it follows the traditional Phantom story line of a man who gets his music stolen. And so this man sets out to destroy the copies that are made. but the man is burned and he hides away for a year or two and resurfaces to take revenge.there's a twist to this Phantom story though. The disfigured Phantom finds a way to co-op. with the jerk theif and the two form a contract. This contract has their souls taken by the devil and things go downhill from here. the twist is unexpected and definately puts a new spin on the Phantom tradition. if you are a big fan of the 80's then you'd like this film, with all the songs, fashions and actors trying to act. not bad, not great. You should really be a big fan of the Phantom of the Oparah or a big movie go-er if you would want to see this. excersise caution. 5.2/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointing Misefire Misses The Mark","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  *1/2  out of  ****The idea for this film seemed like one that couldn't miss Take a dejected music writer, have him involved in a freak accident, and turn him into a Phantom that haunts a rock theater. Sadly, this never comes off.Taking a modern (for 1974) approach, Paul Williams is a good choice as the savvy music mogul. Other than him, no character is memorable or remotely interesting. The songs are also not very good and quite forgettable.Worse of all is that the title character, instead of coming across as mysterious and threatening, seems rather silly and juvenile.There is the germ of a great idea somewhere in all of this, but Brian DePalma is unable to nurture it. I fail to see what is so appealing about his work with this foolish film. "},{"Title":"The Flat Notes of Phantom","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A rather surprising early feature from Brian De Palma, Phantom of the Paradise is essentially Rocky Horror wrung through the silent-film ringer that spawned Lon Chaney's Phantom of the Opera. Unfortunately, the winkingly self-aware film mixes music, comedy, horror, and romance to questionable effect--it all becomes so overwhelmingly overstated that I found myself not caring much at all about it. The cinematography is excellent, and De Palma shows his fascination with filming technique every chance he gets (most noticeable in the use of split-screen). The performances are well-intentioned and amusing, from William Finley (Sisters, The Black Dahlia) as pathetic composer Winslow Leach; a pre-Suspiria Jessica Harper as full-voiced Phoenix; and Gerrit Graham as a fop-rocker known simply as Beef. De Palma's homages range from Phantom of the Opera to Goethe's Faust to early silent film and modern musicals, plus a good deal of venom directed at the fickleness of the music industry...but the film is ultimately for the specific tastes of the midnight-movie crowd only. Entertaining, but completely forgettable. "},{"Title":"Mediocre 70's Glam Rock Opera","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Like Richard O'Brien's Shock Treatment, Phantom of the Paradise is a trippy musical starring Jessica Harper(whom I find simultaneously appealing and annoying, but she's far more likable in Shock Treatment, partially because I think Shock Treatment is a much better film). Paul Williams' Swan character is weird and amazing, definitely the best part of the film, but I found myself wishing that the rest of the film could be just as cool. There are some nice visual bits, including the Death Records logo, which is so rad that I'm jealous that I didn't think of it first. Overall though, the whole project lacks joie de vivre, mostly just coming off as a visually interesting, but failed experiment. Most disappointing of all is the music...I loved the songs that Williams wrote for Emmet Otter's Jugband Christmas. The songs for this film, however, just left me feeling blah. Bad news for a musical. My suggestion is to rent Shock Treatment instead. "},{"Title":"The Faust Myth meets the Phantom of the Opera 70s style","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a weird film.Only in the 70s could it have been made.If you were there and you missed it. Get it. At least for a night.If you let it, it will infect you. It's like Rocky Horror without the lame Trench-coat Mafia leanings. It's pure Paul Williams. Do you remember That's the hell of it! from the Hardy Boys Halloween episode. That's from this movie. So see it. "},{"Title":"A Very Strange Movie","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This take-off of Phantom Of The Opera was a very, very - and I do mean VERY - strange movie. In one sense that shouldn't be a surprise. One would expect a movie that stars Paul Williams to be a bit off the beaten track, so to speak, but this really was strange.Williams starred as Swan - a record producer who steals what is essentially a rock opera from Winslow Leach (William Finley). Leach then, through a series of bizarre events, is disfigured and, disguising himself, sets out to get his revenge against Swan and everyone else he thinks ruined him. The rock opera is supposed to have been based on the story Faust, in which a man sells his soul to the devil - which plays a significant role in the eventual outcome of the movie - and there's a dose of The Portrait of Dorian Grey thrown in as well for good measure.The acting is - well - to be generous, not very good and the story is really quite silly. The music, however, is not bad, which made a bad movie bearable. Some will undoubtedly see this as a cult classic, I suppose, but to me it was just a bad movie with some good music in it.2/10 "},{"Title":"Please, stop the pain","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Wow, to say this movie was bad would be akin to saying the Sahara is not humid.OK, first the good...well, overall the movie was more watchable than Manos the Hands of Fate. That's about all the good I can say about this film.Now the bad. I watched this movie with a group of friends - the only way to get through this movie apart from massive amounts of alcohol by the way - and nearly had to chop my legs off with a dull broken toothbrush in order not to run away. The plot was predictable, the music was the high point of this film (and mind you, I consider this a bad point), the acting nearly caused an extreme parastaltic reaction, and you see Paul William's bare chest. I'm pretty certain than De Palma was actually secretly captured and forced to make this movie at gun-point. Not that I'm a big De Palma fan, but let's face it, Ray Charles could have directed a better movie and Rin Tin Tin would have written a better script.Only watch this movie if doing so will result in you winning a big bet. "},{"Title":"just a freakin' mess","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I gave this stinker a 2, which I guess implies that it isn't completely worthless.  But everything, from the melange of source material, to the derivative music, to the dramatic stylings of Paul Williams is so amateur and insipid that only drugs can approach an explanation as to why this was produced at all.  I recommend this thing be shown to kids everywhere as final proof that drugs make you stupid. "},{"Title":"Goey Rating WWM (Worlds Worst Movie)","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" What a waste of film. This movie was probably the worst move i've ever seen. Phantom of the Paradise is a blend of Phantom of the Opera, Austin Powers, and Rocky Horror Picture Show. The story was irritating, i could only watch the movie in like 20 minute increments before i'd start loosing interest. The acting was awful, and the props were lame. Based in the 70's this is about a music composer who gets cheated by a producer. and then the rest of the movie is nothing but revenge. And the main actress in this movie, first of all she can't sing, and her dancing, it looks like she's being shocked by the electric chair. So if you ever happen to see this movie anywhere, do not, i repeat DO NOT watch it, your time will be wasted if you do. "}{"Title":"You have got to be kidding me","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The sets are hokey as are the costumes, chalk both of these up to the fact that Sissy Spacek was involved. The Acting is bloody dreadful and the plot line seemed more like a winding road up the alps that terminates with a tragic (yet thankful that it is over) launching off the peak. Of course, actually crediting this movie with having a plot is really a bit of a stretch.To sum it up, Phantom is basically a train wreck so awful and horrifying that one cannot turn away, leaving the viewer a vague sense of nausea coupled with the knowledge that time wasted can never be made up. "},{"Title":"Horrible as well as horribly funny","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It's amazing to read the reviews for this ultra-cheesy film. While I can easily understand why people might enjoy watching PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE (a film so bad, it's good), I just can't understand how any sane person can see this as a quality film. Maybe some assume that Brian DePalma is a genius who can do no wrong, though I think this film clearly proves DePalma is VERY capable of making junk. Aside from Jessica Harper (who sings very well), I can't see how anyone associated with this film could look at themselves in the mirror after creating this giant pile of Velveta! But, for bad film buffs like myself who LOVE to watch over-the-top bad films (like SGT. PEPPER or THE APPLE or ROLLER BOOGIE or XANADU), then this film is a must-see! Of the films listed above, PHANTOM is the most similar to THE APPLE--a little-known German monstrosity from 1980. Both films are rock and roll morality tales about success and the Devil and both are amazingly big budget and glitzy--very, very, very glitzy! Both feature bad but catchy music, ridiculous costumes, silly stories and many singers who can barely carry a tune (in this film, William Finley needs to be heard to believed as well as the Juicy Fruits). THE APPLE is clearly worse, but both are monuments to bad film making. The story is a mishmash of several classic stories. Most of the story is taken from Phantom of the Opera and Faust. Finley is clearly a 1970s version of the Phantom--complete with a mutilated face, a silly mask and stolen music. Paul Williams(?) is a man who is Devilish--having long ago given his soul for success. However, there are also elements of The Portrait of Dorian Gray and other tales. I could explain the plot, but there are already many reviews that do this very well when it comes to the particulars.The bottom line is that again and again, DePalma chooses to go the loud and obnoxious and silly route with this film. Subtle, it certainly ain't!! And because of that, you can't miss it--it's a monumental work of badness. "},{"Title":"Atrocious","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" No one wants to see actors who can't act, singers who can't sing, directors who can't direct and who don't even have an original screenplay to begin with. Listing the number of original films, plays, bands that are being ripped-off in this laughable non-existing film would be endless from Frankenstein to the Rocky Horror Picture Show, from The Psycho to The Cabinet of Dr Caligari, the list goes on. The title of the film itself is a (bad) ripoff, ripping off TWO titles wrapped in one (Phantom Paradise and The Phantom of the Opera). The director-screenwriter couldn't even come up with inventive FAMILY NAMES for his characters because he's so unimaginative. In itself, ripping off other people is nothing wrong, if done well (i.e. Blow Out wasn't too bad). This guy sees all around him that rock films, like the Who's Tommy, were the new hot thing and decided to make his own, and failed miserably because to begin with he has absolutely no taste in music (other than film music), no imagination, because he couldn't come up with an original plot and felt like ripping other works would be okay, and because he decided to cast in his schoolmates as actors who can't act to save their lives, and who deliver the most miserable performances in the History of film (just the sequence where Winslow sings at the beginning and moves back and forth and sings a bad song as horribly as humanly possible = funny for a while, boring after the first 30 seconds). Let alone the directing, which is really painful for the eyes in terms of camera moves, editing, etc, there's also ugly production design, and the lighting of the scenes was really hard to stand (this one being ripped-off Argento). It's really sad DePalma didn't feel like making a film free of references to other people's works, because minus all of the references, there would still be something remaining. Not much. But something. The story of a young man who is being stolen his creation, disfigured, and decides to go on an avenging rampage should, and could have been good, but sadly it fell into the paws of DePalma, who is so famous for ripping off everything he ever went in contact with (and maybe ONLY famous for that). And the most funny part about his film is that the film is about being ripped off, so it could be seen as a biography on behalf of DePalma, since Swan and DePalma are so close in their way of dealing with their art. Maybe someone should make a film called Phantom of the Theater, about Hitchcock, James Whale, Oscar Wilde, Orson Welles, etc. coming out of their graves and trying to murder DePalma for ripping them off? Just do it this way try watching the film, and if you can't stand the first two (so-called) musical moments, just forget about it because it gets worse and worse as the film goes. DePalma's worst film to me - with him being quite a bad director to begin with... "}]