[{"Title":"If you believe they put a man on the moon...","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"49 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I went into this film knowing nothing about the comic Lenny Bruce, and after watching this film I have already added two of his CDs to my Wish List. I am eager to hear more, to listen to his words, and be intrigued by how his thoughts are still relevant in today's society. This was a beautiful film made in 1974. The decision by director Bob Fosse to film it completely in black and white was brilliant. Hoffman and Perrine's chemistry is brilliant as well as their performances. The power of this man is vividly demonstrated through this film, leaving you with questions answered as well as a desire to hear more. This was such a captivating feature. From the opening sequence of words spewing from a mouth to the final shot of Lenny Bruce, I was glued to my seat.To begin, the cinematography was better than most feature films. Fosse knew what he was doing and did it with the greatest of ease. His choice to film completely in black and white really helped me hear the words that Bruce spoke instead of just being involved in the colors that surrounded him. The black and white feature gave Hoffman the ability to create a human from his character and take us away from Hoffman and into the mind of comic Lenny Bruce. The shots that Fosse used also assisted with building this compelling story. Every shot is important in this film, and Fosse does a great job of demonstrating and explaining the why and where of a scene. This was his first and only non musical, and he was triumphant. The way that the story works in a pseudo-documentary style was impeccable. While you are never quite told who the person is behind the camera, you do get that raw emotion from the actors as if you were watching a real documentary. There was just so much emotion that Fosse pulled from his troupe in this film that you could only watch in amazement. It also left the door open to the question of who is behind the camera. With the words that Bruce said nightly in his show, I couldn't help but think of the possibility of government conspiracy. Maybe I am way off, but there was that aura of cover-up throughout this film. Even the final sequence gives off that sense.BAM &#150; Powerful cinematography is right in front of you, but whom do we have in the center of the camera? None other than a very young and fresh Dustin Hoffman. This film really showcased his talents. While he had several films before this one that brought him into the spotlight, I thought that he went above and beyond for this film. He really transformed himself into the character. Some of my favorite moments with Hoffman in Lenny was when he thinks about the nurse the first time, when Honey calls asking for money, and when he asks the Judge to sentence him now instead of going through the trial. The vision of defeat was spectacular. You see in this film why Hoffman is considered one of the greats of Hollywood. Valerie Perrine, also a young actress at the time, was immaculate. Her portrayal of Honey needs to go in the history books. Actresses today could take a moment or two to learn from this dramatic actress. These two actors really brought this film together. They took you deep into the life of this radical thinker and kept you nestled deeply inside of him. They shined greatly, and the Academy saw it too! BAM &#150; Cinematography, BAM &#150; award winning acting, what can be the final BAM? How about Lenny Bruce? Born well after his death, I had never even heard of the man, but the words that I witnessed from this film from his mouth shocked me. Not so much because of the shock value that surrounded them, but just how relevant his work is still today. As homosexuality becomes a staple in our community and society, Lenny's comments on the teachers in this film seemed like topics we are still talking about today. He was way ahead of his time, and I think that is why people feared him. Living with an English teacher, I am constantly involved with the English language, but I am also shown information about those that have no interest because they do not see how it relates to real life. I am also aware of how little respect English gets as daily we hear of schools cutting back on their Literature studies to help support their sports program, or how the first way to cut back spending is to close libraries. These are sad days that we live in, and if only people could see how powerful words can be in defending yourself and explaining the world, I think we would see a rebirth. If I had the option to fight with a loaded gun or an aggressive dictionary, I think you can see which I would choose. Lenny Bruce did no harm to anyone, he spoke his mind, and for that he was convicted. What a sad day for America.Grade ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"A brilliant - if imperfect -  biopic of a tragically misunderstood man","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Lenny Bruce loved words. The most common misconception is that he did not. Today, Bruce is best known for revolutionizing the face of stand-up &#150; paving the way for such future talents as George Carlin and Bill Hicks &#150; but not many people are actually familiar with his comedy, and that's a shame, because there was a lot more to it than just swearing.He was infamously arrested over a dozen or so times for speaking offensively in comedy clubs, and eventually began to represent himself in court. He never gained respect when he was alive, and so he died a frustrated, misunderstood soul who was simply far too ahead of his time.The masses didn't get him. His racial jokes and political satire was misinterpreted and taken at face value. His sermons ridiculing religion drew hate from conservative Americans.But Bruce enjoyed toying with words, and bending the typical perception of what they symbolized &#150; he cherished the impact they had on people. When Bruce said a certain four-letter expletive, it wasn't to purposely offend people &#150; it was to help liberate their ways of thinking. Words were an entryway - once he could knock people off-balance, he was free to go for the throat. He used foul language in the same way as he used words dealing with religion, homosexuals, politics and the world &#150; he used them to make a point. And it's a shame his point didn't resonate until after his death.The makers of Lenny understood Bruce, though. They also understood his flaws as a human being, and the result is an unflinchingly honest biopic that paints a dark, staunch portrait of a troubled man. Dustin Hoffman presents Lenny as an alternately despicable and heroic figure, and there is a spark in his eyes throughout the early scenes of the movie that eventually gives way to desperation later in the picture. Hoffman is so convincing we forget we are watching an actor. He entirely embodies himself within Lenny Bruce, adapting all of the comic's tics and habits.The movie is told from the perspective of those who knew Bruce &#150; his wife, Honey (Valerie Perrine), his aunt, and his manager. The narrative cuts back and forth between scenes with Lenny and interview segments, which we see through the eyes of an off-screen interviewer (whose voice is none other than the movie's director, Bob Fosse).Lenny is an uncomfortable film, and it is not by any means perfect. The matter-of-fact narrative is a bit alienating and prevents us from getting entirely close to Bruce &#150; but that may very well have been the point. A more heartfelt biography of the performer perhaps would have restricted Fosse and screenwriter Julian Barry from divulging into Lenny's more seedy character traits &#150; such as when he coerces his unwilling wife into a threesome with another woman, later ridiculing her for doing so; or when he goes on stage completely drugged out of his mind and makes a fool of himself. If they had allowed audiences to empathize with Bruce to a greater degree, truth may have been sacrificed along the way. And although the narrative is rather cold, it's also unique &#150; sometimes refreshingly so.Despite imperfections, Lenny is one of the better motion pictures of the 1970s &#150; and perhaps one of the movies that best capture the essence of cinema from a time when the mainstream and art-house were coexistent.It is a typical 1970s production insofar as that it is grim, bleak and more depressing than any production you would have seen on the screen a decade earlier &#150; but it's an admirable feat. Fosse has a close grip on the direction and Hoffman and Perrine are both absolutely superb, bringing to life two very tortured souls who temporarily found solace in each other, before finding their relationship put to the test by drug abuse and self-loathing.Lenny died from a heroin overdose in 1966. In 2003 he was granted a posthumous pardon by New York State for his most notable arrest in 1964, for an obscene performance. It's a nice gesture, although one can't help but think it would have only really made a difference 40 years ago. "},{"Title":"An Unorthodox But Brilliant Biopic","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Lenny is the story of the controversial comedian Lenny Bruce whose wild antics and crude humor lead to rise and ultimately his fall. This film though takes the risk of being shaped in a documentary-esquire design. Watching the opening minutes of the film worried me that this film would retreat into itself rather then expand in the so many aspects in which it actually did.Lenny is portrayed with extraordinary and edgy depth by Dustin Hoffman. For me, this is the film that convinced me that Dustin Hoffman is truly a first rate actor. The range shown here by him from beginning to end is astounding in not his portrayal of the change in his personality, but in the drastic but slow transformation in his mental and psychological state. The range of the cast in general is quite commendable in the break stints in the film in which they are shown to be interviewed individually on the life of Lenny Bruce.With this unique style of film making, much credit should be given to Bob Fosse who brings an original visual experience. Also the screenplay by Julian Barry is totally engaging. In my opinion this movie is indicative of the revolutionary style brought to movies during the 1970s. Lenny might be one of the most courageous movies ever made and it reaches its full potential. "},{"Title":"Freedom Does Not Always Work.","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The life of late stand-up comedian Lenny Bruce (played by Oscar-nominee Dustin Hoffman) is the focus of Lenny, a dark and disturbing staircase of horrors from director Bob Fosse (Oscar-nominated). In the late-1950s and early-1960s the titled character defied convention by getting in front of nightclub crowds and saying anything and everything that was on his mind. He cursed profusely, talked about the U.S. government, made fun of taboo subjects (homosexuality, drug use, etc.) and basically upset every group and racial minority you can think of. Through the film Hoffman has strange views on every topic that dominated the time period and marries a club stripper (Valerie Perrine in her Oscar-nominated role) that has an intense drug abuse problem herself. The film is told in stunning flashbacks that are displayed in a documentary style by those who knew the comedian best (Lenny Bruce apparently overdosed on drugs intentionally to kill himself). Filmed entirely in black-and-white, Lenny is a terrifying story about how freedom is not always an option in certain circles. The film is full of intense sexual situations, drug abuse and constant adult language. Younger audiences have no business viewing this production, but all those of a mature age should give Lenny a try. The film stands very strong with the other big films of 1974 (The Godfather, Part II and Chinatown most notably). 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Hoffman is stunning","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" To be honest I don't think the rest of the film quite deserves 8 stars, but Dustin Hoffman's performance as Lenny Bruce is so extraordinary that it lifts the movie up to that rating.Made in a fairly familiar quasi-documentary style, 'Lenny' begins with 'present day' (i.e. 1974) interviews with the surviving characters from Lenny's life, cut with flashbacks to his 1950's beginnings as a 'traditional' comic, and 'late' live performances in his post-drug-bust days. As the film progresses and the narrative catches up with the interviews, the gaps between these segments 'close'. Clever use is made of some of Lenny's material, cutting from keywords or phrases in his bits, to events in his life with inspired or correlated to them.All the same there is something a little dry and disappointing in the film's structure almost as if it could have used a more conventional, linear narrative, like Milos Forman's tribute to Andy Kauffman, 'Man on the Moon' would use to such great effect 25 years later.Ironically though, such a structure might have deprived of us of seeing more of Hoffman doing Lenny's bits 'live' on stage - and for me these were the highlights, which I wish had lasted longer, rather than flashing back to some past event after 30 seconds. As a big Lenny Bruce fan, I can only say that Hoffman's portrayal is almost supernatural. It's like he's channeling the guy. He has his mannerisms and improvisational style down perfectly. You would swear you were seeing these improvisations for the first time if you hadn't heard them already. In fact, Hoffman possibly even improves on Lenny's delivery in one small respect. Lenny had a penchant for the 'conversation' that would erupt in the middle of one of his bits, between two or more characters. Hoffman probably puts a bit more distinction between the characters than Lenny often did (quite often they would all just sound like Lenny, which was part of the magic, but never mind.) Over 30 years on, it's quite amazing to me that this film has become a relative obscurity in Dustin Hoffman's filmography. Frankly, though Hoffman has blown me away on various occasions, I don't ever remember being more blown away than this. And if you were to pick easy people to imitate, I doubt Lenny Bruce on stage would be high on many people's lists.The film as a whole is good, but to witness Hoffman channeling Bruce, it's a must-see. "},{"Title":"Lenny's a movie star????","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  When I first put this movie in I thought I knew what to expect.  I expected a good movie with a great actor in Dustin Hoffman.  Well, as soon as it started and there is Hoffman's first dialogue through the credits, I was blown away.  It was as if Lenny was starring in the film.  I couldn't believe what I was seeing and hearing.  Hoffman and Valerie Perrine gave excellent performances.  It is almost inconceivable to imagine the preparation and training that Hoffman must have gone through to get Lenny down.  I don't know who beat out Hoffman for the best actor award in 1974, but I can't imagine it being a more convincing performance than this.And the use of black and white was great.  The movie did give Lenny the appreciation that he deserved, mainly by showing his troubled personal life and his troubles with the law.  The movie portrayed the trouble and basically harassment that Lenny went through when he voiced his observations of society, which were true, but weren't quite ready to be heard yet.  The only fault (if at all) of the film is that it didn't quite show Lenny's genius in what he did.  It definitely showed his potential but not quite his brilliance.  But this might be because it was a biography of sorts of his life which included his personal and public life.  I suppose if the movie just focused on his comedic talents; than his genius would have been obvious, but that wasn't the focus of the film.  All in all this is an excellent movie in what it attempted to do.  It accomplished what it set out to do and that's what counts. "},{"Title":"Well Made But Dismally Depressing","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This biopic about shock comedian Lenny Bruce was Bob Fosse's followup to his well-received 1972 film Cabaret. I'm pretty sure that Lenny was a financial bomb, and I'm not surprised. It's a relentlessly depressing and ugly film, despite the stylish polish Fosse gives it. Anyone who has seen Fosse's last film, Star 80, knows just how nihilistic this director could be, and Lenny shows evidence of that.It is a fascinating film though, in its own way. Fosse uses a documentary-like approach, complete with black and white photography and a narrative device in which we see Bruce's long-suffering love (played heartbreakingly by Valerie Perrine, Lex Luthor's bikini-clad girlfriend in Superman 1978) telling Bruce's story to a filmmaker while the actual events themselves are played out as flashbacks. Fosse was fond of this confessional type of storytelling and would use it again in All That Jazz (1979). Dustin Hoffman is simply sensational as Bruce; he utterly disappears into this caustic character until no trace of Hoffman the actor is left. Technically, everything about the film is highly accomplished, but it's so desolately grim as to be off putting.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"A great performance unknown to many today","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I saw this film during it's initial release in the theaters but have only seen it twice since then. It didn't get much of a TV life. Dustin Hoffman is stellar as social commentary/satirist/observationalist/blue language comic Lenny Bruce. He was nominated for Best Actor for the 1974 Academy Award for his role but lost out to Art Carney for Harry and Tonto. Veteran actor Albert Finney was also nominated that year but Carney won on sentiment and Hoffman lost out when he and fellow nominees Jack Nicholson for Chinatown and Al Pacino for Godfather II split the vote which led to Carney's win. Valerie Perrine in her only Oscar nomination of her career was up for Best Actress. Lenny was up for most of the major awards including Best Picture, Best Director for Bob Fosse. It was also nominated for Best Screenplay and Cinematography but came up empty in all six nominations. Hoffman had just come off playing another biographical figure of Louis Dega in Pappion and would be Carl Bernstein in his his next film All the President's Men. Lenny Bruce had only been dead for eight years when Hoffman portrayed him on the big screen so much of the audience knew Bruce fairly fresh in their memories so to portray a contemporary figure of Bruce's genius and legend was not an easy role for Hoffman to step into but his portrayal of the doomed and controversial comic is compelling. Fosse, known for his choreography which is still being used in films like Chicago years after his death only directed five theatrical films and three of those were musicals in Sweet Charity, Caberet and All That Jazz so Lenny would be the first of only two non-musicals he would direct, both biographies, Lenny and Star 80. I don't think as a film this had enough to be a best picture but Hoffman was deserved of his best actor nomination and arguably should have won the Oscar for it. I would give this an 8.5 out of 10 and recommend it. "},{"Title":"What a performance...","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Well if I was ever in any doubt about Dustin Hoffman's talent this movie truly has put an end to it. I've seen enough footage of the real Lenny Bruce to realise just what a great performance this is. He looks so like Bruce, and the mannerisms are so well done it is hard to think of any way this performance could be improved upon. The direction and camera work are also superb as is Valerie Perrine's performance as Bruce's wife. It seems impossible to give this less than ten out of ten.  "},{"Title":"A Comic Cannot Change the World!","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Dustin Hoffman plays Lenny Bruce, the controversial stand-up comic who views comedy as a form of debate...I am going to take a stab at why this film is in black & white...The vast majority of this film takes place in the late fifties and early sixties..The black and white presentation exudes the era in which Lenny Bruce's popularity prevailed!! Black and White captures the three packs of cigarettes an evening per deviate nightclub era of the Lenny Bruce days so so so cogently!!... Interesting concept.. How many men get their blank blanked.. How many men have blanked a blank.. None?..They aren't telling the truth...especially those in lower middle management!! How about the fact that your wife is not a lesbian, but for purposes of a voyeuristic thrill...Why not?..Kind of degrading!! but for Lenny Bruce, that's the best part... SORT OF!!!...KIND OF!!... How can you curb obscenity when obscenity is the truth?...How does an overzealous, intellectual, New York Jewish comic ignore his upbringing? ..HE DOESN'T!! And finally, Why is this such a terrific movie!!...Because it is so much of a story about the sixties revolution...Here is one of the most poignant phrases I have ever heard, Telling a person he is obnoxious is often times tantamount to telling them they they are telling the truth!! The fact is, nobody particularly cares to hear the truth 99.999% of the times anyway!! I once rented Lenny with Bonnie and Clyde together. What could these two movies have in common? Both sixty's era in one way or another, but, more importantly, how people in the wrong can be recipients of a sort of convoluted injustice!!You are no more immoral than anybody else, you are just better at it!! Lenny's comedy routines transcended innuendos concerning vulgarities, his obscenities were neon accented!! It is for this reason that police were always carting him away!! Suffice it to say, Lenny is one of my favorite movies.. Often times, it seemed like even when Lenny Bruce lost, he won!! Normal? different? respectable? pornographic? What is the difference? So often, there is just a paper thin line between the two!! Trust me!! not everybody is just like the Waltons!!! "}{"Title":"Funny, sad, revealing and still powerfully relevant - Lenny Bruce!","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" One of the most common eulogies today for Lenny Bruce is that he died for our sins. Perhaps one of the strongest points of Lenny is that it does not overtly proclaim the truth of this sentiment, one way or the other - the overdose sequence comes, naturally, after the crescendo of Lenny's legal losses and might therefore lead one to believe that his death was caused by his struggle for freedom of speech. However we are also treated to multiple examples of Lenny's hedonism and the choices (perhaps poor, perhaps misguided) that are also to blame for his death. Did he die for our sins? Or did he die because he overdosed on heroin when he should have known better? A little bit of both, but both Fosse and Hoffman leave it open.Hoffman is simply wonderful. I have never seen footage of a Bruce concert/performance, but I have several as music files and have listened to them many times (particularly the Berkeley and Carnegie Hall performances that are also undoubtedly CDs now); Hoffman captures his verbal mannerisms perfectly. The pauses, the stutters, the sly laugh - close your eyes and Lenny Bruce is right there. Much of the material will be familiar to anyone who has listened to Bruce's work, but there is also much that I have never heard. The last performance in which Lenny is on stage in nothing except a raincoat, in particular, is eye opening - according to the trivia it actually occurred and was sent in by a student who was at the show.The black and white look lends the film a very raw feel, which is fitting given Lenny's comic mannerisms and subjects. I don't know much about cinematography, but I do know that it worked well.The film also makes it very clear that Bruce was far more than tit jokes and profanity. It's easy for some to see and hear Lenny Bruce and think him unoriginal, boring and simply not that big of a deal especially in comparison to the comedy of today. My personal opinion is that Bruce is just as funny today as he was when he was alive a dangerous kind of funny, a ha-ha funny in which you're not sure if you should be laughing but you do it anyway, a funny unafraid of anything, any boundary and any social more. Yes he is shocking, and yes sometimes some of the comedy is derived from obscenity in the way that some of the comedy of many an otherwise highbrow movie is derived from the obscene, but ultimately Lenny's value was that he laughed at his (and our) faults and made it seem okay to join him. The scene where he very dramatically segue ways from a successful bit to him calling for niggers is an example of this; it holds its value even today. The audience is shocked, sure that he has finally stepped over the line, and Lenny reels them in with his skill and acuity, going around pointing out the kykes, spic, wops, etc. and noting that if JFK used the word nigger everyday in his public speech it might one day mean that the word no longer had the power to make a twelve year old black kid cry. It is just one more example of the power of words and of Lenny Bruce's awareness of this.The clear dilemma of the movie is that Bruce is crass, rude, selfish, often annoying, highly unlikable... and ultimately right. I have always gotten the sense that Lenny was most undoubtedly an asshole, and that the case for martyrdom has a little too much revisionism going for it. I don't think he did his comedy to empower the rest of us, per se, nor to make a sacrifice for freedom of speech and, by inference, the soul of America. I think that Lenny Bruce was just being Lenny Bruce, that he could no more NOT get up in front of an audience and speak frankly of what was on his mind than you or I could stop breathing on purpose. That he did so was right and natural for him, and to do otherwise would probably have driven him mad or at least mediocre; it does not diminish his impact nor his contribution to American comedy, American society and America.Hoffman and Fosse have brought all of this out. See this movie - especially if you're easily offended, because you need it the most. "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" After reading a couple of comments on Lenny, claiming Unfortunately not very funny I have made an effort to register on IMDb.com, just to give my view. To the people who wrote the words along those lines - Has it ever occurred to you, that Lenny Bruce's life is just not a very funny story? Yes, he was 1 of the best comedians ever, but did you really expect 2 hours of laughter, and than at the end, a little reminder that something went very wrong here - a tiny reminder, not anything to shake you up too much? Really???Yes, it is not very funny. If you decide to watch Lenny, you will not get as many laughs, as you might have expected. I wouldn't say it is unfortunate though.What you will get is an accurate description of an incredibly powerful, real character. Lenny might not be the most likable hero ever, but he was a guy who stood up for what he believed in, and had a lot of fight in him. Don't we want our movie heroes to be like that?You'll get wonderful performances in the leading roles, a cinematography that each and every student of cinematography should be made to watch for hours, and Bob Fosse's direction, (helped by a modern approach to editing) simply stunning.You'll be moved, you'll get a lot of food for thought and you'll feel enriched by this movie. But yeah, you won't get many laughs. What a waste of time, right?Wrong. "},{"Title":"Dustin Hoffman at his best","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Lenny is the best picture of 1974 by far. Overshadowed by masterpieces like the Godfather Part 2 and Chinatown, Lenny is equal to the two if not better. It sad to say this but Lenny is the most underrated film in movie history. Everything about it is top notch. Fosse is great behind the camera and Perrine acts great as Bruce's wife. But the whole greatness to the film, the whole masterpiece of it, lies in the performance given by Dustin Hoffman. He keeps you glued to the screen. The way he says his lines, his facial expressions, his gestures. He should have won every acting award there was. Excuse me, I'm wrong. Awards don't mean anything, especially the Oscars, which are nothing but a popularity contest. The oscars are obscene, dirty, and no better than a beauty contest. All in all the best pic of 1974 and of all time for that matter. Hoffman's best ever, or that could be Midnight Cowboy. Hoffman, the greatest actor who ever lived. "},{"Title":"Potentially the greatest performance of all time.","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" As long as I can remember, I've been a massive fan of stand-up comedy. I think that these days there are very few comedians who are worth their weight, but the joy of watching the few who are is almost unparalleled. It's no secret that Lenny Bruce changed the face of stand-up, becoming a pioneer for such contemporaries as Louis C.K. and Bill Burr, my two favorite comedians. Bruce came into a world that was scared to speak the truth, scared to laugh at the absurdity of human behavior and he held up a mirror to the world and said, Look at yourself, aren't you ridiculous?.For it's time, the idea of doing this was shocking and wildly controversial. People saw him as vulgar and offensive, when he was really just speaking the truth that people were afraid to here. He evolved the game and it's only fair that an actor like Dustin Hoffman, a fellow pioneer of his career field, was selected to portray Bruce in this stark and honest biographic tale. My general stance towards Hollywood biopics is that I'm strongly against them, believing that to condense the life of a human being into a two or three hour film is impossible, but the script here by Julian Barry, adapting from his own play, does a strong job of taking the important parts of Bruce's life and leaving the rest behind.Unfortunately it does fall into a lazy trap of this genre, using a structure that functions around post-death interviews with those closest to Bruce in order to tell the story of his rise and fall. What's interesting though is that it doesn't play it straight in the sense of going back and forth between post-death and the chronological rise of Bruce; it does do this, but it also throws in another period, Bruce's last routine on stage. This adds an interesting twist onto this worn out structure and makes watching his rise even more intriguing to witness.We see him on stage, miraculously portrayed by Hoffman, with a full beard, exhausted expression and a wild, kinetic energy; a refusal to give up and sit down, an almost desperate need to get out all of the words he needs to say before he is stopped again. Bruce is almost a protester here, grabbing his microphone and shouting towards anyone who will listen to understand the crimes against humanity that are being permitted every day. Seeing him in this state makes it even more interesting to see where he began, as we now must wonder what happens to turn the nebbish and soft Bruce we meet in his earliest time period into the biting and confident man he will later become.Bob Fosse directs it all with his own unique flare, and some razor-sharp editing keeps things feeling fresh and as kinetic as the man the whole thing is based around. I also want to mention the cinematography, which is honestly some of the best I've ever come across. It's presented in black and white, which was a wonderful idea to match Bruce's style as a performer, and the way that the shots are composed and lit is a visual orgasm in every way. This is one of those films that I wanted to pause every five seconds just to marvel at the way it was shot, but I couldn't allow myself to step away from seeing more of Bruce.Everyone in the cast and crew do marvelous work here, but there's no denying that the film belongs to one man and that man is Dustin Hoffman. His performance is one of titanic proportions here, a slow-burn of pure genius, bringing Bruce along that evolutionary path to the man we know he will one day become. Lenny Bruce goes through many stages before he becomes the comedic icon that we initially see, and Hoffman plays them all with an absorbed authenticity that is purely magical. Looking back in time we see when he first meets his future wife Honey, and the utter bliss and childish joy on his face would be beautiful if it wasn't so heartbreaking knowing what he will eventually become.It's in the later stages that Hoffman truly lifts off though, when Bruce is in and out of prison and struggling with a drug addiction. Bruce becomes a bastion for free speech and social commentary, but more the film presents him as something more human than that; a flawed creature who for all of his evolutionary changes to media was also a very broken man within himself. There is a scene where Bruce does a routine wearing nothing but a raincoat and one sock, while he's riding high on drugs, that might just be the finest piece of acting I've seen my entire life.The scene is about ten minutes long, but it feels like it lasts an eternity. Normally this would be a complaint, but here it couldn't be a stronger compliment, as Hoffman takes us through this horrific state that the man is in at the time. With his lapses in silence, his rambling dialogues and his stop and start speech patterns, it's like watching a train wreck that you can't stare away from and you just keep hoping will be over soon. You want it to stop but you know that you aren't going to look away until it does.This colossal feat of acting would be impressive on it's own, but the fact that Hoffman does all of it in one take makes it something truly out of this world. It's a performance that stands at the very top of the all-time greats, in a film that is as brutally honest towards Lenny Bruce as he was towards the rest of the world. "},{"Title":"Obscenity circus","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Cinema always used to be a bit behind other media in terms of freedom from moral censorship. This stems from archaic and elitist notions that, as it presents its ideas visually and reaches a wider and supposedly less cultured audience that cinema is a more corrupting medium than books or theatre. So while the great comic Lenny Bruce was tussling with obscenity laws in the 50s and early 60s, it wasn't until the era following his death that his story would be deemed safe for the screen.Luckily this was also a good era for honest, balanced and very human portrayals of controversial figures. This version of his life, adapted by Julian Barry from his own play, flits between different views on Bruce. There are two framing narratives, the first a series of staged interviews giving the perspectives of those who knew and loved him, the second clips of a bearded Bruce doing his stand-up in the later years of his life. Between these we see fleeting episodes from the comic's life, told in an implicit style with scant dialogue. The interviews elucidate and expand these events, but even more cleverly the stand-up excerpts comment upon them. The stand-up is the substitute for an interview with Bruce, and the implication is that it was only during his shows that he was really able to be express himself fully.This was the first non-musical feature of choreographer-turned-director Bob Fosse. He doesn't adapt his style too much, with the same punchy, rhythmic and very precise approach he used in his musicals. Fosse's shots are typically very simple, the Bruce Surtees cinematography often shrouding all but the faces in darkness, or keeping at least keeping the backgrounds fairly plain or out-of-focus. Camera movement is minimal. The storytelling is all in the edit for Fosse. A great example of this is in Valerie Perrine's stripping scene near the beginning. Fosse gives her camera coverage much as he might have given Liza Minnelli in Cabaret, but he's also throwing in shots of the audience and the band, getting reactions and revealing the variety of punters that the show is getting. He takes the complete opposite approach towards the end with the scene of a drugged-up Lenny stumbling through his act, with a long-take from a high angle making the comic a pathetic little figure among the stage paraphernalia. After the close camera and choppy edits of the rest of the movie, the change is all the more stark.Dustin Hoffman, then still a relatively young actor, takes on the difficult task of playing a real figure only recently deceased. I've seen recordings of the real Lenny Bruce. Hoffman doesn't try to copy him slavishly, but he captures a way Bruce could have been, and is I feel completely true to the spirit of the man. He also brilliantly handles the transition from young to old Lenny. It's not just the beard that distinguishes those flash-forwards of later Bruce shows; Hoffman has more presence and confidence about him. Perrine is really good too, naturally bringing her previous work experience into the stripping scene, but then showing a delicate realism in the more dramatic moments.For an audience today, the taboos Bruce breaks seem fairly tame. The stuff he gets busted for now can be, and regularly is, said on national TV. But the movie shows us not a shocking tale of boundaries smashed, but an intimate portrait of the man who smashes them. We see Bruce as the complex human we can recognise and the witty fighter we can root for. And it is this touching humanity which gives Lenny a compelling quality outside of its time. "},{"Title":"It's well made but I am not sure what I think of Lenny or Lenny.","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I have a friend who strongly recommended I see Lenny. Now, after seeing the film I understand why he suggested it--Lenny Bruce in this film sounded much like my friend! Both are huge proponents of the First Amendment (as am I) and both felt that words alone are harmless. So, for that I am thankful that I saw the film and now I can see where my friend got his strange sensibilities! As far as the film goes, I STILL feel quite ambivalent about it several hours after finishing it. While I liked the film technically and appreciate that the film does not whitewash the man, it's also a rather unpleasant film about a guy who I am not even sure I care for one way or the other. I appreciate his pushing the limits of free speech, I just didn't think he was funny--and having seen his HORRIBLE film he wrote and acted in during his early career (Dance Hall Racket) didn't help! I much more appreciated his insights into society but his jokes left me pretty flat. BUT, this is not really the purpose of the film. Even if you don't think he was funny, it's an interesting portrait of a very self-destructive man as well as the times he lived in and it's rather unflinching in its portrayal.By the way, if you do see Lenny, understand that even today it's a rather adult film--even over three decades later. There is a lot of nudity and the language is understandably rough. So, don't watch it with your mother-in-law or Father Jenkins! "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Films of the Decade","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Lenny (1974) **** (out of 4) Bob Fosse's masterpiece takes a look at the short life of comic Lenny Bruce (Dustin Hoffman) who would die at the age of forty but not before breaking down certain doors for future comics. The film follows his rise up through the ranks thanks in large part to the controversy that followed him due to the nature of his act. I've always felt that LENNY was one of the best movies of the decade and even after all these years it's still a very sharp, at times funny but mostly sad look at a man who deserved much better than he ever got. There's no doubt in my mind that the film was like the light shining from above on both Fosse and Hoffman as the two were perfectly meant to bring this film to the screen and boy do they really deliver. Fosse's style here wouldn't work with most directors but the way he uses it to get to the emotion and power in the story is quite amazing. The film jumps back and forth through different periods of Bruce's life and the way Fosse uses this to build up the subject is something interesting to watch. Just take a look at a rather innocent scene where Bruce talks his wife into having a threesome with another woman. Just look at how the silence is used and the impact this has for this scene. Hoffman gives one of his greatest performances here, which is saying quite a bit considering how great he was during this period of his career. I thought he really did a remarkable job at not copying the real Lenny Bruce but instead taking him and forming him into this character. I thought Hoffman really gave an incredibly powerful and emotional performance and especially as Bruce begins to crack due to the pressures of the courts and the drugs. Valerie Perrine is also excellent in her role of Bruce's drug addicted wife. The B&W cinematography is some of the greatest you're ever going to see. This is certainly one of the most beautiful films you're ever going to see and especially the way the lighting is even in the simplest scenes. LENNY often gets beaten up by some critics because it's not 100% accurate but I've yet to see any bio pic that is. To me this is clearly one of the best movies of the decade and features one of the greatest performances you're going to see. "},{"Title":"This movie makes me very sad","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" It isn't from the painful relationship between his girlfriend, or his addictions. It is from how I remembered this film when Andrew Dice Clay was being attacked for his portrayal in Ford Fairlane (which was an excellent comedy). I was young when this movie was made, and it takes place before I was born. So, I don't know if this movie was accurate. However, this is the irony. Bruce was supposed to be Anti-Establishment. He was lambasting a society that wanted to close its doors on taboos - such as sex, race relations, etc. We had won that war by the 1980s. Then, along came political correctness. The Anti-Establishment became even worse than the Establishment of old. At least, younger people were already revolting against it by the 1960s. However, the same younger generation that won the 60s suddenly turned clean. Bruce, may have not have had a wonderful personal life, but at least he was speaking his mind and heart, and not being shut out by the political correctness of the time. This is why this movie makes me so sad. It makes me think of the days, when there were painful realities, but people were more human, less perfectionistic, and could speak their minds. And by the late 80s, that World died with the birth of political correctness. No longer could there be Lenny Bruce's - speaking their hearts and minds. In the old day, the blue meanies were the Hooverites. Now, they are the Neo Yuppies who have taken away whatever voice and freedom we used to have in this country. This movie was not great, but it was interesting. Hoffman can carry most roles, and he did a pretty good impersonation. He was a lovable and dislikeable person. He did bad things, but he had a heart, too. He was a person who was imperfect, but trying in many ways to speak his mind. It is too bad that nowadays these days are long gone. We no longer can tell the truth and be enraged. Someone now tells us that we are unpolitically correct for trying to speak the truth. That is why this movie is so sad. "},{"Title":"Talk Won't Save You.","Date":"5 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" It's a difficult movie to evaluate because it's so desperately sad in so many ways without being tragic.Basically it's the story of a night club comic who became famous and talked himself to death. Bruce took advantage of the Beatnik subculture of the late 1950s who had pushed against obscenity and tender sensibilities enough to leave the door ajar, and then he crashed in recklessly, too self involved to realize that there are times when it's a lot better for you and everyone you care about if you just shut the hell up, that preaching, like drugs, can turn into self indulgence.It's sad to see an essentially good-natured and well-intentioned man commit slow suicide. It's sad to watch someone throw away success with such little grace. And it's sad to know in retrospect that the director, Bob Fosse, identified so intensely with Bruce that the release of the movie was delayed for a long time while Fosse agonized over the editing.All that aside, the film has another problem. It all seems mighty dated, as if we were viewing these Big Social Issues through the wrong end of a telescope. I guess that's not the movie's fault. It was no small matter at the time. It's just that the movies and the internet are now awash in pornography and, far worse, in gory images of heads exploding and limbs being sawed off. Hearing the F bomb spoken in front of an audience of eager adults is nothing compared to having to sit through an example of torture porn like Unthinkable. None of the difficulty can be attributed to the principal actors either. Dustin Hoffman is fine as he slowly morphs from the ambitious kid trying to please an audience in the Borscht Belt into a self-absorbed egomaniac with glittering eyes. And Valerie Perrine is believable as his despairing junkie wife. Fosse has wisely cast Jan Miner as the optimistic and permissive Jewish mother, instead of a stereotype. She chides him about his heroin use but claps him on the back after a successful and obscene show.Fosse's direction is sure enough. He knows what he wants to do and he does it with deliberation. There are, thank God, no dizzying, whirling camera movements, no instantaneous cuts, no sharp negative images, and no itchy electronic noise on the sound track, but mostly Miles Davis, early and late. Is there any way to resuscitate directors with that kind of style? Any way to shove the pendulum back to its former position? The structure of the film didn't exactly come from Citizen Kane but must have been influenced by it. Fosse was to use it again in Star 80. There are a couple of heartbreaking moments in the film in which we watch Bruce humiliate himself by being drunk on stage and by being obstreperous in court. At any rate, they made me wince. He's so wrapped up in himself and the indignities visited on him that he can no longer take the role of the other. He doesn't know that an audience is there to be entertained, not to listen to him read aloud long sections from the trial transcript. He doesn't realize that when a sympathetic judge finally says, Not another word, what the judge means is not another word. Bruce's death may not have come at the worst time. He was pretty far gone, broke and inadequate to any further work. I watched an interview with him during his last year or two and he was falling all over himself and slurring his words -- worse than Truman Capote at his worst. And, having helped break the obscene sound barrier, what was there left for Bruce to do next? Invent a video game full of exploding heads? "},{"Title":"Heart-breaking portrayal of a comic genius ahead of his time ...","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Lenny tells the tragic fate of a pioneer and a martyr  the comedian Lenny Bruce whose irreverent courage paved the way to a whole new style of performance  stand-up comedy. Lenny is posthumously regarded as the father of stand-up comedy and this movie directed by Bob Fosse, is a deserved homage to the unsung hero of a shameful fight for freedom of speech. Who else but Bob Fosse, the director who's to entertainment what Hitchcock is to suspense, could have made such a riveting movie about a comic performer ? And who else but Dustin Hoffman could have personified this prodigious comical talent and his heart-breaking fight for dignity in such a haunting performance ?Lenny is about entertainment in its most difficult, underestimated but noblest form, comedy. And by noble, it means 'most sincere' because laughs are the most spontaneous emotions, and you can't cheat with them. That's what Romans called Vis Comica, a gift, a strength, and a power. Lenny had this power and used it to point out and denounce the excesses of American society. He wasn't a clown, or a buffoon but he was a performer who built an ingenious talent to translate any sensitive subject  religion, politics, and society into an acerbic but hilarious social commentary. He epitomized the notion of making laugh and think. His approach was always provocative but never badly intentioned, in other words, he always had a point, something to denounce, but on one condition  it had to make people laugh &#x85; half-polemical, half-cynical, but always comical. A lot of close-ups on the audience are used in the film, a reminiscence of the same direction used in Cabaret  people look bored, upset, thoughtful, smiling, laughing, they're part of the artistic process, as long as they laugh at the end, and applaud, they get Lenny's point and appreciate his comedic talent. Indeed, you can't cheat with laughs.There's something profoundly cathartic in Lenny's humor, a desensitizing effect leading to a bigger tolerance. Lenny didn't even realize how beyond his time, how modern he was. He didn't know he would face a hateful crowd of opponents from an Establishment which could tolerate anything, except the use of profanity and obscenity on stage in a public place. And that's how Lenny became an unintentional barometer of freedom of speech in America. And as an irreverent character who believes in his ideas, he could never censor himself ... not because he wanted to defy the system, but because he was convinced he was defending a right cause. As long as people were genuinely laughing, he couldn't believe his words were considered obscene. His disbelief was sincere and turned his rebellious attitude into a form of political activism that kind of killed the fun, but never the relevance. Lenny's fate, in a tragic irony, is almost religious as he was sacrificed on the altar of intolerance, for his ideas and beliefs. The last shot of him naked, lying on the floor, is indecently shocking, so is the devastation in his voice when he's begging the judge to let him redo his sketch. I'll never forget the way Hoffman breaks his voice, shouting I didn't hurt anybody ... this heart-breaking sentence summarizes the whole martyrdom of Lenny Bruce. This film invites us to follow the tragic story of Lenny and understand this obscure part of America's history where the so-called moral society couldn't allow a performer to exercise his right to speak. It also invites us to question our own tolerance and then try to put our beliefs into perspective. Freedom of speech is like a gift from democracy, you can corrupt it by conveying fear, racism and hatred, or you can make people laugh by destroying all the barriers of political correctness and convince them that there's no segregation in words. Lenny's point is that we're all equally laughable, regardless of our cultures, our religions, our social status, life is too serious to be taken seriously. If the content of Lenny's sketches seems harmless now, that doesn't mean that freedom of speech should be taken for granted. If there are still some words that mustn't be said, or ideas that mustn't be expressed, this means the fight is not over yet.Lenny is built on a tertiary structure. One third of interviews of all the people who knew Lenny  his manager, his mother and his wife, Honey, played in an extraordinary underrated performance by Valerie Perrine. The chemistry between Honey and Lenny was poignant. Those are two persons, imperfect, but so endearing in their mutual love you could see that Lenny wasn't the bitterly cynical type of guy, he knew what love was about, and this love was one of his greatest inspirations. The heart of the film is Lenny's story, his ascension, the pinnacle of his career until the tragic descent into hell, on which he and Honey have a responsibility. Indeed, he and Honey were flawed, and the excesses that governed a big part of their life were not omitted. And this poignant tragicomedy is punctuated by sketches from a late-career Lenny, showing how he turned all these events that enriched his life into hilarious, provocative and insightful comments. It was not a way to make people laugh at him, but with him at all the flaws that make humans worth being mocked. Lenny's sketches relied on his capability of turning everything he touched into laughter, and that's the pure comedic talent.Lenny is about a man ahead of his time, a pioneer for entertainment and a martyr for freedom and dignity, but the deepest truth about Lenny, that makes his death sadder and more obscene lies in the heart of Honey, who, as a heart-breaking conclusion, simply says He was just so damn funny "}{"Title":"A great tribute to Lenny","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Lenny is a great movie dealing with several social issues, shown from a celebrity perspective but they stand good from a common man's perspective. The timing to watch such movie could not have been better because recently only we lost the most popular human being off all times and I was comparing his&#x85;.MJ's life to that of Lenny and they seemed quite similar especially the end. The movie also looked good probably because I did not how big of a personality this guy Lenny was (was written about in Time magazine n all) and my previous experience with such biographies hasn't been that great. The only safe bet I had was Dustin Hoffman and from the first scene he looked his usual best. The movie's style, of how Lenny derived his socio-comic material from his own experiences. The editing of the scenes where what was happening in his life, was being laughed upon in a subsequent scene by audience when Lenny put them in his own comical fashion. In the starting when he did that, I thought he was a shallow personality but on the other hand I think he was a strong personality who brought all those social issues to a bigger audience for people to learn from them. Also a lot of things he was accused of back in the days&#x85;most of them are a common thing today&#x85;so we can say he was ahead of time. Bottom line everybody got problems&#x85;its just that we get to hear about celebrities' only "},{"Title":"An intimate portrait","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Lenny Bruce is iconic - Richard Pryor, George Carlin, Robin Williams all owe much to Bruce's honesty. No one-liners, just observational comedy on sex and relationships.Here under Bob Fosse's stark direction Hoffman shines. This is the closet Dustin Hoffman comes to method acting if you go to YouTube and look at Bruce you can really see the effort Hoffman put in here.The film tries to explain, only partially successfully, how Lenny came to be the comedian he was. The biographical format works well enough but we are never really given the insight as to how he developed his stage act, rather it is explained through the drugs and circumstances...All in all a good, fairly gritty film, which charts the life of one f comedy's great groundbreakers, and a killer performance by Dustin Hoffman. "},{"Title":"Lenny","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I didn't knew Lenny Bruce until I heard about this movie. But I'm a big fan of biography movies, so I decided to give this movie a shot, since I like Dustin Hoffman and also a world of stand up comedy. Lenny is a biographical movie about Lenny Bruce, a controversial stand up comic, who uses comedy as a public statement against his legal and personal troubles. The movie presents a story in black and white color, so it's quite depressing from time to time. Dustin Hoffman also did a great job as a troubled stand - up comedian, despite the fact I found him far away from being a comic actor. Like I said, the movie is quite depressing, not very funny even if it talks about stand up comedian (Man on the moon for example, was a perfect movie, which make a combination of comedy and drama, but Lenny is just drama)and from time to time it is quite boring. Personally I had problem with the first hour of the movie, which is quite boring and sometimes very annoying. The director put a lot of scenes in the movie, which don't have nothing to do with a whole story; for example first 10 minutes we're just watching the lead female character stripping on the stage. And later on another nude scene with Lenny, his girlfriend and another takes place for about 4 minutes, which is really boring and annoying. But the other half of the movie is much much better; Lenny Bruce's legal troubles, obscene behavior and problems with drugs... the movie was in this case quite realistic but also very very depressing. But overall I like this movie; Hoffman is great, realism is very painful and some of the dialogs in the movie is excellent, the only issue I had were some unnecessary nude scenes and unconvincing beginning of the movie. And I also didn't like the fact, that a movie about a stand up comic is not even funny. "},{"Title":"Great portrait of a great man...","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" After seeing and hearing some of Leny Bruce originals, kudos to great performance by leading man Dustin Hoffman (Lenny Bruce). Not by a chance any less of a great performance also by Valerie Perrine (Honey Bruce). Interesting completion of screenplay by its concept through interview with Lenny's wife. Super cinematography, excellent choice for black & white touch what actually makes the story even more complex and ready to sink in. There are some faults but I simply ignored them for the same reasons written above. So them (faults I mean), you will have to find yourself and decide how to comment them. Definitely in top range of Hollywood movie making. "},{"Title":"Stellar...","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Criticized, perhaps correctly, for turning foul-mouthed comic Lenny Bruce into a misunderstood crusader for the right to free speech, LENNY is nonetheless a potent and highly entertaining movie. Dustin Hoffman is brilliant as Bruce and Valerie Perrine matches him as his drug addicted wife Honey. The unlikely director, Bob Fosse, utilizes an interview technique and has those close to Bruce explicate the story. It works well. Bruce Surtee's black and white cinematography is stunning. The jazz clubs and comic dens are eerily photographed. There are shots that resemble the work of Weegee or Diane Arbus. Jan Miner plays Bruce's mother and Gary Morton is a Milton Berle-like comedian in one of the film's best scenes. "},{"Title":"Well worth watching","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Dustin Hoffman's performance as comic Lenny Bruce is brilliant and I agree with those who say he is one of the greatest actors in cinema history.  Indeed the production of the whole film - scripting, acting, directing, editing - is superb.  It was obviously shot in black and white to convey a period (early 1950s to early 1960s) documentary feel and it works.  There is probably more comedy in some of the off-stage scenes, particularly the courtroom repartee, than the stage performances which seem designed to demonstrate why he irritated a lot of people at the time.  By today's standards the obscenity all seems quite tame, and comedians such as Billy Connelly and Rowan Atkinson are just as crude and manage to have their performances shown on TV without a whisper of complaint (at least not in this part of the world).  The difference is that Lenny Bruce had a lot to say about social and political issues of the day, some of which get presented in this film.  It won't be everyone's cup of tea, but highly recommended as an example of excellent movie making. "},{"Title":"What should be taken away is a POSITIVE message, not a 'cautionary' one...","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" ... That is, after all, what the subject in question was all about; candidly highlighting the REAL 'evils' of the world and arguing very convincingly that there wasn't much wrong with discussing common truths, even if they DID happen to be 'unpleasant'. If 'words' are indeed 'power', then here in this film for all to see was a MAGNET of a man, a beacon. Sure, it's 'dark', but then, so too is life, so honesty comes forth once again. Hoffman brilliantly shows us a guy unafraid to bare his soul on stage night after night, and when the authorities took that away from him, there was basically nothing worthwhile left. We must remember though, that he was a pioneer, so his 'trailblazing' gave a path for others to follow. Who knows how many lives were saved by people finally being permitted to say what was on their mind?It's an altogether different proposition than Fosse's other 'lighthearted' fare, and it suits me as a viewer a whole lot better. Who goes through life singing? Well, 'Lenny' certainly didn't, but this great piece of cinema shows that he WAS a totally committed 'humanist', of a sort.Life may not always be 'tra-la-la', but even the darkest passages can provide plenty of 'ha-ha'... ! 9/10. "},{"Title":"Depressing but fascinating","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The rise and fall of comic Lenny Bruce (Dustin Hoffman).  Bruce was one of the first comedians to use swearing in his act and was actually taken to court over it.  The movie also chronicles his marriage to stripper Honey Harlow (Valerie Perrine).Bob Fosse was a strange choice to direct this--he had only done two musicals before (Sweet Charity and Cabarat), but Cabaret was such a huge hit I guess he could pick and choose what he wanted.  He shoots it in black and white and uses a documentary style approach by interviewing Bruces wife, mother and agent and then flashing to those scenes.  It does work but the film is extremely depressing.  The black and white is very stark and gives the film a cold look and feeling.  Also, I found nothing funny in Hoffman doing Bruce's routines.  It's not that he's bad (he's actually very good), but the tone of the film is not humorous.As I said, Hoffman is good but Perrine is spectacular.  She gives a very strong, nuanced performance.  Also, she does an extremely erotic strip tease at the beginning of the film and holds her own in a (mild) lesbian scene.It's worth catching but you'll probably be depressed by the end.  If this film weren't such a downer it would probably be better known.  "},{"Title":"If you can't say f--- in public...","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Dustin Hoffman accomplished another great role as political comedian Lenny Bruce, whose comments always irked the establishment. Bruce truly paved the way for George Carlin, Richard Pryor, Robin Williams, and everyone such. Probably the best part was when he commented on the two gay teachers who'd gotten fired (There was no situation where a kid came home saying 'We had five minutes of geography and ten minutes of c---sucking'.) Not surprisingly, they arrested him after that.I have to admit that I've actually never heard any of Lenny Bruce's albums (except for a few lines out of The Sick Humor of Lenny Bruce). But anyhow, Lenny is a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"strangely unfunny biography of a very funny stand-up comic","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  An interesting biopic of groundbreaking comic Lenny Bruce with Dustin Hoffman as Lenny and Valerie Perrine as his stripper wife.  The movie suffers from one problem Dustin Hoffman isn't funny.  Eddie Izzard playing the same role on stage in London was so funny doing old Lenny Bruce material, I was crying.  For that matter, Lenny Bruce himself was hilarious as I discovered in the 2-cd set of his 1961 concert at Carnegie Hall. Although Hoffman does what seems to be a spot-on imitation of Bruce, he never finds the essential relationship with the stand-up material. Without the laughs, the movie fails its goal of showing why Lenny Bruce was such an important figure in American culture. Still, Valerie Perrine has never been more naked. 5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Terrible Casting","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" There were a load of great standup comedians active at the time anyone of whom would have made a better choice, such as Frank Gorshin who was a great impressionist and wickedly funny too. Hoffman gave a dry as dust performance, which completely let down his legion of countercultural fans. What's more he was too short for the part. At the time, the movie industry had abandoned its tried and true approach, moved its headquarters East from Hollywood, and was producing a series of pretentious and often tasteless pictures, influenced by the European art-house film industry. In a misguided attempt to score with college educated moviegoers, the New York school ignored the proved popular taste of the audience in favor of a phoney attempt to culturally legitimize American movies by making them less commercial and more like their (usually less popular and less well-made) European counterparts. "},{"Title":"Lenny Bruce  1925-1966","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Lenny Bruce remains a figure of controversy even today. Some see him as a harbinger of things to come, the ancestor of comedians like Andrew Dice Clay or even the Animal House fraternity of comic actors. Some see him as a rather self indulgent sort who got gratification out of writing on bathroom walls. Whatever he was he probably never deserved the kind of attention he got from law enforcement. But that's always a problem, they never know when to just ignore. As for Bruce he certainly never hit prime time when he was alive.But his character was the subject of a fascinating biographical film just simply entitled Lenny. And he was lucky in that he got an actor as good as Dustin Hoffman to play him. It got Hoffman one of his several nominations for Best Actor. Hoffman was so good that he certainly has a second career as a blue comedian if the acting gig goes south.Lenny was also the breakout performance vehicle for Valerie Perrine in the role of Lenny Bruce's drug addicted wife. Perrine got an Oscar nomination in the Best Supporting Actress category. Down the cast list is Gary Morton, best known as Lucille Ball's second husband and he plays an established comedian based on Milton Berle.Berle in real life could work blue if had to and did on occasions when the all seeing public eye wasn't necessarily tuned in. I remember that Buddy Hackett who was one of the funniest men that ever lived in club dates was positively filthy. But you paid to see him perform live at some nightclub for that, you sure didn't see him in The Music Man doing his nightclub act. Or on the Ed Sullivan Show.Lenny Bruce never made those distinctions between Ed Sullivan and some sleazy nightclub. There's no more Ed Sullivan type variety shows. You do now have comedy clubs where Bruce would probably be more than welcome with his material. Lenny Bruce thanks to the film Lenny now has a permanent place in our culture. It's also part of Dustin Hoffman's enduring legacy to film. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Mr Fosse","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Black and white masterpiece, steered by a great actor we all love. Lenny is first rate story telling about the late and controversial Lenny Bruce. He wasn't your ordinary comic, and could pull out funny stuff from newspaper clippings, where you get your laugh's worth from his comedy routine, which shocks and saddens too. We see his rise to comedy stardom, where the drugs and booze ultimately led to a breakdown, and his mental stuff, and almost possible certainty of doing jail time, which he wasn't prepared to do, hence the last scene with his drug suicide, in the stark. Valerie Perrine, just as powerful, deserves high applause as Lenny's suffering stripper wife, where the movie flashes back and forth, through her eyes, as through her time with Lenny. Hoffman's performance is just magnetic, so genuinely believable, in a film which will go down as one of the classic greats, I'm eternally for having watched in my lifetime of movies. "},{"Title":"A _______ good movie!","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The first time i've heard about Lenny Bruce, it was from my hero George Carlin and i must say right off the bat that i haven't heard or saw much material from Lenny before this film, (yeah i know, shame on me) but at least i didn't had any expectations whatsoever.Factual or not? Once again i couldn't care less, it was a great entertainment. If i want facts about an artist i'll read a biography or watch a documentary, i will certainly not document myself on somebody through Hollywood for obvious reasons, if you can't figure them out, get off my review right now...Great performances, great story, amazing cinematography and editing, i really loved that movie. The interview style approach was brilliant and the jazzy/black & white atmosphere was delightful. That one shot scene near the end is astonishing and very sad, that scene alone worth the movie.Censorship, obscenities, anti-conformism, power of words, drug abuse and freedom of speech could resume quite well this movie in my opinion; and it makes me realize that i can't _______ write whatever i _______ want (at least not here) even in 20 _______ 13 can you _______ believe that?!In one word Entertaining....And ____ censorship! "},{"Title":"A well-directed but very dated biopic of another wasted celebrity","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" 'Lenny' tells the story of comedian Lenny Bruce, who dared to defy the conventions and use taboo subjects (homosexuality, STDs, drug abuse, etc) in his stand-up routines. Truthfully, I don't know anything about the man; as such, I have no idea of how true the film is to the real Lenny. However, the cinematography is quite good, and Dustin Hoffman is excellent as usual (too bad Lenny Bruce had already died, anyone would be honored to have such a high-level actor portraying them). Valerie Perrine is quite beautiful as his wife.The way Bob Fosse decided to shoot this, though, is what truly caught my attention. He makes the film similar to a documentary, interwoven with flashbacks/flashforwards/flashwhatever of Lenny's life and his stand-up acts (performed finely by Hoffman). The editing is quite masterfully done, with the scenes interweaving perfectly.However, with the comedy the way it is nowadays, 'Lenny' is very dated. In a time where Sacha Baron Cohen, 'Scary Movie' and many other crude comedies are abound, any kind of impact this film's comedic side might have is almost null; no one else will even blink in shock at his subjects at all, though they may still do so at the dramatic side of the film (Lenny Bruce's wasted life).The film stands as a very well directed and acted picture, but with time has lost most of its power. It is a sad story, and the dramatic side still works well enough, but in the end it feels like just another celebrity who lost himself. "},{"Title":"Lenny Who?","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I would just like to say that this movie was great,but you don't have to take my word for it,I not gonna spoil nutin. O.k but I gotta say this,I did not know that Lenny was a real person, Ha,Ha...I always heard Eddie Murphy say Hey Lenny Bruce, Man.. and it was funny to me the way he said it. Later on,after trying to find something on TV I saw this movie and was like oh,this is Lenny Bruce. I was thinking that all this time it was a name Eddie made up. Now it looks like this was his own way of giving Lenny his props or just dues.So just to add some extra lines to this thing rent this movie,buy this movie or when you see Dustin shake his hand,and tell him good job. "},{"Title":"as hard hitting as drama/comedies can get; a high-point for Hoffman and Fosse","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" For someone who had directed mostly (if not almost all) musicals throughout his career, and indeed made his name on Broadway before winning his Oscar for Cabaret (beating out Coppola for the Godfather no less), Bob Fosse was the last person I would figure directed a film about the iconoclast comedian Lenny Bruce. If I hadn't known it was him directing it, I would've thought someone from France had been given the controls on the script to make it into new. But 'Lenny' was indeed a Broadway play by Julian Barry, and here he makes it into something that works extremely well cinematically, and at the same time has that appeal of the theater, of that rush that comes from seeing someone like Fosse direct or Bruce on stage. It's a script that fiddles with the time-line of a man from mid-twenties to (tragic) death with interviews after the fact, and for anyone who knows the name and work of Lenny Bruce would do well to see this 'version' of his life.As usual, the contribution of Dustin Hoffman to the film's success is incalculable. I have seen some footage of Bruce doing his comedy act through the searing documentary Swear to tell the Truth, but even if you haven't seen any footage of Bruce's act (which I'm sure most who were born in my time have not) you can put total belief in Hoffman's portrayal. One of the tenets of Bruce's life and career was that he would be truthful to himself, or at least would have that urge to find the truth early on (during his pre-beat years of the 50's) and then full-blown in the late 50's and especially early 60's. Hoffman, therefore, is very astute in playing this role, how he could find that sense of total absurdity under all the BS, always questioning. And yet, he was also a likely a man with his share of flaws, and a good chunk of the film is about the relationship between him and Honey, his girlfriend-turned-wife. These scenes show Hoffman in a different key than he plays him in the stand-up scenes, and it's terrific.And also, going back to Fosse, the style is another big factor. The cutting is often startling, skipping along to that jazzy beat that is laid onto the soundtrack (I loved one scene where they show a early 50's party at a 'pad', records being played, grass being rolled, Bruce falling head over heels in a quiet way), and then with the comedy clips especially, we get the best and the worst of what Bruce had to offer, his peak in pointing out things with risqu abandon (and ended up getting him in ridiculous trouble), and downfall into drugs and depression. Every step of the way, it seems, Fosse is keeping up with Hoffman's vitality in this character of Bruce, and while the film provides some laughs, it also works as a serious treatise on what it means to try and have free speech in this country. But the message Bruce wanted to try and get through to the public and to the courts is not what one should focus on completely, and if the film did it would've been a weaker effort. It's strongest as it merges with a full-on character study, as Hoffman and the supporting players (the actress playing Honey Bruce is also very good) put on a certain image of a time and place. One of the best films of 1974. "},{"Title":"Before there was Spinal Tap, there was Lenny","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Granted, Lenny is more a celebration of a real-life performer who met a tragic end rather than a satire of a genre of music that did not meet its end soon enough. But many of the conventions observed in Spinal Tap were invented in Lenny. Interviews mixed with live performance footage or trials and tribulations, it is all right here. The editing of these elements into a cohesive whole is somewhat crude, but the knockout performances as the lead couple on a tragic road to nowhere make the entire film work. Dustin Hoffman, having starred with Jon Voight in Midnight Cowboy some five years earlier, was the best choice to play the titular Lenny Bruce, a comic who found his niche long before his time, and died the same way. Although some claim that the real Lenny Bruce was not like this, Hoffman makes the whole film work. This story rests entirely upon his performance, and although he is a tiny man by most standards, the strength of his performance is such that he is able to carry the whole production on his shoulders.What makes Lenny even better as a film is the sense of historical irony. Lenny Bruce was charged with obscenity and dragged to court more times than most of us will ever be given traffic infringements. He went broke fighting the charges, and soon died of a drug overdose. What makes this ironic is that his material seems tame, even blas, compared to that of comedians like Richard Pryor or Eddie Murphy. Hell, if Pryor or Murphy had tried to get their break during Bruce's time, they might have been executed for obscenity. Like those two, the film version of Lenny does try to be funny without the use of four-letter words during the later acts, and is only moderately successful. The film does not focus so much on his comedy as it does his obscenity trials, and his reaction to them. As he becomes more involved in the trials, he begins reciting news articles and transcripts to his audience, who begin to lose patience.The use of black and white seems to have been an artistic choice, and it differentiates the film from others of the era. Indeed, this is one of the best monochrome films I have seen in years. One problem faced by films shot this way is contrast between the colours, especially the darker colours in darker indoor locations. While this is still occasionally seen in Lenny, it also has the best bordering between colours that I have seen in many a monochrome film. It is almost as if they deliberately designed the sets, lighting, and costumes towards this effect. I've read people claiming that colour would have been a better choice, or that a personality like Lenny Bruce demands colour. I have to disagree. Lenny's monochrome look enhances the bygone feel of the era. The fact that it looks so good, even now, shows that Bob Fosse and Bruce Surtees made the right choice.If I do have one complaint about Lenny, it is that parts of it drag too much. The segment with the obscenity trials seems to take a week, and not a whole lot of information is given. Hoffman's performance also becomes a little annoying as he interrupts everyone at the trial, including the judge, trying to get what he feels is a fair shake. Okay, so the character is meant to be whacked out of his gourd on illegal substances, but there are better ways than this to make the point. Still, in the grand scheme of things, this is a minor flaw, especially given that it helps drive home the point that these spurious charges of obscenity wrecked a man's life. Freedom is not worth having if you cannot push boundaries, and while the boundaries eventually came back to hit Lenny Bruce in the face, few people can say that they will ever live as free as Bruce did when he was at his peak. Hell, if he and his wife had never been introduced to heroin, by accident as this film implies, things may have turned out a lot happier.Another slight flaw is that Hoffman performs so well that the film becomes more about him than Bruce, but this one is so minor it only bears a sentence. Overall, I gave Lenny an eight out of ten. It isn't the best biopic I remember seeing, and perhaps one can only watch it once every now and then, but it is a film everyone should see when they ever get the laughable idea that they prefer the level of artistic freedom we had in the 1950s. It also happens to be an incredibly well-made film under other terms. "},{"Title":"Unfortunately Not Funny","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" My first exposure to the world of Lenny Bruce was the Broadway show, Lenny. The film is (loosely) based on the play, which rather faithfully followed the life of Lenny Bruce (more or less) and told his story using entirely his own words. In the stage version, Lenny was played by Cliff Gorman, whose best known role was that of the wildly effeminate character Emory in both the film and original stage productions of Mart Crowley's play the Boys in the Band. At the time, I ran out and purchased everything I could find on Lenny Bruce, because Cliff Gorman was that funny. I laughed so hard in the theatre, I thought I'd die, and had trouble deciding what was more important, Lenny Bruce's status as one of the funniest comedians around, or the amazing social commentary that was contained in his routines. At the time, I remember thinking that Lenny Bruce was more of a philosopher or even a potential cult religious leader than a comedian. He had a knack of exposing hypocrisy, be it in politics, organized religion, race relations or whatever. I was convinced, at the tender age of 18, that Lenny Bruce had the keys, if not the answers, to all of the world's problems.I went out and purchased the cast album of the Broadway show, which consisted of a 2 LP recording of a complete live performance of the play. I spent hours comparing Cliff Gorman to the real Lenny Bruce, and each time I listened to either, I memorized one of Lenny's hysterically funny bits. When I listened to records of the real Lenny Bruce, I marveled at how perfectly Cliff Gorman had reproduced his persona. The rapid-fire delivery, the inflection, even the tonal quality of his voice and the exact pauses in his speech were there. It was like Lenny Bruce had been reincarnated as Cliff Gorman. I had trouble deciding if this was great acting or just a good impersonation, and in the end decided it didn't matter, for the material in Lenny seemed to capture the real Lenny Bruce. That was good enough for me.When the film was announced, and I'd heard that Dustin Hoffman had been chosen to play Lenny, I was thrilled. As a fan of Mr. Hoffman, I was sure he could do great justice to both the man and the material. By the time the picture was completed, I had learned almost as much about Lenny Bruce's life as I ever would, and was familiar with probably 80% of his most famous routines. The Masked Man, Christ and Moses, Las Vegas Tits and Ass, Airplane Glue, Ike and Nixon, Jackie Kennedy &#150; I knew a lot of these by heart. Some of them I memorized cold, and found that when people mentioned his name at parties or family gatherings, and someone invariably asked who he was, rather than explain his life or what he died of, all I had to do was recite one of his bits. I never had a single person who was new to his material that didn't pronounce him awesome (as the kids say nowadays) on the spot.I don't remember what film I was watching (it was 31 years ago) when I first saw a trailer for the film, but as soon as I saw a clip of Dustin Hoffman as Lenny I knew something was wrong. I had a sinking feeling that I wasn't going to like the movie bio of what was now my favorite comedian, but I went to see it anyway, as soon as it opened, hoping my gut instinct was wrong. The cinematography was stunning. The direction was first rate. The story was fairly faithful to the life and spirit of Lenny Bruce, and Dustin Hoffman did as good an acting job as I'd ever seen. All of the bits were there, and so was a fairly faithful rendering of his professional life. So what was the problem? The problem was simply that Dustin wasn't funny. Those were Lenny Bruce's words and Lenny Bruce's life, but the jokes fell flat. I came to the conclusion that no matter how skilled he is as an actor, Dustin Hoffman is no comedian. He certainly was no Lenny Bruce. Where was the lightning timing I was used to from the Cliff Gorman and Lenny Bruce recordings? Mr. Hoffman seemed very unsure of his material, and delivered all the routines at what seemed like half-speed. It was almost like he was a 45 RPM record being played at 33 1/3. I wanted to reach into his mouth and pull the words out, and shout at the screen, You've got it all wrong! This is too somber and too slow and too&#133;unfunny to be Lenny Bruce. Worse, Mr. Hoffman had the annoying habit (which Lenny never did) of laughing at his own jokes. Not loud guffaws mind you, just chuckles. Constant chuckles, almost to himself, which left me with the impression that he thought that he was the only one who got the material.I bought the VHS when it came out several years later and watched it faithfully, hoping that as an older and wiser person, maybe I would find things in Mr. Hoffman's performance that I missed in 1974. I wanted it to click. No such luck. I then dutifully purchased the DVD, as I have always purchased new Lenny Bruce recording or, lately videos, never tiring of his delivery or his message. Again, I hoped that time had been kind to the portrayal I had so looked forward to in 1974. But I screened it recently, and the film still leaves me cold, despite the best of intentions, the flawless direction and the great production values. Icon, philosopher, cult leader or genius, if nothing else, Lenny Bruce was funny. And Dustin Hoffman was not. "},{"Title":"Good, but speaks more about the talent of Dustin Hoffman than of Lenny Bruce.","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A bio-pic of the controversial 1960's comedian and social commentator Lenny Bruce - told in interview-cum-flashback style.Presuming you know anything about LB at all, what do you want to believe? That he was a comedic genius who was a forerunner to today's alternative comedians or a foul mouthed drug addict whose only working tool was to shock and titillate a virgin audience? Here it hardly matters whether you like the man himself or would have laughed at his material if present at his better shows. No one much was laughing much near the end - as this film clearly testifies.Curiously, this is a film that is neither a love-in nor a condemnation. More a cold eyed and professional look at a life lived - by self choice - on the edge.(I am sure that fellow edge livers will give this movie an extra star just for topic alone.) This film has three pieces of good fortune The star talent of Dustin Hoffman, the confident direction of Bob Fosse and the cool b&w cinematography of Bruce Surtees. However the pacing is slow and given that we know the pathetic final reel (indeed it is used as the first reel and we work backwards!) it is a slow journey to nowhere all that special.Lenny loved sleaze. Strippers, dope, stag films, parties that you can't remember much about the next day. All well recorded here. So unlike other comedians who climb the ladder from dive to Broadway we feel sorry for him in success because it took him away from what he loved best. And, as many have found out before and since, if you lash out at society, society will hit back - and you find that society has a lot more weapons than a microphone.The legal cases give this film a second act, but as I have suggested before, there isn't a third. Bad dope (or a mistake with it) took his life and others took on the baton of what he was trying to do - and to be frank, did it a whole lot better. How ironic that the black Lenny Bruce Richard Prior followed his self-destructive model so closely. But Prior could act as well (when given a chance - see him in Blue Collar) and was a wonderful visual comedian. Bruce was, meanwhile, all voice.Nothing dates quicker than comedy and people that once made the world laugh (such as Chaplin) are now viewed as being anything but funny. The stage act (sometimes viewed in cold detachment from the gods) won't make you laugh, it might make you nod and smile occasionally, but no more.In reality I feel nothing for LB, he was a minor player in the world of showbiz who made his own choices and took his own risks. The talents and legacy of Fosse and Hoffman will ring on forever - which makes him the third banana in his own life story! "}{"Title":"Anatomy of dreams","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A confession-film. Description of personal spaces, chains of symbols and myth, cultural tradition and special testimony about life and others. Fruits of an existences and ash of memories. Innocent complicated game and messages for stong pa niyd. Art and desire, pieces of resignation and recreation of yourself. Search of mystic senses of gestures and, like every dreams collection, a refuge. Slices of fear and ambiguous desire. Meetings with masters and end of world. Pitches and puppets. Foxes and duty. Miracles and crows. Revelation and a foul tongue, or potty mouth. The world as work of a deus otiosus for who the dust, bones and fiction are pieces of same bread.A fairy-tale but, in same measure, honest confession.Last word of a magnificent film director and reflection of his interior life.Nimbus of sleep, anatomy of dreams, game of imagination, interpretation of universe, page from Khalil Gibran's The Prophet, trace of Freud or ordinary masterpiece, Oriental creation , this film is only piece of personal catharsis. Touch of past skins. Beauty of lost land. "},{"Title":"Dustin Hoffman nails the part of the troubled comedian Lenny Bruce","Date":"18 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a movie of a stand-up comedian, Lenny Bruce.Lenny was a Jewish comic, who found love from a Shiksa goddess, a stripper named Honey.Lenny's act consisted of some questionable material, something not approved by conservative citizens.He found himself often in the courtroom.And then he found drugs with Honey.Along came marital problems and an early death.Lenny (1974) is a Bob Fosse film.The screenplay is by Julian Barry, and it's based on his play by the same name.Dustin Hoffman portrays brilliantly the main character.He probably does a better job than Lenny ever did.Valerie Perrine is amazing as Honey Bruce.Jan Miner is very good as the mother Sally Marr.Stanley Beck is great as Artie Silver.Gary Morton does terrific job as Sherman Hart.I saw Lenny a week ago in a movie theater, for free.I liked the experience.This movie is pretty dramatic, being a movie of a comedian.One of the most memorable moments is when Lenny does an act on dope, wearing a raincoat.That scene shows in a brilliant way the fall of a comedian.And it actually happened.Before seeing this movie I knew very little of this guy.So it's a great introduction to the phenomenon called Lenny Bruce. "},{"Title":"Really a good film - but not Lenny","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" As a fan of Lenny Bruce since first seeing him on Steve Allen's TV comedy series sometime around 1959, never the less this quick review is NOT a long sycophantic tribute to Lenny himself - just a quick comment on the film.Very good screenplay, excellent b&w photography & direction, and some really good-to-outstanding acting by all the players, including Dustin Hoffman in the title role.That being said, I'm tempted to paraphrase Lloyd Bentsen in his vice presidential debate with Dan Quail in other words, despite Dustin Hoffman's considerable acting talent - he's no Lenny Bruce.Lenny Bruce was a lot of things satirist, social critic, con man, drug addict, entertainer, etc - but above all he was incredibly funny. Sadly, Dustin Hoffman in this film, is rarely if ever funny. His timing and delivery is so slow and unprofessional compared to Lenny's, I almost cringe these days whenever I try to watch this film, especially during the on-stage comedy segments.This is not a knock on Hoffman, and I am a big Dustin Hoffman fan. In fairness, if you've ever seen any of Lenny's short films, it's fair to say when it comes to acting, Lenny was certainly no Dustin Hoffman either. And in additional fairness to Mr. Hoffman, maybe Fosse directed him to deliver his comedy lines at this un-Lenny-like almost deliberate tempo (unlikely IMO - someone as talented, independent and downright headstrong as Hoffman probably would have worn Fosse down if this was the case).And I still recommend the film highly and have watched it many times. It's a damn good film - well acted, well-written, and photographed & edited so beautifully.Want to see and hear the REAL Lenny Bruce, not in sad decline like some of the 1965 Basin Street West SF videos on the internet, but in Lenny's prime? Try to get your hands on a copy of or somehow manage to view the excellent and maybe-NEVER-to-be-released (music copyright issues?) documentary by Robert Weide Lenny Bruce Swear to Tell the Truthand you'll see what I mean.Lenny may have been a lot of the things portrayed in Fosse's treatment, but most of all, like the last line and unlike Hoffman's on-stage portrayal in this film,Lenny was just so damn funny. "},{"Title":"Film That Deserves a Much Wider Audience","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The story of acerbic 1960s comic Lenny Bruce (Dustin Hoffman), whose groundbreaking, no-holds-barred style and social commentary was often deemed by the Establishment as too obscene for the public.This film seems to have gone under the radar over the years, and even Dustin Hoffman is not widely recognized for this role. He nailed the role beginning to end. Hoffman was best as Bruce, however, when he had the beard because otherwise he looks too much like Dustin Hoffman and the role is not as believable. Beyond that, the film is a great story of a life and of freedom of speech and of social commentary -- what is and what is not okay to discuss. Bruce wisely argues that the suppression of controversial words gives them power, and we find that the word (deleted) can be found in the works of such great authors as Aristophanes and Jonathan Swift.Whether Lenny Bruce is the greatest comic or not is debatable and rather doubtful, but it is quite easy to say he was the primary influence behind the best comics of the next generation (such as Bill Hicks and George Carlin).Bob Fosse is incredible as director. He may be best known for musicals and choreography, but the material here is presented in a way that grabs you and turns a stage performance into something more. The use of black and white was an interesting stylistic choice and why it was done is unclear, but it does give the film a more artistic look. "},{"Title":"Visually and audibly stunning.","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Entertaining bio-pic about the rise and fall of comedian Lenny Bruce. I don't really know anything about the real Lenny Bruce, but the film doesn't feel like a glorification of him. If anything, he seemed to be somewhat of a real jerk, and there's no wonder he ends up the way he did.The cast does a good job, but it's the directing, cinematography, sound, and editing that makes it stand out. Director Fosse's musical influence on the film is evident, as it the movie flows like a jazzy tune with a brilliant use of sound. Overall, a nice film about not so nice people. 8/10 "},{"Title":"very good...","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  in my opinion d.hoffman was perfect i've seen a lot of his movies but i'm hit by his performance(as well as v. perrine) also the directing and the cinematography were amazing...what a wonderful way of story telling..i'd recommend it to the ones who are really interested in cinema.. "},{"Title":"Great movie.  This is the stuff. - 8 of 10","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film.  Dustin gives a wonderful performance as do all of the supporting cast.  Valerie Perrine has the ability to draw your attention in all respects and is a wonderful actress.  The dialogue is smart and smacking and LB's words will be having you squirming in your seat in no time at all.  If you wanted to know about Lenny Bruce, his thoughts, his loves, his fears and passions, Dustin delivers for you.  He makes you feel as if you'd known Lenny yourself.  See this movie.  Why?  Because _you_ need to think about the nature of things, too. -  8 of 10 "},{"Title":"Lenny Bruce is not afraid.","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"      First of all, I am a sucker for post-1960 black and white.  This photography does not disappoint.  It is all to easy to look back on things now and start naming heroes.  Lenny Bruce was no such thing.  He had serious problems, not the least of which being substance abuse.  So, this is not someone whose word is law.  However, the man had something to say, and tried to say it at all costs.  Dustin Hoffman nails his role.  (Mr. Carney better give a mind-bending performance in Harry and Tonto to beat Pacino and Hoffman in some two of the best performances American cinema has seen.)  The documentary approach was very effective and poignant.  One of my favorite things about the film was the editing between the narrative and the performances(s?) toward the end of his career.  Not only did it work aesthetically, but it was subtly brilliant to intertwine Lenny's observations with his real experiences.  This shows that, right or wrong, he was coming from the heart.  He did not claim to be a saint, but he saw problems in his life and America at large, and he didn't hesitate to share those thoughts.  This is a stirring film with importance.  Forget that you do not agree with him, at least hear him out.   "},{"Title":"Hoffman, Fosse, Perfection.","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Watching this film, I kept on feeling guilty that I was laughing so hard. A lot of Lenny Bruce's material in this film is vulgar and rude, but it's so brilliant. He makes Andy Kaufman's alter ego, Tony Clifton, look like Mr. Rogers.And it's not just that his jokes are dirty, it's that they're dirty and poingnant. His comments about racial injustice, sex, (our preoccupation with sex), drugs, and marriage are all right on the mark.The film is brilliantly directed by Bob Fosse. Fosse has a way of making you feel as if your in the film. (similar to Run, Lola, Run). You feel Hoffman's pain in this film. You think Lenny Bruce is the greatest.And look at that He is. "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Lenny is a powerful movie about the life of tortured comic Lenny Bruce and his wife Honey.  The surprise of the film is it focuses a great deal of time on Honey, which is fine because I am all ready very familiar with the entire story of Lenny Bruce.  His wife is usually not talked about as much and this movie does a good job dealing with her.  The acting is excellent, Hoffman is dead on as Lenny Bruce, he looks and acts a lot like him.  Perrine is just as good as Honey.  The movies only flaw is that I know so much about Lenny Bruce, a lot of this felt like old material.  But the acting and atmosphere more than makes up for the fact I all ready knew most of what would happen in the movie. "}{"Title":"Beautiful... powerful","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This one has to be Fosse's best ever. Even better than All That Jazz. This is an incredible, riveting drama, with Dustin Hoffman's performance among the best I've ever seen by actors in film. See this movie--it'll be well worth your time.  "},{"Title":"Bob Fosse - what more can you say?","Date":"18 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Director Bob Fosse does it again with Lenny, a fine movie of the life of legendary 60's comedian Lenny Bruce. Using the same trademark style he used in Cabaret, Fosse creates a wonderful black and white visual collage. The mood and world of 60's nightclubs is wonderfully recreated. Both Dustin Hoffman and Valerie Perrine are superb. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable!","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'm always in for a movie classic like this. Dustin Hoffmann one of the greatest actors ever (even if Rain Man was his last truly great film) shines in this biopic about controversial comedian Lenny Bruce. I don't really know why they shot it in black and white but after a while it didn't bother me anymore. If you liked Man On The Moon go and see Lenny. "},{"Title":"Hard to believe.","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The tribulations of Lenny Bruce would be hard to believe to the latest generation of TV watchers.  Sitcoms routinely get away with things that Lenny Bruce was arrested for.  The movie was somewhat a whitewash of Lenny Bruce's career.  He was a precursor to shock jocks.  His message concerning free speech was often lost to an audience who were just there to get titillated.  The big star of this movie was Valerie Perrine.  She was not only a babe but she was effective in portraying Honey Bruce.  "},{"Title":"Hey Schwartfeger, it's good","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Lenny chronicles the life and times of Lenny Bruce. Bruce got his start hawking jokes in a strip club until he found his comedic voice which turned him into the brilliant comedian. Bruce was a pioneer and a obscenity crusader. he spoke his mind and rocked the mic like a vandal. Hoffman gives another good job. **** "},{"Title":"Should be dangerous and exhilarating, is instead glamorously narcissistic","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I somehow doubt the real Lenny Bruce, shock-comedian of the early 1960s who quickly passed into legend after his self-inflicted death, was so romantically melancholic. Director Bob Fosse's take on Bruce is self-enamored and creepily voyeuristic, with lots of quick cuts and cinematic tricks. Yet on its own show-biz terms, with grubby, sordid underpinnings and rampant self-pity, Lenny is a masterful visceral experience. It shoots-up on its own sadness. The controversial comedian's rise to the top, his marriage to a sexy stripper, and his eventual downfall into drugs and court hearings is fascinating to watch, however Dustin Hoffman is arguably too genial and soft as Bruce (Hoffman gives the character a sympathetic center, and some may say this works for the picture). Valerie Perrine is a natural as wife Honey, her blas, almost indifferent manner and unconscious sexiness is both decadent and appealing. The black-and-white cinematography is terrific, and Fosse really lays on the editing razzle-dazzle, also making good usage of Miles Davis' It Never Entered My Mind. *** from **** "},{"Title":"I failed to get through the whole of this movie some 25 years ago","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I failed to get through the whole of this movie some 25 years ago and felt that that just might have been because I was just too into Lenny Bruce at that time. So, this time I do watch the whole film but there is still a problem. It was good to make it in b/w. it was obviously good to mix the depiction of his stand up sessions with some form of depiction of his 'real life', although I'm not sure the flash back technique was the best idea. The agent reactions seemed clich, the mother's unrealistic, but then again the stripper wife is brilliantly portrayed by Valerie Perrine. But, the real problem is elsewhere. Dustin Hoffman is a fine and most able actor but his style can be a little mannered, whereas this part called for a much more loose and relaxed performance. The other thing that bothers, is that Hoffmann is not funny and let me assure any who have not seen or heard Lenny Bruce in full flow - he was laugh out loud funny. Tears rolling down cheeks funny. How many even smile during this sadly depressing attempt to portray one of the greats. "}]