[{"Title":"Just fun.  Perfect for kids","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I grew up on Herbie movies. I even met Herbie in the Panama Canal Zone during the filming of Herbie Goes Bananas. (Thank you Mrs. Kelstom!) I hadn't seen a Herbie movie in 25 years. They're exactly as I remember. These films were made back when Disney still had a keen eye on children's imaginations. Is the film cheesy? Absolutely. Intentionally so. How else could a movie about a living car turn out? Helen Hayes is charming. Stephanie Powers is spunky. Keenan Wynn is almost perfect in his role as the over-the-top Disney villain. OK - the flashbacks to Herbie's racing career are too long. But the film is strong enough to succeed despite that setback. This film is classic early Disney - full of impossible fantasy and magical inventions. If you have children - this film is a must. "},{"Title":"Good &#150; but not the best of the Herbie movies","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Willoughby Whitfield comes to work for his uncle Alonzo Hawk in a development company.  His first job is to force the owner of an old fire station to shift off land earmarked for development.  However Willoughby makes friends with the owners, including their eccentric car Herbie, and finds out about his Uncle's dirty tricks to move the residents on and joins with them to stop his uncle.This is a late Herbie movie &#150; but really his appeal never goes away (they just remade The Love Bug).  However here much has changed since his original appearance.  Here the story doesn't involve him that much until the last half &#150; up till then it could easily be any movie, and his scenes feel forced into the plot.  That's not to say it's not good &#150; but the story isn't as interesting as his race-car incarnation.  There are some funny bits, like the dream sequence of Mr Hawk, but even the silly stuff that has Herbie driving up suspension bridges will please kids!Also where `Herbie Goes Bananas' benefited from a good support cast &#150; this has no one to speak of.  Not only has Dean Jones left (a big, big loss to the film) but no-one is good enough to provide any human interest.  Berry makes a dull figure who can't do comedy, and Stefanie Powers is only of interest because, well, because it's Stefanie Powers!  The only interest comes from Wynn's bellowing bad guy and Hayes' sweet grandmother.  Herbie is OK but he is in charge the whole time and has maybe lost a touch of the `lovable little guy' appeal that he had in The Love Bug.Overall kids will love it, and it isn't a bad Herbie movie &#150; it's just not as good as the first couple.  But really &#150; you know what to expect and it delivers nothing more. "},{"Title":"Love that Volkswagon!","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Herbie the Volkswagon is one of my childhood favorites and this is the movie I discovered Him.Seeing this movie again, I ended up loving it all over again and think it is a pretty good family movie.A weird thing about this movie is that even though it was filmed in 1973, it looks like it was made in the mid sixties. I guess it was Stephanie Powers's character's sense of style and the heavy use of sets and rear projection.The Volkswagon beatle has always had a persona to it and the Herbie movies highlight it.The Love Bug and Herbie Rides Again are great examples of the child like spirit of Disney at their best.  "},{"Title":"Terrific movie","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Herbie Rides Again is a great family comedy.   The funniest part in the movie was when Herbie and all of his volkswagen friends chased Alonso Hawke down the streets of San Francisco.  That part is hilarious and priceless. Children and adults will love this movie and the other Herbie movies too. Go out and buy all of the Herbie movies.  You won't regret it.  "},{"Title":"not nearly as good as the original","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Warning - possible spoilers********************************* Sequels have a history of not turning out as great as their predecessor. This one is no exception. The replacement for Dean Jones, Ken Barry, while not poorly chosen, is definitely not as heartwarming or memorable as Dean Jones. Ditto for Stefanie Powers replacing Michelle Lee. Helen Hayes is good but she's just a little too sappy for my liking. Kenaan Wynn does the best job of all the actors in here. He's almost more enjoyable than David Tomlinson (Mr. Thorndyke)All the scenes were decent, but still not nearly as memorable as the original. Herbie's flashbacks to the first film is terribly boring and of not much value to the film. the feeble jousting scene seemed to be put there to show Herbie's racing value and was totally needless. The climbing of the Golden Gate Bridge scene was so obviously fake. Herbie did do more slapstick comedy and I did enjoy that part. Still, nothing like the original both in acting and in plot development. "},{"Title":"a good film","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" In this second Herbie movie, the car resides at an old ladys residence in an old fire station building. She is the only resident of a block not to give in to the demands of Alonzo Hawk, a developer planning the world's highest office tower. Whitfield, a relative of Hawk's and a newbie at being a lawyer, is given the mission by his new employer and uncle of convincing the woman to move so as to demolish her 'house'. Herbie and the woman's aeroplane hostess friend fight Whitfield over the matter until Whitfield is convinced that Alonzo is a no-good. Then Whitfield and the hostess fall for each other and with the help of Herbie stop the development. This is one of those interesting films from the 70s that uses older style movie making techniques to its advantage, not yet in the fast paced 80s but out of the experimental 60s, the film has a certain quality that is quite nice to the eye. The special effects and chromakey are used well, and at points a tad overused, but it is all in all a very enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"a charming follow up that sadly didn't live up to the original","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The thing that brought this film down the most was that the only original character was the VW. I much preferred Herbie Goes to Monte Carlo for two main reasons. Firstly the main character (Jim Douglas) was there and secondly because the plot was more about the car. This film felt more like a regular comedy that happened to involve Herbie. I would've rather the film to be more about the car rather than just involving him (as the original and Monte Carlo were). Funny moments saved the film from total lameness, as did the amusing 1974 special effects (was there really as many special effects people involved as were listed in the credits to get these results?). Not all the charm of the lovable car was lost on the plot that didn't involve him as he still played his part when the chips were down. In terms of acting, Herbie was obviously the best performance followed (albeit by a large margin) by Keenan Wynn as the baddie. I think he actually did a better job as the baddie than David Tomlinson did in the original 1968 film The Love Bug.  "},{"Title":"The best of the series.","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Love Bug runs this entry a very close second, but the energy of Herbie Rides Again makes it perfect for kids.  There are many great scenes and sequences that appeal to the younger set, and the normally 'bo-ring' opening credits are spiced up with stock footage of buildings being demolished.  That immediately made me pay attention when I was a little whipper-snapper!Disney should have stopped this series at this point.  The next film, Herbie Goes to Monte Carlo, was pedestrian, and only saving grace was that it, A) features Don Knotts, and B) is 1,000 times better than Herbie Goes Bananas, the only good thing about which is the whacky title.  "},{"Title":"tired and uninspired sequel","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  In the first movie, Herbie was a real personality and he could be jealous, angry, depressed or suicidal and even intoxicated.  The viewer saw that there was a special bond between car and owner.  But in this sequel, again set in San Francisco, the bond is with Helen Hayes and Herbie instead of the man.  Stephanie Powers as the love interest is too violent and aggressive, and her character played against the wimpy Ken Berry comes across as downright harsh--there is no chemistry between them (unlike Dean Jones and Michelle Lee in the original film).  In various scenes, she is seen assaulting Berry.In one scene they are having lunch at Fisherman's Wharf and she stands up and smacks him in the face with a lobster (He's YOUR uncle?!)  Is this really supposed to be funny?But in this uninspired sequel, the real star is Helen Hayes--not the car and certainly not with Ken Berry, who merely becomes a supporting character in this.   Helen Hayes, as an old lady battling a developer, is seen in various life-threatening situations in the movie.  In various surreal scenes, Haye's character is  knitting while riding Herbie,impervious to the danger around her as Herbie scales a skyscraper or rides atop the Golden Gate Bridge. She is sickeningly sacharrin sweet but she plays her scenes well.The climax of this movie is weak, and it is really a collection of surreal scenes involving Herbie and Helen Hayes.  There is no romance and no racing, both of which were key elements which made the original such a success. This movie was made in the transitional period, between the really great Disney classics like Mary Poppins and the excellent productions that Disney puts out today.  The movie and plot are very predictable as is the inevitable outcome. Naturally, there's no way that the outcome is realistic as city zoning laws forbid houses in a district of skyscrapers. "},{"Title":"Going in reverse - 49%","Date":"7 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The much-loved original is still hailed as one of the better live-action Disney films so I'm wondering why it took them a comparatively long time to throw out a sequel. However, it would appear that despite the long gestation that someone forgot to include pretty much anything that made The Love Bug such a smash. That's not to say that this is entirely worthless but it is a disappointment when you consider it next to its older brother.Property developer Alonzo Hawk (Keenan Wynn) is preparing to construct a huge tower overlooking San Fransisco but his diggers are kept back by the last remaining resident still on the plot. Mrs Steinmetz (Helen Hayes) lives in an old fire station with Nicole Harris (Stephanie Powers) and they vigorously fight against Hawk and his team of crooked lawyers trying to get them out of the way. But when Hawks hoodwinks his naive nephew Willoughby Whitfield (Ken Berry) into trying to get Mrs Steinmetz to move, he hadn't reckoned on the heart and soul of Herbie - the infamous Volkswagen Beetle with a mind of its own - getting in the way as well.In The Love Bug, Herbie was a racer with numerous tricks up his sleeve but in Herbie Rides Again, he's now some crime-fighting vigilante on four wheels. The stuff he gets up to - driving up sheer cliff faces or climbing the Golden Gate Bridge - never feels believable and as a result, the car loses some of its charm and personality in the process. Notice how in the poster, they've given Herbie eyes instead of headlights. The other thing that weakens the film is that Powers, Berry and Hayes are simply not as interesting as the stars of the first film - in fact, the funniest and most entertaining person is actually the baddie. Wynn has the best lines and scenes - the dream sequence he has is probably the highlight of the film - but what's the point if you're supposed to root for the others? It feels wrong to criticise such a kiddie friendly movie but I'm afraid Herbie Rides Again simply isn't as good as its predecessor. It's sillier and not as funny, littered with laboured performances from the protagonists and completely at odds with the story that went before it. The first film didn't rely on model shots or crude blue-screen effects and it was much more enjoyable. I realise that there might not have been much mileage in a car that thinks for itself plot wise but by turning Herbie into a crusader for the little people in the face of corporate greed, it made what was always slightly silly completely ridiculous. Stick with The Love Bug instead of this stalling sequel because it's more fun, more enjoyable and didn't feel like it lasted an age - I cannot recall 88 minutes feeling like such a long time. "}{"Title":"Love Bug's second entry with pranks and car stunts that  are great fun to see","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Agreeable Disney's love bug Wolkswagen plenty of action , slapstick , laughs and fun . This comical Herbie story concerns about Alonzo Hawk (Keenan Wynn) who is an ambitious property developer who has bought lots of blocks of land in the Downstreet district in order to build a shopping mall and apartments . There is one obstacle however ; an old woman , firefighter's widow named Steinmetz ( Helen Hayes) who won't sell the one remaining lot that Hawk needs to carry out with his gigantic plot . So Hawk resorts to all manner of traps , legal or otherwise, to get it. Fortunately, the elderly widow Steinmetz has an ace under her sleeve in the form of Herbie , the fantastic car which she receives from her niece , as she takes a magical Wolkswagen Bug named Herbie with a mind of its own . Miraculous Herbie takes her for a ride and stumbles into Hawk's evil hoodlums who pursue through skyscrapers , bridges and buildings . As always, Herbie the love bug , is helping the young couple (Ken Barry , Stefanie Powers) find romance but encountering all sorts of hilarious obstacles along the way . Meanwhile Herbie with the number 53 dreams that intervenes in the biggest race cars located in Daytona to compete in the Grand Prize , a challenge among top competitors circle the world's most famous racing circuits and quickly slipping in the ranking.This ordinary Disney slapdash film displays great loads of amusement , fun , giggles , race cars and is pretty entertaining . It's an enjoyable movie for kids and for those who like cars racing round and round and bounds and leaps by Herbie . The actors seem to enjoy immensely , as Ken Berry and Stephanie Powers play of sympathetic manner and the mean-spirited owner Keenan Wynn , as excessive villain , is top notch . Colorful cinematography and jolly soundtrack including the lively leitmotif , usual in the Herbie's series. This is a delightful film , the original film turns out to be  ¨The love bug¨ (1969) by Robert Stevenson , followed by ¨ Herbie rides again , Herbie goes to Montecarlo , Herbie goes bananas ¨ among others and a 1997-for-television-movie and a TV series , the most part filmed by Stevenson and Vincent McEveety and usually starred by Dean Jones . Furthermore recent version starred by Linsay Lohan , Justin Long and Matt Dillon , being directed by Angela Robinson. This  Herbie rides again ¨versi on is amusing and with lots of laughs but is a familiar film . The motion picture is correctly directed by Robert Stevenson .Worthwhile seeing , it's a great fun to watch and there are loads of entertainment in this one . It' one of the best and funniest of ¨Herbie¨ series . "},{"Title":"A  Solid Sequel to The Love Bug","Date":"18 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Years ago, I saw Herbie Rides Again at a drive-in with my parents and recently I saw the movie for the first time in years when it aired on TCM. After more than 35 years from its original release, Herbie Rides Agam is a solid sequel to The Love Bug. The cast was outstanding, including Keenan Wynn reprising his role as ruthless real estate baron Alonzo Hawk, Helen Hayes as Mrs. Steinmetz, Ken Berry as Hawks nephew Willoughby and Stefanie Powers as Nicole. But the real star of the show was Herbie, the Volkswagen. No. 53 was back in action in his help to save Mrs. Steinmetz's firehouse from destruction by Hawk for a new skyscraper. The car with a mind of its own was aided by outstanding special effects. My favorite scene was near the end when Herbie and a fleet of Volkswagens teamed up to save the firehouse from being razed. I also liked the scenes of San Francisco, especially Fisherman's Wharf. Who would have thought that the movie's success would lead to two more sequels in the 70s and a recent update with Lindsey Lohan? Rev it up and rent it. "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel to The Lovebug","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Another of my favorite movies from childhood, I classify this movie as being as good as the original for a number of reasons.Lines, this movie has a lot of funny lines and good actors. I can still today go back and look at the film and laugh at some of the scenes and lines in this film.Another good thing in this film is footage. Herbie is literally everywhere in this film.Yes it gets a bit corny at times but its not so corny as to be unwatchable. The film has aged and it really does show its era, but that doesn't detract from it's enjoyability factor. This is a good family movie even if it does have a few scenes that boarder on pg. "},{"Title":"A fun ride you'll never forget!","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Prior to The Love Bug, Herbie Rides Again is a high octane movie where our favorite VW Bug has an adventure of a different sort. This time around he takes on a greedy land developer named Alonzo Hawk(Keenan Wynn) who has a tough time trying to tear down a antique firehouse owned by a tough widow name Mrs. Steimetz(Helen Hayes). In order to give the land to him he gets his bumbling nephew, Wiloughby Whitfield (Ken Berry) to do his dirty work. When he discovers Hawk's scheme, he joins forces with Steinmetz and Nicole Harris(Stefanie Powers). Nicole is a tough willed woman to be reckoned with. All the scenes of this movie is magic. I liked the part where Hawk was dreaming and all the sheep in his dreams turned into Volkswagons with sharp teeth, and he acted like King Kong. The best part is where Herbie gathered all the VW Bugs against Hawk and his invaders. But Mr. Judson (John McIntire) helped some in saving the firehouse. Volkswagons were the bomb and they still are. If you like cars like that, this movie is for you! Knight Rider's got nothing on this one. 4.5 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Herbie Returns","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Robert Stevenson returned to direct this sequel to The Love Bug that sees Helen Hayes star as Grandma Steinmetz, who has temporary custody of Herbie in her firehouse home, who comes in handy when crooked businessman Alonzo Hawk(played once again by Keenan Wynn from the previous two flubber films) wants to buy her out, but after she refuses, uses nefarious means to force her out. Ken Berry and Stefanie Powers costar as friends who wind up helping her fight Hawk. Hayes is amusing, though it's a pity that none of the previous three leads returned, and this film is just a bit too silly for its own good, especially the finale. "},{"Title":"Some fun bits, but it lacks the charm of the original","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The first sequel to 'The Love Bug' is unfortunately charmless and meandering, as though the writers couldn't think of much to happen even with the limitless possibilities inherent in the premise of a sentient VW bug.No Dean Jones this time, so Herbie is now owned by little old lady Helen Hayes, who lives in the only house standing in the way of nasty property developer Keenan Wynn and his new project. When Wynn starts playing dirty, Herbie and friends fight back. In common with most Disney adventures of the '70s the visual effects are pathetic, and the editing is choppy as well, making for a very bumpy ride. There are pleasures here and there the scene where Herbie drives through a hotel, Wynn's enjoyably irate performance, and a daft dream sequence in which Herbie imagines himself as King Kong, fighting off miniature versions of himself! "},{"Title":"Although it was a hit with kids, this sequel ....","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Well, that's really all that matters, isn't it.My 3 yr old over here in Norway in 2011 is a Herbie devotee - there were a bunch of Herbies ... under irrelevant Norwegian titles ... on sale in a supermarket bin - and he loves all 4 of the theater films.And I like the characters of this one, especially Ken Berry's. He comes to Uncle Alonzo wanting to believe in him and join him and then has his eyes opened, while falling in love with Mrs. Steinmetz's granddaughter - Tennessee's daughter?? Look at the expressions on Berry's face. WELL done. And Stephanie Powers' violent young woman is in another of the series Julie Sommers in Herbie goes to Monte Carlo, for example. PMS, anyone? -) When he wants to see this one, my little Rohan says he wants to see Uncle (Alonzo). "},{"Title":"Herbie does it again A really great film","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Herbie is back in this funny and really good movie for the family its about Herbie saving the old fire house from Mr Hawk the story is fresh and good and it was not that silly but even Theo it does not have Dean Jones in it who is all so in Monte Carlo and Love Bug 1997 TV movie and the rare TV series but the is really good but it may be a little bit scary for really young kids like the werewoft Herbie in Mr Hawk's nightmare but its still very fun its a bit more shorter then The first one and not many races with the happy Herbie song slowing it dawn but even Theo its not as great as The love bug and Monte Carlo its great for any Herbie fan its probley the 2nd best in the series but its The 5th best in the series which is alright to me its not my favorite or my least favorite Herbie my favorite Herbie movie has to be the love bug my least favorite Herbie movie has to be Herbie goes bananas but all Thoe this movie is great and the family will love it has a lot of funny scenes I give this movie a 7.1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Little charm","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The looong opening sequence of buildings being demolished, followed by a looong sequence of a corporate meeting, should have clued me in that this entry would have little charm that was in the original. (Phantom Menace, anyone? Trade disputes are always so exciting.) I hadn't seen it since it first came out, and only recalled a few things from it. Whereas The Love Bug kicks things into gear from the get-go, this thing drags on interminably. Herbie shows little personality in this one, and is merely a vehicle for bad process-shot special effects. (Most of the ones in the original were done practically, i.e. live.) The original characters Jim and Tennessee are disposed of with throw-away lines. I find it hard to believe that Jim would go off to Europe to race foreign cars (and leave Herbie?) when it was practically the entire premise of The Love Bug that Herbie was just as good, and better, than any of them.It may be good for kids but a good movie can get adults to enjoy it just as much. "},{"Title":"Insipid and Insulting","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I agree with the majority of the poster who find this entry deplorable. Disney had a goldmine with the Herbie series and they squandered it.I think that staging racing scenes were probably too costly, so they cooked up the inane plot about saving Helen Hayes' firehouse. Ken Berry is an ineffective cuckold while Stephanie Powers is the one with brass balls.Keenan Wynne's constant rage is off putting for parents and mad me uncomfortable as my son watched his unending bluster.The two Dean Jones Herbie films are the best of the bunch. Skip this waste of time. "}{"Title":"This should be taken to the junk yard","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" If I could go back in time and live my all over again, I avoid this movie like a disease. I couldn't believe I wasted my time watching this. This was really cheap. The characters were unlikeable (except for Helen Hayes) and even Herbie had a mean streak. He wanted to push Keenan Wynn off the building. I couldn't believe it. Ken Berry was a wimp and Stephnie Powers was mean and cold. The effects were bad and the stunts were ridiculous and unbelievable. Herbie jumping from one building to another? Riding on the Golden Gate bridge on wires? And chasing the villain inside his own building? Come on!! As I said before, if I could go back in time, I avoid this garbage. "},{"Title":"The Herbie Mystique","Date":"10 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" From the racing circuit to the streets of San Francisco was the second stop on Walt Disney's Herbie odyssey. And the Magic Kingdom recruited an old villain from another some other films to be the fall guy in Herbie Rides Again.Our magical Volkswagen is now in the care of Mrs. Steinmetz played by Helen Hayes. As its explained Dean Jones has gone off to Europe to race and his mechanic Buddy Hackett got control of Herbie and he went off to Tibet, leaving Herbie in the hands of his aunt Helen Hayes. Helen Hayes and Buddy Hackett as blood relations is an interesting concept to wrap your mind around. Helen lives a quiet life in a converted old firehouse with Herbie guarding her.She needs guarding because Keenan Wynn who played Alonzo Hawk in the Absent Minded Professor and Son Of Flubber is after her property which stands in the way of him building the world's biggest 130 story skyscraper to uglify San Francisco's scenery. Wynn's the guy who on a tour of Rome looks at the Colosseum and decides it would make a great location for a shopping mall.Wynn sends his young nephew Ken Berry who still thinks his uncle is not a rat to negotiate thinking his naiveté will disarm Helen Hayes. It might disarm her, but there's no fooling the smartest car in the world. And definitely no fooling Hayes's granddaughter Stefanie Powers. But Berry smartens up and soon he's with Hayes, Powers, and Herbie.While Alonzo Hawk was a major character in the two Flubber films, in Herbie Rides Again, Keenan Wynn gets an opportunity to become one full blown ham and he makes the most of it. It's a pleasure to see him feasting on a diet of scenery. Watching him I couldn't help thinking was the same guy flummoxed by Fred MacMurray and Flubber. It seems when he's up against the supernatural, Alonzo Hawk just ain't at his best.Berry and Powers make a nice young couple and Hayes is given a bit of a romantic interest in visiting cattle rancher John McIntire who's in town on a toot and gets captivated by the whole Herbie mystique. Herbie Rides Again is a nice successor to the original and gives an opportunity for some of the best players around to strut their stuff. "},{"Title":"How could this get better rating than Monte Carlo","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" OK, first of all the only reason why I gave this a 6 out of 10 is simply because Herbie is in...other than that...I don't know why this movie was made. The ending is ridiculous, where 1,000's of herbie's all team up for the poor old firehouse. First of all, that totally goes against the story line of Herbie being unique...HELLO!!! It touched on this in 'The Love Bug' in the the horrible TV remake in 97' they clarified it. Anyway, Herbie needs to stick to racing! I mean 'Herbie goes bananas was a stretch but it was still OK, i say OK because they pulled it off decently, but 'the love bug' and 'herbie goes to monte carlo' are by far the best in the series....the worst 'the love bug 97' TV remake, then Herbie rides again and i suppose herbie goes bananas is in between...and we'll see where fully loaded goes...so in order1) The Love Bug 2) Herbie goes to Monte Carlo 3) Herbie Goes Bananas 4) Herbie Rides Again 5) The Love Bug (97 TV remake) N/A Herbie Fully Loaded (we'll see where it goes) "},{"Title":"The Disney people in desperation mode...","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Although it was a hit with kids, this sequel to 1968's The Love Bug flounders around for some sort of inspiration, finding it only in the multiple flashbacks to the first picture. There's hardly a whiff of a plot; worse, Helen Hayes looks uncomfortable and Ken Berry comes off as a poor man's Dean Jones. The special effects are shoddy, the production values cheap and the slapstick laughs overdrawn by a director who practically prods viewers in the ribs. The Disney Company really lost more than their boss when Walt died--they lost their direction, most especially in their live-action entertainment. Relying on sequels and (even today) pointless remakes that show a complete misunderstanding of what their founder was trying to accomplish, Herbie Rides Again fails to do Disney proud. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"Herbie Goes To Hell","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"13 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The best thing about this horrible movie is the opening scene which shows real-life footage of large buildings being demolished.The worst thing is the theology behind the story, as espoused by no less an actress than veteran Helen Hayes whose character claims that everything has a soul and a life to it - and that's why the car, he organ, the train all can understand each other and human minds!! This is Walt Disney New Age baloney 20 years ahead of it's time. Later on, spells are cast, etc, typical of Disney films. Walt was a big fan of the occult and believed in all that sort of thing. Pretty pathetic.We know where Herbie's soul is right now Junkyard Hell, where it belongs! "}]