[{"Title":"Sure Thing","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The greatest movie ever made about gambling and risk taking.Axel Freed (Caan) is addicted to risk, but more than that he must take risks to justify his existence.The movie begins with Axel being told by his bookie (Sorvino) that he must repay the $45,000 he owes on gambling debts and follows Axel through a journey of self abasement, self hatred and rage as he recoups, then loses the money.A series of telling vignettes occur during which Axel reveals an unrealistic belief that he can will himself to win and be successful.  Never more so than when during a game of blackjack he doubles his bet when holding 18, saying to the dealer 'Give me the three'The height of his self delusion is revealed when Sorvino tells his debtor that he will reveal a secret he has never told an obsessive gambler like Axel before - he wants to lose.  Axel tells him scornfully that he knows this, but really he wants to cherish the illusion that he can control his destiny.When I recommend this movie as one of the greats to people I am invariably told afterwards by those I have so advised that they do not understand the ending.Axel goes into a ghetto neighbourhood and allows himself to be cornered by a knife wielding pimp (Antonio Fargas) whom he tries to provoke into killing him.  Once again he is taking risk to the limit - he has just committed an act that has further damaged is battered self esteem and his way out is to take a serious risk - this time with his life as the stake - because he is never more alive than when he has 'proven' his false theory that he is the captain of his fate.(Those in doubt of my thesis check out the event early in the film where Axel plays basketball one on one with some Black neighbourhood youths and is willing to bet $20 to a dime when his level bet stake of $20 cannot be matched; then remember that just before he went for his 'death bet' he tried to get the non betting Sorvino to bet him $2,000 against making a very difficult basketball shot first time)The Gambler is a brilliantly acted,written and directed film perhaps too dark and intellectual in its approach for most people.Intellectuality is shown in this film as a value of limited use if unsupported by character, as Axel's life philosophy sees an intelligent and sophisticated man allowing himself to be made the prey of some of the most scathingly played low life thugs in cinematic history.  Axel's literary induced and supported love of desire and belief in the effectivity of the will of the individual is the delusion destroying him.  The street smart savvy of his uneducated grandfather (Carnovsky) and the bookies and hustlers who prey upon him wins out every time over Axel's academic delusionalism.'The Gambler' is a real winner in the movie stakes - one of my all time greats and well deserving of a rating of 10 out of 10 in my book "},{"Title":"A true depiction of gambling.","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found this film very, very good and being a gambler myself could relate to the central character. James Caan is brilliant as always. The film keeps simmering on until a quite dramatic ending where Axel goes to seek thrills that even gambling cannot provide him with.A fine, realist film for all, but gamblers, quite bad gamblers at that, will find to be particularly interesting.  "},{"Title":"Classic 70s film about addiction","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The theme of addiction is a favourite area for film makers and The Gambler stands as the best and most intelligent film about the addiction of gambling. The fact that it is a little known or seen film is perhaps to do with its intellectual script which, with references to Dostoyevsky, may be too pretentious for some. However, rather than being a cleched film about a good man's decent into the hell of addiction this is a film about a selfish, egotistical man, from a good background, who happily wades deeper and deeper into his obsession.The film's title pretty much sums up the story, with the character of Axel Freed, played by James Caan, beginning the film as a compulsive gambler but sinking further and further into his habit as the film goes on. He does this despite his undoubted intelligence - he is a college lecturer - and despite the pleading of his mother, rich grandfather and friends.Freed is by no means a likeable character. Like most addicts all he cares about is his next fix and will happily ask his mother for tens of thousands of dollars to repay an outstanding debt. No one, including his girlfriend, played by Lauren Hutton, and his college students, remain untouched by his addiction, a decision which comes back to haunt him in the film's climax.Many people have been left puzzled by the film's ending which is cryptic and unresolved. However this merely stands as a metaphor for addiction generally, that it can never be fully cured or ever totally go away. Axel is, however, obviously disgusted with himself and the effect his gambling has had on those around him and his late night journey into the all-black neighbourhood is his way of seeking retribution for his sins.The Gambler provides James Caan with, alongside Michael Mann's Thief, the best role of his career. The character of Axel Freed provides him with a range of emotions, especially in the way he treats those he cares about, as his gambling slowly takes precedence over everything else. Anyone who thinks James Caan's career began and ended with The Godfather should definitely see The Gambler, as this proves he is one of the top actors of his generation and that he can play more than just the tough guy roles he is too often saddled with.The film is brilliantly directed by Karel Reisz as not a single scene rings false despite a 111 minute running time. After directing the classic Saturday Night and Sunday Morning in Britain, Reisz relocated to America, but, unfortunately, The Gambler represents the only time he reached those heights again. "},{"Title":"A bit disturbing","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" From the first scene to the last I was on the edge of my seat. Bet after bet my stomach turned. Caan's Axel Freed is driven to hit the big one, but it never seems to come or be enough. He loves the thrill of losing and feels safe when he is at the bottom.Watching Freed bet tens of thousands of dollars on whims is excruciating. This film is one huge car wreck that you can't turn away from. With each scene the damage gets worse and worse.If all my bets were safe they just wouldn't have any juice, he tells his bookie.Axel is never happy--even when he is doing the thing he enjoys most. You can see the underlying dissatisfaction he has with his job, his life, and the universe in general. The only constant in his existence is the bet. Win or lose.Freed is very adept at evading the lowlifes he owes his shirt to. It is a joyride for him to constantly dodge the bullet. That is why each bet becomes riskier and riskier. He wants to see what will happen to him when all of his luck runs out.At one point in the film Axel reads a passage from an essay on George Washington to his class. He and his students conclude that Washington was afraid of failure and that he tried to remove the element of risk from everything he did. It is the very antithesis of Axel's life as a gambler. He creates situations that are totally immersed in risk believing that it is the only way to ensure true success. All or nothing. He is willing to compromise not only himself, but anyone around him who cares about him. By displaying his dark, self-destructive side he gambles with their feelings and challenges them to either love him or leave him.It was a special treat to see two actors (Cann and Sorvino) who are in two of the best crime movies ever made (The Godfather and Goodfellas) together in the same film.Also Antonio Vargas is appropriately slimy as the Pimp (sort of an R-rated Huggy Bear).There are some pivotal moments in the film like when Axel is told that he must get one of his basketball-playing students to fix a game; or when he confronts his millionaire grandfather after learning that he refused to cover his debt.I won't give away the ending, but the payoff is not what you would expect in American cinema. "},{"Title":"Cult film classic inspired by Notes from Underground","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Gambler (1974) is a riveting drama about a man who - like many young adults in the baby boom generation - rejects the world of privilege and comfort he has been born into. Rather than turning to some form of counter-culture politics, however, Alex Freed (James Caan) holds an establishment job as a professor of English while pursuing the juice of financial, social, and even physical risk and pain during his considerable free time.Like Dostoyevski's Underground Man, to whom the screenplay pays homage in an early scene of Freed lecturing to his students at NYC (i. e. CCNY), the gambler rejects the middle class world of reason and social convention and instead embraces the irrational, the realm of will and desire where two plus two can equal five and where poets, athletes, and addicts can know and experience things that ordinary human beings living in the rut of mundane existence cannot.Unfortunately for Freed he will never be a poet although, as a literature professor, he can quote Shakespeare, e.e. cummings, and Walt Whitman with anyone. He can also turn an original phrase or two and lead his relatives, friends, and other less literary folk to believe that he has great books in him. But the truth is that he's a third rate talent stuck in a $1500 a month gig trying to wheedle literary appreciation out of reluctant undergrads who are obviously going through the motions to get paper qualified for one pragmatic goal or another.He is also not a great athlete although he kids himself about how he might have been a star basketball player - even, at one point, stopping at a playground in Harlem to take on a local 15 year old hot shot in a game of one-on-one, betting $20 to a dime that he will win. He gives the hot shot a pretty good game, but loses, thus establishing the real extent of his athletic talent for us - and perhaps himself - to see. No, the only sure and easy way he can get the juice is through gambling and the self deceptions about winning and losing that his compulsive behavior entails.Considering the barrage of searing insults that Harvard-educated Axel Freed hurls at the Brown University (my alma mater) football team, I would like to say very bad things about this film, but I'd be lying. Written by heralded screenwriter James Toback (Fingers, Bugsy, etc.) and featuring one of James Caan's finest performances, The Gambler has deservedly become a 1970s cult classic. "},{"Title":"Am I the only one who understands the underlying theme?","Date":"8 September 2009","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Just about everyone who has posted a reply about the shocking ending was simply left too much in the dark to realize that it tied together a different root demise of Axel Freed than gambling.Just as a compulsive behavior leads to compulsive gambling, the root evil of Axel Freed was that he had a masochist behavior. When you look a little closer at all the scenes where he acts out this kind of behavior, it makes more sense. The problem lies in that the casual observer is only looking at the problem gambling aspect. There is more to this guy than just that.The ways he handles his relationships with his mother, girlfriend, grandfather and feelings at the end towards the basketball player ALL indicate there is masochist behavior involved. These are more than just selfish acts. There is some actual self hatred going on as well. Without giving away the final scene, this scene further accentuates the point by sending himself into that situation. The final scene was a conscious act, not something resulting from random chance or risk.So despite the movie having some gambling theme to it, this really wasn't necessarily about gambling addiction. It was about the nature of Axel Freed. If the movie had no gambling scenes in it at all this point would be more readily identifiable.The only real oddity in the final scene is the placement of the final scene. If this scene was placed somewhere in the middle of the movie, the underlying theme of his masochist pattern of behavior would have been more easily identified with. Because the movie started with a gambling scene, we all assumed it was just about gambling. Wrong!Its a tricky concept to catch the first time. Watch this movie again with this concept in mind and the movie will make more sense. "},{"Title":"Worth the Gamble","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie back in 1974/75 when it was released. I was already a Caan man. My comments are just random tidbits. Burt Young would go on to join Caan in 1975's The Killer Elite. Monkey (London Lee) was a stand-up comic who appeared numerous times on the Ed Sullivan show in the 60's. Lauren Hutton would trade Caan for Burt Reynolds in Gator. Caan earlier had beat out Burt for the role of Sonny Corleone. The line I remember most from this film is when Axel's mother is trying to get a bank loan to fund his gambling debt. There are some bureaucratic snafus and the bank officer isn't sure he has the proof to approve the loan to mom. Caan says I came out of her womb and I know she's my mom. Now give her the god... money!. "},{"Title":"A Meditation On Losing","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Sometimes he wins; but mostly he loses. Gambling is an addiction for Axel Freed (James Caan), a professor of English literature and lover of classical music. The film is set in New York City.The object of the obsession can be almost anything on which a bet is placed dice, cards, a basketball game, a college football match. It really doesn't matter. Axel just can't keep from making bets. He's like two different people. In a classroom setting, he is logical and intelligent. But when betting, he throws away the logic in favor of risk taking. In these situations he seems to lack the normal psychological brakes that could be applied to his destructive over-betting. In his own words I like the threat of losing. And always in the background are the thugs and the con men that lord over Axel, when he borrows to gamble, but can't pay his debt.Some of Axel's classroom lectures have real thematic value. The ideas relate both to him, and incidentally to some modern-day politicians. For example, a person ... claims an idea is true because he wants it to be true, because he says it's true. And the issue isn't whether he's right, but whether he has the will to believe he's right, no matter how many proofs there are that say he's wrong. Axel continues D.H. Lawrence says Americans fear new experience more than they fear anything. They are the world's greatest dodgers, because they dodge their own very selves. Heavy stuff.Despite a disappointing ending, The Gambler is an interesting character study of a personality type that is all too prevalent in modern society. The film's color cinematography is generally dark, in keeping with the film's theme. Overall acting is fine. Paul Sorvino gives an especially convincing performance, as does James Caan. The plot proceeds rather slowly.Mostly, the film has terrific thematic value. It encourages the viewer to pause and reflect, to ponder, to question one's own motivations. That is a trait lacking in many current movies. "},{"Title":"The only thing thats standing between your skull and a baseball bat is my word","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" **SPOILERS** Terribly depressing character study of a degenerate gambler who's luck hit rock bottom with him getting into the hole for $44,000.00 to the mob who's been bankrolling his action.James Caan in one of his most memorable roles as Axel Freed a collage English professor, at the prestigious Fordham University in New York City, who's gambling his life away in his almost suicidal attempt to make the big score. Axel is not a total loser in the movie, he does have his share of big hits in the film, but like almost all gamblers he plays to lose more then to win by going against his better judgment, it makes things more challenging and exciting that way for him. It's when he bets and ends up broke that Alex has to go to local mob Shylock's to get cash, to continue his insane betting, that has him at the brink of having his arms legs and head disjointed and broken or busted. Because of the subject matter as well as the fine acting from Mr. Caan and the rest of the cast the movie really grabs you and leaves you feeling almost as depressed and despondent as Axel is in it. You really feel for the man since he has an almost incurable disease, compulsive gambling, thats slowly turning this very likable and friendly person into an uncontrollable monster. Axel is not only destroying himself but his widowed mom Naomie Freed, Jacqueline Brooks. Naomie cashes out her life savings of almost $50,000.00 to pay off her sons debts to the mob. As soon as Axel gets the money his mother gave him to practically save his life and limbs he immediately gambles it away on a number of basketball games! This puts him into even more of a hole with the gangsters then he already was in. At the same time Alexs actions has his shocked girlfriend Billie ,Lauren Hutton, walk out on him in total disgust. Walking aimlessly in the park Axel is grabbed by two mobsters and taken to a mob hideout in the city. Given one last chance to pay up or else they come up with what even Axel feels is something thats not worth his life to do. He's told to get one of his students Spencer, Carl W. Crudup, who's a top basketball player for the collage team to shave points in a big game that he's playing in that evening with Axel giving him $5,000.00 to do it. This act of corrupting an innocent person to save his hide for the troubles that he got himself into was the straw that broke the camels back for the now extremely tormented Axel and finally opened his eyes, to not only what he was doing to himself but to those around him as well. With his debts now finally paid off and the mob off his back Axel instead of being relived becomes suicidal and at the end of the movie gambles with the most prized and valuable item in his possession His Life. "},{"Title":"Who needs the remake?","Date":"9 January 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Much criticism and disappointment has been expressed over the new remake of this movie that was released over Christmas. Having seen this version over the remake already in theaters, I understand where the disappointment is coming from. Why on earth would you even dare to remake a film as incredible as this? This original version with James Caan went largely ignored when released, but it stands to me as one of the greatest films to ever come out of the 70's. It has that gritty, NYC, 70's feel that made films like Mean Streets and Serpico so great. The performances are masterful. You can't go wrong with James Caan, or Paul Sorvino either. I HIGHLY recommend, you see this one first before you even think about seeing, what is probably, a useless remake of this classic. "}{"Title":"excellent character study, caan can act","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  a shocker in the 70s james toback's  take on Dostoevskyan's fate, caan actually seems to act instead of react and gives a far more compelling performance than say, Thief 7 yrs. later. The Gambler is James toback's career making debut and has some of the most intense scenes toback would ever film despite numerous strong films later on. the ending is monumental. watch it build and be amazed. 9 of 10. "},{"Title":"A searing film, stunning, intense, with the best ending in modern film.","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a film that must be seen to be believed.Caan is extraordinary; the emotional truth of this film penetrates each line, each scene...The most searing and intense and exact ending in modern film. The straight-forward telling of a professor with a gambling problem does not prepare one for the scale and price of betrayal and redemption of human emtions that are portrayed. A stunning film. "},{"Title":"Why not quit while you're ahead?","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I grew up amongst gamblers, spending much of my time hustling bowling and gin rummy throughout the Midwest, until, at 17, I shuffled off to the Ivy-covered walls of a prestigious Eastern College.This gives me much simpatico with Axel Freed, the central character and portrait of self-destruction, the gambler, and James Toback, the film's author. Toback's own reflections suggest that Axel is in many ways auto-biographical.As a film, The Gambler is shortsighted, an ambitious but nonetheless failed attempt by a first-time screenwriter in difficult waters. It is not without its brilliance-its relentless dedication toward conveying that any gambler's true goal is not success, but utter humiliation-destruction of one's self, and anything and anyone around him. It can be no other way.In the 1990's where independent film has achieved an emergence and respect in its own, a film like this might have found the strength among the very talented people involved, (Toback, James Caan, Karel Reisz) to emerge into a true gem. Alas this 70's neglected studio cast-off didn't have that opportunity.London Lee is great in support, Paul Sorvino and Burt Young are well cast as Freed's mob-ties. Young's performance as a mob leg-breaker includes quite a raw, and shocking collection scene.Probably a pass for any but the gambling addict, for them, a head (as in tape-head) burner. For those who are intrigued by Toback's intelligent approach to the seedier side, try his next effort, Fingers (1978), a diamond in the rough.   "},{"Title":"There are no happy endings in This world.","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Those viewers who wished a happy ending (and that's what they're really saying when they find the movie's ending scene weak/disquieting/unfulfilling/whatever) don't really understand the nature of degenerate gambling.And that's what this man is. Let's (as all gamblers do) put some %'s to it arbitrarily I'll say 95% of habitual bettors play for the kick, the high, the thrill of the unknown outcome -- sports betting, casino betting, the turn of a card, they're all the same. Their motto of life might be, If it moves, bet on it; if it doesn't, eat it. It isn't the win that's satisfying to them, or the money won -- because, you see, there's always the next game to get down on. Both a win or a loss is quickly forgotten, adjusted to, and forgotten. The next play is the only important one. Yet, to some extent or another, they keep it manageable, within the scope of their lives.Then there are the other 5% -- the really degenerate gamblers. Now to these guys (never heard of a female degenerate gambler, did you?) it's NOT the action they crave. It's the LOSS. Make sense? Of course not, because you're probably reading this as a rational human being, and self-destruction is hard to get inside of.But that's what this story is all about -- one of the 5%'ers.To an experienced sports bettor, the scenes like the indelibly memorable tub scene are all too powerfully true. How a win turns to a loss in the last second happens all too often. And how COULD those 3 college hoops games all go south, when they all had big leads at the half?? But examine two key turning points in the story for dramatic impact, the writer imbues the protagonist with somewhat unlikely powers of recovery -- the Vegas comeback is the stuff of dreams, and the fix on the NYU game, keeping it under 7 points when all was lost with a minute to go -- those contrivances were needed to show the magnitude of this guy's disease. Had he been just a steady loser, he couldn't rise to the heights necessary to fall so far. Not once, but twice, he made a full recovery from the debts he owed. Yet he couldn't learn from it -- hell, he couldn't even take one night to sleep in peace.No, his desire for self-destruction had to be played out as it was, in a lurid hell far worse than casinos or calling the book again. He needed the self-degradation that only a Harlem pimp-fight could give him.I found the ending fitting, un-sentimentalized, and perfect for this unblinking portrait of a man who couldn't be satisfied until he'd thoroughly debased himself.Substitute a down-and-out drunk for the gambling addiction, and the story's been told many times. This should be assigned viewing in every GA meeting. "},{"Title":"insight into self destructive behaviour","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Gambler is still after thirty years the definitive movie about the gambling experience. I remember the first time i saw this movie when i was in my mid-teens. I had just started my own personal gambling journey, attending my local dog track. There was something very special about this movie and i knew it would have a profound effect on my life. From the beginning, The Gambler is a very dark movie. The opening scenes are of James Caan leaving a casino in the early hours of the morning after losing heavily at the tables. He drives his car recalling his losses and curses to himself. The movie soundtrack plays Gustav Mahler's 1st Symphony (this piece sets the whole tone for the movie in my opinion). Mahler is great for tragedy (remember Death in Venice). Caan's character, Axel Freed, then wipes himself out completely, losing his last 20 bucks to some guys playing basketball for small change. This is the first indication as to Axel's self-destructiveness, that he is always looking for a 'result', be it good or bad. We learn that Axel is a an educated man, very educated. He teaches English as a University Professor. In his gambling though he chooses to play the fool, perhaps purposely. He avoids the 'locks' and sure things and instead courts uncertainty in his never ending craving for thrills and experience. Unless his bet is good for 'action', then it is no good at all. Unfortunately for Axel and everyone he loves (mother, girlfriend, grandfather) this cavalier style of play leads to nothing but financial misery and breakdown of valued relationships (particularly that with his mother, which is also key to the whole film). He is a martingale player in the true sense (double or nothing). One day everything seems to go right and he reaches a plateau when doubling on 18 and drawing a 3! He wins enough to break free from his shylocks, but is still not satisfied and he risks all his profits from his good day on a game of basketball. The scene when he loses this bet in the last second of the game listening to the commentary in the bath is incredibly real to anyone who has gambled for 'proper' money and lost will testify. That feeling of being absolutely sick to your stomach, not to mention the feelings of isolation, guilt and plain stupidity. The film could of ended there in a way, but it goes to another level. To finally free himself of the money lenders (local mob), Axel agrees to fix a college basketball game where he teaches by bribing one of his English students who is the star player on the team. In a close game Axel's student comes through and his debts are cleared. As at the start of the film though, Axel is still looking for a result. The only gamble left to him, is that of his own life. He walks into a bar and picks up a prostitute in the Harlem district of New York. Then he purposely does not pay her which provokes her pimp (Antonio Fargas a.k.a Huggy Bear) into drawing a knife on him. Caan pushes himself onto the knife, daring the pimp to kill him. Fargas pushes him away and Caan begins to beat on him relentlessly. As he drops his knife, the hooker picks it up and slashes Caan. Staggering from the building, Axel sees his reflection. Blood pours from the wound. He smiles to himself, he has his result! Mahler plays... Also watch out for the scene in the film when Axel and leg-breaker for one of the loan sharks visit a guy who cant pay. The first time you watch this its terrifying. "},{"Title":"Get Ready for Another Lousy Hollywood Remake","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Most people know James Caan for The Godfather or Las Vegas, or Mickey Blue Eyes. Very few people have ever heard of this movie, which is a real shame considering it is one of the best dramas of the 70s and one of Caan's finest performances. I can't tell you how much I love and respect this picture.From the moment we see Caan's tragic character Axel driving through town and pondering, with Mahler playing in the background, we know the score. This is 1970s cinema at its best - with the rugged leading man, the melancholy and the bell bottoms. Like all good 70s movies it builds the suspense very gradually until the on the edge climax. You never know where the story will take you next, a manoeuvre rarely seen in cinema these days. It's gripping stuff.Axel is obviously a fiercely intelligent man, teaching philosophy classes in college with a passion that inspires his students. But he is also very naive and not the smartest guy in the world. He's not satisfied with his lot in life and wants more magic, or juice as he calls it. And to get the juice he will risk everything, from his relationships - to his life. This is a picture about self destruction, and particularly gambling addiction. But anybody who enjoys 70s cinema will find something to like.The ending is one of the most unpredictable and sinister conclusions in cinema history and will leave viewers thinking for years to come. Never has a classical music score been utilised so effectively and I recommend people seek out Jerry Fielding's rare soundtrack.There was much more to James Caan than Sonny Corleone; I believe Lee Strasberg called him one of the best actors of his generation. I also recommend Thief, Rollerball, Freebie and the Bean and Cinderella Liberty.NOTE Get ready for another lousy Hollywood remake, coming soon to a theatre near you "},{"Title":"1974's The Gambler We get The Wicked What&#x85;Where's The Why?","Date":"6 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" James Caan is Axel Freed, a gambling addict hell-bent on self-destruction in the gritty 1974 crime drama The Gambler.A college literature professor by day, Axel wages a vicious war with himself off campus during his off hours, shattering the limits of both underground and legit wagers. Axel knows full well that the odds against him are recklessly daunting. Dangerously so. Nevertheless, we come to learn that this is a deeply troubled soul, and a guy who has long since succumbed to a ceaseless struggle to quench an insatiable thirst for the juice which betting has insidiously inflicted.James Caan is the man. The Gambler is one among a string of classic movies the iconic actor starred in during the '70's ranging from Brian's Song to the first two installments of the The Godfather saga. Caan's portrayal of Axel is a searingly wrenching performance. He gives us a confoundingly complicated man, one blessed with abundant intelligence and charm yet powerless to break free from the vise grip his all consuming vice has on his rapidly unraveling life.The supporting cast is stellar. Paul Sorvino is perfection as an illegal gambling boss who reveals that he has at least a semblance of a heart. Lauren Hutton is underdeveloped as Axel's conflicted girlfriend, though she does have a compelling scene in a Vegas hotel room toward the end of the film that emotionally foreshadows the grim fate destined to befall her beau. Jacqueline Brookes makes her own indelible impression as Axel's heartbroken and exploited mother. And Burt Young impresses during his brief but explosive appearance as a wise guy enforcer only a couple of years shy of his career blasting off with the continuing role of Paulie in the first of the Rocky films franchise.While Caan is exceptional here, I would liked to have seen a more detailed exploration into why his character of Axel behaves the way that he does. Much is intimated, but little is actually disclosed. His conduct and choices, while for the most part abominable, are as fascinating as they are baffling. But what drives the seemingly insane behavior of this fellow who clearly has an exceptional capacity to think, interpret and express at such a high level? Czechoslovakian Director Karel Reisz (The French Lieutenant's Woman, Sweet Dreams but not a lot else, actually) leaves it largely to our own conjecture to determine why in the hell Axel insists on barreling completely out of control down a one-way highway to oblivion. And the resultant aftertaste is not nearly as palatable as it could have been.The final image of The Gambler is a grotesquely grim one to be sure. Yet we get the unsettling feeling that Axel was never going to be genuinely satisfied until it got to this horrifically ugly point. And I suppose that after all this is the enduring point that Reisz is making with this sordidly squalid story. It was just such a murky journey he took us on to reach this cacophonous climax.The Gambler didn't hit the jackpot for me, so I'm gonna roll 6 for this one based off of Caan's enigmatic yet engrossing performance and for the wonderful work of the superb supporting cast. "},{"Title":"It's the risk","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When your bookmaker tells you that you've got a gambling problem, better listen because you really do. Paul Sorvino who goes up and down on the roller-coaster with his best customer James Caan is quite the diagnostician. Caan bets with reckless abandon, but there ain't what George Peppard on The A Team called the 'jazz' without the risk.Caan stars as The Gambler. A professor of English literature and grandson of Morris Carnovsky a self made furniture tycoon Caan has a horrible gambling addiction. The 150 minute running time shows his highs and lows during a spree where he wins and loses some incredible sums. The difficulty in this role is that this man is truly a degenerate individual who uses and abuses people, some of the same people like some of us change our socks. His grandfather, his mother Jacqueline Brooks, girlfriend Lauren Hutton. No one is spared not even one of his students Carl Crudup whom he corrupts. Yet Caan is likable and charming and intelligent. It's what makes his corrupting venality that much more tragic.My first time seeing Paul Sorvino in a substantial role was in The Gambler. The man is a dangerous criminal yet he's also likable, wise and philosophic. He sure diagnoses Caan right. The cast has a few familiar faces like Carmine Caridi as another bookmaker, Burt Young in an extended sequence as a loan shark enforcer and James Woods very briefly as a bank officer.This is one of James Caan's best roles, maybe his best outside of Sonny Corleone, not to be missed. "},{"Title":"James Caan Delivers In This Character-Driven Film About Addictions","Date":"4 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" English Literature Professor Axel Freed has a gambling addiction that led him to having enormous amounts of debts in The Gambler.This drama stars James Caan,who is better known as Sonny Corleone in The Godfather,as Freed together with Paul Sorvino and Lauren Hutton.This film written by James Toback and directed by Karel Reisz takes a personal examination of a gambler.This is definitely on great character-driven film that has been overlooked in the 1970's.Credit goes to James Caan for commanding performance as Axel Freed.He keeps us interested throughout the film as we get to see him try to take actions to pay the gambling debts that he owe and try to somehow overcome his love for gambling but to no avail. Then,we get to see a great story of a man whom the viewer will definitely empathize and could definitely relate as a person try to battle a weakness that he currently has in life.While the movie may have been shown more than forty years ago,the message that it provides remains timeless and currently especially for people battling not only love for gambling but all types of addictions whether be alcohol,drugs or sex. "},{"Title":"...but I'm blessed.","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" An intense unfolding of the fate of a headstrong gambler who at times thinks he is blessed, though certainly, he must feel cursed just the same at others.The gambler's profession is teaching in college, and those lecture scenes were a bit too obvious for me, though in a way interesting nonetheless. The confrontation with his mighty grandfather (since his father passed away long ago) is inevitable, but when it's there, it's not as grand as one would expect.The way director Karel Reisz (never heard of him before) mixes up scenes and uses an uneasy soundtrack even when it seems inappropriate, seems obvious in a way, but it really works well. Even that big, 'holy' scene that is referred to on the theatrical poster works perfectly in - shall I say it? - mysterious ways.The casual portrayal of a (part of) society that is divided into degenerates, blacks, Jews and loan sharks is another factor that has its effect in a dark way.Finally, I didn't know that James Caan was at the time of filming addicted to cocaine, but it does explain his intense acting. Lauren Hutton is his beautiful, charismatic love interest, who does a brilliant scene in the hotel room in Vegas. And there's plenty of other brilliant supporting roles by quite a few familiar faces.'The gambler' is really a trip - maybe not perfect, but awful close. 9 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Dostoevsky by way of James Caan","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" An exceptional film directed by Karel Reisz and written by James Toback. James Caan is a well-bred college professor & scion of a wealthy family who also happens to be a degenerate gambler. Owing over $40,000 to a bookie, he gets himself into more trouble when he gambles away the pay back money his mother gives him. Caan is exceptional in what has become an iconic role for him, though it's a bit of a stretch to take him seriously reading William Carlos Williams and Dostoevsky to his class. Nevertheless, it's a serious study of a gambler in way too deep and Toback's script is one his best. The excellent cinematography is by Victor J. Kemper and the supporting cast includes Lauren Hutton, Paul Sorvino, Jacqueline Brookes (as Caan's doctor mother) and Morris Carnovsky. A lot of great character actors are in it too Burt Young; James Woods; M Emmett Walsh; Vic Tayback. "},{"Title":"Review of The Gambler (1974) James Caan","Date":"13 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Axel Freed (James Caan) is a Gambler and with the captivating introduction to this film it may seem that is his only issue. Axel Freed is an intellectual educated man from a good family. An English professor at NYC University. Axel has everything going for him, a career job that he excels at, a caring mother, a rich successful grandfather that serves as a role model and a gorgeous girlfriend Billie. (Lauren Hutton)The film starts with Axel gambling in an illegal mafia Casino, losing $44,000, with his bookie and friend Hips (Paul Sorvino) in close pursuit, jotting down losses and stressing more than Axel himself.These are the only central significant characters throughout the duration of this film. Keeping a low population of main characters with the emphasis on Axel and his issues. You may know the traditional type of gambler. They feed their addiction and enjoy the thrill and buzz that they receive when they gamble. Axel indeed very much so enjoys the buzz of gambling and even states in the film that if he only bet on sure wins, there wouldn't be any Juice. However, a deeper look into the film will show you Axel Freed is one complex individual. Axel's grandfather who he admires came from Lithuania and had to kill his way in America to become rich and successful owning the largest furniture chain in America. Axel on the other hand has had a cushy life with minimal challenges in an America that is doing well for itself. Since he has accomplished quite easily all that life has challenged him with he is overly arrogant, cocky, and confident. Even the days following him losing the 44 thousand dollars he states to his girlfriend Billie that I'll get it. And boasts a confident strut with his head held high and in good spirits. He takes his girlfriend Billie to his Grandfathers to show her off and go swimming. Axel's Grandfather stresses his disapproval of his girlfriend stating she is for a club man and a playboy. Axel, only concerned with his Grandfathers opinion is taken back and states that this girl would do anything for him. Billie, who initially gets a thrill herself off Axel's reckless and destructive gambling, begins to be disgusted with Axel's behaviour and begins seeing another man without telling him and from what we know leaving him all together.Later in the movie Axel goes to a party for his Grandfathers 80th birthday where he conducts a well composed speech to the dinner party. Most of which boasts his Grandfathers accomplishments. However the last sentence he speaks is pinnacle in understanding the mind frame of this complex gambler. But I am the one most deeply in his debt, because every time I think my reach has stretched too far, I remember the moves he has dared. This shows us the significant admiration he has for his Grandfather in how life was so challenging for him coming to America broke and with a family of 5 to support and overcame all of these issues with overwhelming success. Axel's life was on easy street and he was coasting. With high respect and admiration towards his Grandfather, he wishes to overcome difficult feats to somehow prove to HIMSELF that he can be like the man he admires so much. It is important to note that overcoming these feats is only for himself as his Grandfather is happy with Axel's character, virtue and scholarly achievements. Since Axel's Grandfathered conquered so many difficult tasks in his life, Axel is constantly pushing the limits with his gambling addiction to see how far he can go and how he will conquer the next loss. Three quarters of the way through the movie Axel's confident strut with his head held high and arrogant attitude comes crashing down. Axel was comfortable with his own self destructive lifestyle, however, as the movie goes on he impacts the life of those around him negatively and destroys all personal relationships, most importantly to note, the one he had with his Grandfather. Again, with his girlfriend Billie, of whom he was originally so certain that she would Do anything for him proves to be nothing more than a friend with benefits as she leaves him once becoming disgusting with his gambling. Thus crushing Axel's arrogant and confident attitude even more so. This transition in James Caan's character three quarters of the way through the film may not seem so apparent at a first watch but is well executed by James Caan.After many ups and downs in his gambling, Axel eventually gets even with the Mafia by throwing a basketball game with one of his students. At the end of the basketball game in which they have succeeded in throwing, Axel sits and on the bleacher for an extended period of time. Pondering thoughts that no human being should ever have to think. Once snapped out of these thoughts by his Bookie Hips he leaves the gym and immediately goes into a dangerous neighbourhood to achieve retribution. When on the bleacher pondering thoughts he comes to a realization that he has ruined the relationship with his Grandfather. The one figure in his life that he deeply cared about. His mother is ill with emotional sickness over Axel's mental and physical well-being. His girlfriend of whom he thought cared so much about him left him without telling him and is already sleeping with other men. With his life in ruin and nothing more to live for Axel ventures out into the dangerous neighbourhood to attempt to be killed or have some sort of punishment given to him from low lives in which he cares nothing of. With that being said I feel the ending of this film which is highly criticized is left up to the viewer to determine what they think of Axel Freed. "},{"Title":"Big winner","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The air of anticipation and sense of dread that runs through The Gambler, eventually gives way to a finale that is impossible to forget. Sam Goldwyn once said that it is the last five minutes of a movie that makes it memorable. The Gambler has that memorable last five minutes. In a performance of almost preternatural stillness, James Caan plays Axel Freed, a college professor with an addiction to gambling, Gambling rules Axel's life to the point where it undermines his loyalty to his family, his girlfriend and ultimately himself. He gambles on anything, but particularly college football and basketball games. Although he is absorbed with gambling, he comes from a privileged background. It is this back-story that gives The Gambler such an unusual edge. His mother is a leading surgeon at a large city hospital and his grandfather, who he reveres, is a wealthy Jewish immigrant who has made good on the American Dream. We learn that while his family's expectations of him are high, Axel has been indulged all his life.Axel is also seriously in debt and it is a condition that does not change much throughout the movie. Although he wins large sums of money, he invariably loses it again. Dangerously, he is in debt to people who do not forgive non-payment. After borrowing money from his mother to pay off the debt, he takes his girlfriend to Las Vegas and gambles it instead. It is a considered decision; it is as though he is forcing the odds to the point where he will be destroyed. He wins enough to pay all his debts including the one to his mother. Inevitably, he loses it all in a single reckless wager. His girlfriend, Billie played by Lauren Hutton, is the sort of woman who is attracted to men who exude a sense of danger. However, Axel proves even too reckless for her.To save himself, Axel is forced to convince one of his students to throw an upcoming basketball game. Although his debt is struck off, morally he has descended to the lowest point in his life. Finally, he receives the horrible punishment he seems to seek by pushing his luck beyond what it will bear in the wrong end of town. The film ends with a cinematic image not easily erased from the memory. If the film delivers any message at all, it is that the objective of the chronic gambler is to lose. Apparently the screenplay by James Toback was largely autobiographical; he must have been seeking some kind of catharsis through the painful self-revelations in this story.Karel Reisz directed the film in a dispassionate manner that adds to its power. James Caan gives a remarkable performance &#x96; what at first seems a rather wooden approach turns out to be the perfect approach. This is a film with little sympathy or compromise. It is difficult for the audience to like Axel. He is so alienated from everyday life and the normal things that give people joy that he is the epitome of the outsider. He is a man for whom life has little zest, the only way he can lift his emotional level is to walk along the edge of the precipice. An unusual background score helps give the film its all-pervading mood. Based on Mahler's Symphony #1, The Titan, the score was arranged by Jerry Fielding, a remarkable composer in his own right. Despite its classical origins, Mahler's work in this film sounds contemporary and ominous. This is a film that sneaks up on you, it's only when it's over that you realise how remarkable it really is &#x96; without a doubt, one of the most intriguing films of the 1970's. "},{"Title":"The Death of the Romantic Era of Heroes","Date":"18 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Karel Reisz's The Gambler opens with a problem. Axel's incredulity that anyone could draw so many worthless poker hands uninterruptedly has led him irrevocably $44,000 into debt. He doesn't have it, but it's been a big-time game, and he must find it somewhere or be in profound trouble. The way Axel resolves his dilemma is only somewhat challenging. He sponges the money from his doctor mother.However then it's time to contend with his real problem, some overpowering urge within him that won't let him repay the money. He needs to lose, to experience threat, to put himself in jeopardy. He needs to gamble away the five figures on even more unpromising bets because in a way it isn't gambling that's his fixation It's peril itself, borne out of a neurotic will to force his own reality.I play in order to lose, he tells his bookie at one point. That's what gets my juice going. If I only bet on the games I know, I could at least break even. But he doesn't want that. In one scene, he's taken to staking he doesn't have on college basketball games chosen virtually without discrimination from the sports pages.And yet Axel Freed is not just a gambler, but a dreadfully complex man in his mid-thirties who earns his living as a university literature teacher. He teaches Dostoevsky, William Carlos Williams, Thoreau. But he doesn't give the impression he teaches their works so much as what he extracts from them to substantiate his own fixations. One of the students in his class has Axel worked out so totally that she always has the answer he's looking for, when he asks what a quote means. They're saying, as Axel interprets them, to take chances, to put the self in the line of fire.The death of the romantic era of heroes seems to preoccupy him. Before modernism's misanthropic upshot, he could've put himself to the test more honestly. His grandfather came to America destitute, fought and killed to prove himself, and still is a man of mammoth vigor at the age of eighty. The old man is reputable now, but the tale of his formative years beguiles Axel, who declaims it lyrically at the eightieth birthday party.Axel extracts nothing from 1974 to test himself against, though. He has to find his own hazards, to incite and tempt them. And the greatest danger in his life as a gambler is that behind his affable bookies and betting buddies is the pitiless company of the Mafia, the guys who take his bets like him, but if he doesn't pay, there's nothing they can do. It's out of my hands, his crony Hips makes clear. A bad gambling debt has got to be taken care of. And that adjoins an further aspect to this James Toback-scripted drama, shot at a time when lead James Caan was fighting his own cocaine addiction, which starts as a study of Axel Freed's personality, expands into the story of his world, and then pays off as a thriller. We become so very held by Axel's troubles and threats that they seem like our own. There's a scene where he sits in the bathtub and listens to the climactic minutes of a basketball game, and another scene where he sits in the bleachers and watches a fixed game while a pair of hired guns look on, and these scenes have a characteristic of tension that Reisz makes all the more genuine because he doesn't colonize the rest of his movie with stock characters.Axel Freed, as played by Caan, is himself a wholly persuasive personality, and unique. He doesn't have roots in other gambling movies or even from other characters he's played. And the people around him also are individual, distinctive creations. His mother, Jacqueline Brooks, is an experienced, self-supporting person who gives him the money because she fears for his safety, and yet sees that his problem is deeper than gambling. His grandfather, excellently played by Morris Carnovsky, is capable of meaning by his manners why he intrigues Axel so. The assorted bookies and collectors he encounters aren't completely Mafia pigeonholes in the sense that they enforce more in grief than in anger. Only his girlfriend falls short of feeling very authentic. Here's still another display of the failure of contemporary movies to give us fully developed female characters under thirty.There's a scene in this otherwise very powerful film that has James Caan on screen all by himself for two minutes, locked in a basement room, waiting to meet a Mafia boss who will possibly order his legs broken. In another movie, the scene could've felt too long, too eventless. But Reisz, Caan, and screenwriter James Toback have built the character and the movie so compellingly that the scene is not only effective, but effective two ways first as tension, and then as character unraveling. As we look into Axel's imprisoned eyes we see a person who is terrified to death and yet obstinately prepared for this moment he has brought down upon himself. "},{"Title":"Writer Recommends","Date":"24 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" We all have movies that we champion and we often feel like we champion them alone. They rarely get featured in critics' lists, box office lists and may even get featured in worst movie lists. I will be presenting reviews of what I consider hidden gems and I also invite you to contribute.So, a new topic is born Writer Recommends, in which I will be presenting reviews of some of the movies that I think are fantastic and that you should see. I'd like to think of them as hidden gems, but I'm realistic enough to know that many of the movies for which I feel I am the sole champion, will in fact be loved by many. As we all know, when it comes to one person's opinion of a movie, there is no right or wrong even if we do still continue to debate that long into the night.If you have a Writer Recommends suggestion or want to send me a review to post, let me know. I'm going to be totally autocratic, so I will make (hopefully well informed) judgements on whether to post.Next Up Writer Recommends #1 The Gambler see www.writeronthestorm.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"C.C.N.Y. professor fails the boards.","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Gritty James Caan (Axel Freed) vehicle about addiction and its spillover into a pool of stark consequences. Hard to classify movie Is it a dark drama or a complicated character study? It's a little of both, really. Caan, sporting hip clothes and a fresh perm, has everything a bachelor could wish for in life. He has a beautiful girl friend, doting, rich parents and a prestigious career. But there is little in life that can halt his appetite for gambling. Nothing. It's his true love. The movie straddles a New York underworld filled with loan sharks, violent thugs and pimps. On the bright side of the fence, however, is a world of family, love and literature. The film embraces the civil things in life books, art, classical music. Axel (the perfect name for a failed hustler) and his mother even play the very civilized game of tennis, just before he hits her up for some cash. Later on in the film, he takes her to Coney Island for a swim. Their relationship is a solid one. She's a doctor--and her need to repair her broken son is evident throughout the picture. His father is a different story a sell-made man, he doesn't understand his son's choice of girl, friends, career or lifestyle. Paul Sorvino is excellent as a collector of gambling debts, who admires Axel and his love of the arts. He has a soft spot for him, but that doesn't stop him from taking a swing at him. Axel blocks the punch (something rare for this character type) but not the reason for the blow. The location shooting in New York is spot on. The scenes at C.C.N.Y. stand on their own. They will make you check out the classics the next time you visit the library. I'll bet Axel's last dollar on that one. Promise. "},{"Title":"Greatest movie about gambling addiction","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I have reviewed this before with the following passage but have seen many others, who have also liked this movie, feel unhappy with the ending.-- This film is for the initiated. If you have no knowledge of gambling then it might well be meaningless though I think an intelligent person will understand the torment from the point of view of the secondary characters.James Caan puts in a brilliant performance. The cast is quite strong and they don't get up to fantastic things. This is a real movie and the moral of the story isn't friendly.A must for any gambler. -- NOW if you are not one who has experienced what Axel goes through then you can still live through his pain vicariously. What he feels after getting out of trouble and then back into it, trashing his career and his mother's trust, is absolute disgust. He has a desperate desire to defile himself and punish himself to the point where he can put his guilt away or have his life ended for him. He can't kill himself!If he gets through it, the experience will put his wrong doings back into perspective and life can still go on. "},{"Title":"Like a Car Wreck You Cannot Look Away From","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Gambler is a movie with no real redeeming moral tone to it. How can we possibly root for the main character, played with total vigor by James Caan? He selfishly manipulates his mother and girlfriend and places a higher value on getting bets on basketball games in than on personal relationships. But somehow we see the worst of each of us in him, the self-destructive side. We all have some vice and we know it's wrong and we know why it's wrong but we continue to hold onto it. You can't look away from this film but it will make you cringe.  "},{"Title":"Greatest movie about gambling addiction","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is for the initiated. If you have no knowledge of gambling then it might well be meaningless though I think an intelligent person will understand the torment from the point of view of the secondary characters.James Caan puts in a brilliant performance. The cast is quite strong and they don't get up to fantastic things. This is a real movie and the moral of the story isn't friendly.A must for any gambler. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A gritty, realistic film about addiction, it has a bit of haunting atmosphere to it, and although awfully dreary and a touch too harrowing for its own good, the film still packs a punch. Caan has a very interesting character, one who understands his own addiction yet still deceives himself, and he gives off a very solid performance, even though his character does come off rather cold and a bit hard to relate to. What the film shows us and what happens is quite predictable, but that does not prevent it from still having potency, and the ending certainly is not predictable, and is actually rather fascinating. The film's music score fits the project perfectly, and the driving sequences depict the character's feelings very well. Certainly this worth checking out, even if it is no cinema masterpiece. "}{"Title":"THE BEST movie on gambling EVER!","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a gambler who lives in Vegas, I know of what I speak!  This is a SUPER film way ahead of its time, filmed in 1974. I purchased it on DVD and get as big of a kick out of it in 2002 as I did 28 years ago!  All performances are top-of-the-line with James Caan never being better.  I want to laugh AND cry at the same time over some of the scenes in this wonderful film, but it takes a true risk-taker to truely appreciate it and the message it delivers.  5***** out of 5 ***** Best lines  The don't give out awards at the half, Axel.             Axel  I couldn't have lost those games.  I hit 13 passes in a row in Vegas.         Bookie  But you DID!  "},{"Title":"Engrossing.","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A grim and intelligent drama that offers a seemingly accurate portrayal of the gambling obsession and an engrossing character study of a man that suffers from it. Very well-acted and well-told as a story, it remains highly interesting from start to finish. Marred only by its weird, inconclusive and somewhat inexplicable ending.  (***) "},{"Title":"Production Note Tidbit","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Since the main character is a college professor, several of the scenes were filmed at the City College of New York (CCNY). I know this personally since at that time I was a graduate student at CCNY and was teaching some undergraduate courses there. So one day I go to my classroom which was in Shepard Hall (also the building where the graduation scene from Love Story was filmed...not Harvard!!). Without any warning, I was stopped from entering my classroom and was told that James Caan was in there filming this movie called The Gambler. I never met Caan nor was able to see the filming of the scene nor was I invited to be an extra. So every time you see this movie and the classroom scene, just remember that a real class was bumped to make this scene!!! "},{"Title":"Good but Rough","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that if your a gambler you can Identify with. James Caan is awesome as usual. This is probably one of his better films so if your a James Caan fan check it out. Deffinetely a guy flick. If you ever had a bet on a basketball game you will identify with a scene in this movie. Rough, But good don't miss. "},{"Title":"See it if you're a player too.","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Definitely a must see if you are a fan of James Cann.  I like his tough guy style.  Nobody pushes this player around!  To me virtually all of the characters were believable.  I could buy them. Between the loan guys, mobsters and Huggy Bear at the end, this was true.  I will add my agreement to what has been said before about the ending.  Without actually saying what it was, it was bizarre and totally disconnected to everything else.  It left me very displeased and dissatisfied.  It was a very poor choice on the part of the producers.  Other than that aspect, it was engrossing and there was some vivid meaning to it. It brought me to consider the darker aspects of the gambler's life, and man's single-mindedness.DMJ "},{"Title":"Masochism is a valuable job skill","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Before Steve McQueen's Shame was director Karel Reisz's The Gambler. Both films watch as an addict and masochist descends into self-obliteration, only here we have actor James Caan as Alex Freed, a Jewish professor who is addicted to gambling.Several sequences flesh out Freed's state of mind. Before his students he relates two stories, one in which human willpower is trumpeted over reality - the gambler's steadfast self-belief &#x96; and another in which Freed essentially states that Americans don't take risk. Freed, of course, takes irrational risks. That's his modus operandi.James Caan has stated that he regards The Gambler as containing his finest performance. He's excellent, but the film itself consists of nothing but sequences in which Freed makes bets, loses and then proceeds optimistically to the next bet. The film then climaxes with a powerful sequence in which Freed visits a prostitute and provokes a fight with a pimp. This pimp slashes Freed's face with a blade. Interestingly, Freed seems to delight in being cut, simultaneously aroused by his desires for self-destruction and unconsciously disgusted with his life (he seems to deplore his wealthy family members, seeking penance for both their behaviour and his own oppositional lifestyle choices). The film costars Burt Young as Carmine. He's terrific as a loan shark who shifts from close friend to terrifying brute.7/10 &#x96; See The Hustler and California Split. "},{"Title":"The Gambler A Review.","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Hmmm. This is a difficult film to analyze. Reason being, it succeeds in many ways- and fails in others. This film is the story of Axel Freed, played by James Caan. He is an addict. And this is the nucleus of the film, addiction. After reading most of the reviews here, I fear some people missed this. If anyone has ever been an addict, or knows someone, friend or family, that is, will connect. Others may just go through the motions. He is a hard-core gambler, who takes insane risks, namely sports, no matter what the cost. In this respect, the film succeeds in its depiction of this side of human trials. Other than this, we sit through too much fill in. Caan being a college professor is hard to imagine (yes, anyone can be an addict, but we don't want to see him teaching a college course!).His relationship with his Grandfather seems to only tease us, as it comes and goes. The film also shows its age, as it is quite dated. This brings us to the films major flaw, its ending. The Gambler may have the honor to own the most inexplicable endings in film history. The writers failed so miserably here, you wonder what their thinking was. It tried way, way, way too hard to intrigue the viewer, that it left us only puzzled, nothing more. Ultimately The Gambler succeeds. Why, It depicts successfully what it's about, addiction. On this level, it's an enjoyable sit-through, as James Caan is a pleasure to watch in this role, as is each character. Burt Young, is another terrific character that the film needed to show more of. His 10 minutes of screen time wasn't enough. An ultimate slime ball that only came and went too darn soon. Most of the dialoge is top-notch, as Freeds connections, as well as Freed are downright terrific to listen to, even funny, as we go through his gambling adventures. Despite its flaws ( some people inexcusably shot their?!*@! and rated this film 9/10 or 10/10, I guess Casablanca or The Godfather is in the same league to them) I enjoyed this film, as you will too. 7/10. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Good movie, bad end","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  James Caan carries this gripping and suspenseful drama as a college professor who digs the thrill of gambling, but finds himself in trouble and out of control.It's quite engaging and effective for the first 100 minutes, but stop the movie after they leave the basketball game. One of the most disappointing, unsatisfying endings to an otherwise noteworthy '70s film. "},{"Title":"Toback's existential macho, Gulf & Western style","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It suggests what TAXI DRIVER would have been if Paul Schrader had gotten his wish--a Tiffany director and the studio red carpet. In other words, Paul Schrader would never have become Paul Schrader--he would have become James Toback, an interesting eccentric who derailed a promising start in a would-be-Dostoevskyan pileup of poontang, shylock debts, and deli-clerk assignments for Warren Beatty.As always, Toback's schtik is existential macho, filtered through Dostoevsky and through Rojack, his near-namesake, the Raskolnikov-like antihero of Mailer's AN AMERICAN DREAM. In FINGERS, Toback's one true-blue masterpiece, the Tobackian alter ego is a young turk driven nutty by a split parentage dad's a fading gangster, mom's a wacko concert pianist. In THE GAMBLER, the hero is an unironically intended caricature of a Jewish prince an English professor at Columbia with a loving, unshrewish mom, a gangster-turned-tycoon grandfather, and a horsy shiksa by his side. (This being 1974, the horsy shiksa is inevitably Lauren Hutton.) Mini-Toback (James Caan) is into his bookie (Paul Sorvino, playing ditzy less well than his daughter) for forty-five grand--and every time he gets close to get out of harm's way and making it back, he lays it on the line again. Ya know how all gambling addicts are alike? asks dizzy Sorvino. Yeah! They all wanna lose, sighs Mini-Toback.Directed by Karel Reisz in the undistinguished and expensive-looking manner of prestige studio movies of the seventies--the seventies movies we DON'T remember--the movie bakes out most of Toback's aromatic screwiness. But when Mini-Toback really gets in hot water, the filmmakers know how to tighten the screws and produce a churning, nauseating tension. (Abel Ferrara used this plot almost twenty years later, but there's not the same anxiety in BAD LIEUTENANT--you know Harvey's goin' down.) Caan isn't bad --he's less his usual grinning, cocksure self than usual, and his teaching scenes aren't half bad. THE GAMBLER and FINGERS, for all Toback's posturing, are pretty gripping diagnoses of male pathology--so where did Toback go? What made this guy plummet from crazy young man to dirty old man in such an awful hurry? "},{"Title":"Good movie, bad end","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  James Caan carries this gripping and compelling drama about a college professor of literature who is driven by the thrill of gambling.The movie is very good for the first 100 minutes or so, but the ending is very unsatisfying and disappointing. I'd recommend turning the movie off after they leave the final basketball game. "}]