[{"Title":"Oh, my.  Where to start ... this little baby is a gem for a sarcastic reviewer","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"47 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Air travel in the 1970s (which was before fare laws made it more affordable) still retained a certain amount of chic.  It was expensive enough that a lot of people had still never flown.  In a family with five kids, our mode of transportation was a Volkswagen Bus.  The Brady Bunch was the only big family I knew who went on vacations involving air travel.  (And for the record, my first flight was in 1987, when I was 22).This movie has so many hilarious moments in it, it's hard to catch all of them.  First, Karen Black, that witchy-looking broad who wore the Zulu teeth in Trilogy of Terror has a few intimate moments with Charlton Heston, AKA Cockpit Moses, AKA NRA is My Copilot.  I'm sorry, but the idea of him and her together ... ewwww.  But I digress.Next, we have the legendary Gloria Swanson, assaying the role of ... Gloria Swanson.  What this consists of is  droning on endlessly into a tape recorder (or to her luckless secretary, who probably would have considered a plane crash a welcome diversion) about her fascinating life, how she was a rebel in her career, etc. -- the only thing she leaves out is what it was like to be bundling with JFK's daddy -- and wearing this bizarre sort of burnoose that ends up looking like a man-eating nun's habit.  Which sets us up nicely for the introduction of two nunly stereotypes.Sister Martha Scott displays a traditional habit, including a wimple, and a traditional outlook.  Sister Helen Reddy (I swear I'm not making this up) is wearing a post-Vatican II modified habit and looks a lot like Julie Andrews in The Sound of Music.  Which is ironic given later events.Getting thoroughly plowed in the airport bar are Mindy's dad, the guy who never wanted to have sex with Audra Lindley, and Carmine Vespucci.  They run into Myrna Loy, who you'd think was an ordinary old-lady type, only to reveal that she swills boilermakers at every possible opportunity.  If you're wondering why this was even a plot point, join the club.And now, on to the plane.  What a marvel of design that baby was!  Those seats were the size of Lazy Boy recliners, even in coach class.  To think that if only I'd been born to a millionaire, I could have experienced flight in the days before you get shoehorned into a seat the size of a toy poodle carrier with your knees in your face ... and not only that, THIS plane has a groovy spiral staircase leading up the flight deck, so that the passengers can ogle the stews' legs as they rush back and forth with coffee, tea or me.Just when we think the ham can't get sliced any thicker, they wheel Linda Blair onto the plane in the role of a young girl (Sister Martha unnecessarily informs Sister Helen, It's a young girl! as if Sister Helen couldn't see that).  And not just any young girl.  A young girl who is DESPERATELY in need of a kidney transplant.  Played by an actress who doesn't seem to catch on to the fact that someone in desperate need of a kidney transplant isn't going to be beaming and bubbling over about how exciting it is to look at all the people.  However, since Linda was simply assaying yet another of the roles in her 1970s Put Upon Damsel collection, I can't fault her too much.Meanwhile, at another airport, a former Air Force Glory Boy from The Best Years of Our Lives is preparing to journey home to Boise, Idaho.  He calls home, and the phone is answered by none other than the blonde broad who took Uncle Charlie's apron and put the wrecking ball to My Three Sons.  She's his wife (how is it that all the lovely young actresses in this film are head over heels in love with these geriatric actors?  Point to ponder). So, ignoring  the forecasts of bad weather and the ominously prescient comment of a friend who says he's looking pale, our lone pilot leaps into his Patsy Cline Special and heads out in the middle of a driving rain.Now, this sets up the pivotal scene.  We have a large 747 loaded with 150 people (those seats were ROOMY, man) and an itty bitty plane with a guy who's starting to not feel so good, and they're both circling Salt Lake City, waiting for permission to land.  Until Air Force Glory Boy has a heart attack and his plane collides with the jet in midair. Ouch.Particularly since September 11, it's blackly amusing to see all the passengers sitting so calmly and obediently in their seats after the collision.  Even if we were to suspend rational thought long enough to accept the idea that a collision that sucks out the first officer wouldn't be accompanied by enough pressure to suck out the entire flight crew and maybe the back wall of the flight deck, the fact that everyone just sat there, bundled up in their coats and cheesy purple airline blankets, while THE STEWARDESS IS FLYING THE PLANE? (thank you, Sid Caesar) is still hilarious to comprehend.Now, lest I give away the Cheez Whiz ending too much, let me just say that I don't understand why, if everyone else got shoved out the inflatable ramps, Karen Black and Charlton Heston were allowed to promenade dramatically down the regular steps to the tarmac (ah, those days before jetways).Anyhoo, this one is better experienced than described.  If nothing else, it's fun to spot all the Airplane parody fodder. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking shots of a Jumbo Jet,  just yards above the peaks of the Rocky Mountains...","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Stricken with a massive heart attack on his private light aircraft, Dana Andrews collides into the nose of an unsuspecting 747 jumbo jet, alternated, for bad weather, to land in Salt Lake City... Impact puts a gaping hole in the cockpit of the heavy jet... The co-pilot (Roy Thinnes) is sucked from his seat and goes flying into the wild blue space, the navigator (Erik Estrada) is killed by a falling instrument panel, the pilot (Efrem Zimbalist Jr.) is blinded, unable to speak clearly and with continuity, and he cannot fly the aircraft...Nancy (Karen Black), the flight attendant, scared but cool, has to maneuver the jumbo to safety...On the ground everyone has been alerted... Joe Patroni (George Kennedy) and Alan Murdock (Charlton Heston), decide to meet the jetliner, with 120 passengers, for a daring midair rescue...Among the passengers a famous movie star Gloria Swanson; a lovely teen-ager awaiting kidney transplant (Linda Blair); the wife and son of the airport operations chief (Susan Clark and Brian Morrison); two nuns (Martha Scott and Helen Reddy); plus a needlepoint woman; an hostile man; a dowager with dog; a Rock star and two Rock singers...Airport 1975 marks the 4th happy co-starring of Heston with Martha Scott... They were together on Broadway, and she played his mother in both The Ten Commandments, and Ben-Hur.For all the lovers of disaster films, this old-fashioned Grand Hotel of a movie does offer excitement, suspense and breathtaking shots of a Jet death-defying flight, just yards above the peaks of the Rocky Mountains... "},{"Title":"Cult classic film with none other than my favorite, Linda Blair!","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Dedicated filmgoers collect so many varied pleasures as the years go by. Who can forget the first time they saw Welles' Citizen Kane? Ozu's Tokyo Story? Antonioni's The Eclipse? What gems of insight and emotion have been mined from the works of Jean Renoir, of Max Ophuls and Fritz Lang, of Hitchcock and Mizoguchi? Yet, if I had to choose between saving all of their films or preserving Airport 75, I must admit that I would hesitate.When it comes to a film as rich as Airport 75, where does one begin? Perhaps a drum roll of the cast that adorns this archetypal 1970's disaster epic is as good a way as any to get started we have Charlton Heston and Karen Black as the leads, and, in a display of has-beens and never-was's that would make any Hollywood Squares devotee salivate, there's Susan Clark, Sid Caesar, Jerry Stiller, Norman Fell, Martha Scott, Beverly Garland, Sharon Gless, Efrem Zimbalist Jr. and Erik Estrada all on board.And that's just for starters! Myrna Loy plays an elderly tippler, Helen Reddy is a singing nun, Linda Blair is a cheerful girl in need of a kidney transplant, and, in the pièce de résistance, Gloria Swanson is.Gloria Swanson. If you loved Airplane!, which lampooned Airport 75 in particular, you should go straight back to the horse's mouth and rent this seminal entry in bad cinema.In a lengthy opening tracking shot that invites comparison with Orson Welles' similar feat in Touch of Evil, we follow cross-eyed stewardess Black into an airport as the names of the guilty keep coming and coming via the credits, a veritable orgy of cut-rate players. When the names finally stop, Heston quickly propositions our heroine. `I can do wonders in thirty minutes,' he promises, but Black's having none of it. `Maybe I'm tired of one-night stands,' she whines, as we imagine, quite against our will, the alarming image of the two of them in the sack. After she leaves him, the credits begin again and inform us that Edith Head designed the clothing (only senility can possibly excuse the neckerchiefs she gave to the stewardesses.)When asked the secret of her ageless appearance by adulatory reporters, Swanson explains, `I won't take poisoned food, I don't like it.' Nuns Martha Scott and Helen Reddy observe her impromptu press conference intently. `It's one of those Hollywood persons,' says Scott with disdain. `You mean an actress?' asks Reddy. `Or worse,' Scott replies, rolling her eyes to heaven. Black tries to shield a new blond stewardess from the lustful advances of Erik Estrada, but this novice can take care of herself. `I'm emancipated, liberated and highly skilled in Kung Fu,' she boasts. `Whatever happened to womanhood?' wonders a pilot in response.As the cast from Hell shuttle over to their flight, Swanson just won't shut up. When Norman Fell doubts if the plane will fly, Gloria says, `In 1917 I was flying in something wilder than this. You know who the pilot was? Cecil B. DeMille!' Just about everybody in Airport 75 proves to be as ready for their close-up as Swanson, especially little Linda Blair; when she is wheeled onto the plane, bad film-going delight turns into purple junk food ecstasy. She smiles satanically at everyone and says, `It's so exciting! The people are so interesting!' to her mother Nancy Olsen, who once played the ingenue in Sunset Boulevard, making this her second film with Swanson in which she doesn't share a scene with the silent diva.`Jokes' drop like potato pancake batter into deep-frying fat. `I'll take you into the lion's den,' says Black to her blond Kung Fu-fighting co-stewardess. `Who's afraid of the lion's den, I'm Jewish!' quips blondie. Later, she calls the horny Estrada a `disgrace to your race,' and truer words were never spoken. Two old ladies cluck over a book called Epicurean Sexual Delights, and another woman anxiously hides her dog. People keep saying, `You've gotta see Gloria Swanson-she looks terrific!' Yet the camp high point, of course, is the now legendary scene where Sister Helen sings a jaw-dropping song to ailing Blair about how `you best friend is yourself.' You want so much for Blair to projectile vomit pea soup all over the plucky nun, but, alas, she just keeps smiling. The plane is filled with all kinds of weird goings-on and bizarre talk, but, as far as appalling remarks go, Fell takes the cake. `I once had a girlfriend who was half French and half Chinese,' he says. `I came home one night and she ate my laundry!'Airport 75 exhibits a deliciously crummy television aesthetic. When the plane is hit, most of the pilots (including, thankfully, Estrada) are sucked out into space. As Black, The Cross Eyed Stewardess Who Has To Fly The Plane!, takes over the controls, the fact that she is traveling at airplane speed and is sitting right next to a massive hole in the cockpit is represented visually by her cast-iron hairdo blowing gently in the breeze! The way that Heston talks her through her ordeal is purely sexist, with all kinds of, `Baby, calm down honey,' stuff. It's as if all the controls were phallic-there's constant hilarious innuendo about nose dives and `keeping it up.'As for Black, who really carries the whole movie, this is an immortal performance. With her dueling lazy eyes, she is able to keep watch over all the buttons and switches at once; she flares her nostrils, bugs her freaky orbs, and even sticks out her tongue when trying to get a pilot into the plane. When Heston, in an atrocious yellow turtleneck, manages to get aboard, Black tells the passengers that they'll have to shut down one engine. I adore the voice of one of the extras who pipes in, `We're gonna die!' in a dry, matter-of-fact voice.They do land the plane without a hitch, and the ending, appropriately, belongs to Swanson. When she slides down the emergency landing shute, La Swanson's body double flashes us a glimpse of white panties (definitely the funniest image in the movie.) When her assistant murmurs that it's a good morning, Gloria says rather touchingly, `Every morning is beautiful, you're just too young to know.' This demonstrates that Airport 75 is, finally, a contemplative film about life and its finish-or at least the finish of many show biz careers.Though Airport 75 is the height of the Airport oeuvre, Airport 77 is worth checking out for Lee Grant's astoundingly bad performance as an alcoholic (on television there is also an extra hour of flashbacks to the passenger's lives!) And Airport 79 The Concorde has pilot / airline manager extraordinaire George Kennedy wrapping it all up with the line, `They don't call it the cockpit for nothing sweetheart!' as stewardess Sylvia Kristal recoils in horror. Kennedy appears in all four Airport movies as the same character, Petroni. Why anyone let this guy near an airport after a while is up for debate-it's like continuing to invite Jessica Fletcher to your parties you know someone's going to get killed. "},{"Title":"Funniest of the Airports","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Airport '75 was definitely the funniest of that series.  It was not as soap opera-esque as the original, nor was it as cheerless as '77.Humorous elements abounded The lewd young navigator (Erik Estrada, who at that point could not speak a word of Spanish, despite his seeming mastery of it here). The three obnoxious business passengers (Conrad Janis, Norman Fell, and Jerry Stiller; who would all later, as we know, go on to co-star in highly successful TV comedies)  The hapless Cid Ceasar character, who only attended this flight to see the in-flight movie, which promptly broke right before his favorite scene.The passenger areas look surprisingly comfortable, with ample space for individual passengers.  Much better, it seems, than what we are subjected to today (the mid-seventies decor notwithstanding).The mirthful subtones aside, this is a serious movie.  The pivotal point happens when a small private plane goes astray, hitting the 747 right above the windshield.  The navigator is killed, the co-pilot is sucked out through the hole (in a manner reminiscent of the commander of the imperial walker being pulled out by Chewbacca in Return of the Jedi; and the captain is incapacitated.  Poor Nancy the Stewardess (Karen Black) must seize the controls!It is up to Charlton Heston (before he became a conservative) and George Kennedy, with some help from friends in the U.S. Air Force, to save the day.Verdict, hardly a brain challenger (If you want your brain challenged, read a book, I always say!) but worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Somewhat Unintentionally Funny, But Still Enjoyable Sequel,","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 'Airport 1975' is an enjoyable follow-up to the vintage original, which see's a small aircraft collide with a 747,and leaves two pilots dead and one blinded,the amusing and often spoofed plot, has the gorgeous Karen Black, pilot the stricken craft via radio contact, Charlton Heston, plays Blacks love interest,Who comes to her aid.There is a fine cast of character actors involved in this guilty pleasure look out for Jerry Stiller,( father of Ben Stiller) Linda Blair,who was probably cast in desperate attempt to shake off her Exorcist image, her performance is sickly sweet you would swear she would start spinning her head! Comedy Legend,Sid Caesar, provides some laughs as a loud mouth bit part actor, Myrna Loy,is the alcoholic,whom Caesar tries to woo, popular singer Helen Reddy, is cast as a nun, who provides the films many unintentional moments which arguably inspired 'Airplane!s many laughs,Despite the film's slating's over the years, 'Airport 1975' is an enjoyable romp from the time-capsule that is the 70's, "},{"Title":"The stewardess is flying the plane?","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It wasn't until the 70s disaster movie craze was well under way that Universal got round to a sequel to its 1970 blockbuster Airport &#150; largely because the lucrative profits deals Lancaster and Martin secured on the first film made reassembling the original cast impractical (though George Kennedy did return to provide a vague fig leaf of continuity). It wasn't until producer Jennings Lang came across a script intended as a TV movie that some bright spark thought of slapping the Airport brand on it, adding 1975 to the title and abandoning the actual Airport aspect to concentrate on the planes in jeopardy instead.The result, Airport 1975 (actually released in 1974) is the other movie that Airplane! lampooned mercilessly, what with sick transplant patients, Hare Krishnas and singing nuns among the passengers, not to mention Charlton Heston in safari suit and shades providing the blueprint for Robert Stack's Rex Kramer and Gloria Swanson in the kind of comeback role that could have been written by Joe Gillis for Norma Desmond (although it was supposedly intended for Garbo). In fact, Swanson wrote her own anecdote-filled dialogue, and boy does it show &#150; this isn't a part, it's a chat show appearance.Swanson isn't the only star of yesteryear bulking up the cast, with Myrna Loy knocking back several boilermakers, Sid Caesar providing the odd wisecrack while Dana Andrews, every drink he ever took etched onto his face, gets his own back for Effrem Zimbalist crashing into his plane in The Crowded Sky by crashing into Zimbalist's 747 this time round, leaving stewardess Karen Black to fly the plane until Chucky baby comes to the rescue, taking off his shades for a midair transfer that's a mixture of daring stuntwork and pitiful backprojection. Yet it's surprisingly entertaining, superbly photographed by veteran Philip Lathrop, much better directed by Jack Smight than it has any right to be and, as the shortest entry in the series at 107 minutes, keeps things tight enough not to leave too much room to dwell on the absurdities. Well, almost if ever there was a moment where Linda Blair projectile vomiting on a member of the cloth was not just absolutely justifiable but positively mandatory it's when Helen Reddy sings about her best friend being herself, but sadly Linda doesn't deliver the pea soup on this occasion. But while we may scoff today, Jennings Lang knew what he was doing &#150; no singing nun movie has ever lost money at the box-office, and the film was a big enough hit to guarantee two more sequels with considerably bigger budgets, though not before, in one of those nasty ironies the series is prone to, Dana Andrews' light aircraft in the film really was destroyed in a mid-air collision in 1975. Oh, and if the midair footage looks familiar, that's because Universal recycled it for years, most memorably in the 747 episode of The Incredible Hulk TV series. "},{"Title":"Routine melodrama, ripe for parody","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" AIRPORT 1975 Aspect ratio 2.391 (Panavision)Sound format MonoA terrified stewardess (Karen Black) is forced to take the controls of a Boeing 747 after it's struck by a private aircraft in mid-flight, incapacitating the entire air crew.Anyone who's seen the likes of AIRPLANE! (1980) is going to chuckle in all the wrong places whilst viewing this opportunistic melodrama, which was ripe for parody long before the Zucker brothers tore it apart in their landmark comedy. On its own terms, Jack Smight's film - devised in the wake of such ultra-successful disaster spectaculars as THE POSEIDON ADVENTURE (1972) and THE TOWERING INFERNO (1974) - is a surprisingly routine affair, directed with complete indifference, and played to the hilt by a commercially-dictated 'all-star cast', including Helen Reddy, Gloria Swanson (her final screen appearance), Linda Blair, Dana Andrews, Sid Caesar, Myrna Loy and Charlton Heston as an experienced pilot summoned by authorities to help land the plane safely. Black gives a truly committed performance as the frightened stewardess forced to confront the situation head-on, and she's matched by disaster-movie stalwart George Kennedy as a flight engineer charged with overseeing the rescue operation, knowing that his wife and child are aboard the stricken plane. As with all Universal movies of the period, it looks like a widescreen TV feature, and the cheapskate production values are obvious throughout. That said, it's much more entertaining than its mediocre predecessor AIRPORT (1969); followed by AIRPORT '77 (1977). "},{"Title":"Favourite Quote","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Just caught this on TV. My favourite quote has to be  How much damage is there ? Oh not much, there's just a big hole where the pilots usually sit!Overall its a reasonable film (much better than its sequel where a 747 drowns but remains intact long enough for everyone to be rescued. Its a typical disaster movie, which is nowhere near the league of Poseiden or Inferno. Its an enjoyable pass of 2 hours, but its all by the numbers ie identify characters, disaster, failed rescues, successful rescue. It looks very dated now, but then again it is 30 years old. Oh and the hairstyles are fantastic! "},{"Title":"Plastic acting   and stock characters detailing a hectic flight in 747 Boeing","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is the second of four movies in the Airport series . It's exciting and amusing but full clichés and stereotypes with mediocre performance by all star cast . The movie is another jetliner epic with hero Heston . A commercial airline of the American Airlines 747 Boeing ( piloted by Efrem Zimbalist Jr. , Roy Thinnes , Erik Estrada ) is crashed to another smaller plane (piloted by Dana Andrews) . Then the flight attendant ( Karen Black who brings conviction to her character as dedicated stewardess turned pilot ) taking on control of the dangerous travel and forcing daring rescue attempt ( by Ed Flanders and Heston) . The film is detailing hectic flighty piloted by a stewardess and the relationship among passengers . All clichéd and stock roles with regurgitation of all usual stereotypical situations from disaster films , the nuns ( Helen Reddy as singing nun and Martha Scott ), an aging alcoholic woman (Myrna Loy , but Joan Crawford was firstly approached to play the character who turned down), nervous passengers , an old actress (Gloria Swanson) . Taking place on freeze skies and Rocky Mountains as background , the airplane heading to Salt Lake City . If you've seen the original ¨Airport¨ ( by George Seaton ) based on the Arthur Hailey's novel 'the daddy of them all' , you have seen them all .The picture contains thriller, suspense , drama , moderate tension and is quite entertaining although with some flaws and gaps . Filmed at the height of the disaster genre from the 7os , this entry in the spectacular series profits of a strong acting by Charlton Heston who spent time on a simulator in preparation for the role , bringing life to character , he also starred a similar role at ¨ Skyjacked (1972) ¨ by John Guillermin . Gloria Swanson performs herself in her ending movie . Look quickly to Nancy Olson , Linda Blair , Sid Caesar, Beverly Garland , Norman Fell and Jerry Stiller , Ben Stiller's father , among others . And of course appears the classic character Patroni played by usual George Kennedy . The motion picture is regularly directed by Jack Smight , habitual TV director and occasionally for theater ( Midway , Harper , No way to treat a lady ) . It's an inoffensive diversion but is sometimes tediously unspooled and it was parodied heavily in Airplane! (1980) by Jim Abrahams and David Zucker . The film will appeal to Charlton Heston fans and disaster genre enthusiasts . "},{"Title":"The suspense of this movie is why do I keep watching it?","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is laughingly bad. Gloria Swanson looks like she's wearing a makeup factory. Charlton Heston wears some frightening looking outfits. Karen Black, the best actress of the cast, is trying to take it all seriously but you know she's thinking Just think about the money! Just think about the money! The effects look like they were shot in someone's garage. George Kennedy says lines like He dropped his old fashioned wrench, which are apparently supposed to bring down the house. Dana Andrews looks like he's incredibly bored. And Larry Storch in a serious role? Larry Storch? A mistake has been made here. Granted, the shots of the full plane in action are pretty good. But for all of this, I watch it, I am drawn to it like a moth to a flame every time it's on. I even bought the video tape. You know why? Because it's so bad it's good. Gloria Swanson's last line in the movie is the best. Why did they wait until her last line to have a good line in the movie? Myrna Loy is good - actually, she really shines with this crowd.  "}{"Title":"The inspiration for all the clichés and spoofs to follow","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have read many of the viewer comments on this film and I can say that most were right on target so there isn't much point in my repeating what they've already said.My main comment would be Save yourself the time and expense to see this film and rent Airplane! instead. They are essentially the same film with the only real distinction being that Airplane! actually was intended to be a comedy.... and a damned good one at that. In fact, as I recall, Airplane! was named the best comedy ever made by the American Film Institute. This is quite phenomenal when you consider that it was nothing but a spoof of Airport 1975. And this may be the one and only truly distinctive aspect of Airport 1975. That is, it did inspire a truly great film. Otherwise, it had very few redeeming qualities. The film is nothing but a haphazardly thrown together collection of all the film clichés that could be squeezed into the allotted run time. I recently watched it for the first time since its original release mostly out of sheer curiosity. I remembered it being bad.... as all the sequels to Airport were. They were all presumably made as serious films but they were all so sloppily made with such terrible scripts that you couldn't help wonder why they weren't just released as comedies in the first place. For example, as has been well documented in other viewer comments, how could anyone take Linda Blair's and Helen Reddy's roles seriously? I mean, how could they keep straight faces with the scenario and dialogue they were supposed to work with? All that was missing was a laugh track.I am glad I read some of the IMDb comments as I was viewing Airport 1975 on AMC because they really added to my enjoyment of the comic aspects of the film. As I said, this was the first time I had watched it in about 30 years and in the meantime I had of course seen Airplane! But until rewatching Airport 1975 I did not realize the degree to which Airplane! was inspired by Airport 1975. At times, I was dumbstruck at how scene after scene were all spoofs of actual scenes from Airport 1975. And this made the film very entertaining to me when otherwise I may have just hit the channel button on the remote after the first 10 minutes of so of the drivel that Airport 1975 actually is.  "},{"Title":"Up there with the best of the Disaster Movies","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  AIRPORT 1975 not only has a great cast and special effects it has a reputation that has lasted the 25 years since its release. I first heard of this movie when I first watched the original Airport and everyone said great things about it and I would have to agree. Karen Black ,though her eyes throw you off, gives a great performance as the stewardess who has to fly the plane after the flight crew is killed or hurt by a small plane which crashes into the plane. Charlton Heston, George Kennedy and the rest of the cast are great and keep this movie going from the word GO! I also love the score which has to be one of my favorites!! 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A real airline disaster hall-of-famer","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" How can you not like this ride? After all, so many other pictures have been spawned from its storyline, dialogue and quotes. So much technically wrong in it that it doesn't matter - it's a hoot! And was it really the beginning of the end for Karen Black? I'm ready to book my ticket aboard Columbia 409 again and again - the costumes, the trite script but what really makes the movie is the superb aerial photography. Although every modern professional Air Crew member would cringe at the (far too often portrayed) Pilot = Hero who saves the day and Flight Attendant = Bimbo who makes Tea formula of this film, it is nonetheless well worth adding to any collection! But the real question is - what was Gloria Swanson doing with her head down her top as they approached Salt Lake City? - By the way this was her last film and she insisted on writing her own lines - and it shows! Enjoy 10/10 "},{"Title":"Cheesy, silly, unnecessary sequel","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER!!! Help us!  Oh, my God, help us! Stewardess Nancy Pryor screams into the radio at one point in Airport 1975.  She may as well have been speaking for the audience that was suckered into seeing this cheesy, silly and unnecessary sequel to the excellent 1970 suspense classic Airport, one of those rare sequels that is so bad it actually dimishes the original in stature.The film opens with Nancy (Karen Black) meeting her pilot boyfriend Al Murdock (Charlton Heston) at Washington D.C.'s Dulles International Airport. Both are headed back to L.A., Al on an earlier flight, but Nancy has something important to talk to him about and wants him to wait and fly back with her.  He has an important meeting and can't.  She gets p*ssed (PMS maybe?) and blows him off.  They part, and you know nothing good will come of it.  It's not long before Nancy is working her flight, the red-eye special, a non-stop cross country overnighter.  The flight crew is composed of Capt. Stacy (Efrem Zimbalist, Jr.), the co-pilot (Roy Thinnes) and Flight Engineer (Erik Estrada).  Since this is typical Hollywood filmmaking, the stereotypes run rampant  the captain is a good, stable family man, the other two lecherous, rude, chauvanistic dopes, while the stewardesses are beautiful, young midwestern refugees like cute young Bette (Christopher Norris).  And then there are the passengers  a bunch of drunken Conventioneers (Jerry Stiller, Norman Fell, et al), a couple of professional football players, two nuns (Martha Scott, Helen Reddy--Helen Reddy???!!!), the wife of the vice president of operations Mrs. Patroni (Susan Clark), an old drunken matron (Myrna Loy), a pathetic wannabe actor (Sid Caesar) and a famous movie star (Gloria Swanson) and her assistant (Augusta Summerland). And then there's the last to board--a dying kidney patient being flown to California for a kidney transplant (Linda Blair) and her mother (Nancy Olson).  More about THAT later.About the same time the plane takes off, small pilot Scott Freeman (Dana Andrews) is about to leave Boise, Idaho, evidently to fly south for the winter.  (Actually, I'm being a smart*ss.  He's going home from a business meeting.)  He decides to make the trip even though the weather is terrible, which has no bearing whatsoever on what happens next.  Anyway, after wasting a half-hour or so of screen time on silly banter between the passengers and crew and a famously parodied scene (see Airplane) involving Reddy's singing nun and Blair, the pilots inform the passengers they have to land in Salt Lake City since the entire West Coast is socked in with fog (more about this later also). Ditto Scott Freeman.  Unfortunately for everyone involved, Freeman has a heart attack and plows into the 747, blowing a hole in the cockpit, killing Thinnes and Estrada, blinding Zimbalist and leaving Nancy to fly the plane, which brings us back to where we began, with the classic  Help us!  Oh, my God, help us!  I won't give away any more of the plot, although it's predictable what's going to happen, since there are no pilots on the plane and the film's hero (Heston) is on the ground. Oh, and did I mention George Kennedy returns as the original picture's most popular character Joe Patroni?  He's been promoted from airline troubleshooter to the aforementioned vice president of operations and his wife and son are also on board, so he becomes Heston's sidekick in the rescue attempt.So what's wrong with this film?  Oh, let me count the ways.  The script, for one, is horrible.  Don Ingalls, a former airline pilot is responsible for this lumbering and boring pile of cliched characters and hackneyed dialog. The direction by '70's hack Jack Smight is singularly uninspired and wooden, failing to coax a single winning performance out of what is a pretty impressive cast.  The attempts at humor are preposterous  are we to believe an out-of-work actor could afford to fly cross-country simply because of his pathetic bit part in the on-flight movie?  And that it's funny to watch Myrna Loy order a boilermaker?  The only thing funny here is some of the dialog, and that's unintentional  Bette to Nancy  This sure beats Ogallala, Kansas!  (Well, Bette, I hate to tell you this but Ogallala is in NEBRASKA, dimwit!)  And then there's the whole subplot involving the kidney patient, which is absolutely ridiculous.  No doctor would ever okay a girl in that poor of health to fly cross country to get a kidney transplant. They'd fly the kidney to her on a special flight!  It would be quicker in the long run!  I'm sorry I'm shouting, but I hate when my intelligence is insulted in a movie.  And speaking of insulting, being from California, I have to say never, in my 40 years of life, never have I seen the entire West Coast socked in by fog.  It is impossible.  They could have flown into Ontario or any of a number of inland airports in the region.Anyway, suspense is minimal since you know how this one will end, although in real life not three years later a similar mid-air collision resulted in nearly 150 deaths and the obliteration of a North Park neighborhood in San Diego, which amplifies how preposterous the entire enterprise is.  As for the acting, it is lazy and uninspired with one exception  Karen Black actually tries to give a semblance of a performance and is plucky and believable throughout.  Kennedy also at least tries to liven up some deadly dialog, but Heston (the once great actor reduced lately to national joke as the one-note arch-Conservative NRA President), is stiff and actually looks at times like he'd like to put a bag over his head so noone will recognize it is him in this giant pile of silliness.  Noone else registers much more than a blip on the interest scale, although you'll never forget Reddy in a full habit kissing her rosary, counting her beads and belting out inspirational folk tunes while strumming a guitar in one of the all-time great camp performances.  And as for Gloria Swanson, she evidently smelled the stench that was the script early on and wrote all her own dialog, which is why she spends the entire film talking about the benefits of health food and not eating poison foods--her favorite talk-show subject at the time. Worst of all, though, is watching the great comedian Sid Caesar and the great actress Myrna Loy reduced to picking up paychecks as pathetic, sleazy caricatures who matter not one iota to the film or the plot.  They could have blown out of the cockpit hole along with Thinnes and Estrada and no one would have noticed.  Is that any way to treat two legends?Finally, a couple of interesting notes  look closely behind Karen Black when she addresses the passengers near the end of the film and you'll see a very young (and slim) Sharon Gless, looking beautiful and grinning from ear-to-ear.  But look quick, because that's her entire role, even though she's listed in the beginning credits.  Also, the beautiful young woman who plays Swanson's assitant is credited as Augusta Summerland, aka Linda Harrison, aka Nova in the original Planet of the Apes.  Just in case you're interested.  *1/2 (out of *****)  "},{"Title":"My all-time favorite Airport film","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this delightfully hokey disaster treat after enduring a hellishly awful day at work and it sure as hell perked up my previously sagging spirits. I felt pretty damn secure and contented by the time the ending credits rolled, because by then I came to the realization that as bad as my cruddy job is (and trust me it can be nightmarishly horrid at times), I've never, ever been subjected to a nerve-wracking ordeal half as harrowing as the grueling fix poor Karen Black finds herself in in this movie. I mean, Karen has got a really rough road to hoe the co-pilot and radarman of the plane she's a stewardess on get creamed when a small private plane smacks into the cockpit, the captain gets blinded, the plane's leaking gasoline, and Black herself has to fly the bulky, creaking, floundering thing through hazardous mountainous terrain with only Mr. Steely Stalwart Iron Jaw himself Chuck Heston and lovably gruff Airport series perennial George Kennedy talking her through the trying endeavor over a faulty CB radio.Alright, so the whole story sounds hopelessly ridiculous -- and it is hopelessly ridiculous, to be brutally honest. Yet, it's the dead seriousness of the script, acting and direction, all done with that right-on clunky sincerity that gives 70's disaster features their cheesy greatness, which makes this endearingly earnest foolishness such top-rate tacky trash. Better still, the usual boring subplots that often clutter these pictures are pleasingly curtailed here; the characters are neatly established with utmost briskness and the basic plot kicks in by the 30 minute mark, thereby keeping tedium at bay.Naturally, this darling boasts one hell of an all-star line-up Efrem Zimbalist, Jr., Roy Thinnes and Erik Estrada as the doomed flight crew, Sid Caeser, Norman Fell, Conrad Janis and Jerry Stiller as obnoxiously dorky middle-aged swingers, Nancy Olsen as a cute blonde stewardess, Dana Andrews, Linda Blair (fresh from her smashing success in The Exorcist) as a sickly, yet perky little girl who needs a new kidney or its Stiff City buddy, Larry Storch as a jerky scoop-chasing TV reporter, 50's AIP creature feature regulars Ed Nelson and Beverly Garland, Guy Stockwell, terminally insufferable pop singer Helen Reddy as an unbearably sweet nun, Gloria Swanson as herself, Myrna Loy, a pre-Cagney and Lacey Sharon Gless in a quick bit, Susan Clark, Martha Scott, and even Assault on Precinct 13 survivor Austin Stoker as an Air Force sergeant. All are tremendous fun to watch, but Karen Black clearly cops the top acting honors permanently crossed saucer eyes wide with fright, a look of grim determination firmly fixed on her lovely face, and jaws tightly clenched, the extraordinary Ms. Black gives the kind of remarkably committed performance which inadvertently exposes this howler as the idiotic junk that it truly is. Swanson likewise maintains her composure throughout, displaying a poise and classiness that's jarringly at odds with everyone else's sweaty, gritty, panic-stricken histrionics. Veteran bungler Jack Smight, the same all-thumbs dude responsible for the incredibly atrocious post-nuke sci-fi dud Damnation Alley, directed this sucker with his customary artless rent-a-hack craftsmanship. Smight's totally straight-faced dimestore workmanlike efficiency works like gangbusters for this entertainingly dopey nonsense, thus clinching this honey's sterling status as a super schlocky slice of airborne 70's thrills'n'spills absurdity. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you may think","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A mid-air collision leaves a 747 without a pilot. Charlton Heston, Karen Black and George Kennedy star in this campy far fetched adventure. Acting is wooden and unconvincing and the plot ranges from strange to absurd but the air sequences are by far the best in any air disaster film and well worth a look. It is a typical disaster film for it's time but is thankfully one of the good ones unlike The Concorde or The Swarm. People give it a hard time claiming it to be one of the worst films ever made but it obviously isn't as there are many millions of mainstream films worse than this and many worse disaster movies if you want proof watch any of Irwin Allen's late 70's productions. "},{"Title":"I liked it then and now","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I loved this movie as a 12 year-old kid - and it was a chance to see Linda Blair in a theatrical movie I was ALLOWED to see - I wasn't allowed to watch the Exorcist until it was on CBS a few years later.Anyway, I thought this movie was very exciting back then and it was nice to see all of those familiar faces - especially Helen Reddy, of whom I was a big fan back then.Now - it's 33 years later (can it be so? Fraid so) and I watched this again on ONDEMAND recently, and I was laughing my head off - at just about everything - Heston's clothes, Blair's pluckiness even though she could drop dead at any second, and especially Erik Estrada's on screen death. At first I thought oh God, what's HE doing in this? Then I saw he was one of the pilots and thought good - oh, I hope he gets sucked out of the jet. It would've been nice if he made his exit along the lines of Slim Pickens in Dr. Strangelove.As the title of my review suggests, I like this movie as much as I did then, but for entirely different reasons - it's very easy to imagine what must've gone on inside the Zucker Brothers' heads while watching this.If you have ONDEMAND, check it out - it's in the free movies section. I'm thinking of getting this on DVD - although I wouldn't hold my breath for the Criterion Collection edition. "},{"Title":"Let Me Get You A Drink!!!  .....the Pilot is flying the plane!!","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Chuck full of stars...cross eyed beauty Karen Black, Moses himself Charlston Heston, demon possessed Linda Blair, lesbian singer Helen Reddy, CHIP'S Erik Estrada, 3's company Normal Fell a.k.a Mister Roper, screen legend Gloria Swanson in her last role, etc. This is perhaps the best of the Airport flicks, full of suspense and thrilling moments, near perfect cinematography, even the score adds to the bone chilling excitement. I was truly entertained throughout the whole film. The 747 was decorated in 1970's vomit! purples and yellows!! the girls with lots of hairspray and false eyelashes...I love when the stewardess says to the frightened passengers, let me give you a drink, the pilot is flying the plane now!! ha ha "},{"Title":"Ya gotta love it","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love 70's disaster films.  I love movies that are unintentionally funny. I love bad acting and shoddy production values.  I love Karen Black. Throw in a lil' Linda Blair, Beverly Garland, Myrna Loy, Helen Reddy, Jerry Stiller, and a host of other fine actors and ya got this laugh-fest.  Nuff said. "},{"Title":"Yes, it's bad but I never changed the channel.","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Just about every 1970s disaster cliché and typical cast member is present in this ludicrous, yet entertaining movie. The first of a long line of sequels to the original Airport from 1970, this film raises the bar in terms of ridiculous situations and casting of washed-up actors. One cannot however ignore the interesting scenario of an untrained person having to fly a jumbo jet if the entire crew somehow would become incapacitated.Karen Black (an underrated talent) plays the lead stewardess on a 747 flight who has to take over the flying duties after a Cessna crashes into the cockpit and either kills or severely wounds the pilots. Luckily the script only calls for her having to make adjustments to the plane's course instead of actually bringing it safely into the gate! Instead, the plan is to lower a trained pilot from a jet helicopter into the 747 cockpit so he can make the landing. Of course there are complications involving sick passengers, fuel leaks, mountains, and finding a good rug for Charleton Heston to wear. Can this motley crew of actors bring the plane down safely?? I wonder.You gotta love the casts of these kind of movies. I can take Cid Ceasar, Myrna Loy, Gloria Swanson, and Linda Blair as passengers. I can hold my nose and accept Helen Reddy as a singing nun. The welcome sight of George Kennedy in some sort of administrative role certainly helps. But what in the world was former NFL quarterback Jim Plunkett doing on board? And sitting in coach, yet?? I guess he hadn't won a superbowl yet, so he didn't rate first class! 6 of 10 stars.The Hound. "}{"Title":"Under rated","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Comedy parodies of this movie has set a trend to ridicule this great film.It is a great classic and weak minded fools better stop following the stupid equation that just because an artform happens to be great to parody in a comedic manner does not mean that the original serios artform is also funny and ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as most people think and Karen Black is not  BUG EYED","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If they had never done the 1980 comedy Airplane then Im sure the comments I have read for Airport 75 would not be half as bad. I think most people who see this after viewing Airplane can not do anything but think about Airplane. Just like the comedian on Jay Leno who does President Bush. All I can picture while watching President Bush now (Especially after Hurricane Katrina) is that darned comedian. Airport 75 is the same way for most people. I do have to admit that the movie has some strange characterization and dialogue at the beginning with all the veteran actors but HEY, that only adds to the interest for me. Airport 75 is not near as ridiculous as the original Airport. I mean come on, Dean Martin as the pilot. I kept waiting for his alcoholic ass to pull a bottle of Seagrams from under his seat. Also, I'm sick of hearing everyone on here focus on Karen Black's eyes, one reviewer even said she was bug-eyed. Bug-Eyed???? She is neither bug-eyed nor cross- eyed. She has very deep set, cat-like eyes that to me are very sexy in a strange, unsettling sort of way. I really don't think it is her eye make-up either because I have seen her in other movies where she is much younger and wears less make-up. Her eyes still have that kind of evil, unsettling look. Anyway, to me this movie is great fun and I think all the main stars (George K., Charlton H., and Karen B.) all do best what they have always done best- SELL, SELL, SELL their parts. By the way, the AMC version they are showing now is so cut up and is not even widescreen. You are missing a lot of the scenes and dialogue(they even cut out anyone saying Damn It), as well as lot of the picture is gone due to full screen cropping. Rent the 235 widescreen version or buy it as I did, forget about Airplane, remember that movies are only for entertainment, and watch it again. By the way, I also absolutely love Airplane and am eagerly awaiting the new Don't call me Shirly edition. "},{"Title":"As good as the first, but in it's own way!","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I watched the first Airport last Friday night, it took me about 30-45 minutes to get into it but once i did i enjoyed it. Airport 1975, however, i got into straight away but lost some interest during the last half-hour but gained it back at the end!In Airport '75, Columia Airlines has to make an emergency landing in Salt Lake due to severe fog, but as they are landing, a smaller aircraft crashes into the Columbia, severely injuring or killing all of the crew, leaving poor stewardess Nancy in control.With George Kennedy and the gang helping her every step of the way, they soon realise some rough terrain, which would be to much for Nancy, so they send a trained pilot onto the plane via a massive hole the smaller aircraft left, who lands the plane to safety, saving over 100 lives!The bottom line is - This is quite a good film, nothing special but still worth watching.7/10 "},{"Title":"Big stars, big plane, big fun","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Dana Andrews is flying a small private airplane in bad weather (oops, he should have known better...), when he suddenly gets seriously ill and collides with a 747. The lives of the chic passengers are in danger, but luckily enough George Kennedy and Charlton Heston are ready to save the day. The film is very predictable, but you get what you expect. Not great, but entertaining and well made (with a real 747 instead of fake models or computer generated effects, as would have been the case if the film had been done 20 years later).  "},{"Title":"This is Columbia 409...","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ahhh, this is delightfully undiluted Hollywood dreck of the most charming and enjoyable kind. Everything.. the dialog, the music, the look has that soap opera look.It's been said that this project started out as a TV movie but got bumped up to a feature film along the way. The script still sounds like a TV movie and the special effects are very uneven. The large scale airplane shots are great and very cinematic. Some cockpit scenes use badly matched rear projection while others cockpit rear projection scenes look fantastic.Cliques' abound everywhere, as in the portrayal of Gloria Swanson by... Gloria Swanson. Most of her lines are so delightfully stereotypical it makes Ginger from Gilligan's Island look complex.  Of course, I never did anything I was expected to do...Then there is Linda Blair who seems to be on a mission with her role as a hopeful kidney transplant patient. That mission is to tell the world You see, I'm not I'm not a Demon monster, like I played in The Exorcist. I *really am* nice. At the time, the Hollywood Press was paranoid with the effect making The Exorcist had on Linda Blair.So, in response to this, Linda plays the Kidney patient with a nose scruntching, smiling sweetness that makes you think she is possessed once again... by a Von Trapp kid.Still, I thought Linda Blair would end up launching pea soup at Sister Helen Ready as she sang that... song.Charlton Heston is his ultra macho self and whenever he's in a movie, I'm usually loving it. This is no exception.I was a kid when this came out and there was this glamourous, sleek mystique to airplanes and airports for me. Flying was a much more exclusive and expensive thing back then, before deregulation. Also, seeing these giant pieces of metal leave the ground was almost like magic and yes, it would be a thrill to be in it but... what if something went wrong?So, it was with these feelings that I went to see this movie with in early 1976. I really was wanting to see JAWS and it was just a happy accident that JAWS was double featured with this movie. Seeing one movie in a theater was a special deal for me. Seeing two was practically an event.I came out of the theater thrilled with both movies, thinking they were cut from the same cloth. Of course, as we come to now, JAWS is still an indisputable classic and one of the best movies of it's type ever.Airport 1975... well... provided 90% of the inspiration for one of the best comedies ever Airplane!. Airport 1975 itself is a campy, fun, escapist thriller/adventure. It's cinematic junk food that tastes terrific. It's nostalga to me doesn't hurt it a bit either.Airport 1975 has a kinship with Earthquake, in that both had Charlton Heston and George Kennedy. Both provided Universal television shows (The Incredible Hulk, Battlestar Galactica, etc.)with opportunities to build shows around the stock footage they could use from both films (The Hulk gets stuck on an airplane that is Columibia 409, A simulation of a cylon attack uses Earthquake's scenes of destruction, The Hulk gets stuck in an Earthquake's earthquake too).Both became events when they came to network TV, adding (or even filming) additional scenes to make a full evening (or even a 2 evening) television event.Both had those 1 sheet posters with several little mug shots of all the stars in the movie.Both are sometimes laughable in terms of characters and story but are remarkably lovable none the less. "},{"Title":"Awfully boring, yet entertaining somehow...","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  True this movie isn't very good and it's kinda boring...I still get a high enjoyment level out of it for all the unintended laughs - of which there are many.  And how can you go wrong with Karen Black in control of a plane filled with these stars?  I think this installment of the Airport series is the best and funniest. You might need to keep your remote handy though (for fast forwarding, rewinding or freeze-framing...watch Karen wiggle her tongue when they lower Charlton Heston into the plane mid-air!) "},{"Title":"All in Good Fun","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This one is in no way superior to the original Airport and is not even as good as Airport 77(had a better cast). This one is a who's who of TV actors(Norman Fell, Conrad Janis, Jerry Stiller) and had many more annoying characters than Airport or Airport 77. Come on! Jerry Stiller(don't think he or is son are funny, IMO) slept through the whole damn mid air collision. Charlton Heston(I'm not a big fan of his strained face and dialogue) gave a gutsy but annoying performance as did Karen Black. I love how the Carol Burnett Show spoofed this film calling it Disaster 75. Burnett even spoofed her own show in this spoof. Still, take this film for face value. I hate when a lot of people critique a movie and call it this was predictable, this was garbage. Look, in my opinion movies are to entertain not enlighten. If a comedy or romance film has the same old plot, who cares as long as it's fun getting to the predictable ending. Just sit back and enjoy the ride unless the film is utterly boring. Airport 75 is camp, kitch, soap opera, but FUN TO WATCH! I was surprised that the film allowed a female heroine this time. Back then, most stewardesses were considered air heads and this being the height of women's lib you'd think the producer/studio would shy away from making the stewardess somewhat capable. But maybe it was reverse psychology?? I did enjoy George Kennedy's role this time as a Big Wig unlike his role in the original Airport. To see his pained expression as he tries to talk to his helpless wife and son...I enjoy seeing an actor in an unfamiliar element. IMO, Sid Caesar's character should have been sucked out that hole and Erik Estrada...say no more. This film always reminds me of that Aloha Airlines incident in the 1980's where the fuesalage(sorry for any typo) came apart in midair causing a huge whole, though no one was lost or killed in that incident. Just check Airport 75 out for curiosity sake, if you happen to catch it on TV. "},{"Title":"Truly incompetent.","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I was ten I dragged my poor mother along to see this dreadful movie, because at the time I was a bit of a fan of Helen Reddy (c'mon Delta Dawn's still pretty cool!).  I remember finding it rivetting.  Now it is not only laughably bad, it's also pretty boring.  In 1975 I had no idea who Gloria Swanson or Myrna Loy were - let alone Martha Scott or Nancy Olson.  Now I mourn their presence in the film - why do they all have absolutely nothing to do!?  Once the film gets going the only thing the writer and director seem to know to do with all this great talent is flash occasionally to them looking worried.  I wonder what these great actors thought when they read the script - okay for fifty pages now all I say is I'm sure we'll all be fine!?!  How on earth did Helen Reddy win the most promising newcomer award at the Golden Globes?  For the last hour of the film her only line is yes, dear!  And why was Linda Blair clutching a guitar desperately to her bosom if she couldn't play it?  Obviously just in case a singing nun should happen to be passing by!One of the funniest stories about this film is that the producers approached Greta Garbo to play the Gloria Swanson role.  Can you imagine Garbo breaking her long retirement for this!  Poor Gloria, playing herself in her final film, comes across as a pontificating know-it-all, boring her poor secretary senseless with stories of the good old days.  Myrna Loy has an occasional gleam in her eye when working with Sid Caesar, shame they couldn't think of any lines for her to say.So, ignoring the true talent on board, most of the lines go to Charlton Heston at his teeth-gritting worst.  Full marks to Karen Black for keeping a straight face, and allowing later film-makers so much to parody Does anyone here know how to fly a plane? (Airplane!).  If you get a chance read the MAD send-up in which Linda Blair is flying without a heart and Helen Reddy sings a song called We're all going to die and go to hell someday.Did the Universal executives add the joke of naming the airline Columbia?One final point - why do all those ugly old men have such beautiful young wives and girlfriends?  Another film executive fantasy? "},{"Title":"Take To The Skies On Board A Campy 70s Flight","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A disaster movie about a Boeing 747 that collides with a smaller plane and is left without a pilot. This film now being viewed 40 yrs after it was made is quite memorable for all the right and wrong reasons. On board we have an array of old time movie stars that if you are under a certain age wont know anything about, Gloria Swanson, Myrna Loy mean anything to you? We have pilots that put women's lib back about 20 yrs with talk that these days would result in a possible sexual harassment suit and we have Linda Exorcist Blair as a girl needing a kidney transplant, being possessed the year before must of played havoc with her organs. Add a singing nun and a passenger list of virtually every cliché you can think of and we are ready for take off!About 40 mins into our perilous flight, disaster strikes and we are left without any pilots, What are we going to do? The first thing I would of done is ask if anyone on board has the required skills but no, head stewardess Karen Black finds her inner action heroine and takes control. The remainder of this daft, corny but at times irresistible and unintentionally funny film is taken up by the attempts to land the plane before Mrs Black smashes it into an on coming mountain. Thankfully for the little lady, Charlton Heston and George Kennedy are on hand to save us and land the plane and send it on it's way into 70's campy greatness.Modern, big budget, special effect blockbusters were just finding their feet when this 'action movie' came out and the film does have some good points Karen Black is good in her role and shows that women on planes can do more than just hand out tea, some of the action scenes although very dated are well handled and the impending doom does keep things fairly interesting. So if you don't expect to much from this old disaster movie you are probably in for a fairly pleasant but windy flight. "},{"Title":"better than the first one","Date":"4 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Grown up in full slasher era and the disaster flicks this is one I still remember. And after seen it again (40 years later) I liked it even more then the first entry into this franchise. Karen Black (Nancy Pryor) do takes the lead here as an air hostess trying to rescue a 747. Again, but less here, as in the original Airport it's a big commercial for Boeing. But they don't say it that much as in the first one. Nevertheless, it's still worth picking up even as many doesn't like this flick because what we do see can't happen. It didn't bother me at all, it's funny to see Erik Estrada (Julio) coming from CHIPS and Linda Blair (Janice Abbott) in a small part. Charlton Heston (Alan Murdock) is the hero after all. And George Kennedy returns as Joe Patroni the man with technical advice. But not only the flick itself is worth seeing after all those years, again, the way they do fly back then. The commander smoking cigars in full air. Turnable chairs in first class, free booze even if you are drunk. The effects are a bit outdated, just see the impact with the small airplane as a POV from the cockpit. That doesn't work at all but hey, it's a flick from the seventies, full with coming stars and well known faces from that era.Gore 0/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 2/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0/5 "}{"Title":"One of the 100 Most Enjoyably Bad Films Ever Made?","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Golden Raspberry Founder John Wilson thought so whereas the author of The Fifty Worst Films of All Time felt Airport 1975 made the cut. Throw together a dizzying vortex of clichés in one film and you're likely to come up with a Team America World Police or an Airport 1975 but to be fair, Airport 1975 originated some of the howlers which would be lampooned and loved for years to come. Karen Black stars as a stewardess forced to pilot a damaged 747 following it's collision with a small aircraft. Charlton Heston plays her daring lover who tries to talk her down by growling lines like; Climb, Baby, Climb!. With a typical all star cast in place (Helen Reddy, Gloria Swanson, Linda Blair, etc) Airport 1975 gets straight to the action and keeps the suspense and laughs (intentional or otherwise) coming. One of the best disaster pics of the 70s. "},{"Title":"Oh, who's afraid of the lion's den? I'm Jewish!","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" All-star sequel to the classic disaster movie Airport. Hilariously campy, ridiculous, and silly, but also undeniably fun. This one's the primary basis for the spoof movie, Airplane!. The leads this time are Charlton Heston and Karen Black. But the real star of any Airport movie is George Kennedy as Joe Patroni. He gets all the best lines. In addition to a job promotion in this film, he gets a younger and prettier wife, too. Among the other cast members are Myrna Loy, Linda Blair, Erik Estrada, Gloria Swanson, Sid Caesar, Norman Fell, Helen Reddy (as a singing nun), and Efrem Zimbalist, Jr. This was Swanson's last movie. All of her scenes invite mockery. Every line of dialogue she utters is about herself. Every time someone in the movie talks about her, it's about how great she is. Charlton Heston's Planet of the Apes costar Linda Harrison is also in this, although the two share no scenes. 'Large Marge' from Pee Wee's Big Adventure has a bit part as a passenger who brings a dog on board the plane. Just like the first movie, this one's message is that movie stars of yesteryear are dangerous to air travel. Last time it was Van Heflin; this time it's Dana Andrews.I really like the Aiport movies. They aren't high art but they're great cheesy fun. It's a good series that could do with a revival today, although the cast would probably be made up of the likes of the Kardashians. I shudder at the thought. Anyway, set your brain on auto-pilot for awhile and enjoy this entertaining disaster flick. I doubt you'll regret it. "},{"Title":"What an Obscure Reference!","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" For anyone who's seen that episode of 'Family Guy' where Peter is sent by Death to kill the cast members of 'Dawson's Creek' on an airliner and Karen Black lands the plane, this is the source of that reference!Now, on to the film!As a disaster movie, 'Airport 1975' is not that bad. It was made at a time when all of those clichéd there's no one flying the plane plot lines were still quite fresh. When television shows such as 'Charlie's Angels' and 'The A-Team' began to cash in on the gimmick with their own interpretations, you could tell that the plot device was getting stale!Charlton Heston and George Kennedy reunite in another disaster movie after the also much-lambasted 'Earthquake' (1974) and both of them get quite good roles, with Kennedy reprising his role as Joe Patroni from 'Airport' (1969).The plot is not as complex as that in 'Airport' and the characters are hardly as well-developed. However, this film still has a certain charm. Not only is it the source of that Karen Black joke, which has been much-parodied beyond the realms of 'Family Guy', but the flying scenes were conducted using an actual commercial airliner being piloted low around mountainous terrain! These kinds of films convinced modern luminary directors such as Christopher Nolan to film things for real, even though these films probably earned more in popcorn sales than for actual screen-worthiness.If that is not exciting enough, there are plenty of perilous decisions, stunt work and high-octane situations to keep you busy. Plus, a pleasant combination of well-known and television actors appear in the film, such as Efrem Zimbalist, Jr. (long before lending his voice to Bruce Wayne's butler, Alfred), Helen Reddy as a singing nun (it's not as bad as it sounds), Linda Blair (post-'Exorcist') and even screen icon Gloria Swanson in her final film role.Certainly not the most complex of the 'Airport' films and certainly not the worst - if you're looking for something to thrill you and you're not taking a flight the next morning, then watch this!! "},{"Title":"Love Plane","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is slightly better than I thought it would be, and I really enjoyed the many guest stars, which are too many to name, but I'll add a few who's appearances I liked in a bit. It almost reminded of a Love Boat episode with all the recognizable faces and the like, but it was campy fun anyway, especially the scenes with the entertaining George Kennedy, Jerry Stiller(Frank Costanza), Myrna Loy, Norman Fell, Erik Estrada, Conrad Janis, Gloria Swanson, Sid Caesar, Karen Black, and Charleton Heston to name quite a few. I was glad the crash didn't occur until about 45 minutes into the movie, so at least we got some character development, although not too much. I thought the performances of Black and Efram Zimbalist, Jr. stood out, and Kennedy added his usual quirkiness as Joe Patroni, who probably has the worst luck of anyone. A few other celebrities included Linda Blair(a few years after the Exorcist), Helen Reddy(guitar playing/singing nun), Susan Clark, Dana Andrews, quarterback Jim Plunkett, Bob Hastings, Larry Storch, and Sharon Gless. Heston's Alan does a decent job of guiding Nancy(Black) to fly the plane while on the radio with her, before he eventually transports from a helicopter to the plane itself to safely land it. During the scenes where one doomed pilot tries to land in the plane buts gets himself tangled, then killed, and when Alan safely enters the plane, watch Black stick her tongue out in a strange way while she's helping both men get inside; wasn't there anyway to edit these silly mannerisms? It's probably the only scenes I remembered from this film before I just watched it again. I would still recommend this for anyone to see many guest stars and a plot which doesn't require much thinking. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good!","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Full of so many mistakes and outright impossibilities, this movie wants to be serious but in many ways seems to be more of a spoof than the Airplane movies it helped spawn.All the same, there are few movies of this genre I'd like to find on a Sunday afternoon while channel surfing. C'mon, mid air collisions, stewardesses (sorry flight attendants!) flying airplanes, over the top acting and a melodramatic score, not to mention the obvious and inevitable triumph over adversity. All the necessary ingredients for a classic disaster movie.Nowhere close to being as good as the original Airport (1970) with Burt, Dean, Jaqueline et al but better than the travesty that was Airport '80 The Concorde (Although I must confess to owning it the DVD). Airport 77 wasn't much better either (and yes I do own a copy of that as well!)Bottom line is it's pure trash, but great watchable trash! "},{"Title":"The second in the Airport series","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Title Airport 75 was release in theaters on October 18, 1974 starring Charlton Heston, Karen Black, and George Kennedy, was a 1974 disaster film and the first sequel to the successful 1970 hit Airport. The movie is one among many of a class of Disaster films that became a movie-going craze during the 1970s. Its plot devices and characterizations, including a singing nun (Helen Reddy), a former glamorous star (Gloria Swanson as herself), an alcoholic (Myrna Loy), a child in need of an organ transplant (Linda Blair) and a chatterbox (Sid Caesar) were parodied in 1980's Airplane!. The characteristics of Airport 1975 were also used in numerous similar films to come, including the film's sequels Airport '77 and The Concorde Airport '79. Though derided by the critics upon its release, Airport 1975 was ultimately a success. With a budget of US 4 million, the film made over US $47 million at the box office. Helen Reddy was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Most Promising Newcomer - Female.$ The film was included, however, in the popular book The Fifty Worst Films of All Time three years later in 1978.Summary Columbia Airlines' Flight 409 is a red-eye Boeing 747-100 en route from Washington Dulles International Airport to Los Angeles International Airport. Scott Freeman is a New Mexican executive with an urgent sales meeting in Boise. Failure to make this meeting threatens half his sales commissions for the coming year. He is en route in his private Beechcraft Baron. However, an occluded front has the entire West Coast socked in, with Los Angeles reporting zero visibility. That not only affects the Columbia flight but also precludes Freeman making his meeting in Boise, Idaho. Both flights are diverted to Salt Lake City International Airport. Both the Baron and the Boeing 747 enter Salt Lake's entry pattern. Air traffic control assigns the jumbo to enter the pattern first, followed by the Beechcraft. As Columbia 409 is making its final approach, First Officer Urias feels a vibration on one of the adjacent panels and rises to check it out. Freeman, now rather anxious about his missed sales meeting makes a call to the Salt Lake Tower asking about the delay. The tower confirms that he is second to land after the big jet. Here, Freeman suffers a massive heart attack. As he grabs his chest the Baron falls out of the pattern and descends into the approach of Columbia 409 Columbia four-oh-niner heavy, the Baron is at twelve-thirty. Those are the last words before Captain Stacey looks up and sees the Baron just feet from the windshield. The Beechcraft affects the flight deck just above the co-pilot seat. First Officer Urias, still standing, is instantly blown from the cockpit. Flight Engineer Julio receives massive cranial trauma. Captain Stacey receives debris in the face and is blinded. The decompression is extreme and knocks one of the stewards from the upper lounge down to the cabin below. Nancy Pryor, the head flight attendant rushes up to the flight deck to find Urias gone, Julio dead, and Stacey badly maimed. Fortunately, the captain is able to engage the autopilot and the altitude hold switch to keep the aircraft in the air before losing consciousness. Questions What does Nancy do now that the plane received serious damage? Does she know how to fly a plane? Does the equipment work? If Nancy cannot fly the plane then who does? Do they get someone in there to fly the plane? How does the plane land or does it crash? My thoughts I like this movie from the start. This movie kept you on the edge of your seat. I thought that Karen Black was good in her lead as the head flight attendant. However, I don't base my movie reviews on action alone. I like movies that have a leading actress and this movie really didn't have that in my opinion. So based on the action alone and without a lead actress I still give this movie 7 weasel stars. You can get this movie at Amazon.com "},{"Title":"Too long and Boring.","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just long and dull. The only excitement is the midair collision and  even that wasn't spectacular. The characters were dull except for GeorgeKennedy as Patroni. The only thing well worth watching this movie for is forPhillip Lathrop's cinematography because some of it is great especially thescenes over the mountains.  Some of the stunts in the movie were pretty cheesy  and also the friction between Heston and Black in the beginning. It would have  been better if they would have shortened this movie about 30 minutes becausea good part of it was just plain nothing. This film is disappointing but it could  have been much, much worse. ** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Airport Part two","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  With the success of Airport in 1970, it is inevitable that a sequel will come-hence airport 1975. Dana Andrews plays Scott Freeman who have to get back to Boise Idaho before morning. He is flying his own small private plane back home. There's one problem weather problems. When you're up in the air at 10,000 feet-everything counts. Meanwhile, Columbia 409, a 547 jetliner no less is bound for LA but had to change course to Salt Lake City because of bad weather. Little did they know that this change of course would prove to be life threatening to every one on board.Meanwhile, Scott Freeman has a heart attack in mid air and collides with Columbia 409-killing the CO pilot and the flight officer and seriously injuring the caption, rendering the plane pioltless. This leaves Nancy(Karen Black)responsible at the controls and at the radio.Alan Murdock(Charlton Heston)is the pilot guiding Nancy at the controls. There is one problem-the terrain in the mountains. The solution? Put a Pilot in 409 in mid air from a helicopter! The first pilot that was sent didn't make it. Alan murdock tries to get in 409. See film to see if he makes it!This is a good sequel-better than the average sequel they made at the time. Helen Reddy plays a singing Nun-Her acting is Ok, but is a much better singer. Linda Blair is a Kidney Patient on her way to LA for a transplant. Gloria Swanson Plays her self promoting her autobiography-which wasn't published until after her death in 1983.This is a good example of an all star cast saving the film that could have been better written. I enjoy this film though! "},{"Title":"An all star cast in an Airport classic!","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I remember this film on as a 'Christmas Special'. It was in a 3 movie Christmas Eve special with Earthquake and Towering Inferno. I thought it was really good. It really is for Karen Black, she was really good in this film. And the all star cast is amazing for this film. Charlton Heston as the 747-trainer, Karen Black as the heroic stewardess, George Kennedy as the gutsy airline chief, Gloria Swanson as well herself!, Susan Clark as the lady with the wig, Linda Blair as the annoying poor sick kid, Helen Reddy as the singing nun and the 'who's who' cast Myrna Loy, Sid Caesar, Martha Scott, Ed Nelson, Jerry Stiller, Nancy Olson, Augusta Summarland, Roy Thinnes, Efrem Zimbalist JR, and Erik Estrada.I rate it 4/5. Sure it has a bit of cheesyness to it. But what film doesn't? Or Will? Every movie ages. You need movies like this! "},{"Title":"Cheesy entertainment","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie, like well-aged cheese, is still cheese. This sequel to Airport is a bit more fast paced than the original. But the characters have little depth, the story is thin, the acting isn't great and the dialogue is corny. Still, this movie is entertaining in its own cheesy little way. Worth watching if you're in the right mood, but check your brain at the door. "}{"Title":"A dumb sequel","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You would think with the phenomenally successful Airport to work from they could have come up with something better than this. Airport 1975 (released in the fall of 74) tells the story of a jumbo jet that is hit in mid-air by a smaller plane disabling or killing the three men in the cockpit. In steps Karen Black as the head stewardess who has to try to save the day. Good thing for her she has Charlton Heston as a boyfriend. The cast is largely made up of tv actors and has beens with top honors going to Helen Reddy as a singing nun.If you are in a goofy mood then tune in. It's not horrible by any means. It's a step below the next film Airport 77 but a classic compared to the final film Concorde Airport 79. "},{"Title":"A good film, a bit better than the first","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After Airport, we approach the sequel, Airport 1975. This one is well worth in. Not only do you have a good storyline (A 747 involved in a mid-air collision with a private plane). But you also have some good names on board this flight. Charlton Heston turns in a good performance as well as Karen Black, playing Nancy Pryor, the stewardess that must get the plane down for a safe landing via help from the radios. George Kennedy once again plays the gruff Joe Patroni and believe me, he does stick around for a long time.Another dont-miss film. Go rent it. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Airport 1975 is the second sequel to Airport. In this film, a 747 bound for Los Angeles collides with a small plane and the flight crew is either dead or severely injured. The main stewardess, Nancy Pryor (Karen Black), has to take the controls and fly the plane until a rescue mission can be accomplished by lowering a licensed pilot into the cockpit to land the plane. This movie is a sequel in-name-only to Airport and George Kennedy is the only cast member from the original who appears in this film as well. (He appears in all 3 sequels) "},{"Title":"Help, is somebody out there?","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Airport 1975 is one of my favorite movies! After each viewing I often ask myself why I like this movie so much. Is it because I saw this movie 25 years ago in a theater? Is it because nothing really happens in this movie? Is it because this is one of first movies depending on hype without delivering the goods? Is it because of the many 70's stars who babble during the whole movie without helping the plot to proceed? Is it Charlton Heston who has difficulty saying his lines due to his irregular teeth? Is it because Karen Black is one hell of a stewardess in need? (Keep your score card ready to count the times she says Hello) Is it because Linda Blair has nothing to do than to look worried? Is it the great music-score? I don't have any answers! Just see for yourself but together with The Towering Inferno it makes a great disaster evening that you hopefully will survive! "},{"Title":"A bad movie...and a waste of a good cast. score 3 (out of 10)","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just when we thought it was safe to fly through the air...another Airport movie comes along to supposedly frighten the pants off of us.  The cast is huge Charlton Heston, Karen Black...even Gloria Swanson plays herself (holy s*** Mr. de Mille...how about a close up!) "},{"Title":"Good, but not the same after seeing AIRPLANE!","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" My Take Though pretty campy nowadays, it's moderately entertaining. Ah, the 70's disaster movies! Who could forget that fateful night when a rogue tidal wave capsizes the ocean liner Poseidon, forcing Shelly Winters to swim for safety? Who could forget the time when Paul Newman teamed up with Steve McQueen to stop a fire on a 138-story skyscraper? I have to admit that I have an affection for these old movies, even if some of them have been reduced to camp items nowadays. AIRPORT 1975 is one of the more popular entries in this lucrative strain of star-laden blockbusters. A sequel to the highly-successful adaptation of Arthur Hailey's AIRPORT, this movie is an entertaining entry in the long set of disaster spectacular, though rather tame today thanks to spoofs like AIRPLANE!AIRPORT 1975 has less melodrama than its predecessor, with a story much more faithful to the likes of THE POSEIDON ADVENTURE and THE TOWERING INFERNO. The story could be familiar to anyone A businessman (Dana Andrews) gets a heart-attack while driving his small plane and collides with the Columbia Airlines 747 while descending for Salt Lake City. The captain is injured and the rest of the crew is dead, leaving only cross-eyed stewardess Karen Black to fly the plane while VP of Operations (and AIRPORT returnee) George Kennedy tries to find a way to transfer 747 pilot Charlton Heston to the crippled jumbo jet mid-air. The many subplots and who's who guest star appearances like Gloria Swanson playing herself, an alcoholic Myrna Loy, Sid Caeser as a talkative passenger who only boards the plane to see an in-flight movie, and Helen Reddy as a guitar-playing nun who serenades sick girl Linda Blair (in a scene much parodied in the film AIRPLANE!) are rather cheesy now, often laughable to some. Some may just find them rather tedious. The plot is also been done several times since then that this film becomes thoroughly routine. But that doesn't really make it less of an enjoyable film. The aerial cinematography is excellent, probably the best one in the series. That it couldn't even be given notice by the Academy is a bit unfair, considering that AIRPORT was nominated for several Academy Awards. The movie uses real shots of a 747 unlike the previous AIRPORT (which used model shots). Others who complained that AIRPORT was to slow to get going may find this movie much faster and shorter. It may not be a great film, but AIRPORT 1975 is an enjoyable entry in the genre. Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"When planes collide...","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is the first sequel in the Airport franchise.A small airplane collides with Boeing 747 in the air killing the co-pilot and the flight engineer and injuring the captain.Now the first stewardness, Nancy Pryor has to fly the plane.Jack Smight's Airport 1975 (1974) is an entertaining flick with many stars.Karen Black plays Nancy Pryor.Charlton Heston is Alan Murdock, her sweetheart on the ground (and later in the air).George Kennedy was seen in all these four movies as Joe Patroni.Efrem Zimbalist Jr. is Captain Stacy.Erik Estrada is Julio. the flight engineer.Roy Thinnes is the co-pilot Urias.The silent movie legend Gloria Swanson plays herself.Another dame remembered from the silent movies, Myrna Loy plays an alcoholic named Mrs. Devaney.Linda Blair is a child in need of an organ transplant, Janice Abbott.Helen Reddy is a singing nun called Sister Ruth.Also George Wyner is seen as a passenger named Harry.It's pretty exciting to watch the attempt to get a man inside the plane.This is a disaster movie you don't want to miss out. "},{"Title":"Airport 1975 (1974) **1/2","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A 747 jet in flight is struck by a smaller plane, leaving a large gaping hole in its cockpit, and nobody left to fly it except for one very nervous stewardess (Karen Black). Old reliable Charlton Heston heads this all-star cast, though most of the others collecting a paycheck weren't very big. We've got passengers like Jerry Stiller, comedian Sid Caesar, Gloria Swanson (playing herself), Norman Fell, Helen Reddy (playing a singing nun with a guitar), Linda Blair (as a sick girl awaiting an urgent kidney transplant), Efrem Zimbalist Jr., Dana Andrews, and yes - that's even Heston's gal Nova from PLANET OF THE APES (as Ms. Swanson's secretary; she changed her name from Linda Harrison to Augusta Summerland for this flick).Heston is a pilot who's in love with stewardess Black, though not on board at the time of the tragedy. When she gets into a heap of trouble it's up to Chuck to help her fly the airplane herself by talking her through it over the radio. The scene in which the two interact nervously while Heston's attempting to guide her through the mechanics of flying is one of the best and most tense moments in the picture. George Kennedy is on hand as the head of the airline and he works with Heston feverishly every step of the way. Ultimately they have no choice but to attempt a mid-air transfer to place a pilot inside the wrecked 747.Thanks in part to Heston's heroic presence, AIRPORT '75 is, for me, the most enjoyable of all the AIRPORT movies (which may not be saying much). There was a time back in the '70s where a book called THE GOLDEN TURKEY AWARDS nominated this movie as one of the worst of all time, and like many other entries in that misguided guide, this is just not the case. AIRPORT '75 may not be a good film, but it's entertaining and there are far worse. CONCORDE AIRPORT '79, for instance. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"not brilliant but entertaining","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had a chance to catch this film last night on American Movie Classic channel. The 70s were the age of the disaster film starting with The Posiedon Adventure and The Towering Inferno. Critics usually trashed these films but they were incredibly popular with audiences and gave lucrative employment to actors and actresses who were considered washed up. For example Gloria Swanson and Myrna Loy both play parts in this film as does Sid Caesar. Even Norman Fell and Conrad Janis are on hand as a couple funny drunks (this was before they did Mork And Mindy and Threes Company). I read a book once by a noted movie critic that said Airport 75 was one of the worst films ever made. He made fun of the dialogue in the film (Linda Blair,the young kidney patient, tells her mother this is so exciting people are so interesting! A pilot tells another there will be turbulence on the flight and he says I knew a girl who thought that was sexy. Your wierd you know that). Its true that a better screenplay could have helped, its almost as if the writers were going out of there way to try to be funny and campy. However, these Airport films and disaster films are not boring and do keep you interested. Watching films like these are like eating a triple cheeser-greaser at Wendys, your consuming junk food but it is an enjoyable experience. One interesting footnote involves two of the stars of this film-Efram Zimbalist Jr and Dana Andrews. In 1960, they made a film called The Crowded Sky,in this film Efram Zimbalist Jr. plays the pilot of a military jet that crashes into a large passenger plane Dana Andrews is flying. The disaster in this film is that Dana Andrews plays a businessman flying a Beech Baron who has a heart attack and crashes into the 747 Efram Zimbalist Jr is flying! The always rough and reliable George Kennedy is back as Joe Patroni (he was in all four Airport films). His wife and son are on the plane oh no! The best part of the film is where Charlton Heston boards the plane, that part is very well done and suspenseful. I think the part of this film however that ia a hoot is Helen Reddy as the singing nun (she has to sing about the dumbest song I ever heard in my entire life about being her own best friend, so help me she should have gotten some kind of an award for just keeping a straight face while she was doing this scene). I do not know if people realized this or not but they spoofed that scene in Airplane.  "},{"Title":"Should be located in the COMEDY section!","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This sequel to the polished and star-studded film Airport was previously available on a Goodtimes brand video which provided a very murky, cropped, grainy version and made comparisons to the original film laughable. While this can't hold a candle (in cast or storyline!) to the first film, at least the new DVD gives it back it's clean, crisp, widescreen looks and heightens some of the enjoyment. In it, stressed-out businessman Andrews careens his private plane into a 747 that's packed with B and C-level stars. It's up to (cross-eyed!)chief stewardess Black to take the plane's controls! The movie is so full of clichés (marvelously lampooned in Airplane!) that it becomes unintentionally hilarious on it's own! The actual intended humor of the piece is lame and only partially successful, but solid laughs ensue when the following moments take place! Reddy strums her way on board as a novice nun with a penchant for guitar music! She invites herself to sit on top of little sick Blair and tears into a goofy folk song about being your own best friend. (The DVD reveals in the background of Blair's scenes an entire subplot heretofore unnoticed!!...a fevered woman who is obviously distraught about something and is developing a real drinking problem. She is visibly affected by Reddy's song, but remains annoyed at life. And who is playing this extra with a mission to steal focus?? The same woman in Airplane! who had so many comic moments like having eggs come out of her mouth!!!) Swanson beams to anyone who'll listen about how fantastic her life has been and imparts to all takers how special and blessed she is and how she was such a pioneer. This had to inspire the bits in Airplane! in which Robert Hays neighbors keeping committing suicide! One keeps expecting to see her secretary Summerland keeled over with wrists slit after one of Glo's anecdotes. Ms. Swanson does get off a good line or two before her stunt double hurtles out of the plane and shows us her white panties! Black (ostensibly a queen of '70's cinema, but where is she now??) apparently employs a method approach to reacting to the destruction and bloodshed around her. She tries such gritty, realistic touches as sticking her tongue out and (look for this!) brushing a piece of lint off her pantyhose after one wrenching ordeal! The film is PACKED to the brim with now-insulting sexism and inappropriate workday dialogue, but who can resist a can of sardines that includes Ponch from CHiP's, Nurse Ripples from Trapper John, MD, Seinfeld's dad, Mr. Roper, Large Marge from Pee Wee's Big Adventure and even Agarn from F Troop and Nova from Planet of the Apes?!!! Clark actually manages to pull off a decent and poignant scene with her husband Kennedy, but most of the drama is laughable. Just sit back, watch the parade of TV faces (even the ubiquitous Susan French pops up!) and delight in the ludicrous, but irresistible events of this camp classic! And don't miss the hysterical passenger who stands up and grips the seat in front of her upon impact and stays there screaming for minutes on end! "}{"Title":"Camp pairing of Swanson and Olson highlight OK disaster flick","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gloria Swanson plays herself in 14 brief scenes that don't add up to ten minutes and the only reason she's here is to add yet another star name to the cast list and to allow her to publicize her autobiography which came out about the same time as the film.  She lends a bit of class to the proceedings (she always does, no matter what she appears in) but she could have been making a different film entirely and had her scenes interspliced herein.  Reviewers failed to note that also in the cast is Nancy Olson, with whom she appeared in SUNSET BOULEVARD although they had only one scene together and that not face to face as I recall.  Here they never meet at all.  Swanson probably filmed all her scenes (the majority in a seat she never moves from) in one day's sitting.  She has no reaction shot to the plane collision.As for the rest of the film, it's an okay disaster flick - much like any other in the Airport or Poseidon genre.  Not great, not terrible.  Just okay.  Helen Reddy's nose does remind us of a ski run, especially when surrounded by her nun's habit, and the song they give her to sing is probably one of the worst ever written for a film.  Linda Blair smiles beatifically (she should have been the nun).  None of the star cast is given much to do with the exception of Black, Heston and Kennedy.  Enjoyable for what it's worth.Sadly, Swanson's swan song.  Her last line is memorable - Every morning is beautiful - you're just to young to know. "},{"Title":"AAAH!!!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Do movies get any worse than this??? Without a doubt, one of the cheesiest films ever made. Some of it was later spoofed (and rightfully so) in the movie Airplane. Karen Black is the creepiest thing in the movie (honestly, she was freaking me out) and a cut-rate cast will have you rolling on the floor in laughter! One of the cheesiest disaster (or any kind) films ever made! "},{"Title":"Camp classic","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Airport 1975 is another of my guilty pleasures.  As many times as I have seen it, I watch it if I run across it on TV to this day.  Just check out the hilarious cast  Karen Black, Charlton Heston, Linda Blair, Erik Estrada (very young), Gloria Stewart (very old), George Kennedy, and, yes, that's Helen Reddy in the nun's habit.  This movie gave 1980's classic comedy Airplane! many points to parody.  A small plane smashes into a 747's cockpit, killing the pilots.  A cross-eyed stewardess (Black) must land the plane.  You'll laugh at the horrid 1974 outfits and hairdos.  It's fun to watch, check it out sometime!  "},{"Title":"A Step Up From the Original","Date":"29 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport 1975 (1974)** 1/2 (out of 4)A 747 is on its way to Los Angeles when the pilot (Dana Andrews) of a personal plane suffers a heart attack. The small plane crashes into the 747 killing or injuring all of its pilots and leaving a large whole in the plane. The main stewardess (Karen Black) must take control of the plane while her boyfriend (Charlton Heston) tries to tell her how to get the plane down.AIRPORT somehow got an Oscar nomination for Best Picture but in my opinion it was a deadly boring movie with very little going for it outside of its wonderful cast. AIRPORT 1975 is made in the same mold but this one here was smarter in that it threw out a lot of the melodrama and instead focused on the action. The movie certainly isn't a masterpiece and there's no question that it could have been much better but for a mindless popcorn movie there's no doubt that it's entertaining.The film really benefits from its all-star cast with Black leading the way in a strong performance. I thought she was extremely believable in the role of the scared woman forced to take control of the plane. Both Heston and George Kennedy are good in their supporting parts as is Efrem Zimbalist, Jr. as the pilot and it's fun seeing Andrews in his small role. As you'd expect, there are all sorts of known faces here including Sid Caesar, Linda Blair, Susan Clark, Helen Reddy, Myrna Loy, Ed Nelson, Nancy Olsen, Norman Fell, Beverly Garland, Erik Estrada and there's even Gloria Swanson playing herself and even giving a nod to Cecil B. DeMille.The film contains some good cinematography and a nice score. For the most part the special effects are good. The biggest problem is the direction, which is a tad bit too loose as it would have been better had there been more drama. There really wasn't a single second where you felt that the plane was in danger of crashing and even worse is that the conclusion of the two planes is done without too much fanfare or build-up. AIRPORT 1975 is a rare sequel that manages to be better than the original but the real star of the series was to follow. "},{"Title":"Staple of the Disaster Decade","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport 1975 is one of those films that today seems to be simply a mistake. A 747, flying to Los Angeles, is having a routine flight when fog diverts it Salt Lake City. Before it makes it to Salt Lake, however, it has an unexpected and deadly rendezvous with a single- engine craft whose pilot has had a heart-attack. The crash puts a big hole in the plane and the co-pilot is sucked out. The pilot is badly injured, so stewardess Nancy (Karen Black) is forced to fly the plane. Charleton Heston and George Kennedy head the efforts first to talk her down and then to tether a pilot into the hole who can effect the landing.This movie is BAD. It is ridiculous both in premise and in execution. It and its sequel siblings (Airport 77 and Concorde) gave birth to one of the most insipid genres in the history of film, and provided so much material to Airplane that this movie became one of the funniest spoofs in movie history. Some scenes from Airplane have direct ancestors in 75--especially the scene where Sister Helen Reddy (that's right, she's a nun) sings a song to cheer up a girl needing a kidney transplant. This scene alone will make you ralf without any need of airsickness.And yet, the joy that this movie brings (and it does do this) is explicable in the movie's artistic context. 75 was a movie from the heart of the Disaster Decade, which saw such great lousy flicks as the original Airport (which actually is not that bad), Earthquake (which is), the Towering Inferno, the other Airport sequels, The Poseidon Adventure, and, my favorite, Roller-coaster. They all happened in the 70s, and when they did, they were all such trashy entertainment that we really enjoyed them. The secret to watching movies like these is to check your brain at the door and enjoy the camp. Eventually Airplane and the Naked Gun would obliterate this genre, but back in the day, it was not a bad way to kill an hour and half for four bucks. "},{"Title":"AirportPart II","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Unintentionally funny sequel to Airport is set(as the helpful subtitle tells us!) in 1975, where a Boeing 747 is disabled when a private airplane crashes into the cockpit(the pilot had a stroke), killing the flight crew and blinding one pilot, forcing a stewardess(Karen Black) to fly the plane, though her boyfriend(also a pilot, played by Charlton Heston) who is helicoptered into the cockpit, and tries desperately to resume control of the plane, before it crashes.Cast also includes returning character Joe Patroni(George Kennedy) along with Susan Clark, Gloria Swanson, Sid Caesar, Myrna Loy, Linda Blair, and Helen Reddy as a singing nun. Unlike the first film, which does hold up, this doesn't, crippled by a contrived plot and laughable scenes(whole film was effectively spoofed later on) that make it an unworthy entry, though there would be more... "},{"Title":"Silly to Terrible...","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Compared to the original version of Airport and later aviation films (The Crash Landing of Flight 243, Flight 93) the sequels to Airport all ranged from silly to terrible - for all their faults perhaps one good thing of films today is that, like Flight 93, they are much more realistic...The acting in this sequel to the 1970 version of Airport was poor to fair - even the acting of George Kennedy, as dependable an actor as he's been, seemed to be automatic, in a sense - his 1970 role of Joe Patroni being the best...Swearing was absent in the 1970 film but not in the sequels - why screenwriters always believe that swearing is essential escapes me - the best television programs and films often managed to write award-winning scripts without the need for breaking one of the 10 Commandments - apparently Charlton Heston forgot what was told to him in his role as Moses...Helen Reddy's role as a singing nun (Julie Andrews had nothing to worry about) was ironic, considering she was the author and singer of the highly controversial I am woman just one year earlier...The only bright spot was perhaps the comedic acting of Sid Cesar and other comedians of their time, in their role as nervous passengers...Over all, a film not worth the Oscar that the 1970 film earned... "},{"Title":"The Inspiration For Airplane! But Absurdly Weak Story","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Viewers of this film MUST take the experience with humor in mind. If you have seen Airplane!, which this movie resembles, and can laugh at the unintentional comedy, Airport 75 is an OK way to spend 1 hour 50 minutes of your time. The movie reads like a who's who of 70's actors, who have assembled for Hollywood fluff, with some of the cheesiest dialog you have ever seen.Join Charlton Heston, George Kennedy, Karen Black, Sid Ceaser, Eric Estrada, Linda Blair, and perhaps the most cornball of anything imaginable, Helen Reddy as a singing, and guitar playing Nun! Airport 75 contains every soap-opera clique imaginable with every line forced upon the viewer typical of a weak disaster flick. Help Us!!! Please Help Us! The Crew is Dead or Badly Injured!!! Oh My God!!! The Stewardess is Flying The Plane! I Feel Queasy, I Need A Drink! The plot, which looks like it was held together with adhesive tape, involves a 747 with the typical stereotyped socialite passengers. But the viewer only cares about them in name recognition. The bad acting, referenced by the quotes above, appears throughout the movie and doesn't get any better. The great talents of Charlton Heston, and Gloria Swanson are shamefully wasted here. I hope that they were well compensated for this junk!Cut to the chase, which takes a long time to get going. The big jet 747 collides with a small-single engine aircraft, killing the pilots, and injuring flight crew. The only way to save the passengers is for a helicopter pilot to go through the hole in the cockpit from the collision to help the passengers. While waiting for this to occur, stewardess, Karen Black gets flying lessons 101 from the control tower. You're doing good, honey. Watch the little plane on the radar, keep it level.The only reason why I give this film a 5 star vote is because of the similarities to the movie, Airplane! which is very funny. However, in Airport '75, (actually released in 1974, go figure) the acting is SOOO bad, and situations are so unrealistic, (A pilot with a cigar in the cockpit.) that the pace of the film is lightened by unintentional humor. This is a strange film where knowing how cheesy the acting is makes the film tolerable.If you think of the movie Airplane seeing this movie with that mindset, you will like it much better. But if you are looking for a serious story, which for some reason it looks like this film was intended to represent, you will hate this movie.The best thing to do is to see Airplane! first. Than you will find this film at least acceptable, because of the unintentional humor. If you have not seen Airplane! do not even bother with this film. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Columbia Airlines, flight 409, a Boeing 747 flying from Washington to Los Angeles, is struck frontally by a small prop plane, injuring the captain and killing the co-pilot and the flight engineer. The first stewardess is forced to take the controls until the Air Force sends someone to land the plane safely.What more can be said of this disaster flick that hasn't already been said before. It is one long, drawn-out soap opera in-the-sky, complete with over the top performances by most of the well known cast. Ms. Garbo, while steadfastly refusing to appear in another film was notorious for making pithy comments about herself and the offers she still received while she lived in retirement.Rated PG for Mild Violence. "},{"Title":"There's a kidney waiting for you in Salt Lake City","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Doesn't it sound like the title of a song? There is a strong poetic element in Airport 1975, good use is made of elegant Dulles Airport in Washington, and the sight of a Jumbo Jet flying low through the snowed-in Sierra Nevada is hauntingly beautiful. The movie is best, where it conveys approaching doom. This of course also goes for the parts with Dana Andrews who pilots a small plane through a stormy night with himself as the sole and lonely passenger.Moments of quiet alternate with hectic activity. They really heaped it on in Airport 1975. No cliché is spared, there even is a guitar playing and singing nun who made me grope for the fast forward button. Then the disaster happens and made me gasp in disbelief. Can you really sit in a cockpit in a thin summer coat with a big hole in the plain's fuselage and command it for hours? I should think you'd freeze to death within minutes. But I know, this is not a movie to ask questions of that kind, and Karen Black, the lady in the cockpit, really cannot do anything wrong for me.The passengers are very entertaining, especially Sid Caesar and veteran actress Myrna Loy. Gloria Swanson and Jerry Stiller are also memorable, and they all seem to have a really good time, disaster non withstanding. The kid who needs a kidney badly (Linda Blair in a never-frothing-at-the mouth part) was a surplus I could gladly have done without. Airport 1975 ends with the plane that was originally directed to Los Angeles, safely diverted to Salt Lake City. This left the screen writers with a missing kidney. But no problem, they have implantable organs in that town too, right? If real life was that easy we wouldn't need disasters. "}{"Title":"And George Kennedy as Patroni !","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you try to judge the artistic value of this movie you will most likely go home depressed. Better to enjoy it for its vast silliness and multiple funny moments 1) Charlton Heston trying to sound heroic while uttering phrases such as ...damn, wind pressure is dropping !!!, climb, baby climb!!!. 2) Karen Black looking downright scary with her cross-eyed look while proclaiming; ...I'm scared, please help us!!!. 3) Singing nun Helen Reddy trying to make the girl from The Exorcist feel better. Let's just say the Airplane parody is nowhere near as funny as this. 4) The other nun pointing to Gloria Swanson and saying that's one of those Hollywood people. 5) The passenger who bring a stowaway doggie on board, pleading it not to bark ! 5) George Kennedy as Patroni, kissing Mrs. Patroni passionately when she survives, 6) Gloria Swanson's stunt double going down the inflatable slide at full speed, 7) The plane hitting a very badly located booth, 8) The romantic leads walking down the plane's stairs with their hands around each other while the rest of the cast escapes franatically. The worst of Hollywood at its very best ! "},{"Title":"The Plane Got All the Best Lines","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Making fun of Airport 1975 is very much like shooting fish in a barrel. It's so awful in so many obvious ways that there's no incentive to find anything new to gripe about.So, instead, let's find out if there's anything worthy in this mess.Hmmm. Yes, there's the gracious technical assistance of the U.S. Air Force. The Rockies are lovely. Efrem Zimbalist's real hair impressed me because it refused to move. Chuck Heston's didn't (great glue). Erik Estrada gets killed. Linda Blair never once picks up a crucifix. Karen Black opens wide and wags her tongue as if she's about to Lewinsky the camera (that's good for a laugh right there). Dana Andrews dies. Dean Martin works for a different airline. Did I mention the Rockies were beautiful? Oh, yeah. One final thing to be thankful for in Airport 1975 Airplane. "},{"Title":"Watchable but nothing special","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Airport 1975 is a decent time waster of a disaster film. It has all the ingredients in place. First we meet all of the characters in the all star cast and, refreshingly, not too much time is spent wasted on this. Just enough to get to know them some before moving on to the main action. The disaster itself is a plane collision between a twin engine (who pilot has suffered a heart attack) and a 747. Despite the fact that the film telegraphs the event for a good 20 minutes before it occurs, the actual scene of the crash is well done. Karen Black plays the head stewardess who must take control of the plane as the entire cockpit crew has either been severely injured or killed. She spends the rest of the movie trembling and scared as she tries taking instructions from voices on the other end of the radio. I found this section silly since it would seem to me that if something like that were to really happen I would imagine a head stewardess would be able to handle this a little easier. But she can't which gives the director an excuse to bring in Charlton Heston to be the hero. Without this device he would simply stand around and look concerned much like George Kennedy does. It doesn't hurt that a convenient plot point has Heston and Black as lovers on the verge of splitting up. Gee, I wonder if you can guess what happens.I won't reveal anything further and let you watch and discover for yourself. The film is okay and nothing more. It's well below the wonderful original (which had flaws of its own) but a step up from Airport 77 and a classic compared to the awful Concorde - Airport 79. The effects are decent and the exteriors of the airplane are terrific because it is obvious a real 747 was used. One of the problems with the original was the exterior shots of the plane never looked real.The performances are adequate to embarrassing. Heston and Black head the cast. Kennedy looks bored because he is given little to do. Of the passengers only Gloria Swanson playing herself is memorable. Linda Blair and Helen Reddy (as a singing nun!) are forgettable. "},{"Title":"A Very Good Comedy","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, it was funny, as everyone has pointed out for various reasons.Often times, for some reason, Airport (1970) is excluded as being a disaster film and Poseidon Adventure (1972) is credited as being the first.Therefore, Airport '75 would have only been the second of this genre.That is too apparent to me in the complete and utter placid aura of the plane (no, I don't mean the passengers should have been jumping up and down) just before the mid-air collision. It was not known that the lull before the storm of the disaster would become a cliche and joke in these films.I had heard when Swanson passed away, that Greta Garbo was originally approached to portray herself and she turned it down and it went to Swanson instead. Funny thing is that Myrna Loy's Hollywood history was probably just as far back as Swanson's but she wasn't portraying herself. Of all the performers, I got the impression that Loy just couldn't pull it off with any believability, especially in talking to Sid Ceasar. It always seemed to me the producers either wanted Myrna Loy and William Powell for those parts or Sid Ceasar and Imogene Coca. The movie that Ceasar said he had a cameo in was none other than American Grafitti by the way, the film that broke just as he was to appear, he said.Swanson would refer to two other actresses as being Hollywood rebels much like herself. These two women were Carole Lombard and Grace Moore. Both women would be killed in airline mishaps. Was this bad taste for this film?I was dumbstruck by how much Swanson's outfit looked just like the nun's habit tho.But I did realize that Nancy Olson would indirectly be reunited in this film with Swanson, and they had both appeared in Sunset Boulevard, both of them receiving oscar nominations for that 1950 film as well.Ed Nelson, who was the unfortunate first pilot who didn't make it into the cockpit, would have an equally unpleasant fate, tho he survived, in the telemovie Crash (1978) with Eddie Albert and William Shatner.The joke with Jerry Stiller was he was supposed to sleep through the entire crash. I'm sure that wasn't difficult.But during the crash check out the elderly woman who stands in the back and just screams endlessly. It is too funny. Yes, it is too funny and was greatly parodied about five years later in Airplane. I do ponder how big the joke was of Helen Reddy playing the nun. I watched the episode of the Carol Burnett show this morning on TVland when she spoofed Airport '75 with Vicki Lawrence as the nun singing about Bottles of Beer on the Wall, and Carol doing a double role as Goria Swanson too.In Airplane, the hilarious nun would sing Respect to the ill girl, which I had recorded on the answering machine years ago to greet people when they called.There was even a bit on Designing Women where Delta Burke and Dixie Carter are on an airplane and Dixie is looking around. Are you afraid we're going to crash? Delta quips. No, suzanne, Dixie replies dryly. Im worried there might be a nun with a guitar on board.     "},{"Title":"Where is Airport 2003?","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This franchise was such cheesy fun that, really, one wants to see one roll down the line at least every few years.  Surely there are enough old-timers who could be persuaded to accept a paycheck, swallow what's left of their pride, and let dignity get sucked out a hole in the fuselage as they graced the big screen once again!This one has the usual top-heavy cast and other IMDb-ers have offered a cornucopia of comments (and complaints) about this flying missile of mediocrity.  But a couple of things ought to be noted.One is Helen Reddy's impromptu song, an inspirational little ditty, in which she accompanies herself on a guitar (The camera never shows her actually plucking the strings.), as a beaming, but critically ill, Linda Blair coos in appreciation.  But, lo and behold!, it doesn't lead to the expected peroration.  Sister Helen is singing about your best friend, the one you can rely on when things look their bleakest (And boy!, are they gonna look that way in another reel of two!), and it turns out to be yourself, and NOT Jesus!!!  She must have been one of those new-fangled Christian Humanist religious, though she still wears a habit, albeit a slightly sleeker, post-Vatican Council II one, unlike the antique getup on her traveling companion, Martha Scott, who's decked out in something only a Traditionalist Roman Catholic would recognize.And then there's Gloria Swanson, playing herself. (What else?!?)  She looks like her makeup has been applied with an overlay of Vaseline. (Hey!  Doris Day does that at night, but not under the camera's lights!)  She comes across exactly as she did when, much to my astonishment, she popped in for a visit when I was enjoying a brief Palm Springs stay at the desert retreat of a friend of mine.  In tow was her, at the time, health food guru and she talked incessantly about natural, uncontaminated foods. (Not a bad kick to be on.  Wonder what, were she still alive, she'd think about today's push toward irradiated FrankenFood.) Gloria absolutely commanded the center of attention for the brief thirty minutes of so with which she favored our company.  A star to the end, bless her! "},{"Title":"One of the better ones.","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film I saw 9 years ago, isn't that bad.  A bit dated, and the acting looks old.  Still a strong story, that could be retold today.  Must have been great in 74.  One of the better disaster movies, I remember as a child in the 70's.  I would rent it, but not get over excited about it. 6/10 Good cheap night film! "},{"Title":"The best of all the Airport sequels!","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In my mind this sequel should have been the only one done after the success of the original. The script utilizes what material was not used from Authur Haley's novel in the first film and expands on it.The film is quite suspenseful but slightly dated. It features some hair raising moments when an attempt is made to save the pilotless and stricken jumbo jet. Karen Black, as the Senior Flight Attendant, tries to fly the damaged, off course, plane with help from the ground.  Charlton Heston and George Kennedy (reprising his Joe Patroni character) put in strong performances as airline executives trying to figure out how to land the pilotless 747 safely.All in all, it's the best of all the Airport sequels! "},{"Title":"A True Disaster Classic","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While it is certainly not one of the best disaster films of the 1970's, it certainly is one of the most entertaining!  From terribly miscast Karen Black, to Linda Blair (fresh off her stint as Regan in The Exorcist) to Gloria Swanson (not so fresh off of the great Sunset Boulevard) to Charlton Heston and George Kennedy (alternating their time between this film, and the disaster classic Earthquake, which the two were shooting simultaneously), this is an all-star film in every sense of the word!The premise of the film is actually an engaging one  a stewardess trying to land a crippled 747 after a midair collision with a small plane, but the execution is where this film falters.  The direction by Jack Smight is flat, and the film blows a great idea by spending a lot of time on characters who talk and do nothing for two hours.But I will give the film it's due... the aerial sequences are amazing (so amazing, in fact, that the Harrison Ford film Air Force One borrowed, shot for shot, the aerial rescue sequence from Airport 1975).  Using a leased 747 from American Airlines (at $30,000 a day in 1974 dollars!!!), the Universal team did a great job depicting the crippled airliner (with the exception of several exterior shots of the damaged cockpit area, featuring a painted-on black smudge on a real 747 portraying the damage caused by a midair collision), but if this film has any strong points, this is it.Overall, not a great film, but if you're a fan of the 1970's disaster genre, a must see.  "},{"Title":"Where is the Action?","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm watching Aiport 75 and wondering where the action is. Part way through the movie you have person in small plane suffer a heart attack. His plane crashes into a 747. Now the 747 has a small hole in the plane and it's pilotless. Now who is going to land plane? For some reason they decided they were going to use a helicopter and try to land a pilot in the cockpit of the plane. It doesn't seem believable. If this did happen in real life I don't think that's how they would do it. They had a bunch of different passengers on the plane such as Gloria Swanson playing herself, Nun's that can even play guitar and a kid who needs a kidney transplant. I guess there was reason they needed all these different characters in this movie. It wasn't like it helped the movie much.I didn't realize this movie was the basis for the movie Airplane! Airplane is a lot like this movie but much funnier. They took Airport 75 and made another movie which is much better. I like these Airplane movies and would rather watch Airplane!. I have seen that movie many times and really liked it. I wouldn't say Airport 75 was that bad of a movie. It had it's moments where it was good. "},{"Title":"The best in the series, yet with the worst element of it !","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is the first airport's airplane movie. The authentic version of the plane's disaster movie of the 1970s. And the best of the whole airport series.The 1970 movie was an unusual day in a life of an airport. This round the new formula is clear and solid  A plane in calamity. Many different characters, mostly viewers. Attempts to rescue lead to a climax with a happy end. Afterwards, they tried to clone Airport 75 in the 1977 movie, then deform it in the 1979 one ! 3 matters did bother me. Firstly the list of cameos / the passengers didn't do anything but the relief, whereas there is no drama but the plane's drama, and anything else it is a triviality.Secondly, the way how the script skips several ways to make more thrilling moments that could have made the atmosphere hotter. To instance  the fuel is leaking and we don't have enough, you see the lead's wife and son on the very plane however no special danger they suffer other than the main danger, the girl who needs a liver; there is no subsidiary thrill with her line; as if her status is unstable, she requires immediate medical care, scared drunks on board with nothing to do but being scared; they could have done anything to threaten the peace inside the plane, the media's importunity does nothing but bugging (George Kennedy) and that's about it ?!,.. etc. Certainly, exploding situations like that, in the most exaggerated illogical yet entertaining ways, you can watch after 16 years in Die Hard 2 (1990), which makes Airport 75 more rational and believable in a way.Thirdly, the climactic moment wasn't done very well. I couldn't understand what the trouble in getting the plane on land was? I even couldn't get how (Charlton Heston) stopped it (that moment had been overstepped unfairly). All what he did was swerving it to turn it away from its headway; which is obviously so easy to an extent makes it unfit as a climax for all the excitement before it.(Heston) was so masculine and charismatic. He seemed cool with those shades. Originally, god gifted him with that look of whatever hard I'll beat it utterly, he makes other guys like Tom Cruise perfect sissies. I suppose the 1970s were the last time to see 50-something-year-old lead in an action movie. (Karen Black) wasn't less charismatic. Aside from being a beauty (always believed that she's French-born), she managed to be convincing and serious. Something I miss with the beautiful dolls of today's movies as well. On the other hand, (Gloria Swanson) as (Gloria Swanson) was wrong, if not pathetic ! The movie is technically competent. I loved its amusing music, good editing, and fine directing. It has a reason to be distinct forever, among its fellow plane's disaster movies, which is the idea of the explosion of the cockpit with everyone in it. However, and despite the clever total tension of it, the movie is generally empty, and a bit poor when it comes to utilize rich areas it already has. Yes, it's the best airport's airplane-in-calamity movie to date, but, one way or another, it has the main lesion of not the plane's movies, rather the whole disaster movies  the script. "}{"Title":"As Funny as AIRPLANE! It's So Bad It's Good","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport 1975, spoofed by the parody AIRPLANE! in 1980, has to be the quintessential action/disaster movie of the 1970's right up there with Towering Inferno. Repleat with a Who's Who of Hollywood name talent whose portraits probably appeared in little boxes on the original movie poster, although I don't know how you could fit them all! Everyone from Charleton Heston, George Kennedy (who made a career of playing in films like this) to Helen Reddy and Sid Caesar is somewhere in this film. Even Jim Plunkett, the pro-football quarterback, makes a cameo. This movie, three decades later, seems a laugh-a-minute, a riot in scenes where it's hard to believe the actors weren't on the verge of cracking up. I mean, can you really take this seriously? This film begged to be spoofed, although maybe it stands on its own! The lines and kooky characters alone are worth the price of admission, and most of them make an encore appearance in AIRPLANE! (by different actors). Does a typical group of airline passengers really look like this? But that's what makes it fun and impossible to take soberly. The big question is this if the filmmakers were attempting to make a thought-provoking disaster movie, where did these guys go to screen-writing school? Screen writing for Dummies? Unless they were writing for laughs all along and we the audience were so dumb we thought we were watching a serious film.Let's look at the characters. This is utterly fantastic. You've got the full-of-herself over-the-top movie star, Gloria Swanson, playing herself essentially. You know the type Dahhhling with the long cigarette holders. A couple of nuns, one of whom just happens to sing, of course, care of Helen Reddy. A couple of Hari-Krishnas. A sick girl flying to an operation. Old drunk guys, care of Norman Fell and Jerry Stiller, constantly asking the stewardesses for more booze. Actually, at one point, the entire coach sections get shamelessly sloshed! I guess who wouldn't knowing your plane might crash! A boy and his mother who just happen to be the son and wife of the director of operations of the airline. Stewardesses who are not only drop-dead gorgeous but are the kindest people you've ever met on an airline. And the pilots, one of whom named Julio played by a young Eric Estrada who can't seem to stop flirting with the stewardesses.And now we have the even-better part the lines! Eric Estrada says at the beginning of the movie after seeing some of the beautiful stewardesses That's why I love my job. Or how about the hot-headed George Kennedy It's the only chance we've got! The TV reporter has some of the best The plot thickens! And of course, Helen Reddy sings for, you guessed it, the little sick girl, played by Linda Blair who always played sick girls in the 1970's. That was so embarrassingly bad, I had to fast-forward it. Heston's line at the end of the movie will have you rolling over the floor. When you watch this, are we really supposed to believe this is to be taken seriously? The action-packed thriller that never let's up on lame but memorable lines or its crazy memorable characters! We spend more time on the plane than at the airport, and yet is called Airport 1975. That about says it all. This should have been called AIRPLANE. "},{"Title":"Not horrible, but not exciting either.","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is supposed to be a suspenseful and gripping story, but I watched it with a curious detachment, because it's so obviously a pre-programmed commercial package that there is never a genuine sense of danger. Charlton Heston is the most commanding performer here and lifts his scenes a notch above the general level of the movie. Icky sweet Linda Blair, awfully self-conscious Gloria Swanson and hammy George Kennedy all compete for the title of the most irritating person in the film.    (**) "},{"Title":"long slow start, needs more excitement and forget the passengers","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The pilot of a small private plane has a heart attack and crashes into the cockpit of a Boeing 747. Captain Stacy is blinded while the rest of the flight crew is sucked out. Chief Stewardess Nancy Pryor (Karen Black) is forced to take over. Captain Al Murdock (Charlton Heston) is the chief instructor for the plane and happens to be Pryor's boyfriend. With mounting problems, they realize that a pilot has to be transferred onto the plane.The problem is that it takes too long to get to the heart of the movie. It's 40 minutes of boring conversations and stories before the disaster actually starts. It's simply too long even for an older movie. The disaster needs more action scenes. Believability like the flight crew goes out the window as in all movies of this type. I would suggest skipping the first 30 minutes and fast forwarding anything with passengers. Also Heston has to stop calling her Honey. The condescending tone gets very annoying. "},{"Title":"worst of the 4 movies in the series","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This time around passengers are headed out on a new location and are hit by a small plane killing and/or injuring all of the pilots. A stewardess now has to fly the plane with the help of mission control until something can be figured out. Soon her man has another plane to fly in and he bungees himself in through a hole in the cockpit and lands the plane safely.This movie is about like all the others, but it is more boring and has dumber and cheesier dialog than the others. I have always liked this film simply because it has some super cheesy moments. Linda Blair plays a sick child and Helen Reddy plays a nun who sings her a song and plays guitar..now thats corny. I love how horrible Karen Black is here too, I love Black, but she can go way over the top at times and just make you love her and pity her at the same time. I love how Jerry Stillers character sleeps through the whole thing, as I know many people which they could have.There was tons of great actors here. George Kennedy is back, Charlton Heston is a pilot (never been a huge fan of his), Karen Black of course, Linda Blair, Gloria Swanson playing herself in her final acting role, Sid Caesar, Norman Fell, Jerry Stiller, Helen Reddy, Sharon Gless, Eric Estrada and Terry Lester all did great jobs.By todays standards this movie is laugh out loud ridiculous trying to be sold as a disaster film, it isn't very good and has made many critics worst of lists. The best thing about this film is that it gave the Zucker brothers some great material for the AIRPLANE movie. I give this movie 2/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Hopefully never used as an in-flight movie","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I haven't read the novel behind this, and did not, in fact, know at all that one existed until after I had watched it. I see rather few of these disaster flicks, and tend to only go for them when I expect there to be something in them to make the experience worthwhile(for the record, the list of genres that such applies to for me also includes westerns, authentic/historical and animal films). This I was told was both really good, as well as a great thing to take in before Airplane!. On the side of the positive, this does have very nice acting, for the most part, including the two children. The flaws however, are quite present. The characters, while not necessarily poorly thought up, are flat, underdeveloped, and there are simply far too many of them. They're celebrities, in an obvious attempt to get more viewers. The effects and production value are a bit see-through. This isn't unexciting, but not nearly all of what should put and keep you on the edge of your seat actually manages to do so. Even before you look at the parody of it, you may find yourself laughing at this, and pointing out shortcomings. It's just not up to par with, for example, The Poseidon Adventure. Language is moderate in amount and tone, and sexuality is relatively limited, at least in how much there is. I recommend it to fans of melodrama and/or the people involved in making it. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Uninspiring 2nd entry in the Airport series...","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 1st watched 7/22/2007 - 3 out of 10(Dir-Jack Smight) Uninspiring 2nd entry in the Airport series seems to hype-up the small conflicts and downplay the bigger ones which makes for a very so-so movie experience. Charlton Heston & Karen Black are the stars as the couple who are working together to try and get a damaged plane down. The movie starts by setting up all the scenarios and characters that are going to have problems on the plane and then we get to watch them go thru their struggles. This is typical disaster movie setup. The big danger that occurs happens very quickly as a small plane crashes into the cockpit of the bigger plane, killing the co-pilot and incapacitating the pilot leaving the stewardess(played by Karen Black) to fly the plane(Why they never checked to see if any other pilot-types were on board that could have helped is beyond me). George Kennedy's character(who is the vice-president of the airlines) then works from the ground to talk her thru the flying of the plane. Heston is flown in to take over thru a helicopter in-flight transfer and the movie is really over at this point. But of course, the director tries to hype-up the ending to try and keep us interested. It doesn't work though because we know everything's going to work out at this point and we are just waiting for the movie to end. It's kind of weird watching this after viewing the Airplane spoof because they copied some of the scenes almost exactly. I tried not to laugh when Linda Blair (the sick child) is serenaded by Helen Reddy(as the singing nun) with her guitar but it was difficult. Despite this, the movie didn't really reach a level of much interest despite it's reputation in the genre and the gallery of current stars who were on hand as passengers. "},{"Title":"Oh, please help us!!","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What more can be said of this disaster flick that hasn't already been said before. If it weren't for the Airplane! spoof series of films, the reviews here wouldn't be as bad (or numerous). It's fun to watch now because of all of the comedic references, but don't get me wrong, it's not a good film.It is one long, drawn-out soap opera in-the-sky, complete with over the top performances by most of the well known cast. Karen Black steals the film (she can have it) as the panic-stricken stewardess who attempts to land the plane when disaster strikes.Save your time and just watch Airplane! instead and there'll be tears of laughter instead of tears of boredom.4/10  "},{"Title":"film is dated...","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What an awful film.  No wonder they spoofed it with Airplane.The film is just too dated to recommend for viewing.  Go see the movie Airplane.  Its a lot more fun and entertaining. Chuck Heston is classic though and I would only recommend if you are a big fan of his. For a while I was thinking he was going to say something about the apes but thats another movie and some other typecast.   "},{"Title":"So bad it's funny...but not that funny","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is one of those you must see to believe. It has good special effects, bad acting and a number of great actors struggling to maintain their professional integrity in an embarrassing film. Helen Reddy as a singing nun,and Karen Black as the stewardess, are delightfully funny, especially when they are trying to be serious. Poor Gloria Swanson. She must have desperately needed money. Overall it is a good comedy, but not one of the best of the bad. Good way to blow off a slow Sunday afternoon.  "},{"Title":"Where's Otto, the balloon pilot, when you need him?","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport 1975 is the first of three sequels in the classic 70's Airport franchise and already much more of a disaster movie than the original. I don't necessarily mean that in a negative way, but merely that this movie remains largely focused on one main tragic event whereas the original was more of a soap-opera of smaller story lines and human interest tales. The sub plots are well presented in this film as well, including the allegedly heartbreaking story of a young girl in need of a kidney transplant and the lingering love affair between a macho pilot and a veteran stewardess, but still all your attention is meant to go to the spectacular mid-air collision between a jumbo 747 and a private two- seater aircraft, which leaves the former with a hole in the cockpit and without a qualified pilot to make a landing. One thing I personally find hugely fascinating is that the pilot of the private jet is played by Dana Andrews. If you're familiar with airplane disaster movies, you'll remember that the same Dana Andrews played the hero who saved the day in Zero Hour! back in 1957. In that film he took over the steering wheel after an outbreak of food poisoning on board and he rescued everybody, whereas here in Airport 1975 he narrowly kills 120 people aboard the Boeing 747 just because he has to reach his arrival destination in time for a business meeting. With the pilot blinded and the co-pilot vanished into thin air, it's up to wide-eyed stewardess Karen Black to obey instructions from the control tower and navigate the massive aircraft through the Salt Lake City mountains until the heroic expert pilot Charlton Heston descends from a helicopter &#x96; in true Tarzan style &#x96; to take over the wheel. That Harry Medved guy included Airport 1975 in his list of fifty worst movies of all time, but I think he doesn't know a bad movie if one bit him in the bum. I can easily list a thousand movies that are far worse than this. Airport 1975 isn't a great film, I'll admit that, but it's entertaining and suspenseful enough to keep you on the edge of your seat throughout a good 100 minutes. The special effects are quite crummy, particularly for a Universal produced blockbuster such as this, as illustrated in the collision sequence and its direct aftermath. The cast is chock-full of famous names playing relatively small roles, which is a trademark in all four the Airport movies, and some of them are really redundant and silly. Sid Ceasar, for example, plays an aspiring actor who purchased a ticket simply because he has a small role in the in- flight movie. Gloria Swanson appears as herself and unceasingly nags about her Hollywood experiences, Jerry Stiller plays one of three drunks who's asleep throughout nearly the entire journey and Myrna Loy is hilarious as an ageing lady who mixes bourbon with beer the entire time. Linda Blair is the pitiable teenage kidney patient, and I assume her agent specifically requested if she could play a cherubic and sweet girl this time, in order to lose her devil-possessed The Exorcist alliance. Impossible, of course, as I was continuously prepared to see her vomit green pea soup over the friendly nun that sings for her. "}{"Title":"Disaster","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Processed trash, only for the few who like to see a bunch of old Hollywood stars thrown together for commerical profit. Is gripping in parts and the special effects are great, but the stars are as bored as the viewers. "},{"Title":"The Stewardess Is Flying The Plane","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport 1975 gets as many as four stars for the nice special effects and for the efforts of a whole lot of high priced talent headed by Charlton Heston to keep a straight face while getting through this improbable story.Karen Black who's Heston's gal pal is the chief stewardess on a transcontinental flight when Dana Andrews's private plane hits it midair as Andrews suffers a heart attack. The crash kills co-pilot Roy Thinnes and blinds pilot Efrem Zimbalist, Jr. What to do, but let the stewardess take over.Which Black does as the airline folks headed by Heston and George Kennedy try an absolutely impossible rescue. What they try and succeed in doing the second time around could never happen in real life. But this is the movies folks.The usual collection of high priced talent is on the passenger list and several generations of Hollywood are represented by people from Gloria Swanson playing herself to young Linda Blair as a kid who is flying to Los Angeles for a kidney transplant and is critically off her dialysis machine for the duration of the flight. I expected Linda's head to start turning as it was made clear it was the Devil that made this situation happen.Myrna Loy is there too as a woman with quite an intake. I'm not so sure that wasn't real boilermakers she was downing in order to get through the film.Of course the whole plot premise is shamelessly ripped off from the Doris Day film Julie. It was ridiculous then and still is ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Makes The Towering Inferno look like Citizen Kane","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I still recall, with a shudder of horror, being forced to watch this atrocity by a friend who claimed that its really, really funny.  Like most people, I love lousy movies, often finding them much more entertaining then some genuinely good movies.  But this...this is hideous beyond belief.  A cheap made-for-tv movie that somehow received a theatrical release, Airport '75 (released in '74!) is absolutely the worst, dullest disaster movie ever made. And I only laughed once (when Karen Black, trapped behind the controls of the plane, sticks out and wags her tongue directly at the audience, an endearing show of contempt from a fine actress for the few people out there who manage to enjoy this junk).  "},{"Title":"Climb, baby, climb.","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As time goes on this film is slowly starting to look funnier than Airplane! the film that got such mileage out of spoofing it. We have Charlton Heston wearing tasteless 70s fashions and looking ever-so-smug when he isn't chewing the scenery; we have a singing nun; we have a cute kid in need of a kidney transplant; we have a little old lady smuggling aboard the flight her small dog (and getting away with it apparently, as the screenwriters seem to forget all about her); we have a drunken businessman sleeping through the entire episode; we have George Kennedy over-acting incredibly badly, and we have a trolley dolly flying the plane. Oh yeah, and Chuck muttering the immortal line that provides the summary to this review.To be fair the film does get better, even managing to build a reasonable measure of suspense once the disaster element of the plot takes over. In order to do this it pretty much relegates all those passengers it spent so much time introducing to us to superfluous extras. For a big budget blockbuster the film looks pretty cheap, leading to the suspicion that a fair chunk of that budget went on Heston's pay packet. It certainly didn't go on hiring decent screenwriters - the dialogue is relentlessly, aggressively awful and gives no depth to any of the characters (or reasons for most of the passengers being there).Unless you're really into cheesy films I'd give this one a wide berth if I were you. "},{"Title":"AIRPORT 1975 (Jack Smight, 1974) **1/2","Date":"23 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The first of three official sequels to the blockbuster AIRPORT (1970) was already a big comedown from the original; as a matter of fact, I almost gave this ** – not even being up to the level of SKYJACKED (1972), a variant on the airborne disaster theme I’ve just watched (despite employing the same lead, Charlton Heston) but potentially even campier still! That said, this type of old-fashioned entertainment has, with time, attained a certain cult status – which, however, shouldn’t exclude criticism because some of the people involved should have known better! As ever with this type of film, an all-star cast has been assembled but, in their vast majority, these are given nothing of substance to do. Heston’s role is generally similar to the one he played in SKYJACKED (having romantic issues with a stewardess, taking it upon himself to save the day in spite of the danger involved, etc.); Karen Black is Heston’s love interest, who has to take control of a Boeing 747 when it collides in mid-air with a private plane and the whole cockpit crew is disabled. George Kennedy reprises his signature role of Joe Patroni (which he would do one more time for the least of the series, THE CONCORDE…AIRPORT ’79 1979); Susan Clark is his wife, who happens to be traveling on the Boeing with their son! Efrem Zimbalist Jr. is the pilot blinded during the accident; an ageing Dana Andrews is the ill-fated pilot of the second plane, and former B-movie starlet Beverly Garland his concerned spouse. Gloria Swanson turns up as herself, still playing at being a diva!; Myrna Loy – standing in for Helen Hayes’ Oscar-winning turn as a chronic stowaway in the original – plays an eccentric, alcoholic old lady (perhaps as a nod to her signature role of Nora Charles in THE THIN MAN series); Sid Caesar offers up mild comic relief as a cowardly passenger who admires Loy’s coolness in the face of crisis. Linda Blair – the sensation of THE EXORCIST (1973) – is still the sick child, here desperately in need of a kidney transplant, and Nancy Olson (Swanson’s co-star/rival in SUNSET BOULEVARD 1950!) her mother; Helen Reddy, then, cheers up Blair’s spirits as a singing nun, while Martha Scott (BEN-HUR 1959’s own mother – though she and Heston share no scenes!) is the latter’s disapproving Mother Superior, etc. I don’t know if it’s as a result of the terrific parody in AIRPLANE! (1980) but I seemed to recall there being a lot more singing stuff here and, when the interest waned during the film’s earlier expository stages, I imagined Blair getting possessed all over again and telling Reddy what she could do with her guitar!! Anyway, once disaster hits, the film notches up reasonable suspense – culminating in the daring rescue mission (a first attempt – where an air ace brought in especially for the job is killed – fails horribly). As I inferred before, the general tone of the film tends towards camp – what with Heston’s stoicism, Kennedy’s temperament (at one point, forcibly throwing a dogged but insensitive TV reporter down the stairs of the control tower!), Swanson’s self-aggrandizing monologues, Loy’s tipsy antics and Reddy’s saccharine contribution – so that the end result is undeniably fun but, at the same time, entirely predictable i.e. strictly formula stuff but done on a grand scale. "},{"Title":"About Greta Garbo's consideration","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Greta Garbo was indeed approached first with an offer to appear in this film as the retired actress. She basically refused the offer with with the salient reply, Vhat could be vorse than being an actress? Apparently, Gloria Swanson thought otherwise and happily stepped in; however, we don't know if she knew she wasn't first choice. This comment, attributed to Ms. Garbo, was frequently quoted back in the 1974 when the film was about to open. Ms. Garbo, while steadfastly refusing to appear in another film was notorious for making pithy comments about herself and the offers she still received while she lived in retirement. "},{"Title":"Skip this flight","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sure there's a certain amount of campy pleasure watching bug-eyed Karen Black try to land an airplane, but beyond that, AIRPORT 75 is an awful movie. Virtually every line of dialogue is cringe-inducing and the cast, or CASTING, is truly bizarre. If you've been waiting to see Sid Cesar and Myrna Loy share the screen, your anticipation is over. They, along with Linda Blair, Jerry Stiller, George Kennedy and a ghoulish Gloria Swanson are in it too. Starring Charlton Heston as Black's boyfriend, which is the film's biggest head scratcher. Seek out the Mad magazine parody, it's light years more entertaining. Also with a pre-CHIPs Erik Estrada, Norman Fell, Susan Clark, and Helen Reddy as a folk-singing nun. "},{"Title":"Oh, My God!","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This one, like Die Hard II, is rife with aviational errors, but in context, they are more bearable. In the Willis film, the problems are counterposed against easy solutions for anyone on the scene. In this film, things are so far off the mark that it makes little difference.It's already been pointed out that the impact of the light plane on the airliner's cockpit was extraordinarily selective. Hoewever, Spoiler possible When the airline learns that their injured aircraft has a stewardess at the controls, they gather together the most senior pilots to advise her. They all know that she's below the altitude of the mountain peaks she's flying towards, but nobody says anything useful until the injured pilot (the Efrem Zimbalist character) rouses himself enough to croak out, add power, to gain altitude. A student pilot learns that by the second lesson, long before solo. If the airline has that many dodo senior pilots, it's a wonder it was still in business.An excellent early aircraft disaster film was The High and the Mighty. On that one, the writer and technical adviser was Ernest K. Gann. This one hasn't had that fortune.Maybe good as a summer view, when one doze off easily. "},{"Title":"Average as far as sequels go, but at least it's better then the dreadful original.","Date":"16 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I had heard a lot about the Airport franchise, and I saw a DVD in my local video store, that had the 4 movies on one DVD, so I figured why not?. Well i'm not a fan of these movies at all, but I will say this is much better then the talky original, it has more action, and more suspense in my opinion. Charlton Heston may not be as strong as a lead as Burt Lancaster was, but he did a very admirable job. George Kennedy appeared in all of The Airport films, and remained my favorite character just like in the 1st.Bottom line. For what it's worth Airport 75 is a watchable effort, but nothing going out of your way to see. If you have a preference for a more action orientated entry, I'd choose this over the original if I were you.5/10 "},{"Title":"It cries out to be satirized...","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The first sequel to 1970's popular Airport is saddled with a fifth-rate script and a third-class production, yet somehow the thing is entertaining on a very low level. Karen Black is an odd choice to play a stewardess (she's much too intense an actress to be convincing waiting on travelers); when her 747 is crippled mid-flight after a collision with a small private plane, Black assumes control (when asked via radio to keep her eyes on the meters, you wait for one to go left and the other to go right), yet she's certainly an interesting, gripping actress who carries most of this film by herself. Unfortunately, sloppy director Jack Smight keeps trying to humiliate her (check out Karen's close-up near the end of the flick when she's sitting behind Charlton Heston--she looks positively constipated!). Helen Reddy is a hoot as a singing nun (she seems to have no idea she's slipping into a '50s-era parody), Linda Blair is sugary-sweet as a beaming teen in need of a kidney, Sid Caesar and Myrna Loy are amusing as two oldsters (he flirts, she drinks), and good ol' Chuck Heston comes to save the day wearing a yellow turtleneck and shades! Truly a jaw-dropping piece of sludge. ** from **** "}{"Title":"Joe Petroni should have rigged this plane to crash","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Too bad Bin Laden wasn't around to send a stinger missile up the tailpipe of this crowbait. Rarely have I been subjected to such mundane dialogue and tepid action as I was with this junk. Even THE PREZ couldn't help keep this vulture in the air. My main gripe with the picture was the portrayal of Helen Reddy as a nun. Say what? Joan of Arc got hot fried for less heresy in the old days. This little pipsqueak only got in the production because of her great feminist song of the 70's. I can hear it now, I am woman, hear me roar in numbers to big to ignore as I spread my loving legs across the land. What a masterpiece! My next gripe is playing Linda Blair as the sweet little girl again. So much sugar dripped off her I almost developed diabetes. She did no better here than she did in that goofy spook movie....the name eludes me, Demon Busters or Girl on a Bed with a Turned Around Head....something like that. The high point of it all was Joe Petroni wrench turners like this master mechanic are as rare as a broken Snap-On ratchet. I would say this was just another in a long line of disaster movies, but these slime coated stump leavings didn't even reach that level. "},{"Title":"Man -- A Flightless Mammal.","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There are few movies that are so bad that they're vaguely amusing but this is one of them.A mid-air collision leaves flight attendant Karen Black alone in the half-wrecked flight deck of a monstrous Boeing 747. She doesn't know how to fly the thing. Charlton Heston, back on the ground, coaxes her through certain elementary procedures that turn the airplane towards an airport and lift it over the surrounding mountains. Heston is assisted by the ubiquitous George Kennedy, whose wife and child are aboard the stricken aircraft. Heston heroically makes a mid-air transfer and successfully lands the brute. The terrified passengers sob with relief and get to go down a rubber sliding board. I love you, says Heston to Black, in the same tone of voice he uses to tell her to watch the little airplane on the artificial horizon.I don't know where to begin. Well, let me start with the pluses. Nice shots of a Boeing 747 flying around the snow-capped mountains of Utah. And the viewer is spared the complicated back stories of all the passengers. You know, this one lacks self confidence; that one is a skanky con man; this one a coward; that rich one in love with the whore sitting in Tourist class. Larry Storch is the noisome television reporter constantly pushing his way around to get a scoop.The problem is that we don't really NEED any back stories because the back stories are all up front and visible to the naked eye and the rest of the naked apperceptive apparatus. The nun sings a folk song to the sick girl who need a kidney transplant or a rare type of blood transfusion or an intraorbital lobotomy or something. Norma Desmond, I mean Gloria Swanson, learns that jewels aren't everything. Nancy Olsen's front story is merely that she's taking care of the sick girl. Now, boys and girls, this is twenty-five years after she appeared (with Gloria Swanson, by the way) in the superb Sunset Boulevard -- and she looks just FINE. We should ALL look so good when we're nearing fifty.Then there is the script, aside from the personnel. Karen Black is up there, sobbing and trying to figure out the controls. There is a huge hole in the side of the flight deck. The decompression sucked out the engineer, Erik Estrada, which is just as well. But, anyway, here is Karen Black standing in a relative wind of 180 knots and her hair is behaving as if it were in a light breeze on the beach at Cancun, strands of it, comely and lustrous, moving about her forehead in a sightly and graceful manner, a living commercial for some shampoo that cures split ends.And you should see her frenzy as she manipulates the knobs of the complicated radio apparatus, trying to find the airport's frequency. She gets WNEW okay. (They play all the hits.) But then she captures WWVA in Wheeling, West Virginia, and gets swept up in a Lefty Frizell festival and for half an hour the movie stops while she plays air guitar and sings along to Indian Love Call.What rankled me most, I think, is that when they're on the radio, Heston keeps addressing Black as Honey. He calls her honey every thirty seconds, as in, Now just take a deep breath and calm down, Honey. Even I, as a man, found this disgustingly condescending. It really sent my Jungian anima into overdrive. Unless -- unless I am a woman trapped in a man's body. I'll have to mull that over.The thing is, this movie was apparently meant by its makers to be taken seriously by its audience. But the question is what audience did they have in mind? Six year olds? Gibbons? Some form of pond scum? "},{"Title":"Every morning is beautiful, your just too young to know. So bad it's good?","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Airport 1975 starts at Washinton D.C. airport where a packed Boeing 747 takes off en-route for Los Angeles, meanwhile elsewhere a small plane piloted by Scott Freeman (Dana Andrews) also takes off. Scott has a heart attack at the controls of the plane & crashes into the Boeing 747 head on causing damage to the cockpit including a large hole, badly injuring the pilot & killing the co-pilots. The Boeing 747 is now pilot-less & stewardess Nancy Pryor (Karen Black) takes charge of the controls & speaks to the control tower over the radio, the plan is to land the Boeing 747 at Salt Lake City but the plane & it's instruments are damaged & Nancy has never piloted a plane before. As a desperate last resort the people on the ground decide to winch a pilot into the Boeing's cockpit through the hole in order to take control of the Boeing & land it safely but it's a dangerous plan that could go wrong...Also known as Airport '75 this was directed by Jack Smight & was the sequel to the smash-hit thriller Airport (1970) although the two films are quite different in general tone & feel they obviously both revolve around some sort of airline disaster, while a more entertaining film overall than the Airport this definitely falls into the so bad it's good category. The original Airport was as much a drama as an action thriller with more focus on the character's & their relationship's than the actual bombing plot which is why I didn't like it that much while here in Airport 1975 the character's definitely come a distant second to the action, the first thirty odd minutes is all set-up with all the various character's being introduced & given a little background but once the disaster side of the plot kicks in they are there merely to be put in danger & are barely heard from again, they just sort of sit there & scream when needed. The actual plot about a small plane colliding with a huge Boeing is sort of cool but I just can accept that with a huge hole ripped in the cockpit there wouldn't even be a breeze, look at Karen Black's hair as it never even moves. The idea of a mid flight transfer is cool & could have made for a terrific action adventure but it's all so silly & lethargic with the actual transfer taking less than five minutes & the rest of the time just people talking over the radio & shots of the Boeing flying along. Even the ending in which the Boeing lands is poor without any turbulence or tension & the only thing that happens of any note is that the plane destroys a tin shed. None of the passengers die after the initial crash & you never feel they are in that much danger, at 107 minutes long it's much shorter than the original which helps but an annoying hymn singing, guitar playing Nun who survives doesn't. I suppose it's fun in a bad, dated silly sort of way but it can get a bit tiresome & repetitive.There aren't many big action scenes here, the initial plane crash is swift & apart from the mid flight transfer nothing else much happens until the end when a poor tin shed is brutally knocked over. The singing Nun interlude is embarrassingly bad, the plane interior decor is hideous with bright purple seats & 70's wallpaper, ugh. The fashions aren't much better either with a kid expected to wear a tight fitting suit, shirt & tie on a long haul flight. Could you imagine that now? Also there's a shocking lack of airport security with three drunken guy's able to just walk on the plane & abuse the stewardess at will, do that now & you will have big guy's with automatic machine gun's pointing at your head in seconds. Apparently the 747 used in Airport 1975 cost $30,000 a day to rent from American Airlines & filming was completed within two days. Included in the book 'The Fifty Worst Films of All Time' while some of the footage was later used in an episode of The Incredible Hulk (1978-1982) called 747.With a supposed budget of about $3,000,000 this was a lot less than the original Airport, this looks alright but has dated badly. Charlton Heston gets the hero role, George Kennedy returns from the original this time promoted to Vice President, Linda Blair is alright while this was Gloria Swanson's first film in twenty two years & ended up being her last as well as she plays herself. Beverley Garland, Guy Stockwell, Dana Andrews & a host of decent character actor's turn up in bit parts.Airport 1975 is an entertainingly silly film that isn't quite bad enough to become a classic but does offer up a few laughs & the plot is alright even though it could have been better. Not a good film but a fairly entertaining one for the wrongs reasons. Followed by Airport '77 (1977) & The Concorde ... Airport '79 (1979). "},{"Title":"Time Changes Things","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was 14 when Airport 75 came out, and at the time I remember thinking it was Wow! Now, having just watched it 30 years later, I can see that maturity does tend to change our perspective - enormously.Apart from the delightful novelty of Gloria Swanson playing herself, and Myrna Loy being a part of the cast, the acting was excruciating. Perhaps in 1975, we were less demanding of our screenplays and actors - I can't help but think that would explain the disaster this movie was (for all the wrong reasons).It has been spoofed in a variety of ways since first appearing on screen. Mad Magazine made Head Stewardess, Karen Black, seem even more cross-eyed than she seemed in reality, and of course Airplane captured to perfection the diabetes-inducing saccharine of Linda Blair's dying kidney transplantee and Helen Reddy's unbelievable break into song. Even so, the spoofs were so perfect because the movie itself seems to be the epitome of spoof - all on its own.Strangely enough, however, in spite of the fact that the acting and script were almost unbearable, I found myself watching to the final moment. I can only believe it is that same fascination we find with watching something awful happening. It's terrible, but you just can't stop watching.Karen Black definitely wins the award for most atrocious acting of all. Her facial expressions were painful to watch. However, I feel less inclined to blame the actress as I am the director - after all, it was his responsibility to bring the best out of his actors. Instead, he appears to have created a farce.The movie, overall, is unsatisfying. The characters are plastic and, in the end, you really don't care what happens to most of them. "},{"Title":"Abandon All Hope Ye Who Enter Here","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With respect to Dante, this film is as close to Hell as the viewer is ever likely to come. Gloria Swanson goes slumming, Karen Black gets a running start on her subsequent train wreck of a career, and Charlton Heston displays the three scintillating varieties of menacing grimace that earned him the lamest Oscar of all time in, Ben-Hur. Welcome to two hours of your life you'll never get back. The screechy, atonal soundtrack is the crowning touch. What an abysmal mess. The film's only merit serving as material for the genuinely funny satire of the Airplane films. This film also set a precedent for one of Hollywood's most loathsome blights the Sequel. Airport '75 spawned the even more execrable, Airport '77 which led to the lowest rung on the ladder of Dantean Movie Hell, Airport, '79. That alone merits the doom of everyone involved in this cinematic miscarriage. "},{"Title":"Yuck in the sky!","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am very generous to most movies. Hey, if I can get one good laugh or have only a moment of hesitation about the climax its okay by me. This movie, however, I actually was wishing Karen Black, who had the title female role, would blow out of the hole. And the nun Helen Reddy played, why in the world would she allow them to put a nun's habit on her which had a headpiece which continually was slipped down her forehead like a BAD Halloween costume! Even George Kennedy as the ever there, Joe Patrino, this time as the newly promoted head of some vague company, couldn't even get a decent concerned look on his face.Of the four Airport franchise movies, I find this one as the big stinker. It is no wonder it is the one least shown on TV. Not even one handsome passenger to look at in this one! Even old Chuck Heston, in his bright yellow turtleneck, was all but a joke in this role.How could so many talented people, well...a couple of talented people, even agree to be in this movie! "},{"Title":"I am Woman, hear me Strum, Dressed up like a Nun, Playing Guitar for a kidney transplant kidddd!!!","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Watching the 1980 disaster spoof Airplane! without having seen this movie is funny enough. But boy, does the sheer cheesiness of the genre get thrown into sharp relief when you see Airport 1975. (We've got to get these people to a hospital...A hospital! what is it?! It's big building with patients, but that's not important now)Even the title suggests the makers actually wanted the picture to live forever as a monument to the kitsch that shared the movie billboards with classics like Taxi Driver and The Godfather. OK,so we want a catchy title for our movie? I know...let's pick one that becomes dated on January 1st, 1976. Let us also imagine what might happen if The Loveboat were to sprout wings and take off for the city of The Mormons but in midair, a smaller aircraft causes an accident of such such infinite improbability, only Brian of Nazareth falling from a tower and being rescued by a passing spaceship comes close. And when the collision occurs, a blow-up dummy of the co-pilot gets sucked out of the hole in the flight cabin (are we seeing the Airplane! parrallels now?) The impact also leaves one of his colleagues (Eric Estrada, pre CHiPs) dead and the other (Efrem Zimablist) drenched in tomato sauce. Luckily, a descendant of Ben Hur, Captain Murdoch (Charlton Heston) is on the ground to help guide the stewardess (note the pre-PC terminology of the time...roar a bit louder Helen) played by Karen Black into piloting the 747 to safety. Now, we sadly don't get any flashbacks to Vietnam and Heston wooing Black in the Negombo Bar, as with Airplane's Ted Stryker, but the two are lovers. Back in 1975, Heston could still carry a male romantic lead. It is the assembly of passengers that make this stand out from the boring Airport 77 and the 'What the....?' jaw-dropping ridiculousness of Airport 79 The Concorde. We have Gloria Swanson as...Gloria Swanson,Myrna Loy as the dowager with the dog, the 70s 'hip dudes', a precious brat child, an unpleasant old man. There aren't any Hare Krishnas on board sadly, but they are two nuns played by Martha Scott and...Helen Reddy. Yes, Heddy Reddy. Yes, THAT Helen Reddy. Although she was raking in the dollars from hits like 'Angie Baby' and 'I am Woman' in 1975,it seems she wanted to act. But while Bowie, Jagger and even Ringo Starr went for intelligent roles, poor Helen had to don a nun's habit and play the guitar for Linda Blair, a poor kid who will die if the plane doesn't land in time. Apparently, during all that pea-soup vomiting, cursing-at-priests business during the previous year's hit, The Exorcist, little Linda brought up both her kidneys. Will the plane crash? Will it land? This reviewer cannot divulge. But tragically, at no point does Heston quip 'Looks like I picked the wrong week to quit sniffin' glue' and end up floating from the control tower ceiling... "},{"Title":"The Worst Airborne Disaster Movie EVER","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Simply, undeniably, the most hideous, unintentionally funny, practically unwatchable airborne disaster movie of all time--including the universally raked over the coals CONCORDE-AIRPORT '79 and AIRPORT '77. From perhaps the most ungainly 'credit' line I've seen (Inspired by the movie AIRPORT, based on the novel...) to poor comic relief from Sid Caesar (who deserved better)and Jerry Stiller (who, like much of the audience, sleeps through the entire picture...you think I'm kidding?)to Karen Black, who seems to be trying to make overacting an art form, and Charlton Heston, who has made overacting an art form, I pity poor George Kennedy for wasting his time even trying. Forget this one. "},{"Title":"A Fairly Poor Disaster Movie","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is an incredibly mediocre disaster movie . So mediocre and ill thought out that you can be forgiven to thinking it's a spoof if it wasn't for the fact that AIRPORT 75 isn't even bad enough to be good . Say what you like about AIRPORT 77 and AIRPORT 80THE CONCORDE at least those flying accidents were entertaining A light plane crashes into the cockpit of a jumbo jet killing or maiming the flight crew so it's left to stewardess Nancy Pryor to try and fly the plane to safety and right away you can see a little flaw to this plot - What is it stewardesses do ? That's right they walk up and down aircraft serving food and drink to passengers so gawd knows why the producers thought because someone works on a plane they have an extensive knowledge of flying one . There must be amongst the passengers better qualified would be pilots , though perhaps a bimbo stewardess publicly announcing that the flight crew are either dead or incapacitated would anyone with a pilot's licence please go to the flight deck might cause a panic To be honest causing a panic amongst the passengers brings me to another major flaw with the film . look at the scenes of the passengers in the background . When the scene is supposed to be dramatic we can clearly see extras with totally bored faces and when there's a slower scene where nothing happens extras in the background look like they're having a heart attack through fear . It's difficult to know who to blame , the director or the actors but it's oh so very noticeable Despite the relatively big names the production values are very cheap looking leading me to believe that most of the budget was squandered on Heston's fee . The cockpit looks exactly what it is - a studio prop with back projection in front of it and the whole feel of the film screams that it's a made for television movie . There's no doubt that this is the weakest in the AIRPORT franchise "},{"Title":"Bad?  Yes, but not THAT bad.","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie was included in The Fifty Worst Films of All Time (and how they got that way) by Harry Medved. However, after finally getting to see it, I think it was not nearly bad enough to make it to the book. Now I am not saying it's good--after all, I gave it a 3--but it just isn't THAT bad a film.Now parts of the film are really bad--in particular the first half or so. The biggest problem was the wretched dialog--and especially all the inappropriate sexist remarks and double-entendres coming from the flight crew. At times, it sounded more like a Matt Helm film than an air disaster film! Also the film made the mistake of having way too many guest stars and spent too much time bouncing around--making it look choppy and amateurish (despite the big budget). In fact, all the guest stars with all their assorted problems made the film seem a lot like the movie AIRPORT morphed with THE LOVE BOAT!! Silly, soapy and sappy---that about sums it up.Once the action starts later in the film, it improves greatly--though you certainly have to suspend disbelief to accept the premise. Think about it--a guy has to tether from a helicopter through a tiny hole in order to fly a stricken 747 in mid-flight! At least, though, there were far fewer guest shots here and the dialog centered more on the plot. There was some genuine tension and excitement--too bad it didn't make much sense.By the way, is it just me or did it look like Gloria Swanson had her head waxed for the film? Take a close look and you should easily see what I mean. Her entire head is shiny as if dipped in wax or sprayed with cooking spray! Perhaps this was some clever way to make the aging star look young, but to me it just made her look really strange.Bad, but certainly not among the top 1000 worst films ever made--let alone top 50. It is worth watching if you want to see where AIRPLANE got all it's inspiration--too bad, at times, it's hard to tell they're not BOTH meant to be comedies! "}]