[{"Title":"Much better than its reputation","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"48 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man With the Golden Gun was producer Harry Saltzman's last hurrah before selling out his share in the Bond series to United Artists to ensure the maximum inconvenience to his detested partner Cubby Broccoli. It's certainly not premium Bond at times it threatens to turn into an episode of The Avengers, what with Scaramanga's funhouse, his midget servant Nick Nack, it's human statues or the off-kilter angles of MI6's Hong Kong HQ located in the rusting wreck of the Queen Elizabeth, not to mention Roger Moore's more Steed-like Bond. Although there are hints of the lows to come in Moore's tenure &#150; Bond being saved by a pair of schoolgirls or defeating a villain by pretending to be a tailor's dummy &#150; this is still recognisable an old-school Bond film, with thankfully few gadgets, although it's disappointing that the producers provide Scaramanga with an island lair and super-weapon to give Bond something to blow up at the end (a rather half-hearted effort to be sure instead of a private army, Scaramanga simply has Herve Villachaize and a maintenance man).Britt Ekland's irritating 'typical silly woman' comic relief was a bit hard to take in 1974 and gets worse with each passing year, but Christopher Lee's Scaramanga is one of the more interesting Bond villains, not least because of his imagined empathy with his prey &#150; he regards himself as Bond's moral and professional equal, the kind of pathological snobbery Fleming's books were full of but the films increasingly abandoned. "},{"Title":"Scaramanga's trademark weapon was a single-shot, gold plated, 4.2-caliber handgun&#133;","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"36 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In Guy Hamilton's 'The Man With the Golden Gun', James Bond still enjoys a good cigar, and prefers Dom Perignon '62 above the '64 offered...He sure does love Swedish babes, and dares to kiss a talented dancer's 'magnificent' abdomen... He slaps a tall, graceful slim girl, and he slaps her hard... He attempts to overtake Scaramanga's car by crossing a canal with no bridge in sight, and pilots a small seaplane to let us see those incredible prehistoric islands off the coast of Thailand...Francisco Scaramanga (Christopher Lee) is a world's class assassin who has stolen a prize solar energy device, but who only needs one bullet to finish a job... He likes Tabasco sauce, gold jewelry, and a girl in a bikini... He caresses his lover with a golden gun, and loves to kill for a million dollars a shot... He has a 'sign' of great sexual prowess... He perverse love/hate relationship with a mischievous French-speaking assistant, and admires Bond so much that he even keeps a mannequin of him at his island retreat... He claims to be an artist, and challenges 007 to 'a duel between titans' on the sunlit beach... A man of taste, his AMC Matador car suddenly sprouted wings and jetted off into the blue sky&#133;Britt Ekland spends most of the film either locked in the trunk of Scaramanga's flying car or stuck in the closet of Bond's hotel room while 007 makes love to Andrea (Maud Adams). Maud Adams remains the only exotic woman to have starred in two different Bond features, and would also have a brief cameo in A View To A Kill. This Swedish beauty is sick of Scaramanga's sadistic games&#133; It was she who sent the gold bullet to M16 that set Bond on Scaramanga's tail&#133;Nick Nack (Hervé Villechaize) perfectly proves that the smallest of Bond's adversaries can easily give 007 big trouble... He annoyed 007 right up until the very end of the mission&#133; His tiny mannerisms perfectly fitted the fantasy tradition of the Bond movies... He's seen so quick on his feet as he plays with the controls that operate the 'fun house' on Scaramanga island&#133;'The Man With the Golden Gun' remains thin and obvious 007 extravaganza with conventional expensive excitements... The boat and car chases merely reprise sequences in both 'Live and Let Die' and 'Diamonds Are Forever.' Last note After being absent in 'Live and Let Die,' Desmond Llewelyn returns as the beloved Q, but provides 007 no fantastic gadgets and weapons this time... "},{"Title":"Beautiful landscapes in a so-so Bond adventure","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"40 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Let me say I like Roger Moore very much, because I grew up watching his films -he's the first Bond I've ever seen. Many people prefer Sean Connery, who is really unique, true... But how can I say Roger Moore is not good? I've also a lot of affection for Moore because I watched on TV, when I was a kid, The Persuaders series.Although that his second Bond outing is not very good. That's not his fault at all, the screenplay is not good and the story itself is not very interesting. Everything is a little slower than usual, the film has neither the liveliness of Live and let die -the first Moore Bond flick- nor the liveliness of the previous episodes.Here Bond has to face a refined assassin -that's all, there isn't a real thrilling intrigueOn the other hand landscapes and John Barry score are fantastic. Also the cast is strong, because Christopher Lee and Britt Ekland bring a lot of glamour. It's a pity that the movie doesn't match the usual standard.At the time producers Albert Broccoli and Harry Saltzman didn't get along well with each other any more. In '75 their partnership broke up and let Broccoli alone at the command of 007 empire. Maybe this tensions had an influence on The man with the golden gun, who knows...Luckily in 1977 Bond came back with one of the best films of the series -The spy who loved me, a real classic, the definitive Roger Moore entry as Bond. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Bond adventure, but not one of the very best.","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"30 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Man With the Golden Gun ditches the original novel almost completely (the book was set in Jamaica, for a start, whereas the film is located in the Far East). However, it is still a fairly entertaining entry is the long-running series, and features three strong reasons for tuning in 1)a classic Bond villain in the shape of Francisco Scaramanga 2)a classic villain's henchman in the shape of psycho dwarf NickNack, and 3)a stunning Bond girl in the shape of Mary Goodnight. There'a also the most outrageous car stunt ever seen in a motion picture, rendered all the more impressive by the fact that it is not a computer enhanced sequence but was filmed for real (including that infamous loop-the-loop in the red sports car).Bond is played by Roger Moore for the second time. Moore is relaxed and easy-going in his usual manner, but shows a bit of the old Connery toughness during a couple of martial arts fight sequences. His mission is simply to stay alive this time, having been targeted by world renowned hitman Francisco Scaramanga (chilling Christopher Lee). Moore decides that rather than waiting around to be shot, he will hunt for Scaramanga himself, and his search takes him to Beirut, Macao, Hong Kong and, finally, a privately owned Thai island. En route, he discovers that Scaramanga has bigger fish to fry than simply killing 007, as he also plans to use a powerful solar device to power-up a deadly laser gun that he has had built.It's a surprisingly slow-moving film for a Bond flick, with more talky scenes than is customary. However, the action when it comes is pretty memorable. The comedy relief provided by Clifton James (you may remember him as a mouthy cop from Live and Let Die) is somewhat irritating and hurts the film more than it helps it. Lulu's title song is dated, but catchy. I would rate this an an enjoyable Bond escapade, definitely worth catching for series completists and fans of action bonanzas, but it isn't really the best of the bunch and isn't even the best of Moore's films in the series. If you're only going to see five minutes of the film, though, you simply must tune in for that afore-mentioned car stunt.... awesome! "},{"Title":"No doubt one of Roger Moore's best","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"50 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I just recently watched The Man with the golden gun for the millionth time and it was day after I saw Die another day which I found massively disappointing. The difference between the two is just inconceivable! It's hard to believe both movies are actually part of the same series. When I watched Die another day, most of the time I felt that I'm not even watching a Bond movie.It was so deliriously refreshing to once again look out what a traditional, true first-rate Bond classic looks like and let me tell you it always looks good. I can't understand people who claim The Man with the golden gun is one of the worst Bond films. Why the hell's that? To me it has always been one of Roger Moore's finest efforts as 007, he unfortunately started to be a bit too old anyway in his last films.This is an extremely splendid film entertaining, exotic and fascinating James Bond movie - just like Live and let die. Funny, gripping and just simply irresistible and not boring for a single second. Christopher Lee's Scaramanga is certainly one of the greatest villains in a Bond movie ever. His servant Nick Nack (as played by Hervé Villechaize who sadly committed suicide 19 years later) is also one of the best of the classic sidekicks Bond's enemies has had - he's right in the company of Oddjob and Jaws. Excellent 007-adventure! "},{"Title":"Underrated Moore Bond","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Altho there's a lot of hate for this second Moore 007, I never understood it. For a change, most of the witty dialogue works well. I think it's one of Moore's best Bond performances.So let's break it down The Good - Roger Moore is witty and action ready. His fight scene in the belly dancer's room is pretty good. Tough and violent. Don't know about that cigar, but it adds a little extra somethin'.- Herve Villechieze as Knick Knack. Not threatening, but a fun memorable sidekick with lots of playful malevolence. I love it when he shushes Bond.- Christopher Lee. Nuff said, tho they didn't build up this character to the level they could have. Where are those deleted scenes between him and Moore (from the trailer and photos)that obviously exist? - John Barry. Yes, Lulu's song is ridiculous. Still, I love the brassy music and this is one of Barry's most memorable catchy Bond scores. Especially during the karate scenes and the jazzy swing of Scaramenga's fun parlor.- Kung fu. The Bond films always lucked out when it came to latching onto the culture of the day. 1974 was the height of kung fu exploitation and Bond was there. Still have BLACK BELT magazine featuring this on the cover...The Bad - Miss Goodnight. Giving Bond a ditzy helper...well, bad night.- Lack of compelling plot. The energy cell and Scaramanga are too loosely tied together and the film shouldn't have tried to pull a Blofeld at the end.- Production design. Ken Adams is sorely missing here. And what's with that ONE GUARD in the massive solar laser set? Missed opportunity there.The Ugly - JW Pepper.- Slide whistle. "},{"Title":"Golden Gun is Golden Surprise!","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore's second outing as Agent 007 puts him against the evil trick shot artist/assassin, Scaramanga (Christopher Lee). Hailed by many Connery fans as the film that marked the downfall of the 007 franchise, 'The Man With The Golden Gun' turns out to be one of the most pleasant surprises of the entire series and one of the 'better' Roger Moore films. 'Gun' does take some getting used to, in fact, more times than not, you need to see it a few times to really begin to enjoy the film. The cast is great, one of the better ones of the entire series. There are two leading ladies in this film, the wonderful Maud Adams, who would later star in Octopussy (1983), and the terrible Britt Ekland who just acts so dumb and hopeless that it almost angers viewers. The villain Scaramanga is top notch as well as his comical, yet silently evil assistant, Nick Nack, played by French painter Herve Villechaize. The plot of the film is very interesting, the locals are exotic (which is always an extremely important part of a bond film), and Roger Moore continues to develop his character from a Connery-clone to putting his own, charming spin on 007. All-in-all, 'Gun' is another good 007 adventure and is quite possibly the 4th best Roger Moore Bond film. Any fan of the series should give it a second look before they hail it as 'bad'. "},{"Title":"Bond #9 Scaramanga turns on the light","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The killer Scaramanga (Christopher Lee) uses a special golden gun for his assignments and has a rare birthmark on his chest. That's about the only things the movie has in common with the novel which played in the Caribbean region whereas the movie takes us to Thailand where Scaramanga secretly works with solar energy. Casting Herve Villechaize was an attempt to create a sidekick for Scaramanga like Oddjob had been to Goldfinger - a bit too silly in the end. Being a child of its time, The Man With the Golden Gun couldn't resist some kung fu - you see better martial arts in Hong Kong productions, though. Somehow parts of the movie seem too artificial, especially the mirror labyrinth where Scaramanga likes to practice the art of killing. But the beautiful islands will stick to your memory, and there is the most fabulous car stunt so far! There's an interesting promo photo for the movie, by the way Lee and Moore back to back, gun in hand. This is not just a duel, this is also illustrating the idea of Scaramanga being a dark Bond, his mirror image as a bad guy with the same skills, but different ideology. We have so much in common, Mr Bond, Scaramanga says. Ours is the loneliest profession. "},{"Title":"Another poor victim has come to a glittering end.","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" You don't review James Bond movies, you evaluate them, rate them according to how well they meet expectations. There are certain things one has come to expect, even demand of a Bond film and each individual effort either delivers or it doesn't. So, here are ten elements that make a Bond film a Bond film and how THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN rates on a scale of 1 to 10 Title THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN Exceedingly lame, the title might be an accurate description of the film's villain, but it is almost embarrassing in its attempt at sexual innuendo. 4 points.Pre-Credit Teaser A forty-year-old stereotype of a gangster (black shirt, white tie, fedora, etc.) is lured into a cheesy funhouse, that wouldn't even cut the muster at a fifth rate carnival, to do battle with Scaramanga, the world's highest paid professional assassin. This is supposed to foreshadow a duel of the titans confrontation between Scaramanga and Bond. Instead it introduces us to the rather tacky quality of the entire movie. 5 points.Opening Credits Same old same old from Maurice Binder. 4 points.Theme Song As bad as the title is, the attempt to turn it into a theme song is even worse. The music itself is catchy enough, I suppose, and the instrumental theme that pops up on the soundtrack now again is decent. But the lyrics are just plain awful in their attempt to cross themes of sex and violence His eye may be on you or me. Who will he bang? We shall see. Ouch! Even pop diva Lulu can't do much with such numbingly bad material. 1 point.Bond, James Bond Were it not for the bits of campy humor peppered throughout the film, I suspect that Roger Moore would just nod off. It's only his second film and already he seems bored -- but with this material, who can blame him? 5 points.Bond Babes As Scaramanga's mistress, Maud Adams is surprisingly poignant as a woman trapped in a corrupt world and controlled by an abusive man. She shows more depth than we have come to expect from a Bond Girl, but predictably her character is killed off far too soon. And, unfortunately, the film's heroine becomes Mary Goodnight, played by Britt Ekland, the one-time Mrs. Peter Sellers. Though we are supposed to believe she is a British agent, Goodnight is a one-joke ditz of the sort that suddenly became a Bond cliché. The two cancel each other out. 5 points.Bond Villain It is said that Ian Fleming wanted his cousin, famed screen Dracula, Christopher Lee, to be the villain in the first Bond film, DR. NO. That didn't work out, but it is hard to say if it was worth the wait to see him here. Lee is a class act and one of the legendary screen villains of all time. Unfortunately, he is saddled with playing one of the dullest Bond villains of all time. Scaramanga seems to be as noted for his good manners as for his bloodlust. Lee seems to be enjoying the role and there is nothing intrinsically wrong with his portrayal, it is just that Scaramanga doesn't seem all the threatening. Why doesn't Bond just shoot him and be done with it? 5 points.Bond Baddies As sort of a Mini-Me version of Goldfinger's Oddjob, Nick Nack is apparently an all purpose butler, henchman, adorable sidekick and source of comic relief. At less than four feet tall, Hervé Villechaize is certainly not very threatening, but pound for pound and inch for inch, he is probably one of Bond's more memorable adversaries. 8 points.Sinister Plot The world's most notorious hired assassin apparently has a contract to kill 007, though considering Bond dodges three or four assassins in every one of his adventures, it's hard to see what the big deal is. Anyway, Bond is working on an assignment involving a missing scientist involved in harnessing solar energy and it turns out that Scaramanga is trying to take control of the world using solar energy. Wow, what a coincidence! And how lame. 3 points.Production values Whatever ill that can be said about the film as a whole, it will always be cherished by Bondophiles for the infamous spinning car jump. In an attempt to jazz up their image, the carmaker AMC somehow persuaded the Bond producers to let them supply the cars for TMWTGG (just as Fords costarred in GOLDFINGER and Chevys in LIVE AND LET DIE), which is the only possible reason that Scaramanga would be driving a Matador. Anyway, it is also the only possible reason that Bond would commandeer an AMC Hornet to give chase. After a fairly well staged chase through the streets of Bangkok, Bond must catch up with Scaramanga by crossing a river via a half-collapsed bridge. Thus, the car trick from two ramps twisted in opposite directions. A neat trick. And if all Matadors could sprout wings and fly like Scaramanga's, maybe AMC would still be in business. 10 points.Bonus Points Clifton James, as the big-bellied, tobacco-spitting, none-too-bright southern sheriff, J.W. Pepper, is back and for no apparent reason beyond being a desperate attempt to repeat a joke that fell flat when used in LIVE AND LET DIE. Minus 5 points.Summary THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN was used as evidence that the Bond series was wearing out its welcome. Despite trying new things with the character and the formula, the film seems listless and uninspired. It is a low point, but it is also the lull before the rebirth that would come with THE SPY WHO LOVED ME.Bond-o-meter Rating 45 points out of 100. "},{"Title":"Goodnight, Sir.","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The nefarious (I've no idea what that means, but I know it works) super-assassin Francisco Saramanga is out to kill Bond. Because he's like that. Scaramanga charges a million dollars a hit and is the only person in the world who has a slim chance of getting to Bond. Concerned for his safety, M takes Bond off active duty.Never perturbed (not really sure of that word either), Bond still investigates and soon discovers that Scaramanga has stolen the 'priceless' Solex Agitator. Oh yeah, one of those! A mere MacGuffin and no more. In his mission to retrieve said 'agitator' Bond travels to Thailand and Hong Kong and gets into many silly fights, one involving a midget butler. He even finds time stress-out hillbilly Sheriff JW Pepper once more and...erm...'roger' his gorgeous assistant Mary Goodnight.It's very dumb and thoroughly unsophisticated but it's all in the name of fun and Roger Moore's light, somewhat innocent way of playing Bond just keeps you smiling all the way through. I also liked John Barry's score, despite the fact he claims it's his weakest effort on the series.TMWTGG was the last Bond film to be shot in a 1.851 aspect ratio and I do feel that if it was shot in Panavision then it would have more slick and polished look. 33 years on, TMWTGG looks too grainy and dated and appears older than it is. I'm not sure why Guy Hamilton chose to film it this way when 4 previous Bond films had already been made in Scope widescreen.Definitely one of the lesser Bond movies but saved by sense of humor and never-ending fun. Rent this one. "}{"Title":"Christopher Lee as Scaramanga my personal fave Bond villain","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Yes, of all the Bond villains in the over twenty films, Christopher Lee is by far my favorite. This is probably due to the fact I enjoy seeing Lee in general. He also does one of his best acting jobs here, it just seems he is utterly thrilled to be in this film and that he is happy to not being Dracula again. Of course, despite the fact that Lee is my favorite Bond villain and Roger Moore does great as Bond here and most of the cast do a wonderful job it still does not rank as one of my favorite Bond films. This is mainly due to the fact I just think they could have crafted a better story around the assassin whose skill set matches Bond and they could have and should have omitted a return character from the previous Roger Moore film. Of course, this film also boasts the return of Q as he was absent from Live and Let Die. So all in all a good Bond film, but had they done some different things with the story it could have been one of the best.The story has Bond being sent a bullet made of gold. This bullet may be a warning that he is the next target of Scaramanga, the man with the golden gun. He is a feared assassin and with Bond being in his sights M has no choice but to take Bond off his assignment; however, he hints that Bond should go out and find the assassin first thus improving his odds for survival greatly. Bond soon finds himself in Hong Kong where he soon learns that he is not Scaramanga's target and that a solar energy device is at the center of everything.This film has some good action in it and some great scenes, but as I said, they could have crafted a better story around the man with the golden gun. They also did not need to have a return performance from J. W. Pepper. Sure his character made perfect sense in the previous film, as it was set in Louisiana, but this time we're in Hong Kong...I seriously doubt a redneck sheriff is going to want to vacation in Hong Kong. Also, it makes little sense that Bond goes, Oh no when he sees the sheriff as he had virtually no interaction with Bond in Live and Let Die. Pepper ruins what should have been an awesome car chase scene with his lame humor and he just drags the film down.Overall, I enjoyed this film. Seeing Lee's Scaramanga and Moore's Bond interact is the best parts of this film as Lee seems more than happy to be a Bond villain. The Bond girls are attractive and Herve's henchman Nick Nack is also a nice character. Just a shame they had so many good characters, but they just could not make the story considerably stronger. The film does feature some nice action sequences, but a couple of times they are undercut by everyone's favorite sheriff. Still, it was a nice second film for Roger Moore as Bond as by now he seems like a veteran of several Bond films. "},{"Title":"The Man With the Golden Gun ****","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore was again in top form in this 1974 film.Believed to be targeted by a world known assassin who hasn't been seen, it becomes Moore's responsibility to get to him first.It is only when we're into the film that it becomes known that Moore wasn't the original tart of Christopher Lee, but then he sees quite a diabolical plot that Lee has in store for mankind.Britt Ekland gives new meaning to the dumb blonde who supposedly assists 007 in his exploits. Maud Adams, the mistress of Lee, finally admits that she was the one who drew Moore into the scheme so that by killing Lee, she could be free of him.That southern gentleman brings comic relief to the film in a chase scene. The chase along Hong Kong's water routes was also quite memorable.The adorable Herve Villechaize, a cohort of Lee, is evil and up to plenty of tricks.Note old-timer Mark Lawrence in the beginning sequence in his losing gun battle with Lee. The former often played in gangster films of the 1930s and 1940s. "},{"Title":"New entry with exceptional villain Scaramanga ,awesome played by Christopher Lee","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This exciting ninth Bond entry gets the greatest villain named Scaramanga,here's his biography  he was born in a circus,his father was ringmaster and mother a English snakes charmer.He was a spectacular trick-shot artist when ten and a local Rio gunman at 15.The KGB trained him in Europe where he became an overworked and underpaid assassin.He went independent in the late 50s,his current price  one million dollars a hit .No photograph on file and unknown domicile but he does have on distinguishing feature,however a superfluous papilla and mammary gland,a third nipple.He always uses a golden bullet ,hence ¨Man with the golden gun¨.He sends a golden bullet to MI6 with number on 007 and a note requesting special delivery to Bond,it's initialled with a ¨S¨ and Scaramanga's fingerprints were on it.Scaramanga tries the death of 007 ,face to face , a duel between titans The golden gun against Walther gun. James Bond is assigned to retrieve a piece of equipment named Solex that can be used for a device to create the sun's energy.Bond explains when he kills it's under specific orders of government and those he kills are themselves killers.Roger Moore is a sympathetic and magnificent Bond,he earns in irony,suavity and smoothness.In an interview Moore tells about the shooting  ¨It looks a paradise on the screen but it was terrible hot,the entire unit had boils because you could never take a shower.It was uncomfortable ,it looks romantic and then they went over Macao.We're shooting all those scenes of gambling and so that's all go over there and we've got tables going over there with the Blackjack and he made quite money at the gambling table during the five months of shooting¨.¨The film contains spectacular fights ,the lieutenant Hip's nieces are a students of the karate school ,the scene was played for laughs,but the women cast were Tae-Kwon-do champions and very accomplished athletes.The struggles were carefully choreographed and performed like a dance routine requiring each participant to hit their mark at the correct time¨.Film is made by Eon productions limited on location in Hong Kong,Macau,Thailand and a Pinewood Studios,London,England.The atmosphere is faithful to the actual location but the interiors on a set at Pinewood Studios. The motion picture is well directed by Guy Hamilton "},{"Title":"Where did they go wrong? (SPOILERS)","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore's first outing as James Bond, Live and Let Die, was successful and it proved that the actor was appealing to audiences. While he wasn't as popular as Sean Connery yet, the producers were confident that Moore would be a sufficient enough draw. Therefore, they decided to immediately start production on the ninth Bond epic, The Man With The Golden Gun. There clearly should have been a longer gap between films, as evidenced by the quality of the TMWTGG.There are so many aspects wrong with the film that it's difficult to pinpoint the absolute worst. An uneventful story that goes nowhere, abysmal acting, too much focus on comedic elements, and direction that feels like a made-for-TV-movie are all major distractions that contribute to the film's low rating, but there's also the fact that The Man with the Golden Gun is one big wasted opportunity; the film would've benefited from some tweaks to the script and a better director.The story (which takes little from Ian Fleming's novel) goes like this a golden bullet with 007 engraved on it shows up at MI6 headquarters. It's soon linked to the infamous hit man Francisco Scaramanga (Christopher Lee), nicknamed the man with the golden gun for obvious reasons. Afraid for his best agent's safety, M (Bernard Lee) pulls Bond out of his current assignment and tells him to lie low. But Bond decides to go after the hit man on his own and soon finds that they're both on the trail of the same item the solex agitator, a device that harnesses the sun's rays and converts it into energy.One of the biggest problems with the movie is the solex agitator sub-plot. By trying to capitalize on the energy crisis of the mid-seventies, the producers over-complicate a story that should've been solely based on the hunt for Scaramanga. There's a further misstep when it's revealed that the assassin has no interest in killing Bond after all; it turns out that the villain's girlfriend, Andrea Anders (played by Maud Adams, who's stuck in a thankless role) sent the golden bullet to MI6 in the hope that Bond would kill Scaramanga and free her of the hit man's grasp.This twist makes most of the film redundant&#x97;if Bond isn't interested in killing Scaramanga, should the audience care? Of course, by this point in the story, Scaramanga had taken the solex, so Bond was almost required to dispose of the killer. But then the villain's intentions are completely reversed he talks about having always wanted to duel Bond, even though earlier in the movie he said that he couldn't care less about the British spy. This change of heart only seems like a last ditch effort to justify the duel of titans featured at the end.This haphazard plotting only emphasizes the deficiency of any actual story and there are parts when the movie comes to a standstill. It's clear that Guy Hamilton was at this point completely tired of the series; his shoddy direction lacks any grandeur that even the more realistic Bond films possessed. To his credit, he did try a more low-key approach similar to Live and Let Die, but it just doesn't work; the film doesn't feel like the event a Bond film is supposed to be.It's obvious how boring the movie is when Hamilton's action scenes prove to be duller than usual. Hamilton depended on these scenes to hide his incompetent directing, and the absence of anything memorable makes the movie feel longer than it actually is. If this wasn't bad enough, the film's humour verges on the edge of self-parody and it often gets in the way of the story. The worst example of this is the scene where Bond does a 360-degree role in an AMC Hornet. The stunt was done for real and is amazing just by itself, but the producers added in a slide whistle in post-production, almost ruining the scene. In short, Hamilton's uneven direction causes the viewer to lose interest long before the end credits.As for acting, we rarely get such uninspired performances. Roger Moore was still trying to find the character and he sometimes comes across as unnatural. As the henchman, Hervé Villechaize is woefully miscast. The idea of a midget villain is ludicrous and Villechaize's performance is completely non-threatening. As Mary Goodnight, the main Bond girl, Britt Ekland has little to do and does little. Her character is annoying and dim-witted, ending up as one of the worst leading ladies in the series. And why bring back J. W. Pepper? He was mildly amusing in Live and Let Die, but his return is unwarranted. About the only person who's competent is Christopher Lee as the cold and cunning Scaramanga. Lee nails the part perfectly, almost overshadowing Moore in multiple scenes.Things don't get any better as the film progresses, simply because the story doesn't go anywhere. The set design is bland; I can only imagine what Ken Adam could've done with Scaramanga's fun house. Even the typical Bond elements are lacking the pre-credit sequence and the titles themselves are boring and Lulu's title song is one of the worst in the series. Musically, the movie doesn't far well at all&#x97;how could this be the same John Barry who wrote so many classic scores? To be fair, there are a couple of things I did like the golden gun was neat and there were a couple of smart lines in the script.With The Man with the Golden Gun, producers Albert R. Broccoli and Harry Saltzman proved that they could make stinkers just as well as classics like From Russia With Love. TMWTGG is easily one of worst films in the Bond series and it's no wonder that it was also one of the least successful. I can go on describing how unsatisfying the film is, but the limit is only a thousand words. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Suave, sophisticated Roger Moore is good Bond in another caper...","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As Bond films go, maybe this isn't the best of the lot, but, hey, it deserves points for giving us ROGER MOORE in another good turn as James Bond. Moore had already perfected this kind of hero in his The Saint roles on TV, whereby he had some quick one-liners as he outwitted various enemies. He's doing the same here as Bond and doing nicely in the action scenes as an additional requirement.There are the usual car chases (very colorful one through the streets of Bangkok), the usual assortment of dangerous females with BRETT EKLUND being the dominant one, the usual gadgets to be used in a fight to the finish, and the usual spectacular stunts (this time one involving an almost unbelievable leap in a car), and the usual villains standing in the way of order and justice.I have no complaints about this one. ROGER MOORE was always very acceptable as James Bond and seemed to get better with each film. This was only his second time out as Bond and he did improve later on--but that's no reason to complain, as others have done. Just sit back, relax and enjoy another Bond fantasy/adventure done in stylish ways and with CHRISTOPHER LEE as Scaramanga, the main baddie. "},{"Title":"Lesser Bond - stagnant plot","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The first Bond film I saw at the theatre (as a 2nd movie at a drive-in) and one of my least favorites. MWGG should be subtitled BOND vs. SCARAMANGA as that is, essentially, the plot. The Man with the Golden Gun takes on 007 one on one to see who is the best killer.This movie does have a few things that helps it out - a good car chase with a wonderful car stunt, Britt Eklund in a bikini and the return of Clifton James as Sheriff J.W. Pepper but those are off-set by the stagnant plot and the arrival of diminutive Herve Villechaize as the main bad-guy's chief henchman - OddJob, he is not.6 (out of 5) stars and you can take that to the Bank (of Marquis) "},{"Title":"It's a James Bond movie....","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For those who said that Moore's debut in the previous film hardly separated him from Connery were given a ton of ammunition on this flick.Moore actually does a fair job of guiding his 007 through a poor story and mis-matched supporting characters (J.W. Pepper!?), but it was just too much film to carry. Maude Adams is far better remembered as a mature Octopussy than the ripe young Bond Girl she plays here. Christopher Lee, well, he's Christopher Lee... no problem. Moore versus such a great villain would have worked in another film, just not this one. Too convoluted and heavy... even the AMC bridge jump is lost on this piece.As for Lee, like Walken in later film, his great villainous play gets too lost in the mired down script.Still qualifies as a popcorn film, but a bathroom break is allowed. "},{"Title":"Eh?!","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If you want a Bond film that's crammed with 1970s cheese, look no further than The Man With The Golden Gun, because this is the polar opposite of the dark and intriguing Licence to Kill. Bond films, with the possible exception of Licence, have never been known for their plausibility, but this one seems almost cartoonish. Bond (Roger Moore) is assigned to track down a critical part for a solar power device; at the same time, he suspects that Scaramanga (Christopher Lee), an infamous assassin with deadly aim who possesses a three-piece golden pistol and charges one million dollars per target, is after him.The late Hervé Villechaize (of Fantasy Island fame) plays Nick Nack, Scaramanga's diminutive henchman, who is almost impossible to take seriously as an insidious dwarf and takes any and all drama out of the movie's last scene. Meanwhile, Britt Ekland is Mary Goodnight, quite possibly one of the most unattractive and unappealing Bond girls of all next to Die Another Day's Halle Berry. And Sergeant J.W. Pepper (Clifton James) returns for more hijinks during Bond's investigation in Asia.How cheesy is Golden Gun? Let me count the ways. The title theme, sung by Lulu (To Sir With Love), is pretty campy and resembles sort of an advertisement for Scaramanga's services (If you want to get rid of someone/The man with the golden gun/Will get it done...). Bond remarks in M's office with nigh-absolute seriousness that Scaramanga's most distinguishing characteristic is an oblique third nipple. (Don't ask me.) The interior of Scaramanga's island hideout resembles a sort of carnival fun house from hell, and Nick Nack's running commentary doesn't help. While in pursuit of Scaramanga, Bond gets his car to perform a spiraling jump across a broken bridge (apparently the first computer-calculated movie stunt) that looks fairly cool but is defiled by a stupid boi-oi-oing sound effect. And Scaramanga makes an escape in a car that flies around like an airplane. I kid you not.Perhaps the only saving grace of the film is Lee's performance as the title role. From horror films to Lord of the Rings to Star Wars and everything else in between, the guy definitely knows how to act and addsdramatic tension to what otherwise threatens to be a train wreck of a motion picture. Golden Gun isn't a bad way to spend a couple of hours, but there are several Bond films I'd rather watch in its stead. "},{"Title":"Worst Bond Ever...Until Moonraker","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Worst Bond movie ever? Man with the Golden Gun or Moonraker? Yep, when I first saw Man With the Golden Gun I thought it was the worst excuse of a Bond movie imaginable. Dumb plot. Icky sidekick Nick-Nack. Poor actress in lead (Britt Ekland). Uninspired title song. And totally out-of-place, unfunny slapstick humor (Sheriff J.W. Pepper rides again!). But five years later I saw such shenanigans as a pigeon doing a double-take, Bond horseback riding to the strains of The Magnificent Seven, and Jaws strolling hand-in-hand with girlfriend in Moonraker and I knew rock-bottom had been reached. Such efforts as On Her Majesty's Secret Service and You Only Live Twice look like high art next to these turkeys. "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's Second Bond Movie...","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the rather disappointing Live and Let Die, Roger Moore is back in action. This time, his enemy is Francisco Scaramanga, AKA The Man With The Golden Gun, a paid assassin who charges a million a shot and who supposedly has got an eye on Bond. Very original. After a golden bullet with 007 carved on it is sent to MI6's headquarters, James Bond goes after the suspect, Scaramanga. With help from one of the hottest (and dumbest) bond-girls, Mary Goodnight, Bond finds himself chasing Scaramanga and his henchman Nick-Nack to Hong Kong to recover the Solex, an invaluable item that Scaramanga possesses. A lot of action, great stunts and corny one-liners make this a decent film, Moore's second of 7. By now, he had already made the character his own. Definitely something you won't want to miss! "}{"Title":"An entertaining, if disappointing Bond Film","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man With the Golden Gun is one of the strangest Bond pictures, and one of the most disappointing.It's not disappointing because it's a particularly bad movie, but rather because it's concept could have been done much better. I mean, it's James Bond Vs. the world's greatest assassin. But instead of a longer showdown, we end up with James Bond chasing plane cars and escaping a martial arts schoolWhen the showdown does come though, the trip through Scaramanga's fun-house is awesome in the most seventies way possible.Another interesting part of the movie is how it doesn't try to make Bond a likable person at all. This may be just the movie showing it's age, but there's a certain unintended humour in James Bond offering a kid a large amount of money for fixing his boat, and then throwing him in the water once he does. This stuff happens a lot, and it makes the movie entertaining in a way it never intended.Also, TMWTGG wins the dubious honor of the most racist bond movie to date, with the inexplicable comeback of the racist Sheriff J. W. Pepper, among other things. "},{"Title":"You get as much pleasure out of killing as I do, so why don't you admit it?","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man with the Golden Gun is directed by Guy Hamilton and adapted to screenplay by Richard Maibaum and Tom Mankiewicz from the Ian Fleming novel. It stars Roger Moore, Christopher Lee, Britt Ekland, Maud Adams, Herve Villechaize, Soon-Taik-Oh, Richard Loo and Clifton James. Music is scored by John Barry and cinematography by Ted Moore & Oswald Morris.Bond 9 and 007 is distracted from his pursuit of the Solex Agitator when it appears he has been targeted for death by famous assassin Francisco Scaramanga.This would be the last Bond movie to be produced by the partnership of Broccoli and Saltzman, the latter of which was the one to leave. Perhaps they fought about what direction Moore's Bond should be taking? Because The Man with the Golden Gun is not a fitting film for them to part on, their fall out most likely impacting on why this is a pretty unadventurous entry in the James Bond franchise. The film plays more as a slapstick comedy than an action adventure. The script is uninspired, with the characters of Mary Goodnight (Ekland) and Sheriff Pepper (James) reaching new lows for Bond allies, while some of the situations that arise are just bizarre and lazy. The latter statement of which applies big time to the weak finale.However, even average Bond films have value somewhere in the mix. Here there's some grit in Moore's performance and Lee's Scaramanga is one of the series' most interesting villains. Maud Adams is given a good character to work from, her Andrea Anders is intriguing and very much a live wire in the plot, it's a good performance that would see Adams rewarded with the lead lady role in Octopussy (1983). Villechaize's Nick Nack, Scaramanga's right hand man/helper is a unique villain, though this is spoilt somewhat by a daft final confrontation with Bond. There's a brilliant car stunt performed by Bumps Willard, done in one take, it alone deserved to be in a better film.Elsewhere. Barry is back on musical score duties, providing an Oriental tinted arrangement. Sadly Lulu's title theme song is instantly forgettable and lyrically feels like it was written in 5 minutes. Locations are sumptuous, with Macau, Hong Kong and Thailand put to great use by the team, and the gadgetry is kept to minimum which allows us to enjoy the one or two inventive modes of transport used within the piece. The box office was $98 million, a considerable take for sure but still some $63 million down on the previous Bond adventure. With critics and fans considering the film a let down, questions were again raised as to if Bond was loosing his appeal? With Saltzman, Hamilton and Mankiewicz bowing out of the franchise, would there be a turnaround in Bond's fortunes? Would Moore finally get a script and film to test him? 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Has a few good moments","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I judge Bond movies on their villain, bond girls, score, and plot.Villain- I think that Scaramanga is perhaps the one of the best villains that the series has ever had. He is Bond's equal in nearly every way. I personally thought that the producers could have done a better job of how bond kills him, because scaramanga's death should have been much better. I also liked Nick Nack. Now I really don't think that he was very threatening, but, like the whole movie in general, was there simply for laughs. He was a good, interesting addition to a rather uninspired movie.Bond girl- It's regretful that Maud Adams was not the lead in this film, but I guess Cubby fixed that in Octopussy, (one of Moore's best)Britt Eckland is sexy, and looks ravishing in that bikini, but is a ditzy blond, who has no place in a bond movie. I have not seen such a cruddy performance until Tanya Roberts in VTAK.Score- I love bond music, but even I have a hard time listening to this score. The lyrics are pretty ridiculous, and Lulu sounds ridiculous singing it. Good guitar work though.WHAT I LIKED ABOUT TMWTGG *****SPOILERS*****1. Great villain. Lee is, in my opinion, the most sinister screen presence in film. He was a great choice for Sarumon, and Count Dooku. Now this movie would have been worse if it were not for him. (As far as bond movies go, it is pretty darn bad)2. More down to earth plot. Yes it is fun to see bond save the world from some homicidal maniac, but I liked how in this movie, bond's objective is at first to find out why Scaramanga wants to kill him, but then to get that solar cell thing that will solve the energy crisis. It is important to remember that there was an energy crisis at the time that this movie was made.3. Maud Adams. I think that this actress has probably contributed most to the bond series. In this movie, she is an intriguing, but depressed and lonely, mistress of Scaramanga, who is supposed to make love to him whenever he is going to make a hit. In his eyes, she is simply a valued possesion, and not a human being. (Remind you of Sanchez and Lupe in LTK?) She was the title star in OCTOPUSSY, and was perhaps one of the sexiest bond girls ever.WHAT I DIDN'T LIKE ABOUT TMWGG1. Too much humor. I think that this film MR, and AVTAK were the worst of the Moore era. This is by far the worst of the three. First, we see the return of Sheriff Pepper, from LALD. His role in that movie was borderline stupid, bit here, it's just plain annoying. The only character more annoying was Jar Jar Binks. The idiotic slide whistle when the car does that awesome stunt pretty much ruins the whole sequence.2. Incompotent allies, namely Goodnight and Lt. Hip. I personally know ditzy 16 year old cheerleaders who could have outsmarted her. Luckily for her, bond at least put her to good use in the sack at the end. Lt. Hip was a bit more subtle in his stupidity. First was when Scaramanga killed the scientist, and Hip, posing as a Hong Kong policeman, pretends to take him. He doesn't ONCE tell bond that he is working for MI6, from the time he takes him to the car, to when he escapes from the boat. Second is where bond is held hostage at Hi Phat's kung fu school, where Hip's teenage nieces incredulously defeat hundreds of black belt martial artists. When bond tries to escape who drives off into the sunset with out bond? Third, is the Kickboxing match where bond meets Scaramanga. When bond manages to get the solex, he gives it to hip. Who does hip give it to? MARY GOODNIGHT!!!! WHO IN THEIR RIGHT MIND WOULD GIVE A REVOLUTIONARY ENERGY PRODUCING DEVICE TO MARY FREAKING GOODNIGHT!!!! hopefully MI6 fired him.So in conclusion, this movie has a good villain, but other then that, one of the worst bonds ever.    "},{"Title":"The Man with the Golden Gun","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 11-3-05 Review #2.I love all the Bond films. Continuing my review of all 20, from least favorite to #1 favorite. The Man with the Golden Gun ranks #19.By no means a bad film. The rating may say 4 stars, but I am only comparing this with other Bond films. This 007 feature is in a way one of the most unique of the bunch. First off, how can you have a better villain than the great Christopher Lee. And he is very good in this film. Not just a card board baddie. You feel for him some and understand him a little. Maud Adams is great as well. And Britt Eklund as Mary Goodnight is very attractive too, if a bit whinny. The score really helps in this one more than in some others, and is used well. And although bringing back the Sheriff from Live and Let Die is a little coincidental and corny, it's still pretty funny. There's an awesome car jump that is just unbelievable. There is a nice scene in which 007 fights (is chased by) a school of karate students. And the picture is a bit more focused than Moores first 007 film Live and Let Die, which took a while to build up steam. But on the down side, the film has many slow points and some of the cheesy moments from the Roger Moore era start to come through. I really like Moore, but sometimes he gets a bit to hammy. The story was original and different but they could have pushed the envelope a bit. It all turns out pretty predictable. There is very little of a climax. The last gun duel between hero and villain was sort of a let down, although it was cool how 007 tricks the title villain. And the last action scene is 007 fighting tattoo from Fantasy Island? Cute, but I expected more action in the last half. So I give The Man with the Golden Gun a 4.5 compared to the other Bond films. Stay tuned for my next review of The World is Not Enough. "},{"Title":"One Of The worst from This Series","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore's second outing as Bond is easily his worst, but through no fault of his own. Guy Hamilton, Tom Mankowicz, and Richard Maibaum all seem to be asleep on the job. I'm a Bond fan and as such I expect certain things from any one film in this series. Some of those things are action, gadgets, international locales, (hetero)sex appeal, and a semi-silly plot involving the safety of the world somehow becoming endangered.Well, this ones does have babes, and a fair amount of gadgets (including the title-weapon), and there are locations (as un-spectacular as they prove to be), but everything else is lacking. Actual fights are lacking in the particular Bond film- there is in fact only one scene of hand-to-hand combat. In fact, the entire action/violence aspect is noticeably missing from this one. The one car chase is ridiculous, the duels are boring (the fun house is anything but cool), and the body count is a whopping 4. Not to mention that the plot is pretty scanty- Bond is after Scaramanga because he's stolen The Solex (a device for solving the energy crisisso painfully dated!)- who gives a damn?Scaramanga- though he does have an island with lasers, and a cool gun and is wonderfully played by Christopher Lee, is no threat to the world. Not to mention gobs of misplaced humor and the unnecessary return of Sheriff JW Pepper, which help bog down a film that's sinking anyhow. The Man With The Golden Gun sinks into the bottom 4 James Bond films, for this fox.  "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man with the Golden Gun wasn't a bad movie. I actually thought it was better than Ian Fleming's novel (quite a few of the movies adapted from his books are better than them, in my opinion). I thought it started out pretty well but it did kind of lose steam by the end in my opinion.I liked Christopher Lee and Maud Adams. Roger Moore's my favorite Bond but I didn't like him here as much as in just about all his other movies. Britt Ekland was okay but not great. And I'm usually easily pleased by most Bond girls (I actually liked Tanya Roberts's character in A View to a Kill).The climax was pretty disappointing. The fight between Bond and Scaramanga should have gone on longer. The flying car was kind of dumb. And I thought it was kind of pointless to have Sheriff J.W. Pepper in this movie. And I was kind of hoping he'd meet that kid somehow and give him the 20,000 bahts (it is a Roger Moore Bond movie, after all, so it's not like it would have been an unbelievable coincidence).Overall, it wasn't wonderful but not that bad either. "},{"Title":"Moore's second 007 film is pretty golden!","Date":"5 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is Roger Moore's second time portraying Agent 007, where he meets hit man Scaramanga (Christopher Lee), aka the Man with the Golden Gun. Bond decides to go track down Scaramanga and find a device that can make harnessing the sun's energy possible. Moore continues to give us his own unique brand portraying James Bond, but staying true to the character with his armor of wits, quick one-liners and cynicism. The action scenes are in abundance, and some exciting car chases, including the one in the streets of Bangkok. Bond had some unforgettable chemistry with Bond girls Goodnight (Britt Eklund) and Andrea (Maud Adams), a trademark role in his seductive yet charming ways with the Bond Girls. Somehow, the writers saw it was fitting to squeeze in the loud-mouth character Sheriff Pepper (Clifton James), whom I thought was out of place for a spy movie. He was borderline annoying, but other more memorable characters like Hip (Soon-Tek Oh) made up for this flaw. And, to cap it off, there is an exciting cat-and-mouse chase leading to the climax of the film, keeping the audience engaged in this two-hour-plus movie. Overall, another descent Bond film, which I thought wasn't as good as the Live and Let Die (the first 007 adventure with Moore), but certainly one to enjoy on a Saturday night. Grade B "},{"Title":"One of the Better Moore Films with Great Villain","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Recently I rewatched The Man with the Golden Gun, starring Roger Moore and Christopher Lee. While one of Moore's better outings with a villain at least as suave as Bond himself, Mr. Scaramonga, the film is a bit zany and kooky sometimes. I especially liked Lee and Villachaize (Tatoo from Fantasy Island) as an odd and esoteric couple. (spoiler) There seems to be 2 Bond Girls here, perhaps one too many it would seem for the script. The locales are very good, however Q's inventions are nearly non-existent, and the other (main) Bond Girl Goodnight played by Britt Ekland is a goo-goo eyed push-over and ditz - too much for my fancy. The final duel is interesting though not climactic enough and to add the goofy J W Pepper played by Clifton James seems out-of-sorts for a Bond movie. Nevertheless with the locales, and villains, I liked this movie and recommend it for Bond fans - it's clearly not in the top tier for Bond films - maybe in the top 10 to 15 of films. But Worthy 7/10. "},{"Title":"Underrated but great James Bond movie","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" What can I tell you? When I first got acquainted with all Bond movies some 25 years ago (say around 1987), I was quick to consider this movie to be one of the worst film of the series ever. I watched it again and again, and my opinion remained the same for a very very long time. I came back to it recently upon release of the Blu Ray disc, and I must say I am now most impressed with it. I have seen it several times in the last 6 months and it's quickly becoming one of my favorite Bond movies. Why? Because it's extremely well crafted, has beautiful locations and an interesting and fun music. Also, the plot is not completely out of this world and Roger Moore is very good as Bond in this movie. I would dare say it may even be his best Bond performance. To sum up, I urge you to (re)discover this movie. It's rather subdued in tone, may be abnormally so for a Bond movie. It's definitely no extravaganza like, say, the Spy who loved me or Die another Day, but an attentive viewing of the Man with the Golden Gun should prove very rewarding. "},{"Title":"Another long Bond film, with some rather dull moments, but it's not all bad, and eventually gets better","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The year after Roger Moore first appeared in the role of James Bond in 1973's Live and Let Die, marking the beginning of his twelve-year stint in the role, he returned for the ninth film in the franchise, and his second of seven. Recently, knowing that this wasn't the most widely praised of all the official Bond films, I watched it with fairly low expectations, but I think my expectations were at least slightly surpassed. Like the first film starring Moore, this one didn't blow me away consistently, but I found a lot of it entertaining, mostly later in the film (if it wasn't for that, I doubt I could rate it any more than a 6/10).Francisco Scaramanga is a renowned hit-man who uses a golden gun with golden bullets, which is why he is known as the man with the golden gun! MI6 receives a golden bullet with 007 on it, which suggests that James Bond is Scaramanga's next target! Because of this threat, M decides to dismiss Bond from his duties until the problem is solved. Nonetheless, Agent 007 sets out in search for Scaramanga, and during his search, he witnesses the assassination of a man who turns out to be a scientist creating a device that can harness the sun's power! Bond must track down this machine, and on his mission, he must go through Andrea Anders (Scaramanga's mistress), and Nick Nack (the hit man's servant), as he is assisted on the mission by Mary Goodnight, a mission which eventually leads to a showdown between the secret agent and his main foe! Like Live and Let Die, this one has some tedious moments, unsurprisingly, and for a while, it seemed to me that it was turning out to be slightly inferior to Moore's first Bond film, but like I said, I was more impressed later in the film, with a decent amount of suspense and humour. They brought back Sheriff J.W. Pepper, the stereotypical Southerner introduced in Live and Let Die, for comic relief in this movie. The character made me laugh in the 1973 Bond film, once again gave me some laughs this time, and as I stated in my comment on the first film featuring him, I don't see why I should feel guilty for finding Sheriff J.W. Pepper amusing if I'm willing to laugh at Canadian stereotypes. One very memorable sequence is where Bond chases after a car with Pepper inside with him, which is both suspenseful AND humorous (humourous thanks to the presence of Pepper). After that, a lot of suspense takes place on the island.Like Live and Let Die, this second Bond film starring Roger Moore is rather polarizing with Bond fans, but both films, while not the best, I have found to be reasonably satisfying, and in my opinion, while Moore can't quite match Sean Connery (the first actor to play Ian Fleming's famous character, as I'm sure you know), he was a decent replacement, unlike George Lazenby, who was only in one film in the franchise (1969's On Her Majesty's Secret Service), in between Connery's last two (1967's You Only Live Twice and 1971's Diamonds Are Forever). Christopher Lee is also impressive as the main villain in this particular movie. So, while I wouldn't watch The Man with the Golden Gun expecting to be blown away, I would say it's worth watching, though some would obviously disagree. "}{"Title":"Not the brightest Bond","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 'The Man with the Golden Gun' is a film that I have rather conflicted feelings about. On the whole Roger Moore and Christopher Lee are extremely entertaining in it and in that category the film isn't too bad. It's filled to the brim with crazy action and all the 'typical' stuff you'd find in a Bond film.The film, however, follows a pattern to such precision it stops being a serious film and becomes an intentional parody of itself. This is something that I feel very conflicted about as a Bond fan. I always find tremendous satisfaction when a Bond-film doesn't take itself too seriously, but this film is already winking at the camera.The film is recommendable as a brain-free action-comedy but serious Bond-fans are gonna have a hard time swallowing some of the insanity that takes place. "},{"Title":"A nice change from the usual formula","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Often cited as one of the worst James Bond films, THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN is one of my favorite of the series. Though I've seen every 007 films, some several times, I cannot describe myself as being an avid fan, so I can't be bothered with who was the best Bond and which film was most faithful to the books and which Bond girl was the best, etc. Differentiating one Bond film from the next is almost like differentiating one Twinkie from another Twinkie simply put, it's formula film-making. With GOLDEN GUN, I can sorta see why some might think it's not up to the usual 007 extravaganza it just doesn't follow the formula like other Bond films. There are no gadgets here and the ending is not as spectacular as other Bond flicks or some characters (the sheriff) might seem trite but of all other 007 adventures, this is the most down to earth one. I love the fact that there's no huge battle at the climax or ridiculous gadgets (the invisible car in DIE ANOTHER DAY, for example). This a Bond adventure that can actually be described as being sorta believable, which is no mean feat. What's remarkable about GOLDEN GUN is the cinematography. The composition, the natural colors, the realism of it all. I've just watched the latest DVD edition and the image is clear and beautiful. Gone is the grubby cinematography of LIVE AND LET DIE. But it's also not as super-slick as other Bond made before or after this one. It's an odd thing to cite beautiful cinematography for such a commercial project as this one. The most stunning scenes are at the end, when Bond flies to Scaramanga's secret base.The other great thing about GOLDEN GUN is casting Christopher Lee as Scaramanga. It's his best role/performance ever. And he's the best villain in any 007 film. Scaramanga is a real character, not a cartoon villain like 90% of Bond villains. The fact that the story is about two men going mano a mano is also a nice change from the tired villain who wants to dominate the world plot line. Casting Lee as Scaramanga was a stroke of genius. He's what makes THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN so memorable.Lastly, the other memorable element is John Barry's score. It's one of his most evocative for a James Bond film. When I hear it, I can't get it out of my mind.As Bond girls, Britt Ekland and Maud Adams are absolutely gorgeous. Though Adams' acting can be described as stiff, she's one of the classiest and is the saddest Bond girl ever (her actions propel the story) while Ekland is funny as the ditsy operative. The belly dancer at the beginning was, hmm, scary looking though. The film's biggest weak points are the script, which is sorely underwritten in some spots; the re-introduction of JW Pepper character, which even if he's quite funny here, is just too improbable; and the blatant AMC product placement. The last two points almost make GOLDEN GUN jump the shark but after the excellent climax, all is forgiven.But the big glaring mistake in THE MAN WITH GOLDEN GUN, and probably the main reason why so many Bond fans don't like this film, is the fact that Bond doesn't appear before the opening credits. No kick-ass intro action scene with Bond in a jet-pack or falling out of plane without a parachute that sets the tone for the rest of the film. I have to admit that the film seems to be missing something because of that.Even so, there are still many other reasons why GOLDEN GUN is my favorite the entire karate school scene, which is the high point of the film. The abrupt kick to the head joke was even copied years later with Indy shooting the big man with the big sword in RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK; the arena scene (excellent direction there); the whole 1970s look; a confident Roger Moore who gives his best performance as 007 and says some of the funniest one liners of the series with impeccable timing. And let's not forget about Herve Villechaize as Nick Nack. He almost steals every scene he's in, which is either good or bad, depending on how you like him. In closing, THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN has just the right balance of seriousness, action, acting, exotic locations and humor. "},{"Title":"BOND#9 Super Secret Agent vs.Supreme Assassin","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" MASTER PLAN steal a new solar energy device, a solex agitator, and kill Bond as a perk. Roger Moore's 2nd outing as 007 has him in conflict with the world's premiere assassin, Scaramanga, a crackshot who uses a golden gun and golden bullets, charging a cool mil per kill. It sounds exciting, but ends up as one of the least interesting Bonders, an almost by-the-motions adventure. The actor who plays the mobster going thru Scaramanga's weird challenge in the pre-credits sequence also played a similar gangster role in Diamonds Are Forever. It's kind of clever, as Bond sort of appears here, but really doesn't. This loopy set-up, however, which we return to at the conclusion when Bond enters the challenge, seems like a parody of the 'killer-maze' concept, eliciting eye-rolling rather than awe. The title song by Lulu is 'Bassey-light' - a subpar copy of Goldfinger and Diamonds Are Forever - and the lyrics are sophomoric. So far, we're seeing lame attempts to copy better elements from previous Bonders, and this continues throughout most of the movie. Bond makes his standard entry into M's office, but instead of being given a new mission, he's taken off one, due to his being apparently targeted by the Scaramanga character. Bond, of course, prefers being on the offensive and decides to trackdown his opponent (with M's tacit approval) rather than waiting around to be shot. This quest takes Bond to Beirut, Macau, Hong Kong, Bangkok and, eventually, off Thailand, to an island where Scaramanga has set up a really nice home base for himself.Q returns to this one (after being absent in the last one Live and Let Die) in a couple of scenes, but dispenses information rather than any gadgetry; they're still good scenes. The strategy here continues from the previous film, that being more concentration on pure detective work and away from the gadgets. In fact, much of the gadgetry involves guns and ammunition, the tools of the villain - he assembles his gun from a cigarette lighter. On the downside, this film also followed the previous film's negative aspects; the last one emulated the blaxploitation trend in movies at this time; this one parroted the martial arts craze of the same time (Bruce Lee and so on) by including a few silly scenes of such fighting. Even worse, there's a ridiculous battle with a sumo wrestler - and it didn't have to be. The filmmakers seemed to be ridiculing their own superspy concept in these scenes, piling on the stupidity by returning the redneck sheriff of the previous film, who happens to be vacationing in Bangkok. Even Bond, or is it Moore, says 'oh, no...' when he sees this guy, mimicking the thoughts of the audience. Worst of all, though, is that the middle hour of this film, during which Bond seeks his nemesis, is rather boring, with such bad elements as mentioned above acting as filler to expand the story to two full hours. There are two femme fatales here - one is another clumsy agent (again repeating an element from the previous film) and the other is the villain's love slave. The latter makes more of an impact, containing tragic elements similar to Bond's love interest in On Her Majesty's Secret Service. The other one, Bond's ally, comes across as somewhat silly and not very flattering in terms of depicting female agents.The main villain (played by tall actor Lee, best known for his Dracula portrayals in Hammer films, the sorcerer Saruman in the Lord of the Rings films and one of the villains in the last two Star Wars pics) could have been one of the great Bond adversaries. He's presented as Bond's opposite number, the dark version of Bond, if you will, with the same skills but none of the compunctions or morality. But, the best the story could do with such a potentially interesting opponent is give him some kinky aspects (he makes love only just before a kill) and an exotic deformity (a third nipple). Lee seems to downplay all the dark aspects, coming across as too cheerful and normal in his scenes; they even dressed him in dull clothes, squandering the chance to show off his lean, towering figure. His henchman, of course, is even worse; he can be amusing and irritating, sure, but these are not the characteristics of a good henchman in a Bond thriller. Bond himself is a bit more ruthless than in Live and Let Die, as if Moore was instructed to act a bit tougher (or, more like Connery), and he actually gets a bit bloodied in one fight scene (not the martial arts one), so we can't say he waltzed through without a scratch again. After most of the film as straight espionage/hunting, we do see some impressive sets unveiled at the villain's home during the climax, an exotic setting, with some hi-tech wizardry. The final duel is not very impressive, lacking any suspense, as if the filmmakers were at a loss and just got it over with. There is an impressive car stunt in the middle of the film, ruined by, what else, silly sound effects. Bond would return in The Spy Who Loved Me. Bond8 Villain7 Femme Fatales6 Henchman3 Fights6 Stunts/Chases8 Gadgets5 Auto6 Locations7 Pace6 overall6 "},{"Title":"Christopher Lee = Redeeming Factor","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am a huge, Insanely huge Bond fan, but this one is pretty bad. I still love it, but there are to many problems with it to say it's a great film. Ironically, Lee portrays one of the best Bond villains. There are too many plot holes and other mistakes that make no sense. For instance, Bond is captured then taken to a martial arts school. He fight...and I use that loosely, especially with Moore bonds...and his Chinese contact just drives up. How did he find him? How did he time it perfect? etc etc. That is just ONE example.I own it to complete my bond collection, but it's worth at least one viewing. Moore if you are a fan. "},{"Title":"A solid Bond flick.","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Scaramanga You see, Mr. Bond, like every great artist, I want to create an indisputable masterpiece once in my lifetime; the death of 007. The story is about a a scientist working on a solar cell winds up dead, Bond investigates the murder and finds it leading to $1 million hit- man Scaramanga. But Bond also makes himself a target for the deadly assassin who holds a healthy respect for Bond, but doesn't mean he won't take down the spy. In my opinion The Man with the Golden Gun is a solid Bond film with great action and a good theme song. But the biggest thing that held this movie down for me was the main character himself James Bond. At the start of the movie he was a big jerk, like he tried to break a girl arm to try to get answers out of but she didn't know nothing, But as the film went on he wasn't such a jerk like the beginning of the film. I got to admit I actually liked Roger Moore as James Bond in this film, he felt like Bond towards their end of the film. The villain in this movie was so good and so interesting, and Christopher Lee played him so well. The visual effect's in this movie was well done and for a movie that was released in 1974, it had some pretty nice effect's, better than today's effect's. Overall The Man with the Golden Gun was a solid Bond flick with a great villain and a good theme song. "},{"Title":"Silly but fun entry in the Bond series","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It is clear from the start that this will be a fairly ridiculous film when a man arrives on a remote island having been hired by a dwarf to kill his boss in a fight that takes place in a surreal funfair! The man fails and Scaramanga; AKA The Man With the Golden Gun lives to assassinate another day. Scaramanga is famed for charging a million dollars per hit and using solid gold bullets and when one of them it sent to M with Bond's number on it looks as if he will be the next victim. Bond decides the best thing to do is find Scaramanga and traces him to Hong Kong. It looks as if Scaramanga is going to succeed when he has a clear shot at Bond's back... instead another man dies; a man Bond had been searching for. The dead man was an expert on solar and it seems that Scaramanga had been working for a Chinese tycoon based in Thailand. Bond follows him there and eventually they meet up but Scaramanga escapes along with Bond's assistant Miss Goodnight and a vital piece of solar energy technology. If Bond is to retrieve it he will have to go to the island and confront Scaramanga in his 'funfair of death'.If you were hoping for something serious you will be sorely disappointed; this entry in the Bond series is probably the most far-fetched to date. If you want a laugh though it is quite fun; Clifton James reprises his role of Sheriff J.W. Pepper from 'Live and Let Die'; here he is on holiday in Thailand and gets caught up in a car chase that features one of the most famous Bond stunts... the corkscrew car jump; which is sadly spoilt by a ridiculous swanee whistle sound effect! There are plenty of 'silly but fun' scenes including two school girls beating up a hoard of people that had been chasing Bond and later on a fight between Bond and a Dwarf! Miss Goodnight is certainly one of the lesser Bond girls; nearly everything the character does makes things worse. While Scaramanga isn't a great Bond villain he is made much better than he could have been due to Christopher Lee's performance. "},{"Title":"Scaramanga The Best Crook in the 007 Universe.","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Played by the great Christopher Lee. In the beginning of this film, we see two Hit men pitted against each other Rodney (Played by the perennial Gangster, Marc Lawrence) vs Scaramanga. We also get to see, the OTHER Best Bond Girl Ever Maude Adams (I am already on Record that Carole Bouquet (Melina Havelock of For Your Eyes Only is the most Beautiful Bond Girl ever, but Maude Adams predated her, and the only actress to play two Bond Girls in two Bond Movies) - In a Bikini! At the very end of the Teaser, watch as when Scaramanga blows the fingers off of a Dummy of Bond, that in fact it is really Roger Moore standing there, not a mannequin of any kind- Which kind of had me fooled all these years.Now THIS Bond moovie, brings us all over the world, to the Middle East, to Macao, to the mid pacific... Even to Thailand! The other Bond girl is Britt Ekland at her peak, playing a British Intelligence Staff Officer in Macau.Bond is sent a Bullet made of Gold, which has his number stamped on it, with a note signed with the Letter S - and Scaramanga's actual fingerprints are on the note. Now Nobody in the world has seen Scaramanga - But he has only one identifying mark - He has Three Teats.So Bond has to scrape up clues all around the world to find where Scaramanga is holing up - Which is ultimately, precisely what Scaramanga wants. In the Middle East, Bond has to recover a spent golden bullet, which is now housed in the belly-button of Carmen Sautoy (Saida) - And attacking thugs almost cause 007 to Choke on that assignment. (Plus, she really did have a wonderful Abdomen in that film).Just as For Your Eyes Only had the best Bond Girl, this film has the best Bond Song ever The Man with the Golden Gun as performed by Lulu- The screaming wah-wah pedal guitar in the Beginning is quite Unique for a Bond film of the time.Scaramanga also, has the distinction of owning the coolest Crook car of any Bond film- The less I say about that the better unless you want a spoiler. Also, the coolest Car Stunt is a Bond film is done here, where Bond does the Corkscrew Jump over the broken bridge of a river- This was a real stunt performed in an American Motors car, according to the Trivia Section.This movie also introduced Hervé Villechaize as Nick Nack - Later, he would play Tattoo on Fanatasy Island, and was the reason that series stayed on the air. This is also the introduction of Sheriff J W Pepper played by Clifton James, pepper provided Comic Relief for a few Bond films. "},{"Title":"Silly Movie With the Toughest Villain","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Even though heavily criticized for its overly campy features, The Man with the Golden Gun features one of the best villains in the Bond franchise, Scaramanga played by the talented Christopher Lee. I think he along with Renard in The World is Not Enough ranks as Bond's most fearsome adversary. Scaramanga is just as equal as Bond in terms that his actions are just as unpredictable as Bond's. By locating the film in Bangkok, the scenery is so uplifting, that it adds the right texture in keeping the movie interesting culture-wise. Unlike other villains from the Bond series, Lee evens the scale of Scaramanga's character by examining his evil and his good intentions (especially with his alliance with his diminutive sidekick, Nick Nack Herve Villechaize). Scaramanga works convincingly above the other Bond villains through both the strong compelling character development and his physical features. Scaramanga is rightful at the top of list as one the best villains along with Blofeld, Goldfinger and Jaws.One of the funniest aspects of The Man with the Golden Gun is the Bond girl Mary Goodnight (Britt Ekland, Peter Sellers' wife). She is a very awkward and clumsy almost to the point of nearly killing Bond on more than one occasion during his battles with Scaramanga. What's interesting about Miss Goodnight is that unlike the other Bond girls who have unusual jobs that at times may be secretive and mysterious, Miss Goodnight is rewarding in that she's more developed and more exciting to watch along with Maud Adams as Scaramanga's mistress Andrea. When we look at Scaramanga, we are almost looking at an evil clone of Bond. His personality is like Bond's, he even has the suave voice like Bond's. The only differing factors is that he has crude humor and that in the tradition to the Bond series, and that he's destined to cause havoc wherever he goes. "},{"Title":"Good Second Movie for Moore","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond is back and he has to out smart a hit-man who charges $1,000,000 a shot (Christopher Lee) is the man with the golden gun, and he has the usual delusions of world domination and a thirst to pit himself against the best spy in the business.The plot in this one does have its holes and the script has a little too much silliness and comedy to make it a classic bond film, but if it's entertainment your after then this hits the mark without question, and it still has one of the most awesome car stunts ever.It's not the best in the series, but there's enough here to entertain you, and Christopher Lee makes a great Bond bad guy.7/10 "},{"Title":"The Worst Bond Film.","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The worst Bond film. It came between the non-epic Live and Let Die and the later Jokey Moore films (Spy WLM & Moonraker) and it it draws the worst from each, creating a corny Joke filled film with a low-budget aura. You can teel it is bad when the best parts are seriously underutilized, the brief Funhouse finale featuring Lee's wonderful, yet all too brief, Scaramanga. The rest sucks, Bond now drives crappy fuel economy 4 cylinders in the car chases, he sports a third nipple to impress, and Britt Ekland is next to Denise Richards as one of the worst Bond girls (hot, but not as hot as she was in the nude dance sequence in The Wicker Man.) "}{"Title":"very underrated","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent bond film with good combinationo of a tough Bond by Moore with good jokes and an excellent villain. Moore's early outings had a real Fleming sense to them, this one catching it best. Not many gadgets, just good action. Moor unfortunately is extremely underrated in the role. He is correct in that the franchise always wanted humour, and truthfully these movies are not real spy films. If they were, anonymity would be valued more than the superspy status he holds. As a result he played it best. This movie, in terms of performance, Moore came closest to the Fleming characterization, though the movie had some funny and bizarre sequences like the dojo. Still that was explained effectively. Christopher Lee, brought the right amount of cool, by being more relaxed and underplaying when talking to Moore's bond. It creates a good contrast. Britt Ekland's part was that of a neophyte agent, and in this was perfect if somewhat bumbling. But again the humour was well placed. The reality is if this was not played with some laughs, it becomes a grime spy tale, that while very Fleming in nature is not agreeable for the public. It is important to remember this movie came out during the Church hearings regarding CIA activities. The Spy game was shown to be one far more despicable than people imagined. As a result films like the Kremlin letter, that came out just a little earlier failed because of their reality and grimness. People should separate the books and films and give the due to Moore's interpretation. Connery who used to be my favourite, over the years comes across to cocky, belligerant and thinks he can seduce his way to victory. Moore was superior and though the movies had humour, is that a bad thing?  "},{"Title":"Golden 007!","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I personally think this is one of the best Moore Bonds. It was my first James Bond movie (perhaps one of my first movies!). Christopher Lee is excellent as Francisco Scaramanga, and the absolutely gorgeous Maud Adams makes just as good a job as his mistress. The weak point is Britt Ekland, who can barely control her backside in this! Roger Moore is a lot of fun as usual, lovely scenery and... cars. I think the reason it is not like the other Bonds is because it relies just a little more on the characters than the regular Bonds- which is fine by me, this story line couldn't really be action driven or no one would have a clue of what was going on! If only it were possible to give something 11/ 10!! "},{"Title":"Who said it was bad?","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Who said it was bad? People don't like the slapstick in it but it's the same as any other James Bond film. Comedy, action, suave & dashing villains, beautiful women and our hero. I think Christopher Lee IS the best Bond villain. Not just saying that because he's my favorite actor, but it's definitely his best role- good points he gets to smile, tell jokes, have normal K9 teeth, gets a beautiful girlfriend, he charms you and scares you (okay, so I was little when I first saw it!!!). But he kills Maud Adams! Anyone who knows me can confirm that this nearly traumatized me (!). I think she should have been a villainess but I think they just added her character in as a plot device. Shame, because when (apart from some early Hammer films) did Christopher Lee get the girl.Anyway, it's light hearted, if it were close to reality we'd hate 007! It's got comedy, action, romance, the performances are good. I know they're just Bond films but I think it helps if the actors are adequate. I hope there are people who share similar opinions, but we're all different!Watch this film, and you will not be disappointed. It's what made me a James Bond 007 fan! "},{"Title":"Too much sexual content this time","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This Bond movie contains an untempered flow of obscenities and sexual content, much more than the average accepted tone of the figure. There is at least a sexual innuendo every two minutes in this movie. Apart that action is bit above the previous Bond. Scenery is great. Of course the plot contains its share of inconsistencies, such as when the villain acquires an industrial empire just by killing it's previous owner ... The villain has a very small staff this time. The intro and conclusion scenes are great. And the whole plot is scientifically half-believable, which is an improvement over the average Bond's. I would definitely not recommend this movie for family viewing but it's not the worst in its genre. "},{"Title":"One step forward for Roger.","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A lot fresher than Live And Let Die, this Asian adventure of James Bond does entertain some more than it's forerunner. But this story, who partly is a comment to the energy crises at the time, didn't do quite that good as was expected in the cinemas. Some mild crises was going through the big 007 machine as well, but that's something for the other logs to handle. I'm not going to. The movie, released just the year after LALD, works well some forty years later, and do entertain with the usual pattern and con texture for Bond movies. Known best for the spiral jump with the AMC car.(The first movie stunt scene who was calculated by a computer, I've read. True or false?) Two beautiful (Swedish) women battles for James Bond's favor in the sack, a very well skilled actor in Chris Lee as villain, with a midget wingman mostly for laughs. Those pieces fits together really well. Roger Moore's Bond career was still to peak; here he's still quite fresh, but keeps to build up his own 007. Before the triple of movies that made him quite immortal in the history of James Bond, I think this one is just equal to average ranking points speaking in terms of his whole 007 career. The 70's was still to peak... "},{"Title":"A Great Bond for a Great Film, Mostly!","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the wonderful Live and Let Die introduced the best Bond ever into the franchise, the producers set their sights on the Man with the Golden Gun as their next film, the result was an extremely underrated Bond film.The Man with the Golden Gun features assassin Francisco Scaramanga who apparently has a contract on 007, so Bond sets off to kill Scaramanga first.This film has a very comedic tone, much like Diamonds are Forever and certain moments in Live and Let Die, but it feels like it's ramped up quite considerably in this film, but then, I don't mind that. Roger Moore gives a very Sean Connery-like performance here almost as if he was told to act more like Connery. The result is a kinder awkward performance as Roger Moore had his own interpretation of Bond in Live and Let Die, and returning to a Connery-style performance just doesn't suit him.The rest of the cast are pretty awesome, Britt Ekland very much like Jane Seymore as she plays a role that works off Roger Moore extremely well, and while Jane Seymore gave an excellent performance with great lines and a good back-story, Britt Ekland is HOT! Her performance and character is also pretty damn good too!Maud Adams plays a role that doesn't take full advantage of her suburb acting skills, fortunately she would be cast as Octopussy 9 years later. Her character is the character I sympathise with the most in this film, Andrea, Scaramanga's lover who is trapped in a hateful relationship with this cold-blooded assassin, however Bond treats her like crap with Andrea copping about 3 right-handers from Bond in one scene, and doesn't really try to help her at all, taking advantage of her later in the film, just before she is killed by Scaramanga.Then there's the brilliant Christopher Lee playing assassin Scaramanga, the titular 'Man with the Golden Gun'. As well all know, Christopher Lee is awesome in everything, and here is no exception. He plays the role with such villainy that he really is credible as a worthy opponent to 007. This was a brilliant casting choice.Clifton James makes a return as the hilarious J.W Pepper, and gives another brilliant performance. Pepper is hilarious in this film shouting his mouth off in every scene, and I love that he actually teams up with Bond in this film to fight the bad guys, he's only used for comic relief and disappears from the film without any closure, but he always delivers a laugh.The Kung-fu scenes are pretty nicely made, if a little cheesy, however Kung-fu was all the rage back in the early 70s so the inclusion of this scene is pretty smart, even if the scene of two school-girls taking down an entire fight school is a little overblown.Then there's the infamous car flip. Bond and J.W Pepper are chasing Scaramanga who has Britt Ekland's Mary Goodnight in the boot, and realising that going the long way round would take too long, they decide to jump and curved bridge doing a full 360degree flip in the air. This is one of the coolest stunts in the history of film, spoilt by the notorious whistle sound effect placed over it. Damn!The finale is pretty awesome. Scaramanga challenges Bond to a duel around his island which includes his rather strange fun-house. It's weird and fun and pretty much what you'd expect this film's finale to be like. And after posing as a statue of himself the Scaramanga had in the funhouse for some reason, Bond shoots and kills Scaramanga. Bond and Goodnight take a nice boat journey back.For the third time in a row, the main villain's henchman shows up at the very last minute to cause one last helping of trouble for Bond and his Bond girl. Hervé Villechaize who plays a suitably slimy performance as the dwarf henchman Nick Nack, shows up simply to throw bottles at our heroes who deflect them with the use of the back of a chair. Bond traps him in a suitcase and continues with the voyage.So... The Man with the Golden Gun is a fun but campy Bond film that receives way too much hate as the worst Bond film ever, seriously how is this worse than Quantum of Solace or Die another Day? Personally, I find the Man with the Golden Gun to be a very fun film and you know what, I even like the theme song. Lulu's the Man with the Golden Gun is a fun, bouncy theme that I really enjoy listening to, take that haters!I do find it quite ironic that Guy Hamilton, the director who directed the classic critically acclaimed Goldfinger, later directed three consecutive Bond films that have each divided the fan base. Diamonds are Forever is a film that many people enjoy, however it has also been slated for it's campy tone! Live and Let Die was regarded as a classic in 1973, however it hasn't aged overly well and is now considered by many people to be a mess with it's racial overtones. And I've explained the Man with the Golden Gun. Irony, who needs it?!The Man with the Golden Gun works well as a bouncy comical thrill ride with some very funny elements, such as the Kung-fu segments and the inclusion of J.W Pepper, which I do rather enjoy. There's nothing wrong with a comical Bond adventure, pretty much every Roger Moore film was made for laughs, maybe with the exception of For Your Eyes Only, Roger Moore even said so himself that he played the role for laughs.The Man with the Golden Gun is not supposed to be taken seriously, and if you accept that, you'll find it to be quite a fun adventure that is a nice way to spend a couple of hours! (7/10) "},{"Title":"Moore's Worst Bond Film, and Arguably the Worst of the Original Official Series As Well","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film deserves its reputation as one of the worst Bond films. I'd say it's the worst official James Bond film from the original series, worse than Diamonds Are Forever by just a hair.Let's start with the highlights. Roger Moore is still doing considerably well as Bond, even though it wouldn't be until the next film that he truly hits his stride. Christopher Lee is great as Scaramanga. He plays the role with real style, even if he doesn't have much to do. Herve Villechaize is absolutely adorable as Nick Nack. Also, I like the theme song by Lulu more than most people.It doesn't offer much other than that. The plot is rather uninteresting, and I thought the superfluous third nipple thing was disgusting.There isn't nearly enough action, and there is too much campiness, even for a Bond movie. Maud Adams is smoking hot and Britt Ekland is somewhat attractive, but ultimately they are both wasted.Moore and Lee, as said earlier, were good in their roles, but they just didn't have much to work with.Like Diamonds, this is one I would recommend only to the most die-hard of fans, but not anyone else.5/10 "},{"Title":"A good premise with too much filler and gags.","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The beginning starts a plot that's a welcome change to the formula. Instead of a global terrorist, it focuses on Bond versus and assassin of equal wits. Christopher Lee (in his role of Scaramanga) plays the villain perfectly and is the reason why this movie is worth watching; he's joined by the pint-sized henchman Nick Nack. Roger Moore may have been a wrong pick for this movie since he's more of a lover than a rival assassin to Scaramanga, and the scenes of Bond being threatening felt out of character.The ending of this movie concludes things tightly with a duel between the two assassins, but most of the movie's middle was just full of random gags, chase scenes, sumo wrestling and kung fu. The film had no sense of direction. They should have either fleshed out the story or cut out 30 minutes from it and just make it a short. It also hurts that the Bond girl (Britt Ekland as Mary Goodnight) exists just to be ditsy and half-naked. This movie is a real tragedy - wasted potential. "},{"Title":"An Eye For An Eye","Date":"18 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the Connery films sadly took a bit of a tumble in quality towards the end, Roger Moore really picked the franchise back up with a few gems in my opinion, Live and Let Die and The Man With the Golden Gun. The latter took a slightly different approach to its villain. We still have the world domination goal in some right here, but Christopher Lee's Scaramanga was a more intelligent and focused villain. It was nice to see an almost mutual respect between Bond and Scaramanga, something that a few of the earlier films were missing.I really enjoyed all the new characters added. Goodnight was a nice counter balance to Bond in the field and proved to add something to the story instead of being just another Bond girl. It's unfortunate that the franchise never keeps the same 'Bond girls' from film to film. Goodnight could have been a nice sidekick for future films. Back to Lee, the film began by giving Scaramanga a 3rd nipple and it seemed to define who he was for the most part of the film, as strange as that is. Thankfully, it wasn't really mentioned at all in the second half. The downfall of the Bond franchise so far has been going too comedic and just becoming a borderline action comedy. That almost became the case again with the cameo-turned-supporting role of J.W. Pepper from Live and Let Die. A few lines here and there were funny, but I didn't see the need to bring that character back at all. Nearly took me out of the film.I think putting gold in the title was a stretch even if it is directly based of one of the books. The plot is pretty close to ripping off Goldfinger from 10 years back. But I think with the entertainment that this film brings from Lee's performance, to the action scenes, to the villain's sidekick, to the addition of Goodnight, and even from Moore's performance, it's easily one of the better Bond films at the point of its release. A lot of the elements from this film are retreaded from previous entries, especially the speedboat chase, but I think watching Moore and Lee go mano y mano for the last 20 minutes makes it all worth while.+Scaramanga was another great villain+Goodnight+Action-Retreads same plot points as other Bond films-No need for J.W. Pepper7.5/10 "},{"Title":"A better Bond!","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Aside from a couple of dull stretches, involving of all people, a surprisingly insipid Britt Ekland, this is both an exciting and amusing effort incorporating some great action sequences and a suspenseful, edge-of-the-seat climax which even tops the movie's exciting opening with Marc Lawrence. Admittedly, Bernard Lee's M is getting a bit too perfunctory, but the other characters are well played (although Richard Loo's voice is a bit odd &#x96; maybe it was dubbed). Christopher Lee has a really great time as the villain, and let's not forget the super-lovely Maud Adams. Fortunately, there's not so great an emphasis in this installment on crazy inventions and effects. Indeed, the approach to these standard Bond items is welcomely tongue-in-cheek. Instead, the movie concentrates on the exotic locations in Macau, Honk Kong and Siam, all of which are used as exciting backgrounds for some marvelous chases and action material. Admittedly, the scenes involving the American tourist are a bit heavy-handed but Ossie Morris' sharp deep-focus location photography overcomes much &#x96; even the dull work of Ted Moore who obviously photographed the more routine studio interiors. Sets of course are a major asset, as usual, and the music score has plenty of zing. Production values are first-class. Admittedly, Hamilton's direction is no more than competent, but he knows when to give Morris and the location directors their heads &#x96; and that's the name of the game! "}{"Title":"My Favorite James Bond Movie","Date":"31 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the second film for Roger Moore in the role of Agent 007 and even though this particular movie isn't the best it happens to be my favorite James Bond movie of them all. Essentially, the world's #1 assassin named Scaramanga (Christopher Lee) has sent a golden bullet to James Bond indicating that he is his next target. So rather than waiting around for Scaramanga to choose the time and place James Bond decides to find him first. This leads him to Beirut, Macao, Hong Kong and Bangkok in an attempt to find information that might be helpful in that regard. Now, rather than reveal the rest of the story I will just say that this movie does a good job of combining both action and comedy. As a matter of fact, I think this is probably the most humorous James Bond film ever made as it features nifty one-liners from James Bond along with Sheriff J. W. Pepper (Clifton James) and a midget named Nick Nack (Herve Villechaize). It also features two quite attractive women in Maud Adams (as Scaramanga's mistress, Andrea) and Britt Ekland (as Agent Goodnight). Again, it might not be the best James Bond movie but I found it to be quite entertaining and recommend it to all fans of the series. Above average. "},{"Title":"Above Average","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man with the Golden Gun is Roger Moore's second movie as James Bond in which he is pitted against a world first class assassin called Scaramanga who has three trademarks; his working tool is a golden gun, his price is $1m a hit and he has (yikes) three nipples.Under the belief that he has been marked for assassination by Scaramanga, Bond begins a subtle cat and mouse hunt game to kill his killer first.Later his personal quest merges with his earlier assignment; to resolve the energy crisis by finding one of their solar scientists.This movie just like the novel is arguably the weakest in the Bond franchise. It still has some elements of fun though; like Bond's encounter in the karate training school(trust the Bond filmmakers to exploit the current raging movie cliché), a car chase, Bond's fight with a dwarf.There were several scenes that beggar beliefs.A police officer arrests a dangerous criminal like Bond and feels comfortable to holster his gun while enjoying a comfortable ride with Bond in the back.Scaramanga who spares Bond's life temporarily in order to have a pistol duel with him, unaccountably does the unexpected.At the beginning of the film, a gunman is inexplicably hired by Scaramanga's man servant to kill Scaramanga.The plot holes can sink the titanic.Despite Roger Moore's enjoyable performance and Christopher Lee's chilling performance as the The Man with the Golden Gun, the film just managed to scale the level of being above average. "},{"Title":"Who'd want to put a contract on me?","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A lot of JB fans consider this one of the best. Then there is another group that believes Connery was virtually the best. All the James Bond fans I've known were or are men. More about that later. Herve Villechaize was famous for Fantasy Island, was an actor cursed with dwarfism. It is a curse, because the person with the affliction develops different physical problems over their lives. Herve is Nic Nac in the Bond movie, and is the sidekick of Scaramanga, a self-employed hit-man who lives like a millionaire. He makes his home in the Far East, on an island. Scaramanga is played by Christopher Lee, the Dracula legend. The criminal is as evil as any undead creature, and is a marksman, a killer, who uses golden bullets on his victims. The golden bullets have no special power, but they are Scaramanga's trademark, and a sample of his ego.. The movie has a lot of different dimensions...action, suspense, romance(this is Bond), but the movie is known for humor, because of the presence of the sheriff. J.W. Pepper recognizes the British secret agent from Britain right away.. On the serious side of this spy movie(based on Ian Fleming's novel), there is one of the most beautiful Bond's Girls, Maud Adams who hails from Sweden. Her character in The Golden Gun is very much a kept woman, and her keeper is Francisco Scaramanga. There is a little of everything in the movie, including an unusual airplane. But there is much killing, as there is in any crime film. A very entertaining piece of celluloid from 1974, of course produced by Albert Brocolli. "},{"Title":"Not so bad","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I hadn't watched this film since my teen years when I first got into the Bond films and watched them on television. I picked up one of the new enhanced DVDs and watched it with Roger Moore's commentary. First, the picture looks stunning. It's amazing what they've done. I thought, at best, it'll be nice to look at. But I was surprised how good it was in both story and performance. While it entirely ditches the plot of the novel, the writers did manage to keep some of the character history which gave it some legitimacy as an Ian Fleming adaptation. It also added some depth to the villain that could sometimes be lacking in the series. The film relies more on drama and light suspense than gadgets and action; it's more of a cat-and-mouse game than a race to save the world. The only drawback to the plot is the inclusion of the Solex. I suppose this was added in an attempt to reflect the current world energy crisis, but its handling of it gives a grounded, gritty action/drama film a bit too much of a sci-fi touch. Scaramanga's Fun House set is a bit silly for the proceedings as well. Might have been a bit more interesting had the two stalked each other through the streets of Hong Kong. But the locations are beautiful, John Barry's score is better than I remember and Moore balances toughness with his trademark light touch very nicely. And he's a delight to listen to on the commentary track. I will be pick up the rest of his films (replacing those I already have) just to hear his recollections. "},{"Title":"Moore's Second Bond Mission","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film has an excellent cast. Brit Ekland & Maud Adams take very good care of the women of Bond here. Christopher Lee is Scaramanga & the first film role for Herve Vellicheze is a complete success as Knick Knack, his servant.While the film has an energy gadget known as a solaxe, the main focus is the meeting of Bond with Scaramanga. This comes off quite well. There are plenty of major stunts & some great location shooting which are quite enjoyable.The stunts are well done & with the strong cast, this is another good outing for Roger Moore. He is now firmly planted in the Bond character. This film has plenty for all the Bond fans. Enjoy the show, as this one is solid entertainment. "},{"Title":"The world's greatest villains tried to kill James Bond. Now it's Scaramanga's turn to try","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man With the Golden Gun ditches the original novel almost completely (the book was set in Jamaica, for a start, whereas the film is located in the Far East). However, it is still a fairly entertaining entry is the long-running series, and features three strong reasons for tuning in 1)a classic Bond villain in the shape of Francisco Scaramanga 2)a classic villain's henchman in the shape of psycho dwarf NickNack, and 3)a stunning Bond girl in the shape of Mary Goodnight. There'a also the most outrageous car stunt ever seen in a motion picture, rendered all the more impressive by the fact that it is not a computer enhanced sequence but was filmed for real (including that infamous loop-the-loop in the red sports car).Bond is played by Roger Moore for the second time. Moore is relaxed and easy-going in his usual manner, but shows a bit of the old Connery toughness during a couple of martial arts fight sequences. His mission is simply to stay alive this time, having been targeted by world renowned hit-man Francisco Scaramanga (chilling Christopher Lee). Moore decides that rather than waiting around to be shot, he will hunt for Scaramanga himself, and his search takes him to Beirut, Macao, Hong Kong and, finally, a privately owned Thai island. En route, he discovers that Scaramanga has bigger fish to fry than simply killing 007, as he also plans to use a powerful solar device to power-up a deadly laser gun that he has had built.It's a surprisingly slow-moving film for a Bond flick, with more talky scenes than is customary. However, the action when it comes is pretty memorable. The comedy relief provided by Clifton James (you may remember him as a mouthy cop from Live and Let Die) is somewhat irritating and hurts the film more than it helps it. Lulu's title song is dated, but catchy. I would rate this an an enjoyable Bond escapade, definitely worth catching for series completists and fans of action bonanzas, but it isn't really the best of the bunch and isn't even the best of Moore's films in the series. If you're only going to see five minutes of the film, though, you simply must tune in for that afore-mentioned car stunt.... awesome! "},{"Title":"Solex Agitator?","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Despite having some serious flaws with the script and character development, this movie does have some very good scenes sprinkled throughout. The highlight for me was first of all, Scaramonga. Finally we have a villain not bent on world domination but gunman against gunman. I also found most of the scenes with Knick Knack to be very enjoyable especially the dueling scene and at the wrestling match. Amusing to find him so well rounded that he's even a French Chef. Goodnight on the other hand could have been better developed instead of the typical, accident prone blonde (think Three's Company). She is enjoyable nonetheless. I also found the filming on the island and the interior sets to be very well done. Even Roger Moore gives a believable performance with very little humor thrown in for good measure. A lot to like but if they could have bypassed Sheriff Pepper this would have been a highly regarded film more than it is. "},{"Title":"My Ever Changing List Of Favorite Bonds","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It always feels wrong to say that Sean Connery is not my favorite Bond. He invented the role...he is Bond. So perhaps it is a fine line to say that my favorite Bond movies are with Roger Moore. My introduction to all Bonds in my youth was through TV. Unaware of promotional campaigns or what was already existing on film... Bond weeks were a treat. It was a shock when I had three days straight of Sean and suddenly this Roger guy showed up. The TV guide only said it was a Bond movie. As a kid I'm waiting for the real Bond to show up...I didn't like it...for about two minutes  ) Most of Roger's Bonds have that one great stunt and one great chase and all of his movies have great music. Never mind the fact that he is great too. Much has been made of his turning Bond into a comedy act but he carried the series and it is why it exists today. And anybody with open eyes and ears will realize that he played a very tough Bond in this flic. The biggest disappointment to me is the sad decision of minimalizing a terrific car jump with a quirky sound effect. It always made no sense to me to hear this sound effect with the stunt...it has the effect that you are not watching a real stunt at all ... that it must be some trick and not the real life, death defying jump that it was. If George Lucas can remake Star Wars ... please Bond producers....I'd rather have a moment of silence than hear that annoying sound effect. OK enough ranting....what to say about plot and scenery? Great thing about Bonds is the travelogue. Nobody in America was travelling to Bangkok or Hong Kong in the numbers of today. This was exotic. When they talk about a Bottoms Up Club and Peninsula Hotel with green limos....this is real life. Bond was filmed on location and a boat race in Bangkok canals is a boat race in Bangok canals! An original plot and character in Scaramanga ....loved that golden bullet idea and it created a better atmosphere for Bond and M to develop an on screen chemistry in at least three scenes together. Robert Brown was a great M but for me the best James Bonds are with Bernard Lee. So sit back and watch a terrific cast, hear terrific music, and tour the great cities of Asia! "},{"Title":"Not bad.","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man With the Golden Gun is the ninth entry into the James Bond series. In this film, a hit-man named Fransisco Scaramanga has put his sights on Bond, and Bond aims to find out why. With the help of his partner, Agent Mary Goodnight, Bond tracks down Scaramanga to find out what other things he's involved with. As the mission goes on, a deadly game of cat and mouse ensues between Scaramanga and Bond. This is an entertaining Bond film, but you can see that the series is beginning to turn more toward comedy and campiness.James Bond's mission in this film is pretty cool, and it leads to some awesome action scenes, but the film makers are starting to move more toward campiness in some cases, and that kind of wrecks some scenes. The James Bond movies started off as serious spy films, but now they're turning into your average action hero film. The gadgets are getting more and more far fetched as well. One scene shows Scaramanga escaping in a car that transforms into a plane. The cat and mouse scenes between Scaramanga and Bond are kind of cool, and Scaramanga makes for one of the more sinister villains Bond has faced. The writing is kind of weak in some scenes, and Moore's one liners seem way too over the top.This is only Roger Moore's second outing as Bond, and already he's starting to seem not right for the role. He's too wooden, and his acting is far too cheesy. Christopher Lee delivers a good performance as Scaramanga, but you can't expect anything less from Christopher Lee.Overall, this is an entertaining Bond film, but it's just not up there with the originals.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"The only good thing to come out of this film is Christopher Lee","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man With The Golden Gun is Roger Moore's second Bond film, and it lets it down big time. The story is about recovering the solex agitator while stopping Scaramanga (Christopher Lee). Firstly the good things about the film. Christopher Lee is one of the best Bond villains on film. His presence makes him menacing and terrifying, whilst remaining calm and cool. Hes one of the few Bond villains who enjoy Bonds company before planning to kill him. His weapon of choice are also a highlight. His golden gun with its one shot kill ability is impressive in not just its power but its construction.There is also a wonderful car stunt which was and still is in ways impressive, but one thing which lets it down is the spinning sound effect added after. Add to this the pathetic fun house, which easily shouts at u the conclusion of the film. Once you've seen that Scaramanga had a wax dummy (which all move, thanks to the movable actors) of James Bond, you know that a switch will take place (one of the films biggest goofs i may add).After all this, it isn't impossible to watch the film. If your in the right mood, you are able to get through this. Thankfully, Roger Morre rises again as Bond.James Bond will return in The Spy Who Loved Me "}{"Title":"One of the Weakest 007 Films, Not Without Its Charm","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am a self-confessed Roger Moore apologist when it comes to the 007 films. I understand why there's a segment of the fan base that abhor the Moore films for being as campy as they are, but his films really were some of my favorites when I was younger and the nostalgia alone keeps my love for them alive. But even I have to admit that THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN is undeniably the worst. When I was young and had trouble sleeping, I would pop this VHS in to guarantee I would be out cold within an hour. It's disappointing because there were a lot of cool ingredients gathered here to construct one of the coolest 007 movies ever but poor writing and shoddy pacing ruin it. It opens so promisingly; instead of the usual scene of James Bond (Moore) going to M for his latest assignment, he arrives to the news that MI6 has received a special package for our favorite secret agent &#x96; a golden bullet with 007 inscribed on the side. We're led to believe that the legendary assassin Francisco Scaramanga (Christopher Lee) has set his sights on Bond, and Bond is removed from any and all assignments until the situation is resolved. So Bond begins a search that will lead him from Lebanon to Thailand in search of the man with the golden gun to confront him. This would've been the coolest 007 adventure ever but the movie then sidelines all the cool stuff for a solar cell plot.This frustrates me to no end. The Scaramanga/Bond plot would've been more than enough to create a cool adventure that breaks away from the normal secret mission trope and turn this into a more personal venture. Bond wouldn't be out to save the world this time; he'd be saving his own skin. But, as Bond follows the trail to Scaramanga, he discovers that it ties into MI6's current situation with a solar power expert who has created a device called a solex agitator that is apparently the most efficient solar cell ever created and could solve the world's energy crisis. This leads to detours that ruin the film's pace, causing a horrible sag in the middle where Bond is sent to die in a karate school (because the film is set in Asia so, you know, martial arts!) and then engages in yet another boat chase (though not as painfully long as the one we suffered in LIVE AND LET DIE). This is about the time when my attention drops and I tune out. The first 45 minutes or so of the movie are great and then it ramps up again in the final half hour when Bond arrives at Scaramanga's private island for the confrontation we'd all been waiting for &#x96; the world's greatest secret agent versus the world's most deadly assassin. But everything in the middle, especially all instances of Sheriff J.W. Pepper (yes&#x85;.he's back), and the clichéd villain lair (Scaramanga's solar power plant&#x85;totally unnecessary addition that comes with the solex plot) ruin what could've been something fun and different.THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN was Roger Moore's second film as James Bond and he had pretty much found his groove by now. He had the suave, debonair demeanor but his action scenes never felt genuine. Part of the charm of his era, in my opinion. As stated, I'm a fan. Our villain, Francisco Scaramanga, has the benefit of being portrayed by one of the coolest character actors ever, Christopher Lee. Of course, he's excellent here. I only regret that he's wasted when he becomes more of the prototypical Bond villain in the end with his master scheme of ransoming the solex technology from his massive island lair. Keep it small here, guys. Keep it personal. It would've been fantastic. His henchman is also one of the more memorable, Nick Nack (Hervé Villechaize). Scaramanga's diminutive French man-servant is just as deviant as his boss and, let's face it, just as cool. The movie's only failure in the character department is our Bond girl, Mary Goodnight (Britt Ekland). I'm hesitant to blame any of this on Ekland because this just comes across as poor writing. Goodnight is a fellow MI6 agent and she's absolutely worthless. She fails at just about every job she's given and her only objective over the course of the entire movie appears to be hooking up with Bond. She's a ditz who puts herself and/or Bond in harm's way on a regular basis due to her lack of awareness, and she throws a tantrum when Bond beds Scaramanga's woman/the movie's femme fatale, Andrea Anders (Maud Adams). Adams is a much stronger woman. Her character is stronger-willed but she's put herself in a dangerous position by getting in bed (literally and figuratively) with Scaramanga. She's great and it's no surprise the filmmakers brought her in again for OCTOPUSSY.THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN has a lot of problems but, keep in mind, I still prefer it over THUNDERBALL anytime. The what-ifs in my mind about what we may have gotten had the producers been willing to take some more chances and get a little more creative with the material will forever bother me. But the movie boasts some cool villains and beautiful (if not well-written) women, and I love all of the sequences set in Scaramanga's funhouse of death. This may be one of the weaker 007 adventures but I still can't bring myself to hate it. Mediocre, maybe. Horrible, nah. "},{"Title":"One Of The Golden Bond Film Filled With Entertainment & Stronger Story","Date":"21 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" starting roger Moore the man with the golden gun 1974 is amazing,underrated & got great story.but sadly some people didn't liker it.bond goes after a man named Scaramanga who is a assassin hes dangerous & have his signature golden gun he lives one an island somewhere but no one has seen him.but 007 is sent to Asia to investigate that whats going onthe chase scenes & action fights are fantastic.much better then new Craig bond films.as a James bond fan i collected all bond films including new ones like quantum of solace.i still find roger Moore era of bond the best one. i love pierce Brosnan as bond but after Dalton Roger Moore is best bond.i will not tell the story here but all i can say is that this film is highly entertaining.Christopher lee is best villain as Scaramanga & roger Moore is great bond here.the man with the golden gun is one golden filmmy rating is 10/10 a must see for every bond fan. "},{"Title":"Weak Bond film","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This was my first film that I watched in which Roger Moore portrayed James Bond. Well it starts off well as Scaramanga (Christopher Lee) kills an Italian Gangster as a training exercise. As the story progresses further, the audience discovers that both men are searching for the Solex agitator a device used for solar power. At this point the film has captured my attention. However, after that it just descends into clichéd car chases, dumb characters and illogical plot lines. Clifton James made an appearance as Sheriff Pepper and I have to say he was highly detrimental to the film. His character came off as a bad parody of a Southerner as well as being a racist. Britt Ekland plays Goodnight a fellow MI6 dispatched to accompany Bond on his journey. She comes off as an extremely dumb agent. There was one scene in the film--although this might be to move the plot forward--where her actions were totally astounding. In addition, the last 5 minutes of the film were awful as they seemed to rip off Goldfinger.I will post a few positives for the film. First the cinematography was great with excellent shots of Hong Kong and Thailand. Christopher Lee was believable as Scaramanga--Bond's nemesis. I thought the theme song arranged by John Barry and sung by Lulu was up to par with previous Bond theme songs.So a quick summary, avoid this film if you have not watched a lot of the Bond canon as there are several which are much worthier than this one. "},{"Title":"The Gentleman With His Licence To Kill","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Moore nicely grows into his role as 007 in this second outing of his.The storyline is intriguing and most of the actors (especially Lee)are rather good.The movie has some amazing stunts and Moore's humor starts to shine through more and more.The film does tend to be a bit boring in certain parts, but it's never the less an improvement over the previous one.Not the most successful Bond film financially, it took one more film for the audience to forger Connery and to take Moore to their hearts as James Bond. "},{"Title":"A valiant attempt that falls short of expectations for a Bond caper","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man With The Golden Gun (1974) is Roger Moore's second outing as 007, and something of a letdown after his meteoric introduction in Live & Let Die. After receiving a golden bullet marked with his double-o number, Bond is relieved of all duties and asked by his superior, M (Bernard Lee) to disappear for a while. Instead, Bond plots to stake out Francisco Scaramanga (Christopher Lee) &#150; the man with the golden gun. Unbeknownst to Bond, Scaramanga doesn't really want him dead. The bullet was actually sent to Bond by Scaramanga's girlfriend, Andrea Anders (Maude Adams, in her first appearance in a Bond movie). Unfortunately, Bond realizes that Scaramanga's intentions to annihilate the world through harnessing a destructive solar device have brought him full circle in his original mission; that of recovering an experimental Solex converter that was stolen from British intelligence.The film is justly famous for several fantastic set pieces, including a three sixty mid-air roll over car stunt, another featuring a car that turns into a plane, the novel staging of two fun house sequences, and, the climactic showdown on Scaramanga's island, in which a miniature model of the doomsday device appears remarkably full size &#150; even under today's scrutiny in special effects. The film is also notable for pint size Bond villain, Nick Nack (Herve Villechaize, of Tattoo fame on television's Fantasy Island). The Bond girl on this occasion is the largely forgettable, Mary Goodnight (Britt Ekland), a vapid flaxen-haired bubble head to whom the concept of zero refrigeration goes unnoticed until a complete thermal meltdown of the island is imminent.MGM/UA's DVD is disappointing. Colors are dated and faded. Contrast levels appear a tad low. Fine details are lost in a barrage of age related artifacts and digital anomalies including edge enhancement and pixelization. Blacks are rarely deep or solid. Whites are more of a pasty pale yellow. The audio is mono and strident. There's not much to recommend either the picture or sound elements. Extras include two documentaries, an audio commentary, some promotional junkets, stills gallery and theatrical trailer. "},{"Title":"Quick reviews!!","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" One of the more dodgy Bond films, but unlike the others, this one's faults and weirdness works to its benefit. Bond is on the hunt for a powerful device which sucks the power of the sun, making a doomsday weapon. Scaramanga, the world's most sought after assassin is also on the hunt for it, and it seems he wants Bond too. He believes Bond would be his most difficult adversary, and soon the two meet for a stand off.The film has many breathtaking locations and brilliant sets, and the hit-man plot adds depth the 'world destroyer' theme. Britt Ekland is of course gorgeous, and is OK in the role, but does not do much. Adams is good in a moderately tragic role. Lee as Scaramanga is excellent, a worthy opponent for Bond, equally matched in all areas, charm, knowledge, skill. Lee's performance ensures that the film does not slip into stupidity, but stands out. The stunts are OK, the film dealing more in fights with ninjas and sumo wrestlers. The final encounter is also good, tension building as Bond waits to hear the shot that will kill him. Villechaize is good as Nick Nack, although his demise is embarrassing, and the reappearance of GW Pepper is an odd one, and probably unnecessary. However, it is still funny. The car chase which follows is one of the best in the series. Also, Lulu's song is refreshing.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Roger Moore The King of Bonds.","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Unlike most of his fellow Bond actors, Roger Moore is equally adept at drama and humor. I like Connery also but he's not so good at humor. Connery's most humorous Bond films Diamonds are Forever & Never Say Never Again would have definitely been done better by Moore. Connery seemed miscast in those films. . I always disagreed with the critics who said that Roger Moore didn't fit the Bond role until The Spy who Loved Me. I thought he was great from the beginning in Live and Let Die. I see why he was the first choice to play Bond. Too bad he wasn't available.Ok The Man with the Golden Gun has always been one of my favorite Bond films. It has plenty of all the necessary ingredients Action, Comedy, and Bond Babes. Sure this one has plenty of camp going on but that was intentional. Either you like it or you don't. Which brings me to my favorite character, Sheriff J.W. Pepper of the LOO-WEE-ZEE-ANA State PO-LEESE. This guy is hilarious just to look at. He talks with a apple sized wad of chewing tobacco in his mouth. Of course Sheriff Pepper's appearance makes or breaks this film because if you can't stand him, you'll likely hate this film (even if he just makes a cameo). Christopher Lee can do no wrong as a Bond villain. A perfect Bond villain if there ever was one. Herve Villechaize is entertaining as Nick Nack (particularly during the last scene). This film is the most FUN Bond film with Live and Let Die a close second. Highly Entertaining. "},{"Title":"its a james bond film","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I admit to being a complete sucker for any bond film provided it sticks to the rigid forumula we all loveMan with the golden gun has all the required elements, a suave well played Bond, plenty of one liners, sexy hot females, faintly amusing deaths of bad guys, guns, cars and bad fighting. It even has a dwarf and a nemisis with 3 nipples! You just know its going to be goodI'm still in awe of Bond really. As a kid you know nothing of sophistication or rich swanky lifestyles, until that is you see your first Bond film. Suddenly you're driving an Aston Marton and not an Austin Meastro, you drink and understand fine wines, you have a gun and have sex with extremely attractive women. Suddenly Bond has something and you do not. Perhaps in Bond we have the essence of religionWatching Bond today I still feel admiration for his sophisticated lifestyle. His portrayal of the english gentlemen is quite amusing and includes the natural english distain for any foreign culture. Every Bond film invariably treats the local inhabitants shabbily. I seem to remember one where Bond seeking a diversion throws wads of money at a street crowd and just shouts 'rupees'I see lots of Pepper bashing in past reviews. This grotesque character offends many people and he is not particularly relevant to the plot.I like him. He represents the typical American stereotype of a red neck. His voice and mannerisms have to be seen to be believed and here we see a good old dig at the yanks. Pepper is very funny and part of the Bond forumula - what Bond is without its stereotypes?Overall this is excellent Bond and just good fun. Perfect for family gatherings or Sunday afternoons  "},{"Title":"Good casting, bad casting. (SPOILERS)","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Man with the Golden Gun has two big problems for one, there is not really much of a plot. Just a mash of fights and clever ideas that weren't used to their full potential. And two, Britt Ekland played an English Spy. Why? Why did the producers cast a Swedish actress with a thick accent as Mary Goodnight, an ENGLISH secret agent that aids James Bond? Well, she looks great in a bikini, and thats about it. She muddles the part up by her inability to act through her Swedish accent and her faux English one. It's too bad, really. But, Christopher Lee makes one great bad guy (Scaramanga). He is as suave and as dangerous as Bond, and he looks like he might be a match for Bond. Christopher Lee also has a midget henchman! Very cool. Scaramanga also only wants to kill Bond, in a duel. That's a lot better than some world domination scheme. It's an OK Bond flick, but you may be bothered by Britt Ekland's muddled accent(s), but Scaramanga is worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Well done","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  All right, so The Man With The Golden Gun may not be the most exciting film in the series. Compared to the more thrilling Live And Let Die I can kind of see why people don't like it. It also has the worst theme song, annoyingly sung by Scottish pop singer Lulu. But this movie still has my vote, for it is very well made and has fantastic scenes, great scenery, and a nice score. In this one, Bond must kill Fransisco Scaramanga (Christopher Lee), the world's most dangerous assassin who plans on converting solar energy into a destructive force. TMWTGG carries very interesting elements such as the golden gun itself, which overall proves to be one of the best Bond inventions, bar none (Why did Bond just leave it after he killed Scaramanga? He should have grabbed it). The karate scene, which most people consider to be stupid, is still pretty good and a bit funny. Like I said, there may not be action; however the car flip jump was very cool! The humor in this film, which I thought would be kind of dumb, turned out to be funny overall (You've got to admit that no matter how much people say Roger Moore's humor is dumb, it still proves to be entertaining). Roger Moore himself delivered a great performance, and Christopher Lee played one of the best villains. Maud Adams was terrific as well, and I'm glad she returned years later in Octopussy (Even in 1983 she was still attractive). Britt Ekland's character, Mary Goodnight, is annoying and helpless. But I believe her character idea was wasted. For one, she does look good in that bathing suit, and she was also an MI6 agent! But instead of giving her cool shooting skills or something, the only talents they gave her were getting kidnapped and being stupid. Quite disappointing. Hey, at least she's better than Tanya Roberts! Definitely can't stoop that low. Clifton James returns as sheriff J.W. Pepper, and yet again proves to be annoying but funny (Has anyone noticed that his mouth is the size of a grapefruit?). Herve Villechaize also provided some good comical relief (Although there already seems to be enough of it) in his role as Nick Nack. Another plus was the fun house duel, although I believe they jumped to the end of that sequence a little too quickly. But I guess that provides a surprise. This movie is easily surprassed by most of the other films in the series, but it is still entertaining and it put me in a good mood, and sometimes you've got to be in the right mood for some Bond films. The Man With The Golden Gun is a very good thriller that's worth checking out. My rating 4 out of 5. "}{"Title":"The glorious heights of kitsch","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS MAJOR SPOILERSI couldn't stand The Man With The Golden Gun the first time I saw it. Sandwiched between the style of Live and Let Die and the silly spectacle of The Spy Who Loved Me/Moonraker it seemed lacking in both class and event. Stripped of all invention, save for gimmickry, this is James Bond at its most basic, its most formulaic. The weary predictability of scenes &#150; including the shock reappearance of the henchman at the climax &#150; showed a series devoid of all inspiration. I note that this was the shortest time between consecutive Bond entries since the mid-60s, in order to capitalise on Roger Moore's impressive first box office. Sadly, due to disappointing returns, it also has the distinction of having (Legal wrangles for the Dalton/Brosnan changeover notwithstanding) the longest gap between follow-ups, with another movie not being produced until 1977.Yet watched a second time this one is actually a great deal of fun. For not even counting the competent direction and rewardingly exotic locales, this is first and foremost a movie that revels in its own awfulness. This is no more evident than in the title song, enthusiastically performed by Lulu. Starting with some cranked-up, jingly-jangly guitars, this frankly bonkers pop song accelerates straight through the theme titles and doesn't even bother to synchronise with them. A bawling Lulu meanwhile launches into barely disguised innuendo, including such lines as He has a powerful weapon and who will he bang? Why doesn't she just sing he gives me one up the cacker and have done with it?This is a film so stupid that it trashes its own showpiece stunt (a corkscrew jump with a car) by placing a silly tin whistle sound effect over the top. Having oriental and rag time renditions of the theme tune playing within the film itself is cheesy genius, while Bond's kicking a Kung-Fu fighter in the head while he bows could easily have inspired Raiders of the Lost Ark. Also a bonus is M asking What do you know about a man called Scaramanga, 007? &#150; only to have Roger, tongue rammed into cheek, reciting over forty seconds of exposition.The racial/deformity characteristics for the villains seem even more tasteless this time around &#150; three nipples for Scaramanga, a French Midget for his henchman &#150; while a pointless later scene implies a black servant is a potential rapist. Britt Ekland doesn't give much of an impression and is strictly a sexist bimbo characterisation, but she does look lovely throughout, particularly in the bikini. (Which got her the part, apparently).Though maybe what's really lacking is anything resembling a plot. It is nice to see Christopher Lee out-suaving Moore; even though you know when Bond meets the world's greatest assassin there can be only one winner. Though having him win the day by using trickery in a glorified funhouse is also a little unsatisfying, as is him alluding to the word s**t. This is the witty, gentleman spy we've grown to know over the years? As Scaramanga, Christopher Lee is a more believable villain than usual because he doesn't overplay. His affected and understated insanity work far better than the usual ranting megalomaniac does, even if this isn't at first evident.As for Roger Moore, his performance has already spilled over into puerility after just one movie, though there are complications with the character. After his debut and before his older, craggier appearances, there's a nastier, vicious edge underneath. Combining this with a barrage of puns produces a slightly arrogant portrayal, and seeing him bed Maud Adams after beating her is unsettling. There's also something so flippant about Roger c.1974-79 that means he fails to command the attention for a film's entire duration.Just when you think it can't get any sillier, along comes redneck Sheriff J.W.Pepper from Live and Let Die. There's even a scene where Moore does a Jim Dale-style Carry On double take when accidentally swallowing a bullet. Watched in context, this is just another example of the degeneration of the series during the mid-70s. Seen in isolation, The Man With The Golden Gun is endearingly awful and a must-see. "},{"Title":"Golden Gun Undeservedly gets a bad rap","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" While some can never get over Sean Connery not being Bond, and while 'Live and Let Die may be more fun, The Man With the Golden Gun may be one the of the best made of all Bond Films.No, this movie did not have many of the tell-tale eye-candy and explosive action of other Bond films, it had a thorough story, instead. it also lacked the megalomaniacal world-conquering super-villain, replacing such tomes for a true and realistic espionage story. We often forget that Bond is a spy, not a superhero. Some get so caught up in the formulaic Bonds (the last couple of Connery's, the majority of Moore's and Brosnan's), that good spy adventure movies get lost or ignored.In this movie, Bond must track down a hard-to-find killer who has apparently marked Bond for death. In the midst, a new energy technology (the Solex)has been stolen and is being put up for auction to world powers who may exploit it for weapon technology. These two plots intersect in the person of Francisco Scaramanga, the man with the golden gun, a hot-shot assassin who is the perfect foil to Bond's personality. Scaramanga is played aptly by Christipher Lee and has all the genteel education and affectations as Bond, but with a 180-degree moral view.The movie is quieter and much subtler that the explosive Live and Let Die which preceded it and the return to the more-formulaic cheesy-super-villain Bond films which followed (The Spy Who Loved Me and Moonraker.) The lone weakness of this film is the one formulaic character of the clumsy and scattered-brained female agent. Ms. Goodnight (Bond's secretary in the novels), who is obviously in the film for eye-candy and sex. The movie is often listed as a bomb at the box-office which is not true, it made several times its cost, but did not do as well as Live and Let Die (which was a fun movie and did well- probably from the action and the curiosity of audiences to see the new Bond), and later Bond epics. But remember, this came out in 1974 when the world was in the midst of a economic crunch and most movies did not do well in theaters in 1974. The three years taken between this movie and the next (Spy Who Loved Me) saw a major change in America and led to the Bond movies' financial successes again, even with poor scripts and lame stories (Moonraker View to a Kill).In my opinion, Golden Gun is the smoothest of the Moore era and ranks up there with From Russia With Love, Goldeneye, and Casino Royale (06) as the best-made Bond stories. It may not have all the expected formulaic parts of the more popular films, but the plot is stronger, more realistic, and the storyline much less chaotic than most other Bond films. This is Bond being what the Bond of the novels was- a spy and hit-man. If you are after good stories and not easily distracted by the usual allotment of Bond bimbos and unbelievable super-villains, this is a must see. "},{"Title":"Average Bond adventure","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Personally I'm not a huge fan of James Bond films because of all the similar conventions used and the lack of realism always puts me off but however this Ian Fleming adventure is one of the more creative and engaging Bond adventures. Roger Moore reprised his role as the English secret agent to sufficient effect as he brings his charm to the central protagonist in an attempt to capture the slickness and charisma that is always expected of Bond. This Bond film shows the character seeking out Scaramanger when he hears the villain is after him. It sounds crazy and in a sense it was for me but it was a different method for Bond to seek out the villain who is also looking for him. This film differs from other Bond films because it's a more tactical approach. Bond tries to use all the clues to great effect and for once I was able to follow the plot, even if the majority of clues found are over exaggerated but still very engaging. The action scenes are kept to a minimum which is good because I feel there are always too many action scenes which try to win over the fans. Having scenes where Bond is using his knowledge to effect instead of act first and ask questions later. The acting by Moore is as interesting as ever as he stars as Bond, delivering the typical back stabbing sarcastic lines as expected. The majority of cheesy catchphrases are funny when Bond gets his way with the women and treads on the bad guys. The character of Scaramanger is appealing but he is not a classic Bond villain. Lee performs well but many viewers will feel he wasn't as strong as was necessary to convince the audience to his power. A lot of information towards the end is thrown in and the film has jumped instantly from a flowing to a confusing couple of scenes as the ideologies put forth will mislead the audience and make them think too much too late. If you find yourself bored one afternoon then watch it, don't go out of your way. It is more interesting than the likes of other Moore Bond adventures such as Moonraker and Live and Let Die. It is one of my favourite Bond adventures but doesn't compare to Goldeneye or 'the world is not enough' "},{"Title":"the film with the leaden plot","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore returns a second time as Bond in this yawner about a high-profile international assassin (huh?) and solar energy (double huh??). Complementing, or perhaps abetting Moore is Christopher Lee as Scaramanga, the eponymous million-dollar-a-hit hit man, who in turn is assisted by Herve Villachaize (this is all getting rather a bit too much now)as the thoroughly dis likable Nick Nack. Eye candy is provided by ex-supermodel Maud Adams and Britt Ekland, both of whom are gorgeous to look at but prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that neither one can act. The plot, what there is of it, seems to center around something called a Solex Agitator, a palm sized thingamajig that somehow miraculously makes the widespread use of solar energy a practical proposition. As for the titular gun, this is unquestionably the clunkiest, least-convincing looking prop yet seen in ANY Bond film. Ever. Even Scaramanga's wildly improbable flying AMC Javelin (actually a scale RC model) was far more interesting even though it's time on camera was very short; the gun, on the other hand, is regularly and tediously displayed time after time, looking for all the world like a Lego toy that's been spraypainted gold.As if all this wasn't bad enough, we're treated to a return appearance of J.W.Pepper, the redneck sheriff who first appeared in Live and Let Die (itself a dog of a Bond film), who, um, dogs (sorry) Bond periodically throughout this picture, most notably during the by-now obligatory spectacular car chase. Indeed, as spectacular as the 360 degree roll performed by the stunt car was, even this scene misfires through the use of a cartoonish sound effect.The Man with the Golden Gun remains, as of this writing, one of the poorest grossing Bond films yet made, and one look at the finished product will tell anyone why. Not that this is the fault of either Moore or Lee any actor, no matter how good, can only do so much with a weak script. Just ask Max von Sydow after he made Flash Gordon. The Man with the Golden Gun plays like it was written by committee and, judging by the box office returns, was probably attended by them almost exclusively. For hard core Bond addicts ONLY. "},{"Title":"Moore's best turn as Bond...","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Roger Moore Era as James Bond is always a subject for lively debate. There are those who believe he held the role well, while others say he never came close to the standard set by Sean Connery.Both views are correct somewhat, with the second being more accurate. Moore was not Connery. But for two films, Octopussy and The Man With the Golden Gun, he came pretty close.The plot behind TMWTGG is strong but its execution could have been better. However, that is the only complaint. Moore turned in his best mix of humor and Bond attitude. He comes quite close to Timothy Dalton's interpretation of Bond in The Living Daylights, and to Pierce Brosnan's Bond of GoldenEye. That's a compliment.But as focused as Moore was for this film, it was the supporting case that lifted this film, primarily Christopher Lee as Bond's nemesis. Lee is a master of his craft and takes a role here that could have been great, but wasn't written very well -- yet still manages to elevate it to outstanding.If you're looking for great performances by a Bond girl, Britt Eklund's turn as Agent Goodnight may be the best of any Bond film. She plays the role of rookie agent and the many facets of her character (rookie, ditzy blonde, yet also fiery and strong) with great balance. And no one in history looked better in a bikini.And then there's Clifton James as Sheriff J.W. Pepper, improving greatly upon his first performance in a bond. James steals every scene he's in.Top it off with one of the five best car tricks (the spiral bridge jump scene) in movie history, and you have an entertaining film.The movie drags in some places and the special effects (aside from the car chase) aren't up to Bond code looking back on it all, but that doesn't stop this one from being one of the top films of the Bond series. Give it a shot. "},{"Title":"The Weakest of the Bond films.","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My Take Christopher Lee's turn as the villain can't save this silly, mostly boring 007 entry. I have long regarded The Man with the Golden Gun as the weakest entry, not just of Roger Moore's, but the entire franchise. This film boasts a fine performance by Christopher Lee as the lead baddie Francisco Scaramanga, but Moore is obviously unsatisfying in this entry and Britt Ekland only manages to steal a scene in the last half hour in her sexy bikini, otherwise she's totally useless. The film concerns an attempt to assassinate James Bond. An attempt by assassin Scaramanga and his golden gun, which is mainly composed of everyday items, all made of gold. It's up to Bond to stop him, which leads him to Thailand, a confrontation with Scaramanga and his feisty little sidekick Knick Knack (Herve Villechaize), a Kung Fu battle and a boat chase (once again).On some parts, the fantastic stunts are fun. But for most parts its a bit boring, and filled with the silliest elements even for a Bond film. Even the title song (sung by Lulu) is arguably the worst of all the Bond theme songs. An attempt to make a goofier 007 movie isn't always successful (see DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER and OCTOPUSSY), and this one most likely demonstrates the worst. Worth seeing if you're a Bond fan, otherwise a weak and rather unsatisfying entry with too few moments with Lee and the stunts.Rating *1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"CLASSIC BOND ACTION","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was Roger Moore's second appearance as agent 007 of the British Secret Service. In this movie he was matched against an opponent who could be considered his equal.The great Christopher Lee played Scaramanga-the assassin who had already killed several British agents and who performed hits for 1 million dollars. Joining him was the late Herve Villechaize as the mischevious little Nick Nack.Britt Ekland was 007's women in this film. She played Mary Goodnight and whilst she did a commendable job the script didn't give her much to do.As always the action was fantastic. My favourites were the battle in the Martial Arts school and the finale on Scaramanga's island.Fans of classic Bond action will love this. "},{"Title":"The Worst Bond Film","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The weakest of the Bond entries so far, The Man with the Golden Gun represents the series at rock-bottom. Maybe it's because the partnership between Broccoli and Saltzman was quickly dissolving, since this was the last movie that they would produce as partners. Whatever the case, almost every aspect of this film seems insipid. The screenplay is filled with inconsistencies and absurd situations (the return of Sheriff Pepper is unforgivable). The emphasis on humor is almost to the point of slapstick. All of the characters are irritable and there is barely any regard displayed even among the regulars. Mary Goodnight, the female lead, is a childish and immature character who's role as a seasoned MI6 agent is extremely hard to believe. This is especially evident in Bond's constant and completely understandable annoyance with being in her presence. Lieutenant Hip is a moron, and several of 007's predicaments are a direct result of Hip's stupidity. The opening song by Lulu is one of the most bland and forgettable, even compared to the songs that followed in future Bond installments. To be fair, the film is not a complete failure. Francisco Scaramanga, played by the immensely talented Christopher Lee, is easily one of the best Bond villains ever. Too bad this great character and actor were wasted on such a weak movie. "},{"Title":"China and Evel Knievel","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Guy Hamilton and with a script by Tom Mankiewicz and Richard Maibaum, this is the ninth film in the 007 franchise and keeps Harry Saltzman and Albert Broccoli as co-producers for the last time. In this film, the second where Roger Moore embodies 007, the main subject will be the energy crisis and the advent of so- called green energies, issues that were very present at that time, due to the oil crisis and the beginning of ecological concerns in society.In this film, the British agent is threatened by an assassin called Scaramanga, famous for using a pistol and bullets made in gold. Discretely, Bond decides to set off in pursuit of his new enemy, with the permission of M. The clues lead him to Beirut, to the Portuguese colony of Macau and finally to Hong Kong, where Scaramanga kills Gibson under Bond's nose. Gibson was a scientist who invented a way to harness solar energy and alleviate the world's dependency on oil. Bond must now recover the stolen technology and goes to Thailand where, after many adventures, will join forces with his colleague Mary Goodnight, an English spy who is both beautiful as stupid. Finally he meets Scaramanga. The chase takes Bond to the island's villain, which takes the final confrontation, full of surprises.In this film, Roger Moore will continues the formula started in Live and Let Die sarcastic and calm in any situation, his Bond is also a natural seducer, kind and gentle, contrasting to the rudest posture of Sean Connery, while not giving any value to women who seduces and which quickly drops when it suits his mission. A curious note the mechanism created by Scaramanga in his island for the use of solar energy, despite the science fiction touch, is very similar to solar panels we have today but I don't know if this was a jules- vernian stylish prediction or if, even then, we could logically predict the course of technology in this field. One of the most famous scenes of this film is the gold-covered woman, in a probable homage to Goldfinger, an earlier franchise film where this scene first emerged. Another memorable scene is the car chase where Bond, to cross a water channel, makes a dangerous 360° rotation with the car, similar to Evel Knievel shows, a popular icon from these time.In addition to James Bond and Mary Goodnight (Bond-girl played by the Swedish Britt Ekland), the film brings again J. W. Pepper, which was a big hit in the previous film and works here just as comic element. The villain, Scaramanga, was played by the immortal Christopher Lee, whom the seventies ran particularly well thanks to vampire movies. His helper, the francophone dwarf Nick-Nack, was taken by the talented and funny Hervé Villechaize. The also Swedish Maud Adams embodied Andrea the second bond-girl of this movie, the only 007 movie (I think) with two bond-girls interpreted by actresses from the same country. "},{"Title":"Good but marks the beginning of a decline","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I like Roger Moore as an actor who has a refined and amiable performance as proved in his Pre- Bond film career. The previous Bond Film he did Live and Let Die demonstrated that he was capable of playing Bond to the same epic level as Sean Connery had done. However this film though enjoyable as it is and should not be treated with antipathy is the beginning of the end of the classic Bond films in which it diverts away from its original sources in to a meaning of it's own. However in context to the review I will start with the Good points of this film first-The lead cast is good with Roger Moore, Britt Ekland and Christopher Lee who play their acting roles well with good character representation. The character of Nic Nak is especially grasping and intriguing as a villainous sidekick. The music by Lulu and opening titles are good. These major strengths make the film an overall success. Now the downside - As a stated this unlike the previous Bond is when it starts to decline with Roger Moore who proved despite being a good actor was a good Bond but did not upheld it in his later films. The story lines begin to become cheesy and corny that becomes a pseudo-Bond film away from the original spirit and style of the classic novels as previously it had been scrupulously adapted to film and this deterrent spoilt the film brand. The story line of the Man with the Golden Gun should of been autonomously the later film Licence to Kill made 15 years later one film to much was used. This later film is the closest to this films original source content which would also of ensured standards of authenticity. "}{"Title":"Why Roger Moore is the caricature of James Bond","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is probably the silliest Bond entry compared to the past ones. No, seriously, I couldn't tell if this was suppose to be a comedy or a James Bond movie. It's like they didn't take anything seriously at all. It's like they got the premise down first, which was alright then threw in every bizarre and and lame idea they could think of during Bond's journey. Maybe the filmmakers just didn't really care because they had the license to the 007 franchise. Sure, the past James Bond films can be campy, but this one takes it to another level. The main aspect of this movie that saves it from it being one of those So bad, it actually kind of good category. Is because of Christopher Lee as the main villain Scaramanga. Scaramanga is basically an assassin opposite of James Bond, who instead of hating on Bond like Bond's past villains, he has a mutual respect for him as a fellow assassin. And his plan is to use solar energy for destruction which they don't go in depth with. The true crime for this film is how they made this villain sort of lame by giving him an extra nipple and wasted his potential to be a great villain. Just like how they wasted this films potential by adding in lame and silly elements. The scenes with him and Bond in it is what saves this film from being laughably bad. Seriously, with a title like The Man With The Golden Gun, I was expecting a bit more. There is how silly and lame this film gets, it's just hysterical but there are spoilers so stop reading if you don't want anything spoiled. This film starts out with the first agent getting killed in Scramanga's lair. Which is basically some sort of carnival like area designed like something like the place where you go to play laser tag. His right hand man is a midget that goes by Nick Nack. Then it goes to James Bond almost getting killed in a belly dancer's room to get some action. With the belly dancer more concerned about her perfumes more than anything else during the whole ordeal. Then it goes to James Bond putting on a third nipple before trying to go skinny dipping to disguise himself as Scramanga. Then it goes to James Bond fighting off a Sumo wrestler by grabbing his butt cheeks then twisting the sumo guy's mawashi, then Bond gets knocked out by a midget holding a trident. The it goes to a lame karate choreograph with James Bond fighting in a tournament, to him using bunch of karate chops to win, afterwards he takes a bow then jumps out of a window. Where two girls dressed in some sort of high school uniform backs him up by fighting off the dojo fighters with one of the lamest fight choreography ever on film. When that is finished, it leads to a boat chase scene after James Bond pushes a poor thai boy into the water. Then there is a car jump that seems to be straight out of a comedy or The Dukes of Hazzard. Then it ends with one of the Bond girl accidentally hitting the override button with her butt. At the end there is a fight between the midget Nick Nack and James Bond locking him in a briefcase. After that whole James Bond vs a midget ordeal he goes back to the girl to get some action like he always does. I will say the reviewers that claim this is actually a good James Bond movie, is either saying it to stand out or because they at least found this film to be amusing. Maybe the reviewers that gave this movie a positive review see things that I really don't. James Bond seemed more like a mean bully in this over a cold spy. Overall this really is a pity, James Bond meeting his match or the rivalry aspect of this movie could have made this Bond film stand out for the right reasons. Unfortunately the execution just didn't compliment the premise all that well.4/10 "},{"Title":"The Man with the Third Nipple","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie feels more like a clone of Live and Let Die than an actual new film. Roger Moore and Guy Hamilton are both back. Sheriff J.W. Pepper played by Clifton James just loses his charm here. What is he even doing in Thailand. Britt Ekland plays Mary Goodnight, like Solitaire, a simple but memorable Bond companion. This movie's biggest strength lies in the main villain, Christopher Lee as Francisco Scaramanga. He's like the Anti-Bond and has a great back story. He rocks a golden gun and a third nipple. This movie has to be one of the weaker Roger Moore bond adventures. It was made a year after Live and Let Die and it doesn't seem like much effort was put in this one. Nick Nack, played by Herve Villechaize is one of the best henchmen, a threatening tiny guy. Movie has some plot holes and boring moments. I consider this to be an okay entry in the franchise and shoot it with a 6/10. This is Guy Hamilton's worst in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Not As Good As Later Moore Bonds!!!","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The ninth entry in the James Bond film franchise, director Guy Hamilton's The Man with the Golden Gun, isn't a top-notch, 007 caper, but packs enough spectacle and humor to pass muster. This loosely-handled Ian Fleming adaptation involves a former KGB assassin and the Chinese have a peripheral role in the proceeding. Francisco Scaramanga (Christopher Lee) is out to harass solar power when he isn't counting his million-dollar fee per assassination. Bond finds himself drawn into the fracas when he receives one of Scaramanga's golden bullets with 007 engraved in it. The sights are as scenic as the women as sexy and the stunts are suitably far-fetched. Bond runs afoul of Sheriff J.W. Pepper again while in the orient and he discovers where British Intelligence has its new headquarters in Hong Kong. The plot amounts to a cut and paste affair with one of the girls sending Bond the bullet rather than the villain. Eventually, after the usual round of heroic stunts, Bond finds himself squaring off against the assassin in a remote island paradise. Tom Moore's cinematography is flawless. Like its forerunner Live and Let Die, The Man with the Golden Gun was okay, but nothing like the rest of the Roger Moore epics that followed. The elaborate car stunt with a car leaping across a gap between two bridges is spectacular. The film is bookended with scenes of 007 dueling in a carnival setting. Christopher Lee makes a terrific villain, but pitting Bond against pint-sized Hervé Villechaize is short-sighted. The theme song isn't as good as the others, but John Barry's orchestral soundtrack is flawless. The jokes fly thick and fast. The scene where Bond swallows a bullet that he gobbles form the navel of a dancer is hilarious. This Bond adventure is just too low-brow in many instances. The next James Bond movie The Spy Who Loved Me was far better. "},{"Title":"Half-good, half-bad","Date":"8 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I used to think that this was one of the poorer Bond-films together with Live And Let Die, Quantum of Solace and maybe a few others. But I've come to realize that it is very enjoyable for the most part. There are some very good sequences; the Tae Kwon Do-nieces, the young thai salesman, the car chase and so on. And the settings are great - Hong Kong, Macau and Thailand. And, for once, the Bond-women are actually very good. Maud Adams plays her part very nicely, and Britt Ekland is fun as the whimsy assistant. The dialogue is great, and I enjoy the chemistry between Moore and Lee - both are excellent actors. And, of course, we see big explosions at the end. "},{"Title":"Not the best Bond, but hard to find what is bad","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Rating-6/10The Man with the Golden Gun is a Bond film that maybe is nowhere near the best, but manages to be a quirky different paced Bond with a more intricate thought story and a villain who nearly or maybe even does overshadow Bond. It is full of adventure but maybe holds back on the action and stunts but still manages enough to be a fun film to watch and the story takes the upper level here, as opposed to the things we see happen. I felt it was a strongly OK film and here is why I felt so.The story is slower and much more reserved than most of Connery's before but I personally felt that is was a good crime film, the villain was illusive and we didn't meet him before the final part of the film. The plot is solid as well and it's Bond being a secret agent again, now he does hold back on gadgets and stunts yes but if anything this Bond is one of the most rational Bond's of this kind of era as although the villain is superbly ambitious, he is also just simply an assassin.Moore is at his same self as his first film and performs well enough not for the Bond to become boring and very stale. Christopher Lee is the biggest character in this with his villainous performance and terrific acting skill making him one of the most memorable Bond villains around. I felt the entire cast did an OK job and as I said when times were more quiet with just Bond kind of walking around, the cast made it dramatic and nice and managed to create an interesting film even though the plot is subdued.The script, direction and cinematography are all basic and don't deserve any extra praise in a sense, I did however enjoy whoever the location scouts were because some places used are beautiful and literally make the film slightly better. The sets are also brilliant and on a large scale too making this Bond one of the most realistic Bond's for a little while. I also did enjoy the few stunts in this film, especially the Boat scene with Bond which is similar to the one on Live and Let Die(in more ways than one).The film as I have said is slow and can take a little while to get started, you have to really be patient with this one and I personally didn't feel rewarded fully, but it was a good try of a film. It misses gadgets and stunts in parts where they could come in handy and especially the gadgets are needed more because they make Bond who he is and they really don't use them here in this film.Bond fans alike will maybe not like this as much as others and some may enjoy it, I can imagine among the viewers in the modern era, views will be mixed and split peoples decisions. People who enjoy the more suave Bond will like it too because he acts more like he is undercover the entire film rather than fight and shoot, the humour is also there we expect of Moore and although not his funniest, it isn't really annoying either.Overall a 6/10, maybe I did overate this film but I felt coming from watching it that it was entertaining and although quite long to say what is going on in it, it still pleased me as a Bond series film as well. This film is worth the watch I say even if your not watching Bond's in order or something, I feel it will entertain you, although not as much and anywhere near other Bonds before and after it. "},{"Title":"Bond confronts the energy crisis","Date":"26 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond receives a letter which contains a golden bullet with his number of in and thus MI6 believes that he is going to be the target of an assassination by the world's most expensive assassin, Francesco Scaramanga, and thus he is pulled off of his current assignment and forced to go into hiding. However, Bond is not one to run away from his problems, so he sets his own mission to go and attempt to locate Scaramanga and kill him before he is killed.There are a couple of plots woven into this film, the first being Bond trying to get the hunter before he becomes his next kill, and in the background there is the search for a scientist who developed a device all the solex agitator which is a means of producing energy from he sun on a commercial and industrial scale. At first is seems as if this plot is simply a minor background plot, but when Bond discovers that the actual target is the scientist, then it becomes evident that both plots are related.This film no doubt was made during the energy crisis of the 1970's where the era of cheap oil and coal was coming to an end. The Arab states had realised that the west had become reliant on their oil and as such jacked up the price so high that it was starting to become prohibitively expensive. As such people were beginning to look for new ways of producing power cheaply. The thing is that at this time the only reason to look for cheap power was simply due to cost as opposed to any environment issues &#x96; this was to come much later. Mind you, there is also the idea that the oil companies don't actually want a new source of cheap power because that will, in the end, hurt their bottom line. However, this is not something that is really looked at in this film.This film is also set mostly in South-East Asia, with scenes in Macau, Hong Kong, and Bangkok (as well as on James Bond Island which, contrary to what the film says, it actually located to the north of Phuket). It is interesting to discover that for around two years, the remains of the Queen Elizabeth was actually sticking out of Hong Kong harbour, however to date it has either been removed, or covered up in one of the land reclamation projects. Still, it is interesting seeing Hong Kong as it was in the 70s, and also trying to guess were a club like the Bottoms Up would be located (I suspect it would have been in Wan Chai). When I was wondering through Wan Chai I couldn't find any club like the Bottoms Up, not that I was actually looking for one. As for Bangkok, it seems as if little has changed in many places, though I haven't spent a huge amount of time there to say that I am overtly familiar with the city (though I did recognise the King's Palace during the chase scene). "},{"Title":"Moore's second outing as Bond","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This was Roger Moore's second outing as James Bond, and while not as good as the first time around, it was still a solid effort. I enjoyed seeing Tattoo from Fantasy Island playing an evil character. Christopher Lee was okay as a Bond villain. I guess because I'm not an environmentalist, the story didn't really hit home for me as much as others. I've read some reviews of people claiming that Scaramanga was one of the best Bond villains ever, but I really just don't see it. He wasn't bad, it's just that I feel that there were better. The ladies were both definitely hot. I can't believe Mary would still get together with Bond, after he put her in the closet and had his way with the villain's mistress. Still I enjoyed it, and it is definitely a movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A Mixed Bag of Golden Nuts","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond is sent to retrieve the Solex Agitator device&#x97; which pits him against expert assassin Scaramanga also known as the Man with the Golden Gun. Amongst the usual clichés synonymous with Bond, director Guy Hamilton delivers some interesting visuals and great moments usually between Scaramanga played wonderfully reserved and refined by Christopher Lee and Roger Moore's comfortable looking 007, these few scenes touch on what they stand for, and give the characters deeper meaning. However, Writer Richard Maibaum and Tom Mankiewicz move away from the grit of Live and Let Die, and give at times a caricature version of Connery outings, this feels as cartoonie as Diamonds are Forever and Golden Gun feels as if it's taking a step back. While lustre at times with great Asian locations, it also feels cheap and not fully realised, the 'fun house', karate scenes for example, possible due to the off screen problems plaguing the franchise at the time. This coupled with an anti-climatic showdown and conclusions on conclusion leaves you unfulfilled. That said, there's lots to like, ground breaking stunts, including an amazing 360 degree car spin over a broken bridge that executed so perfect it almost looks like a miniature, which it isn't. The famous stunt is sadly cheapened by an added sound effect. There's a fitting score, a fast paced boat chase (where Roger Moore is clearly visible) fantastic aeriel shots and of course the wordplay between Bond and Scaramanga. M, Q and MoneyPenny are present, there's fewer gadgets. Britt Ekland as Agent Mary Goodnight is at her peak and notable is Hervé Villechaize as memorable Nick Nack, Scaramanga's manservant and accomplice. Nevertheless, Maud Adams steals the show as the ill-fated Bond Girl and Scaramanga's mistress who perfectly draws you in emotionally. Ekland's character Goodnight possibly sums up The Man With the Golden gun -looks great, tries too hard and comes across clumsy at times. Still there's nothing better than a film with two James Bonds even if one is a waxwork. And a villain more charming and dangerous than Bond himself. "},{"Title":"Great?  Not Really, But a Must-See Anyway","Date":"3 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Is this the best Bond film? No. Is it the best Roger Moore Bond film? No. Is it a must-see for Bond aficionados? Yes. For one reason Christopher Lee is quite possibly the only actor in a Bond film who not only knew Ian Fleming, but who was already one of the inspirations for characters in the Bond novels. Lee knew Fleming when both were involved in what Churchill called The Ministry of Ungentlemanly Warfare so while he doesn't play the same role here, Lee is quite possibly the only actor in a Bond film who could genuinely say he'd been the real thing. And any movie in which Christopher Lee appears is probably worth watching just for that. "},{"Title":"Rushed but likable Bond film","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man with the Golden Gun is the second Bond film starring Roger Moore. It's also director Guy Hamilton's fourth and last Bond film, as well as last Bond film co-produced by Harry Saltzman.The British Secret Service believes that someone has hired the almost legendary assassin Francisco Scaramanga, also referred to as the Man with the Golden Gun, to kill James Bond. Bond decides that the best way to solve the problem is to find Scaramanga first and kill him. Unfortunately no one knows where he lives or what he even looks like. This however doesn't stop Bond from following his trail to Hong Kong, only to be too late to stop Scaramanga from killing a scientist who had been working on a powerful new solar energy device.I'll be quite honest, The Man with the Golden Gun is a Bond movie that I would like to love more, but unfortunately it does have some problems. The plot seems incredibly rushed and has some major holes in it. I wish the filmmakers would have tried to make this into a cat and mouse thriller between Bond and Scaramanga, instead of forcing some quickly made solar device into it. Also the whole ninja school sequence in the middle is incredibly pointless and distracting. The final battle between Bond and Scaramanga is also a bit anti-climactic. Having Clifton James to reprise his redneck sheriff role from previous movie Live and Let Die doesn't sit well here either.That being said the film does have its good points as well. The locations are beautiful, who wouldn't want to live on Scaramanga's little island, and while plot does bump a bit, the action sequences are well made. Especially the car chase scene should be mentioned, which includes one of the most amazing stunts made in cinema history.Roger Moore delivers his usual witty performance as Bond, but it's Christopher Lee as the villain Scaramanga who steals the show. Lee is actually related to the author of original novels Ian Fleming and was considered for the role of very first Bond villain in Dr. No already. Lee plays Scaramanga as a very well mannered and charming fellow, who you'd never suspect as assassin until, well&#x85; he'd kill you. He is also the only Bond villain I can remember who honestly admires James Bond and considers killing him an honor.The Bond girls this time both come from Sweden. Maud Adams gives a suitably tough but still sympathetic performance as Scaramanga's abused mistress Andrea. Britt Ekland as Bond's assistant Mary Goodnight on the other hand has the questionable honor of being the blondest bimbo Bond girl ever.So The Man with the Golden Gun has its problems, it's rushed and not thoroughly thought out, but it also has its good moments and survives viewing once at least. "}{"Title":"Roger Moore VS. Christopher Lee","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Moore is back for his second outing as James Bond. How does he fare from his first outing? Well, pretty much the same. For those who read my review of Live and Let Die, I wrote that I would further get into the character that Roger Moore brought to Bond. Before I get on with reviewing Man with the Golden Gun, let me state that Moore's portrayal of 007 is more comedic and cocky than what Connery brought. This works to some degree yet I have also found it to be somewhat overused as well. You see much of Bond's arrogance in Man with the Golden Gun probably more so than the future bond films that follow. Does this ruin the overall experience? No, it doesn't. However, it does affect my rating for this movie in particular. This is especially the case with the character of the British Agent known as Goodnight. This was her only appearance and I'm glad. Her character while certainly attractive was simply annoying to me for reasons that I won't go into because it would somewhat give spoilers for those who haven't seen this. All that being said, there is much to like about Man with the Golden Gun which is why I generously give it 8 out of 10 stars. For one, a trend that we see in the Roger Moore series is the return of certain characters for later films other than Felix Lighter and the British secret service. In Golden Gun, we get the return of J.W. Pepper from Live and Let Die. Now some reviewers and critics have stated that Pepper's return wasn't needed. While that might be true, I still found him enjoyable especially when he and Bond play off each other. Now getting to the other main character and memorable villain of the Bond franchise... Christopher Lee as Scaramanga. To me, this character is part of why I generously give Golden Gun my preferred rating. If I may go off subject for a moment, Christopher Lee was outstanding as the villains he played; mainly Dracula from the Hammer series. For him to have played Dracula eight times says something about the performance he put into that character. OK, now back to the subject at hand... The famous duel near the end of Golden Gun is still exciting as when I first viewed it. As for the other characters in Man with the Golden Gun, most are somewhat interesting except for Agent Goodnight. While some will not agree with me on this, they can at least agree that her character did not add anything significant to the franchise although it could be argued that a number of Bond girls were no different in that aspect. Despite the minor flaws, the major attributes are what make Man with the Golden Gun worthy of the 007 series. In fact, Man with the Golden Gun contains the second of the James Bond theme songs that I really like with the first being the theme song from Goldfinger. I will include preferences to other Bond theme songs in my future reviews of the 007 franchise. "},{"Title":"Not one of my favorites, but a pretty decent Bond adventure","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With over twenty James Bond films out there, it can be difficult to remember which one is which. This is the one with the little person from Fantasy Island, the martial arts school, the slightly inept female agent, the funhouse-style shootout room, the ship wreckage, the belly dancer, the life-size oriental garden ornaments, the return of Louisiana sheriff J.W. Pepper, and of course Christopher Lee as Scaramanga, the Man With the Golden Gun.THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN was never one of my favorite James Bond movies, as there are a lot of parts I didn't care for. But the film is pretty good, overall, despite its drawbacks. It holds its place among Bond films.The story follows Bond to the Far East in search of the mysterious Man With the Golden Gun, who is believed to have his sights set on 007. The adventure takes Bond to Macao, Hong Kong, and Thailand. And, conveniently enough, Scaramanga seems to be linked with the energy crisis concerns of Her Majesty's Secret Service.Christopher Lee is great as Scaramanga, an assassin who thrills himself on hunting the most dangerous game. His secluded island hideout provides beautiful exotic scenery. And while I always felt the funhouse mirror sequences were a little weird, I must admit that the filming of the scenes is impressive. The camera captures the confusion of all the reflections nicely.I never liked Nick Nack (Hervé Villechaize), the creepy dwarf sidekick of Scaramanga. He always made me feel uneasy, with his French accent and his waiter's tuxedo. I also never cared for Sheriff J.W. Pepper (Clifton James, reprising his comic relief role from 1973's LIVE AND LET DIE) as the racist American tourist. And even Bernard Lee's M character seemed to have a chip on his shoulder in this film.Another drawback for me is Bond's annoying female partner, Mary Goodnight (Britt Ekland). She's supposed to be an agent, but only serves to muck things up for 007, as if to say that spying is no job for a woman. How she got the job I'll never know, and Bond clearly has little respect for her. (I actually feel sorry for her in one particular bedroom scene.) The much better Bond girl in this film is Maud Adams as Scaramanga's mistress.Roger Moore returns to play James Bond for the second time. The film is the ninth in the series. And, again, while things like the Nick Nack character and agent Goodnight take a little away from my enjoyment, the film is a decent Bond adventure. Scaramanga is a fine villain and the exotic locations are great, as always. There's also a car chase with a very impressive stunt. So although THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN is not one of my preferred Bonds, it's one of the franchise's signature films and has one of the catchiest titles. "},{"Title":"Boy! Not you again.","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore's second outing was a disappointment when I first initially saw it, and again the second time it left me blank. Third time, sadly it's the same story. I didn't dislike it, but mainly remained not all that impressed by it. So much going for it, but it just doesn't seem to click together. You got the iconic Christopher Lee as Bond's main nemesis and Hervé Villechaize as a henchman. Cool. Beautiful bond ladies in Maud Adams and a bubbly Britt Ekland (even though a lot of people seem to pan her performance). Nice. Some well-chosen, wondrously exotic locations. Looks good.Even the story has some fun qualities and brings something new to the table having Bond being a target of a world-class assassin Scaramanga with his golden gun. Soon we both realize there's more too it, as they are both trying to get their hands on the 'Solex Agitator', which is a device that can harness the sun's radiation. The plot plays out like a cat-and-mouse game where Lee stays pretty much in the background pulling the strings that leads Bond on the chase, until the two finally come in concert for their ultimate showdown. Lee perfectly paints it with a duel between titans&#x85; my golden gun against your Walther PPK. It sounds like I shouldn't be dissatisfied, but as an adventure is seems rather slow-raveling, lacking oomph and low-key with its escapism action. It's more talky than I remembered with less gadgets being used too (which isn't bad at all). Also the annoyingly boisterous comic-relief character of Sheriff Pepper (from the previous Bond 'Live and Let Live') makes an reappearance in a couple sequences and that's the film's most exciting set-pieces too involving a martial arts fight turning into boat chase and an invigorating car pursuit with a spectacular stunt (with the terrible use of a campy sound effect). Having Sheriff Pepper is unnecessary, but I didn't find him as overbearing here. Aside from those moments, it doesn't feel like it's up too all that much even though it's always on the move and the script just seems to miss that sharp-wit favoring clumsy visual humor. There's a lot of killing time with intentions of keeping everything a mystery (with one surprise in the story's direction) and many contrived possibilities show up. Bond films really do rely on conveniences, but on this occasion heavily so.Roger Moore was starting to etch in that permissively laced personality, which was an admirably good Bond performance. Lee's exultant show-in makes you wished there was more for him to do.Far from the best, but no way near the bottom in what is a diverting Bond outing. "},{"Title":"Mirror image Bond","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore is far from being my Favourite Bond, so I went into this film without any great expectations, prompted chiefly by curiosity as to Christopher Lee's role in it. But to my surprise and pleasure I found that I actually thoroughly enjoyed it.Christopher Lee, as promised, is excellent, aided by an intriguing script which enlists audience sympathies on his side in the pre-credit sequence before we are made aware of his identity, and which presents him as, frankly, rather more resourceful and in control than Roger Moore's Bond. The obligatory sequence in which the villain has Bond in his power but carelessly omits to kill him is given an interesting new twist by the revelations about Scaramanga's actual assassination intentions, and Lee's subsequent performance makes the final showdown psychologically credible.At this stage of Moore's tenure, his portrayal of Bond had yet to settle down to its later self-caricature, and in fact I found that the character is not depicted in this film as especially sympathetic this is effective as a lot of the humour here is at Bond's own expense. I can see that real Fleming aficionados might find this 'disrespectful' approach alienating, but as I had always found Moore's Bond rather annoying I have to say that I enjoyed watching his misadventures and the quips at his expense it was only with the re-approach of the smug action-hero element towards the end of the film that my tolerance began to fade.The women, I'm afraid, were rather a disappointment. Britt Ekland might have fared better as an exotic temptress but seemed wooden in the unrewarding role of the English-rose agent Mary Goodnight, although the plot does provide a plausible rationale for having her spend the entire last act running around in a bikini. Maud Adams manages a little more psychological conviction as the double-crossing Andrea but, for a girl who takes armed showers, appears equally ill-equipped to take care of herself.One unifying theme which ultimately proves significant is that of the cardboard cutout or model that comes in some manner 'to life'. Another, of course, is the concept of a 'golden gun' itself. The famous car stunt, I'm afraid, I assumed to be a model shot (a modern generation will probably take it for CGI), but there are plenty of stunts and chase sequences for those who relish that sort of thing.Worth watching for Christopher Lee alone and a surprisingly enjoyable performance by Roger Moore. The final explosive sequence is generic and the coda fairly unfunny, but with Bond films both are beloved by fans and more or less traditional. "},{"Title":"Bond&#x85; Bullseye Bond!","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's such a damn shame that the James Bond movie with the undeniably most fabulous villainous opponent is, in fact, also the James Bond movie with the weakest and most unexciting scenario! The presence of cult monument Christopher Lee &#x96; at the height of his incredibly impressive career, moreover &#x96; as eccentric hired killer Francisco Scaramanga should have resulted in the one of the greatest and most unforgettable 007 movies in the entire franchise! At least, that's what I assumed, but in reality it's one of the dullest Bond flicks with far too many pointless dialogs, too few bombastic stunt sequences, too many pitiable attempts for comical reliefs, an almost complete lack of flamboyant gimmicks and totally uninteresting supportive characters! There's something terribly wrong with the script if the evil sidekick is a dwarf with a thick French accent and the sexiest Bond girl is a degraded assistant Special Agent! James Bond is alarmed when a golden bullet with 007 carved in it arrives in an envelope at London headquarters. This is the trademark of the notorious hit man Scaramanga and it basically means that he has marked Bond for execution. 007 wants to remain one step ahead of Scaramanga and travels to the Far East, where the hit man was last active. It turns out that Scaramanga is less interested in murdering James Bond than he is in stealing a hi-tech solar energy device and blackmailing the world leaders. The best things about The Man with the Golden Gun &#x96; apart from its lovely title &#x96; are Lee's impeccably stoic performance and the downright fantastic use of breath-taking filming locations and masterful set pieces. Scaramanga's lair, for example, is located on beautiful Private Island where he has his own crazy theme park in which he invites enemies to take a shot at him. Maud Adams stars as Scaramanga's reluctant mistress who inevitably prefers the charms of James Bond and gets punished for it. A quite remarkable little trivia items is that Mrs. Adams was cast again in another Bond movie nearly a decade later, as the titular character Octopussy. Christopher Lee literally owns the screen in every scene he appears, but unfortunately it's not enough. The script briefly hints at his character's past, being the son of traveling circus artists, but this intriguing sub plot isn't elaborated at all. "},{"Title":"The Man with the Golden Gun (1974) Review","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man With The Golden Gun is Roger Moore's second Bond film, but doesn't quit live up to his first. I remember watching this film a few years ago as a kid and thinking it was good enough. Yes, the film is entertaining enough, an easy going plot with a few cool aspects, but there's really nothing too special.The main thing that was hyped up about this film were the islands and the solar-powered laser on it. This was pretty cool, as well as the long half hour (?) stand off where Bond has&#x97; what, 6? 8 bullets&#x97;while his opponent&#x97;who also happens to be CHRISTOPHER LEE (Saruman from The Lord of the Rings)&#x97;has a single shot. This, as well as the bonus-fight-scene- ending, was pretty cool.This movie was going to get a 6.5 but there is just a single scene that ranks it up. If you watched Live and Let Die then you remember that super long and awesome boat scene. Well, one of the parts that made that scene so good was the funny redneck Sheriff. Well, HE MAKES A COMEBACK! Bond meets him while chasing his enemy, and, well, it makes for some GREAT laughs!Because of that scene, I give The Man With The Golden Gun a 7 out of 10 for having some good laughs, and interesting features in the film. "},{"Title":"Great locations and Hervé Villechaize","Date":"19 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Scaramanga (Christopher Lee) is an assassin for hire at a million dollars per hit. He leaves a bullet indicating Bond is on his hit list. He is suspected of killing 002, and Bond goes to track him down.This is the second Roger Moore Bond movie. It is a slicker affair than his first. It has quite a few exotic Far East locations. And how can I not love Hervé Villechaize as the evil side kick? It's a rather simple story. It's more of a detective story as he tracks down Scaramanga while sexing up Maud Adams and Britt Ekland. One thing this Bond movie lacks is a lot of big action. When the action does come, it's usually just your basic shootouts or hand to hand combat. It's a departure from the Bond formula. This is much more of a cat and mouse game. There is a big car chase with a real fun Evel Knievel jump and the comedic return of Pepper (Clifton James) as he crosses path with Bond. "},{"Title":"He's the man with the Golden Gun!","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is without a doubt, Roger Moore's second best Bond film, next to Octopussy in my opinion. Not only is the storytelling top-notch, but it has some great, suspenseful action scenes as well. The cat and mouse finale between Moore & Lee at the end is a classic, and unforgettable. It's kind of odd how not many people tend to place this in the upper echelon of James Bond films. It has everything a Bond fan could possibly want! Christopher Lee's portrayal as the villain Scaramanga is one of the most underrated Bond villains in my opinion. He played off Roger Moore extremely well. Britt Ekland is one of the sexiest Bond girls, ever as Midnight. You won't be able to take your eyes off her. Maud Adams is also very good in her role. Weirdly enough&#x85; even though she is killed in this movie, she would reappear in Octopussy as the main Bond girl! Hervé Villechaize is the midget, and he definitely plays one of the neatest Henchman I've ever seen. Final Thoughts This is an excellent Bond film, and one of the more underrated one's. I highly recommend it8/10 "},{"Title":"Duel in the sun!","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 'Live & Let Die' ( 1973 ) established Roger Moore as the new James Bond. But 'The Man With The Golden Gun' opened a year later to poor reviews and none too impressive box office takings. I saw it early in 1975 as part of a double bill with its predecessor. What went wrong? The book was one of Ian Fleming's weakest, admittedly ( published posthumously ), involving Bond being ordered to kill 'Francisco Scaramanga', the world's greatest assassin. Tom Mankiewicz and Richard Maibaum turned this nondescript thug into a far more interesting character, a sort of evil version of Bond himself. When a golden bullet bearing 007's number arrives at the offices of Universal Export in London, Bond is alerted that Scaramanga is on his trail. 'M' ( Bernard Lee ) takes James off his present assignment - to find a missing scientist named 'Gibson' and his invention - the Solex Agitator - which can convert sunlight into power ( the energy crisis was a topical reference ). Bond decides his best course of action is to track down Scaramanga and kill him first. The trouble is, no-one knows what he looks like. His only distinguishing characteristic is a third nipple! A major clue is a bullet which was used to eliminate 002 - 'Bill Fairbanks; - in 1969. It currently resides in the belly button of exotic dancer 'Saida' ( Carmen Sautoy ), who wears it as a lucky charm. Bond goes to Beirut to find her...'Gun' is nowhere near as spectacular as 'Die', and has a rushed look to it, as though it were a made-for-television movie. There are some good stunts - most notably the car racing off a broken bridge, doing a somersault, and landing perfectly on the other side - but these tend to be spoilt by unnecessary gags, in the latter's case it is the annoying sound of a penny whistle. The script had problems too; Bond is attacked in Saida's dressing room by three men, and we never learn who they are, much less why they attacked him. How did 'Andrea' ( Maud Adams ) know where to send the 007 bullet? How does M manage to phone Scaramanga's junk at the end of the picture? After the up-to-date look and feel of 'Die', 'Gun' is a disappointing throwback to the Bond's of the early '60's. It is sad to have to report that John Barry's score is one of the main reasons for this; the opening theme ( sung by Lulu, who later used an instrumental version on her B.B.C. show ) sounds like a bad imitation of 'Goldfinger'. Many elements from the Connery pictures are reinstated; the briefing in M's office, the flirtation with 'Miss Moneypenny' ( Lois Maxwell ), and a return from Desmond Llewellyn as 'Q' ( though the latter is barely needed as he does not supply Bond with any new gadgets, apart from a fake nipple ). If the intention on the producers' part was to put 007 in a 'Enter The Dragon'-type scenario, one wonders why they did not hire Robert Clouse to direct instead of bringing back Guy Hamilton for the third ( and final ) time. His advice to the stars was to play it for laughs. A more serious approach would have been better. Bringing back 'Sheriff Pepper' ( Clifton James ) was another error.Of the cast, Christopher Lee gives one of his best performance as 'Scaramanga'. Fresh from Hammer's 'Dracula' series, he is smooth, deadly, and altogether charming. His favourite gadget is a golden gun which, when not in use, can be dissembled into a lighter, cigarette case, and pen. As he charges a million dollars per kill, he is able to live in luxury - on his own private island in the East. He gets some good lines. After shooting 'Hai Fat' ( Richard Loo ), for instance, he quips He always did like that mausoleum. Put him in it!. Giving him competition is his diminutive side-kick 'Nick Nack' ( the late Herve Villechaize, best remembered as 'Tattoo' in the 'Fantasy Island' series ), who steals every scene he is in. Britt Ekland does her best with the role of bimbo 'Mary Goodnight', while Maud Adams ( who later played the title role in 'Octopussy' ) smolders as 'Andrea', Scaramanga's mistress, who wants Bond to kill her employer to free her from sexual slavery.'Gun' probably looks better on television. Certainly the shootout in Scaramanga's fun house would have made a great climax to an episode had there been a Bond television series in 1974. It was Harry Saltzman's final outing as Bond producer. From here on, it would be Cubby Broccoli's show. It would be three years before Bond was seen again, in the wonderful 'The Spy Who Loved Me'. "},{"Title":"A Crack At The Champ","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" About halfway through watching The Man With The Golden Gun I realized that Ian Fleming just might have gotten his inspiration for the novel that this film is based on from Ed Wood. If you remember the gizmo that the aliens were trying to stop the humans from developing was a device that would convert energy from solar light. An absolutely unheard of thing at the time except from the fertile imagination of Ed Wood in Plan Nine From Outer Space. Of course The Man With The Golden Gun is done with a lot more dollars and lots more style than poor Ed Wood's masterpiece.An international killer named Scaramanga played by Christopher Lee who worked mostly for the Communists, but now freelances at a million dollars a contract wants the device. But he also wants a crack at another guy whom he feels is his only competition in the killing field. None other than Roger Moore as 007. So not only does he steal the device and murder its developer Richard Loo in the process, but he also kidnaps Bond girl Britt Eklund and that's always an inducement for James Bond to go into the path of danger.Lee has another score to settle with Bond, it seems as though Bond went and Bondified his mistress Maud Adams. That is completely unacceptable.It's a James Bond film which follows the accepted parameters that James Bond films usually do. One thing that was different was that Roger Moore did not rely on the usual gadgets that British Intelligence provides in most films. Just as well because it does come to a battle of wits between two well matched opponents. "}{"Title":"Moore is Better","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In his second outing as 007, Moore looks more comfortable than he did in Live and Let Die and this film is more entertaining than its predecessor. Lee, in the title role, makes a smooth villain, and Ekland and Adams, a pair of Swedish-born babes, are easy on the eyes. It sticks close to the formula of the super villain with a preposterous scheme to control the world, but it goes on too long. Some of the double-entendres are pretty good, although the attempts at humor with James as a Lousiana cop are lame. Bond's misogynistic side, which first came to light in later Connery films, unfortunately crops up here as Moore roughs up Adams. "},{"Title":"Very good first half, disappointing second half","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man With the Golden Gun is like two movies in one. The first one, which takes up the first half of the film or so, is a more or less straight-faced, serious, and small-scale Bond thriller with an interesting villain, some good lines here and there, and plenty of interesting locations for Bond to visit. Moore's Bond is still problematic, and having him slap a woman around doesn't really make the character any more convincing as a spy. He just comes off as a wimpy suave misogynist instead of just suave and gentlemanly. Still, the opening hour is of a high standard of quality generally, probably the best hour in the Bond series since On Her Majesty's Secret Service. John Barry's score is excellent and the series is back to being sexy rather than just being silly plus bikinis. The sex factor is certainly ramped up here, although this time it doesn't come with an extremely dumb sensibility like Diamonds are Forever did. The 'partial' nudity here isn't very partial at all, with Maud Adams' outline very visible through a glass shower door, and the infamous underwater full frontal scene with Chew Mee. How on Earth did this get a PG rating? Hey, I'm not complaining, at least it feels sexy like Bond always was in both literature and film, unlike basically all the added sex and nudity in Diamonds are Forever. Around the hour mark the film begins to deteriorate rapidly, starting with the mind-numbingly annoying 'karate school' scene, which is immediately followed by the return of J.W. Pepper. Now, J.W.'s inclusion in Live and Let Die was hard enough for me to understand, but did they really think he was funny enough to warrant a return? The very idea of anyone thinking so is just mind-boggling. It's not just the comic relief that doesn't work in this second half, it's basically everything. Once the plot kicks into high gear it gets fairly boring, as fun to watch as Christopher Lee is here, the dialogue becomes more problematic, and the action scenes are watchable but in no way exhilarating.The Man With the Golden Gun is well-made, I suppose. Guy Hamilton helms his third Bond film in a row but is nowhere near as lazy as he was with directing Diamonds are Forever. After the abominable score Live and Let Die had, it's refreshing to have John Barry back with some fairly good music here, even if it's not exactly his best effort. This film has a borderline great opening half, but as soon as J.W. Pepper is introduced it goes down the drain. It's really like watching two separate movies- one that felt somewhat like a classic Connery Bond film, the other was not much better than Diamonds are Forever or the worst parts of Live and Let Die. As a final note Britt Ekland spends the last half hour or so prancing around in a bikini, which may or may not be a good thing. It was the most entertaining part of the final hour, certainly.8/10 for the first half, 4/10 for the second.6/10 "},{"Title":"Definitely underrated","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie is often derided as one of the worst Bond movies. And some of the critics' points have merit. There is some ridiculous humor in this, and the ending seems tacked on, ridiculous, and unnecessary. But just because there are three weak points in the film doesn't make it as bad as people say. The acting is top notch for a Bond film. Roger Moore convinces you that he is James Bond in his second outing, if you weren't already convinced by Live and Let Die. There are some stellar action scenes. The action scenes are involving, they're not aimless and uninspired. Not to mention they're EXTREMELY well done, some of the most entertaining sequences in any action movie. Scaramanga, played by Christopher Lee, is quite possibly the best Bond villain. That the acting for the character is amazing goes without saying, it's Chris Lee we're talking about. He's sinister, sadistic, and doesn't have a massive plan of global domination. In many ways, this film is the most private of the Bond films. In the end it comes down to Bond vs Scaramanga, mano a mano, as Scaramanga puts it, the battle of the titans. Finally there's a villain to match Bond, and as Lee also put it, Scaramanga is the darker side of Bond. If you want to see Bond battle inner demons represented in other characters, this is the movie for you. He's also probably the most evil villain, even without the domination plot.Nick Nack, the midget henchman is....unique. Some people find it over the top, but his humor in the film (with the exception of the finale) is actually quite creepy and understated. He actually adds to the overall uneasiness of this movie that makes it so good. The humor itself is also fairly good, but you have to at least accept Moore as Bond to think so. But there are some weak points The Sheriff from Live and Let Die returns unnecessarily, and his humor hurts the story. There is an awkward point where Moore is being attacked by a sumo wrestler, and he grips the wrestler's butt in a close up shot that seems a little....weird. And of course, the ending is tacked on and ridiculous. It just comes out of nowhere and is a little too slapstick for me. But overall, those few low points don't distract too terribly, and while it's not the absolute best of the Bond films, it's really good and terribly underrated. "},{"Title":"Fun frolics with Roger.","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  While far from being the best Bond film in the world, The Man With The Golden Gun is certainly one of the prime examples of how much fun a Bond film can be. It's certainly more light hearted than previous Bond films and is certainly a prime example of what was to follow after the three year gap between this and the next Bond film, although The Man With The Golden Gun is Moore on a smaller scale, with the bad guy in this case, Scaramanga, in a wonderful turn from Christopher Lee living in secluded island instead of living in space or an underwater city. Instead of world domination being the forefront of the psychology of the villain he is instead just looking to square up with Bond to see who is the greatest assassin in the world. All of this is done with tongue firmly in cheek, which may explain why this was considered a disappointment in 1974. There are many overt comedic touches here, such as Nick-Nack, Scaramanga's right hand man, a three foot individual who is more like an overtly psychopathic Kato from the Pink Panther films, who employs assassins to test Scaramanga, instead of leaping out from behind walls and such. The Bond girl, Goodnight, played by Britt Ekland, is a bimbo blond who obviously has a low IQ and gets into more trouble than solving the case, while the car chase, which sees the return of Sergeant Pepper from Live and Let Die is entirely played for laughs.I love it, after the strangeness of Live and Let Die, it was nice to see something like this, which was more of the reliable Bond formula, although with the more comedic slant. Moore relishes the one liners, while Christopher Lee appears to be really enjoying himself playing a villain who isn't Dracula, while the Bond girls Britt Ekland and Maud Adams are great in vastly different roles to one another. The Man With The Golden Gun is great fun from beginning to end. The film is pure candy with great chase sequences and moments of great action. Quite simply it is the film with the golden fun. "},{"Title":"No masterpiece, but still an underrated Bond","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Man with the Golden Gun is one of the most reviled entries in the Bond series, and its poor performance at the Box Office, coupled with the breakup of the Saltzman/Broccoli production partnership after the film's release, made it look for a time as if OO7 had reached the end of the road.  However, while it does have some serious faults, TMWTGG is in fact quite a reasonable OO7 adventure, and does not deserve the bad press it gets.Among the positives is one of the more interesting plot lines of a Bond film, as OO7 engages in a personal duel with his alter-ego Scaramanga, a fearless assassin who has sworn to take our hero's life. Scaramanga is played with real charisma and presence by Christopher Lee, that master of villainous acting, who is in fact a cousin of Ian Fleming's. Lee was slated to play Dr No before the part was given to Joseph Wiseman, and having waited another 12 years before finally becoming a Bond villain he makes the most of the opportunity.  Roger Moore, in his second appearance as Bond, tries to bring out the tougher side of the character, and in one scene he even strikes a woman. Moore is nowhere near as convincing a tough-guy actor as Sean Connery, and in most of his films he avoided portraying OO7's darker side, but it is refreshing that he at least gives it a go here, making TMWTGG a bit grittier than many Moore-era Bonds.Another good thing about the film is Nick Nack, Scaramanga's tiny henchman. Herve Villechaize plays him with the right mix of impishness and menace, and he provides Bond with a pleasingly different challenge to the giant, silent henchmen found elsewhere in the series. As for locations, director Guy Hamilton (in his last Bond film) provides many excellent shots of the Far Eastern settings, and Scaramanga's luxury island hideaway is gorgeous to look at; I also like the deadly maze Scaramanga uses to trap and kill his enemies, a novel feature of the film which I think works quite well.On the downside, there is once again far too much wacky humour. Unbelievably, the wretched JW Pepper was brought back for another round of feeble redneck comedy, this time as a tourist in Thailand, and there is one particularly stupid scene where two young girls karate-chop their way through an entire martial arts schoool. There are also deficiencies in the Bond girl department, with Britt Ekland's stupid and bungling Mary Goodnight not only being a sexist caricature, but also unbelievably irritating to boot. She is one of the very worst Bond girls, and things would have been much better if Maud Adams had taken the Goodnight role. As Andrea Anders, Scaramanga's mistress, she is demure, impressive, and far more sympathetic than Ekland; she certainly deserved to come back for another bite of the Bond cherry, and would eventually do so in Octopussy.  As for other faults, the film goes on too long (although the final showdown on Scaramanga's island is quite well done), and in Lulu's awful title song it has the worst Bond theme of the entire series-or at least it did, until Madonna came along. The silly whistle during the otherwise excellent car stunt is another black mark against the film.Overall, however, I think TMWTGG probably ranks as the second-best Bond of the 70s, after The Spy Who Loved Me.  It is not a very inspired film, but for all its flaws it provides some decent entertainment, and is a solid, diverting entry in the series.  "},{"Title":"You'll have to look elsewhere Monsieur","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film has everything a Bond should have location, girls, chases, villain, villain's lair, henchman, weapons, gadgets, one liners, explosive ending the lot.Nick Nack is a great character, and never fails to raise a smile. His lines from the film have provided great entertainment between my friends and I for years. Monsieur!!!The quality of the car stunt is ruined but the whistle, and while the Sheriff is OK in parts (perhaps trying to hard to please a US audience), meeting Bond in a car showroom is a tad implausible.While the lyrics and Lulu may disappoint, Barry's score is one of the best - Daaa da-da da-da daa daaaa.Lee is perfect as Scaramanga, and he does portray a sense of mortality, unlike most other world dominating invincible bond villains. "},{"Title":"An all-time low?","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After a lacklustre debut in Live and Let Die, Roger Moore is back as 007. The Man with the Golden Gun is a weak film, all the potential is replaced by boring exposition and boring set pieces. There's nothing very interesting, they had Christopher Lee, but didn't make good use of him. He had nothing to do, even the finale was flat. Roger Moore was getting more comfortable, but he seemed to be doing a Sean Connery Bond instead of adding something unique to the role. Moore's style would change in 'The Spy Who Loved Me'.The Bond girls are boring, Maud Adams has little to do. Britt Ekland is very average, nothing to shout about. The Nick Nack character is boring. Boring is the operative word to describe this film. Don't get me started on JW! Not a very funny character, why he's here is a mystery!The direction is lazy, the script is terrible. Mankiewicz went in the wrong direction. The film is very cheap, didn't have a sense of size to it.Overall, Moore's 2nd outing is boring and lazy. The potential to have Lee and Moore at their best is not realized on screen.Things were about to change, Moore relaxes to become a fun Bond in the next film... ...The Spy Who Loved Me! "},{"Title":"Hokey and misuses a great concept","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Man with Golden Gun is more a movie for die hard Bond fans and probably couldn't really stand out on it's own outside of the series.  The plot features the first real attempt to produce a villain as the main character who can compete with Bond on his level.  That man is the title character, Francisco Scaramanga.  The plot also features a needless subplot of a solex device.  This point is added to be trendy with the energy crisis of the early 70's but is really more of a tangent.  A battle of wits between Bond and Scaramanga is enough and a great idea if developed well.  The solex dominates the plot, however, and Scaramanga's desire for a showdown with Bond is only really brought up in the beginning and developed at the very end.  The fun house is a nice idea but the gimmicks are pretty hokey.  Roger Moore is at a crossroads as Bond.  He's good in spots with a serious approach that harkens back to Connery but is given incompetent help by Britt Ekland and Soon-Tek Oh and his character is reduced to frustration while looking like an out of place elitist.  High points are Scaramanga's island, which provides a dynamic setting for the final showdown, and Herve Villechaize as Nick Nack.  Maud Adams also makes a nice gun mol.  Christopher Lee as Scaramanga is potentially a great villain but he's not given enough chances to show his stuff.  The appearance of Clifton James also makes the movie overly campy as the usual comedic approach to the Roger Moore movies once more weighs down Bond's credibility.  This movie should have been much better.  5.6/10 "},{"Title":"A new low.","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Although I don't like the last several James Bond movies before this one, The Man with the Golden Gun really brings the series to an all-time low. Not only is the story uninteresting and the climax extremely repetitive (again Bond has to leave the villain's headquarters before it blows up), but this time the production seems like that of the average 1974 action movie; it doesn't have that high-quality production that we'd come to expect from Bond movies. In addition, the midget killer is terribly annoying and it is disappointing that Bond has the heart not to kill him just because of his size (What the hell happened to Bond?). Moore's overly silly proper English attitude turned the series into Monty Python and the series took a much-needed three year break after this.  "},{"Title":"Not Moore's best, but not his worst either.","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore's second assignment as James Bond has turned out to be the least talked about and the least seen Bond film in the entire series.  Many fans also think this is the worst Bond movie ever, but that honor goes to MOONRAKER.  Seeing it on the DVD version recently, I enjoyed it much more now than I did in the past.  The picture quality and soundtrack are much improved.  The story concerns Bond tracking down a smooth hitman named Scaramanga who charges a cool million for each contract.  He wants to develop a solar powered kind of laser weapon so he can sell it to the highest bidder so he can retire.  His henchman is a midget who is more annoying than threatening.  Bond's companion is Mary Goodnight, a secretary played by Britt Ekland, and she ranks as the weakest Bond girl in the series (though Tanya Roberts gives her a run for her money in A VIEW TO A KILL).  Christopher Lee is good as Scaramanga, but he never achieves the proper degree of menace that is required.  Other characters, like the Hong Kong agent and Sheriff Pepper, make perfunctory appearances.  Maud Adams does OK in her first Bond film as Scaramanga's mistress.  The car jump across the bridge would have been better without slow motion and the cartoon sound effect.  Scaramanga only has one man overseeing his power plant, and he spends most of his time ogling the bikini-clad Ekland.  The funhouse is amusing and so are the karate fights.  Roger Moore is more comfortable in the role here then he was in his rookie outing, but he wouldn't fully grow into the character until the next movie. "}{"Title":"Phoo Yuck? 'It's a 74 sir..........'","Date":"5 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond must find the missing Solex Agitator, a device that will harness the sun's radiation and give great power to whomever possesses it. But also aiming for the prize is Scaramanga, a world-class assassin who brandishes a distinctive golden gun. When 007 discovers he is to be Scaramanga's next target, he is hurled into a deadly game of cat-and-mouse, continuing the search as he evades the killer on his trail. Bond must also contend with Scaramanga's lover, Andrea Anders, and Nick Nack, whose small size belies his lethal abilities. Even as 007 enlists the aid of Mary Goodnight, he must overcome ferocious odds to survive on Scaramanga's remote island.......If there was ever a Bond movie to prove that Moore had his tongue firmly in cheek when making his mark as the secret agent, this is the one. It's not brilliant by any means, and compared to the more classic Bonds, its laughable, but my word, its a lot of fun.Everyone is having a ball making this, it has one of the most psychedelic pre credits sequences, a rare one that doesn't feature actual Bond, and Scaramanga is a wonderful villain, not because of his goals or ambitions, it's just that Lee gives the character a little more panache than he deserves.But, seeing the film 41 years after its initial release, it's pretty sad to see just how misogynistic the film is, and how politically incorrect he film is toward Nick Nack, who also in turn, is one of the best Henchman ever in the series.But you can forgive its shortcomings, it was a long time ago, and it was acceptable then, but who cannot love a film with a flying car, the best stunt ever in a Bond film, a genuinely tense finale, and of course a girl called Chew Mee.If it took itself more seriously, it would have failed, the maguffin is too bonkers for its own good, and Scaramanga, his home, his playroom, are all just too bonkers for seriousness.A fun film. Not the best Bond by Miles, but lots of fun, and Moore is effortlessly cool. "},{"Title":"Formulaic but enjoyable Bond","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man With The Golden Gun features all the standard Bond elements a crazed villain poised to take over the world, exotic locales, a car chase, and a close escape from a secret base that's about to blow up. The direction is fairly pedestrian, but the location photography is good, Christopher Lee plays one of the more interesting Bond villains, assisted by Hervé Villechaize, later of Fantasy Island fame, and Brett Ekland is one of the more enjoyable to watch Bond girls. Rated PG for occasional language, sex, and violence which are all fairly mild by current standards. I saw this in the digitally restored MGM Home Entertainment standard DVD, which was very good quality. "},{"Title":"Bond goes kung-fu grindhouse","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Supremely silly, but still quite good, Bond adventure. Ignoring about 99.2% of Ian Fleming's weakest novel, as Bond (antihero in the book, turned into suave super spy in film) is both searching for, and being hunted by, Scaramanga (villain in the book, turned into anti-villain in the film, he even jovially offers Bond a glass of champagne at one point) and his gold-plated .45 and bullets.Bond's search for Scaramanga takes him to Macau, Hong Kong, and ultimately Thailand (all replacing the books rather dull setting in Jamaica) and an anticlimactic duel in Scaramanga's very own personal island fun park, in an ending possibly inspired by the ghost town sequence in the book Diamonds Are Forever, and which can be guessed from five minutes into the film's run-time.Potentially good mystery/ action thriller is drenched in one-liners and gags, but it is still fun to watch Roger Moore, clearly having a good time with it, in all of its splendid locations, that it is easy (for me, anyway) to overlook its goofball contrivances and just sit back and enjoy the ride. Britt Eckland looks good, even though her character is annoying, it is easy to see why Bond wants little to do with her. She and Hervé Villechaize needed better written characters. Hervé Villechaize might have made a great henchman, had his character been handled completely straight, and not played solely for laughs (Who would be afraid of a midget? Imagine then, if his character ended up being a cruel, ruthless killer, he would then have the element of surprise) Overall, it is not very Fleming-like, but still a lot of fun and more enjoyable than some have said. A good mix of adventure and kung fu genres. "},{"Title":"Better than the critics think it is","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" OK Gun isn't up there with Goldfinger, Britt Ekland is hopeless as Mary Goodnight, the car jumping over the river is stupid, but the film is far better than the critics say and was a good way to pass a couple of hours and take your mind off energy shortages, strikes and hyper inflation that dominated the news in 1974.The plot of Gun concerns Francisco Scaramanga, a professional hit-man who charges a million dollars a kill and uses a golden gun, who has Bond as his next kill and has also stolen a solar generator, which would help ease the energy crisis. Christopher Lee is top notch as Scaramanga, who lives on an island off China and employs a lethal dwarf, played by Herve Villechaize, as his manservant.Yes Gun is corny, but has several stand out scenes, the fight at the kung fu school is a more than competent cash in on the Bruce Lee films, the scenes in Scaramanga's funhouse are clever and the chase through Bangkok is good fun( until the car jumps the river). Also Lulu's theme tune is seventies cheese at its best.Of interest Maud Adams had a minor role as Scaramanga's lover, later she would become a mature Bond girl in Octopussy. "},{"Title":"A definite improvement, but still not quite there.","Date":"27 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Live and Let Die was a bit of a mixed bag as Roger Moore's debut as James Bond. It has some good performances and amazing stunt sequences, but it descends into laughs at the wrong time, occasionally, and it catered too much to stereotypes. This time, we get a better villain and some great set pieces, but a bit of a schizophrenic plot.This film succeeds greatly due to the presence of Christopher Lee as Scaramanga. This is a man who may be Bond's mirror image; a charming killer who enjoys the good life. He could be Bond's biggest test, and in many ways, is just that. Unfortunately, the producers weren't satisfied with just pitting Bond against his opposite number and had to throw in a solar weapon plot on top of things. The two seem to be at odds here. There are amazing stunts, but the central piece, the car jump, is undercut by an out-of-place JD Pepper.The film has a great cast, with Maud Adams and Britt Eckland providing the beauty to accompany Lee's beast. Soon Tek-Oh makes for a fine ally, even if the producers think we can't tell the difference between a Korean and a Chinese actor. Then there is Herve Villachaise. He is a fine actor and the idea of going the opposite route for the henchman is intriguing, but Herve never pulls off deadly. Someone like Deep Roy, Michael Dunn, David Rappaport, or Peter Dinklage could have done so. Instead, Herve comes off as more comic than dangerous.The sets are fantastic, making for a nice return to form, with the MI-6 base, inside the capsized ship, truly memorable. Scaramanga's island home is another brilliant locale, mixing nature's beauty with man-made scenery.For the most part, the film is an entertaining romp. It deviates into comedy a bit too much every once in a while, but not for very long. Moore is completely comfortable in the role, proving that Bond can survive without Connery. Christopher Lee is the perfect assassin and plays his cat-and-mouse game with Bond, keeping you on the edge of your seat. It's a shame that the producers couldn't trust that battle to carry the film and needed the death ray mcguffin as a backup. For the most part, you ignore it until the climax, as the Bond/Scaramanga rivalry commands center stage. Unfortunately, it derails the ending. Still, this was a film that proved that Moore was going to work out in the long run. "},{"Title":"More action please.","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man with the Golden Gun, released in 1974, is the ninth film in the James Bond series, and the second to star Roger Moore as the fictional British secret agent James Bond. In the film, Bond is sent after the Solex Agitator - a device which can harness the power of the sun. He teams up with agent Mary Goodnight against Francisco Scaramanga - The Man with the Golden Gun. The action finally culminates in a duel between the two men.The Man with the Golden Gun was the fourth and final film in the series to be directed by Guy Hamilton. The script was written by Richard Maibaum and Tom Mankiewicz. The film was set in the face of the 1973 energy crisis, a dominant theme in the script &#151; Britain had still not yet fully overcome the crisis when the film was released on December 14, 1974.8/10 "},{"Title":"Moore's best?","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a good Bond movie! It has a exciting plot and of course a great Bond villain, the one and only Christopher Lee as the ruthless hit-man Fransisco Scaramanga.When a golden bullet arrives at the headquarters of British intelligence with 007 engraved on it, the British believe that James Bond is the next target for international assassin Scaramanga. 007 is given the assignment to kill Scaramanga before he kills Bond and collects his $1,000,000 fee.On the other side this movie has flaws. I can admit that! The title song is horrible, man just read the lyrics. Goodnight is a horrible and annoying character. I laugh every time Britt Ekland says  Oh James  and  Oh Darling .It's action here but not too much. Many has considered this movie as a slow bond movie. I love the action scenes here. Bond vs Chula at the karate school, the AMC chase + the jump and of course the final showdown between Bond and Scaramanga. Great action for a Bond movie.Scaramanga is maybe one of the best Bond villains I have ever seen. Ranks high with Red Grant, Max Zorin and Franz Sanchez as my all time favourite Bond villain.I love the music of John Barry in this movie. It sets the mood for the film at once. Roger Moore is also good as Bond. We see a little Connery in him. Take my word, it's the last time you are going to see Moore punch women and kids.Still today it's my favourite Bond flick. Moore has never been this good, if you don't count For Your Eyes Only. Highly recommended for Bond fans! 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyably Silly","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore's second outing as James Bond has one of the most bizarre plots of the entire series. All the Bond films, of course, contain strong elements of fantasy, and none is supposed to be a realistic spy thriller. Most, however, do have a plot that makes sense in its own terms, normally involving a villain who is plotting some evil deed which it falls to Bond to thwart with the assistance of a beautiful young woman. The Man with the Golden Gun, however, has a plot which makes very little sense at all. The villain, Francisco Scaramanga, is a notorious international hit-man who has- seemingly- accepted a contract to kill Bond and sent him a golden bullet to inform him of his intentions. (Do professional hit-men really give their victims warning in this way?) Bond's chief, M, immediately takes him off the assignment he has been working on, but instead of going into hiding Bond leaves for the Far East in an attempt to track Scaramanga down. While there he meets Scaramanga's beautiful mistress Andrea Anders, and becomes embroiled in a complex (and often incomprehensible) intrigue involving a crooked Far Eastern tycoon and a stolen solar energy device. Also contributing to the general air of strangeness are Scaramanga's irritating midget manservant Nick Nack and the weird duel that he forces Bond to fight in a maze.There is, however, much that is enjoyable. The standard of acting, at least in the main roles, is generally high. Roger Moore was generally more convincing in his earlier films than his later ones, and this is one of his better performances. Christopher Lee makes a cool and stylish villain. Scaramanga can be seen as Bond's alter ego; a Bond gone bad, or perhaps what Bond might have become if he had been born on the wrong side of the tracks. (At one stage, Bond- for reasons too complex to go into- actually pretends to be Scaramanga). Like Bond, he is a lover of fine food, good living and beautiful women. Both are first-class shots and both kill for a living. It falls to Bond, however, to point out the essential difference- whereas Bond is a soldier fighting for his country, Scaramanga is a mercenary.The two main female roles are also well played. Maud Adams's Anders is an unusually well developed character for a secondary Bond Girl, and plays an important role in the development of the plot. The main heroine, Mary Goodnight, a British secret agent is brave and determined, but also clumsy and accident-prone, the sort of girl who nearly manages to kill Bond by accidentally pressing the wrong switch with her bikini-clad bottom. Although Britt Ekland's British accent was not quite spot-on, she makes Mary into an endearingly inept figure, playing her largely for laughs. One character (apart from Nick Nack) that I could have done without was J W Pepper, the redneck Louisiana sheriff with the impenetrable accent who rather overstayed his welcome in Live and Let Die and makes an unnecessary return as an American tourist in Bangkok. (One thing that dates the film is when Pepper reveals himself to be a Democrat- thirty years on Southern rednecks, in the cinema if not in real life, are invariably Republicans).Despite its frequent silliness this is not the weakest of the Bond films; I found it more enjoyable than some of the others. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Goes below the standards","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's amazing how uneven the Bond series really is. All the films work on the entertainment level, but there are major fluctuations between their quality standards. But this one goes below them.The Man with the Golden Gun is pretty surely the lowest point in the series. It has too many silly moments and is extremely tiresome, not having even a sign of some enthusiasm. (And I thought Thunderball was hard to sit through!) A good example of the lacking energy is the car chase sequence which couldn't be more tedious. The karate crap is ridiculous, as well (like the voodoo nonsense in Live and Let Die).Britt Ekland's Goodnight is by far the worst Bond girl of all time; the character is so helpless that it's painful to watch. Maud Adams is strangely cold in the role of Scaramanga's mistress. However, Christopher Lee does a reasonably good job as Scaramanga, stealing the show from Roger Moore.By the way, this isn't the first time we see a golden gun in a Bond movie. (Auric Goldfinger also had one ten years earlier.) "},{"Title":"Why do people hate this film so much?","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Man with the Golden Gun is arguably one of the better movies or more intelligent of the series. I think it is only the second time in the series Bond is not up against a megalomaniac who wants to bring the world to its knees in some sort of way. It was interesting and invigorating with Dr. No and Goldfinger, but then the series got lacklustering. This is definitely one of Roger Moore`s best outings. I`m like the some of the Fleming novels that are based on Bond or not. So, personally I think most of the movies in the Bond series suck seriously. Unlike, all Connery`s movies after Goldfinger, all Brosnan, The Spy Who Loved Me, and Moonraker; I actually think this one of my favorite Bond movies. Christopher Lee has to be rank in the series as one of the best villians. His characther is definetly in same class of Dr. No, Goldfinger, Largo, and Sanchez. This is also another Bond movie like On Her Majesty`s Secret Service, For Your Eyes Only, and Licence to Kill (Which were three other great installments in two the series)that doesn`t worry about gagdets and actually put more in to the storyline and character development. Roger Moore has almost resemblance to Fleming`s character neither does Connery. Stil, I don`t see good reason why people hate his Bond interpretation so much same with Dalton and Lazenby(In my opinion are probably two the best James Bonds).  "}{"Title":"One of the best bond films ever.","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The best bond film ever.  It's kind of like james bond fighting himself. Very clever ending. "},{"Title":"Great Concept..........Huge Miscasting Ruins the Film","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This has to be one of the slowest Bond films to date. This movie will have you falling asleep in a matter of minutes. Christopher lee is IMO one of the worst villains as he seems more like an insane little boy than a villain. Roger Moore as usual dishes out stupid one-liners while exchanging them with one of the worst Bond girls ever. Mary Goodnight has got to be the dumbest Bond girl to date and she does nothing but drag out the movie when she is captured. This movie also has THE worst henchman EVER in a Bond film. Knick-Knack was a horrible henchman and I would grunt every time he showed up on screen. He tries to add comedy to this movie but the comedy bombs. This movie gives a lame villain, a dumb bond girl, and a useless henchman and I still give this movie a 5. The plot was very boring but I like the concept. If they had followed through on it this movie would have been great. The car chase was not only comedic but it was very cool as this showed some car stunts never seen before in a Bond movie. The ending scene was clever even though I hated the concept of a Fun House for a villain. Nothing is spectacular in this film except the great plot idea and the car chase and stunts. This is one of those movies that could have been great if given the right actors and a thicker plot. This movie is just screaming out for Sean Connery as I feel he could have made this work. I do wish Connery did this movie as I feel it would have been better. Overall this is just a reason why Roger Moore is the worst Bond ever. "},{"Title":"Something I don't understand","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In general I found this movie entertaining but it doesn't compare so favorably with other 007 movies. Generally, I found there were a few too many loose ends in the story. However, I would like some help from people regarding a few small details of this movie. First, Why did they add the 2 schoolgirls to the movie? What is the relevance of them in the movie? I am also particularly perplexed by one scene in this movie. Why near the end of the fight scene between the two schoolgirls and the karate school members, Do the schoolgirls pickup and present one of the bad karate guys to James Bond after kicking him in the nuts? What's the point of having them do this? "},{"Title":"The Man with the Golden Gun","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The weakest of Bond films to date partly because the relationship between producers Harry Saltzman and Albert Broccoli started to crumble for reasons unknown, but heck it was enjoyable! But one of the major flaws in the film is that all of the characters are ill tempered, and most of them are dosey eg Sheriff Pepper and Hip.Christopher Lee who played Francisco Scaramanga was superb and Roger Moore was superb as well. This was the last film that Cubby Broccoli and Harry Saltzman made together because of personal problems between them, but that would understand why the film seemed rushed. M in this film who was played by the fantastic Bernard Hill was so bad tempered for no apparent reason (he told Q to shut up twice) but did have one of the best lines ever in a Bond filmM - It's even got your number on it (Hands 007 a golden bullet with 007 on it 007 - I mean who would want me dead? M - Jealous husbands, Outraged chefs, Humilated tailors the list is endless!Hip on the other hand is not a very good character. When he 'arrests' Bond he forgets to tell him that he is on his side (the stupid twit) and even then he really doesn't do much.This was still enjoyable and this ranks up with other Bond film like Goldfinger and The Spy Who Loved Me, as one of the best Bond films ever because it has memorable characters eg Nick Nack (RIP), Scaramanga and Sheriff Pepper.Overall Grade - B- "},{"Title":"The Man With the Golden Gun...worst bond film ever!","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I only watch this film on two occasions. 1.If my girlfriend wants to watch it. 2.If i'm bored. Really,really bored. The premise is stupid. The acting is poor. And worst of all the villain sucks ass. Also,the title song sucks, too. It was a total letdown. I've never been more disappointed at a movie in my life. The creators did a pee-poor job at making this film successful.The Man With the Golden Gun is something i don't want to watch ever again in my entire Bond-loving life. A true disappointment.It is sad that Guy Hamilton had to leave the James Bond world with this piece of garbage.I would rather eat raw fish than see this film again. * star out of 5 "},{"Title":"Very unappreciated","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Bond and Scaramanga face off in a clash between titans. I know I'm in the minority but I liked this film even more than The Spy Who Loved Me as the best of the Moore Bond films. Roger Moore and Christopher Lee were superb in conveying their stature and competition with each other. Britt Eklund though not a gifted thespian made great a Bond girl on her looks alone. And Knick Knack can still be taken seriously in the context of the tone that the Moore films chose to take. Connery and Brosnan purists will shudder at his appearance though. If you like redneck comic relief then Sheriff Pepper makes a welcome return. If you think he makes the film too much of a farce, you'll have to endure him as a blemish in this otherwise excellent film. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"An enjoyable Bond adventure","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Man With the Golden Gun was Roger Moore's second Bond movie. The cast also includes the great Christopher Lee in one of his best roles and Brit Ekland as Goodnight.  Lee and Miss Ekland are reuntied in this movie as they starred alongside each other in The Whicker Man the year before in 1973.  Clifton James reprises his role as Sheriff Pepper from Live and Let Die to add a bit of humour to the movie.  All take excellent parts.This movie has a good theme song by Lulu and a decent score throughout.  The best part of the movie is where Moore 'drives' the Mustang over the river.  This stunt was successful first time.  Lee's 'car-plane' is also notable.I found this movie enjoyable and is worth checking out.Rating 4 stars out of 5.       "},{"Title":"The film with the boring script","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The second Bond film starring Roger Moore is not only the worst I've seen of the whole series, but it's also the total opposite of what a good James Bond-movie should be like.  This film has only got one great scene it's the car chase between James Bond and an American, annoying tourist on one hand and Scaramanga and his 'little' helper Nick Nack on the other hand.  After this thrilling ride, the scene ends with the only yet amazing stunt in this picture.  James Bond's car makes an incredible 360° spiral jump over a broken bridge.  Unfortunately, this spectacular act was destroyed by a misplaced sound effect that gave you the idea that you were watching a Disney-picture.The Karate-sequence is plain stupid and especially the part where the two girls fight a whole army of trained Karate-kids.  The whole thing appears to come straight out of a B-movie for children.  It's laughable and cheap.  The rest of the film is nothing but a monotonous 'cat-and-mouse' game between James Bond and Scaramanga.  And when you have waited more than an hour for these two rivals to actually fight each other, all you get is a huge let-down at the end.  Rather than instantly killing Scaramanga when he got the chance, James Bond decides to first take a tour in his house.And on top of all that, there are no cool baddies in this film.  The little Nick Nack is a disturbing character that could have easily been left out and Scaramanga isn't half as bad as he wants to be.  Although Christopher Lee did a fairly good job playing Frankenstein, Dracula and even the mummy in the 50's, he doesn't do too well in here.  Of all the James Bond-performances by Roger Moore, I like this one the least.  And the come-back of Q (who was clearly absent in both Sean Connery's first and Roger Moore's first Bond film Dr. No and Live and let die) cannot change anything about this.I guess the only truly redeeming factor of this film are ... the beautiful women. "},{"Title":"Best Bond!","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Brilliant! Maybe the plot is more absurd than the usual one at time but as the best villain, Christopher Lee (easily his best performance and one of the best performances of the series!) plays Scaramanga with such charm and style- you can tell he loved making the film. Best Bond girl, Maud Adams (the best and the most beautiful actress ever!) gives a startlingly great performance as the tragic Andrea Anders- she should have lived! They shouldn't have bothered with Britt Ekland as Mary Goodnight and 007 should have just saved Andrea and ran off with her at the end. As usual, Roger Moore displays his usual charm and wit and the very charismatic Herve Villechaize is superb as Nick Nack. 10 out of 10!! "},{"Title":"Thank God They Didn't Make Many More Like This","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When looking at the whole of the James Bond series, there aren't that many films which come under the catorgory of 'total trash'. Sadly this one does. Because of this, the film has been one of the lowest money making films in the Bond series; only banking $98 million.Although the reason for this could have been between the relationship of the two producers, Albert R Broccoli and Harry Saltzman (by the time the next Bond film would come out 'The Spy Who Loved Me' Saltzman would break the partnership in two because of finaicial troubles). Almost every part of this film is uninspired this of course doesn't highlight the acting. A wonderful and classic villian is played by Christopher Lee (who has family connections to writer of James Bond Ian Fleming; they were cousins) who in many ways is the darkside to James Bond, (in which we see in the dinning scene on Scaramanga's island). There isn't that much to say about this film. From the outset it feels more of one of Moore's continues 'Saint' episodes. Although the 'leap into the unkown' jump that has a car jumping a spectacular 360-degree car jump in only one take, is (and still is) a great and wonderful piece of footage; clouded by the dark and dull shadow of the rest of the film.  "}{"Title":"part 9 is better then the first 8","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is part 9 to James Bond movies and it is better then all the ones that came before it. There are better ones that came after would like The spy who loved me. Moon r.a.k.e.r is also better. For your eyes only is also better. But still this is a great movie. Sean Connery and Daniel Greg are great as James Bond but Roger Moore is better. C.h.r.i.s.t.o.p.h.e.r Lee is one of the scariest Bond villains. O.c.t.o.p.u.s.s.y is better. A view to a kill is better. Living daylight is also better. License to kill is also better. Golden eye is also better. Tomorrow never dies is also better. The world is not enough is also better. Die another day is also better. But still it is great movie. It has great acting. Great story line. See it. "},{"Title":"Bond Month #9 Um, the film that killed the franchise? Not really","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film was considered back in 1974 to be the film that absolutely killed the franchise. I do not agree with this criticism wholly. The man with the Golden Gun is certainly not the best of the franchise, but it is certainly not the bottom of the barrel. So what's the story about this film, let's see what's what.The story entails a notorious assassin named Scaramanga (played by Christopher Lee) who tries to steal a most very important MacGuffin, I mean a device that will seize control of the already depleting energy crisis. Scaramanga sends MI6 a gold bullet with Bond's 007 number engraved, meaning he will kill him should he try to interfere. But of course Bond does and must defeat Scaramanga and save the SUN! Yeah the story is a bit on the weak side, but there are some good moments, especially with Christopher Lee and his girlfriend Andrea played by the gorgeousness known as Maud Adams. Both are very well scripted characters and played very well. In fact, Scaramanga was initially written by Tom Mankiewicz as Bond intellectual equal, which kind of shows, but the producers and director toned it down to a very bad degree. And we have one of the best car stunts of the series (but it's almost ruined by a slide whistle, watch it muted!!!!!!) The rest is bland. Roger Moore isn't very interesting this time around, and he seems to be trying to impersonate Sean Connery, bad idea Roger. Sheriff Pepper is back, ugh, why???? He's so awful in this movie it's not even funny. Then there's Mary Goodnight. God god she is so bad I wanted to shoot her with a golden gun myself. She's ditzy, annoying, and not useful at all. I won't talk about Herve Villechaiz much, but i found him acceptable. The action is mostly blind filler, and the final climax for me is too slow.Actually the one line that made the movie memorable was at the end when M speaks to Bond on the phone. M asks, Where's Goodnight? Bond replies, She's just coming sir. That's really funny.Overall, I'm not so sure about this adventure, sometimes I like it, sometimes I don't.So this isn't the best film, but it's not the worst either, for me it falls into the small category (in my opinion) of okay to watch. Well, onto the more famous of the series, The Spy who Loved Me. "},{"Title":"Christopher Lee!","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore returns as James Bond 007 in this ninth installment, which finds Bond trying to locate high priced assassin Scaramanga(played nicely by Horror legend Christopher Lee) who is involved in a plot to steal a new solar cell device and use it as a weapon(using the golden power of the sun of course) Bond tracks him to his exotic hidden lair(after many diversions and car/plane chases).Christopher Lee is the highlight here,(along with the beautiful Britt Ekland) despite some interesting scenes at a martial arts school, film is again plagued by over length and silliness(Clifton James returns as sheriff J.W. Pepper...) Roger Moore again tries, but it would take his next adventure to put him over the top. This film is otherwise the third disappointment in a row! "},{"Title":"Simple plot, entertaining premise. Should have been Moore's debut","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond movie #9 of 23This movie comes across as a fan boy's dream...what if Bond was pitted against the world's greatest assassin? That's pretty much the movie. It's a comic book scenario, but it works a lot better than more stock-standard franchise scenarios. Comic book adaptations nowadays would give more time to the principle villain's back story, which this movie doesn't...though the theme song does a pretty good job of giving this kind of information on the villain.Many years ago I watched this movie on VHS. Rewatching it again the other week as part of a Bond movie festival on free to air TV here in Australia, I have to say that more than one scene rung a bell with me. That's a compliment to the visual imagery in this movie. Not that many movies have scenes that survive from childhood to adulthood, I don't think.Bond movie clichés - Exotic locations Hong Kong, Macau, Thailand.Plot Hired assassin Francisco Scaramanga signals to Bond's superiors that Bond is his next target. To protect Bond, his current mission is mothballed and he goes into hiding. Bond decides that offence is the best form of defence.Gun barrel shot Check. Moore's sequences look professional compared to Connery's later efforts...someone should have taught Connery some proper technique! Pre-title sequence A really interesting sequence which sets up the plot. Scaramanga is one of the more interesting villains in the Bond universe. He has a really freaky chest too! His character is established in this scene and whets the appetite for his inevitable duel with Bond.Theme song Lulu's song, whilst not being a classic for Bond movies is nonetheless one of the franchise's superior efforts. Stylistically it's similar to Goldfinger...i.e. a song about the principle villain of the movie.Q Branch A staple of the franchise now. They do some bullet analysis in this movie.MoneypennyMore 'dancing' with Moneypenny by Bond. After the high point of the Bond series in On her majesty's secret service, these exchanges become even more meaningless. It all seems pretty pointless.Silly female character names A bit subdued here...Goodnight. Choo Mi is an amusing name though!Misogyny Bond roughs up a woman to get information. Moore's Bond is carrying that torch from Connery's time. Roughing up women is still a staple of the series up to this point.Wine fetish Not sure if my notes signal that this trait continues...Bond's know all manner ebs and flows in the series...he's more obnoxious in some movies than in others.Bond girls Britt Ekland as Mary Goodnight is my pick as the most attractive love interest in the series to this point. Her relationship with Bond has a hue to it which I don't think has been replicated again...sort of a swingers vibe to them...sure, casual sex has always been a part of Bond's activities, but it just feels different here.End teaser Check.Watch for * Moore's superior portrayal of Bond here...he's not the ponce of his first up effort in Live and let die. I.e. he has less of the Hugh Hefner about him here...and less of the Prince Philip demeanour too.* Timeless topicality...the energy crisis is discussed. A quarter of a century later, this topic is yet to lose its relevance.* 002 is mentioned. Another mention of Other spies who are licenced to kill. Scaramanga is supposed to have been his killer.* There's an amusing fight scene here...makes me wonder if it was the inspiration for a funny fight scene in the first Indiana Jones movie, I think.* Bond being rather ungentlemanly with a weapons maker (Lazar).* The Macau Casino scene has an oriental sounding Bond theme...it's a pity that this doesn't appear on compilations from the series. Might have been on Connery's You only live twice where there was a similarly interesting use of oriental sounding music.* The return of one of the most annoying characters in any Bond movie...he first appeared in Live and let die. Hmm...who thought that character was funny first time around? Wonder what Americans made him both times? * A fantastic stunt...in the literal sense of fantastic. Some absurd technology.* Hervé Villechaize. Not sure if I heard him say De plane boss! De plane! as Bond approached from the sky! * Note to self - verify that the Queen Elizabeth I (QE1) really is beached in Hong Kong.Overall, an entertaining movie...interesting plot compared to Moore's debut in the role. I'm aware that many people consider Sean Connery to be the greatest embodiment of Bond, but having seen Moore's movies recently, it seems that Moore has the lion's share of superior movies. He doesn't get enough credit for being in so many good movies, in my view. "},{"Title":"This Classic really sucked","Date":"13 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In the last 3 years we've seen a refreshing change for the Bond series. Casino Royale was so good that watching this older film now just makes me wanna vomit. Everything from cinematography to casting has improved dramatically since these films of the 60's, 70's and 80's.This entire movie is torturous. Back then people must have had incredible attention spans, because some scenes are drawn out for 20 minutes for no apparent reason. There are two awful chases that go on forever and have Bond paired up with an annoying American sheriff. All of a sudden this movie turns into Dukes of Hazard in one incredibly cheesy car jump. People have complained that QoS had shots that were way too short and didn't show what was going on clearly enough. The opposite is true with this film, for some shots go on endlessly.Why oh why is the main villain, Scaramanga (the awesome Christopher Lee) frickin' 50 something years old? If you wanted someone dead, would you seriously consider hiring a geriatric hit-man? If you made a young child watch all of these early 007 movies they'd be under the impression that everyone back then was older than 45. Even Roger Moore in this movie makes the 41 year old Daniel Craig look like he's just out of high school.I also find that whenever the writers are in doubt with these films, they just send Bond to Asia. Asia is a perfect backdrop for action movie filler while not having to worry about any sort of coherency. You can have Bond fight 30 guys, some sumo wrestlers and then have him go on a boat chase down a river. Perfect.I would only recommend watching The Man With the Golden Gun to see Nick Nack. His Ewok like stature at least makes him memorable compared to the giant Monsieur Scaramanga. As well, if you've played the incredible Goldeneye 64, it gives some insight into the origins of the unlockable Golden Gun. "},{"Title":"Pretty Gold--I mean Good","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" WARNING A SPOILER INCLUDEDMany evaluated this film as ugly or underrated but I think that's not true. TMWTGG is a pretty good movie and I think that it's really one of those mysterious 007 movies that needed to be delved deeply first.Roger Moore was good here, and those who said he was too humorous and cheesy needs to watch that scene when he questions Andrea Anders (Maud Adams) regarding where those bullets go. Christopher Lee is perfect as Scaramanga, and he really shows hurt feelings when he recalls his tale regarding the African Bull Elephant which used to be his friend.There is, however, a bad thing included. I really didn't like the way Scaramanga died here---it wasn't really apt on his character. I mean, he's a mighty pistol shot...and he uses cheats to defeat Bond? I thought he was second to none...the scenes must have included other things which makes it hard for Bond to defeat Scaramanga.In a away, it's a nice movie. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Not the best I've ever seen","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Upon witnessing previous reviews which denigrate Roger Moore's performance in 'The Man With The Golden Gun' I feel it incumbent upon myself to take to task said reviewers. Although Sean Connery was the original James Bond, naturally, he was far from the first choice for the role. Whom else was ahead of him? Roger Moore, for one. The producers felt Moore's portrayal of Leslie Charteris' 'The Saint' would render moviegoers incapable of deciphering the two roles, albeit Moore was mostly known for his work on television to this point. Why mention this? It is imperative to call to attention that Roger Moore is more than worthy of playing the world's most famous intelligence agent. Moving on, another review I read lamented the lack of a sinister, megalomaniacal villain attempting to rule the world. Point taken, although it is fair to note that by the early 1970's with Nixon having triangulated himself between Red China & the U.S.S.R., the innate fear of Communist rule and madmen working in conjunction with or playing off state governments against such regimes was drastically less significant in the public (read movie-going person's mind) that it had been in the 1950's & 60's. Moreover, I find it most refreshing that Bond was finally able to encounter a nemesis was who truly in his league. Clifton James' Sheriff J.W. Pepper was brought back from 'Live & Let Die' owing to his immense popularity. The movie is somewhat vague in its portrayal of the importance of the solex agitator, however does stand on its own, no matter how unremarkable the cinematography and script is. Moore and the franchise were just warming up to that point, and the smashing success of 'The Spy Who Loved Me' was yet to come; It is Moore's finest hour as Bond. James Bond.  "},{"Title":"Too much fun in the fleshpots of Bangkok clouded the judgment of the makers of this film.","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Weak plot. Badly choreographed fight scenes. The end is a reprise of Dr. No. The racist remarks (by an American backwoods cop character) were probably meant to be funny but are not. The car stunt scenes are tacky and what's with the AMC clunkers? Clearly the worst of all James Bond films. The makers of this film had too much fun in the fleshpots of Bangkok and this clouded their creativity and judgment.Maud Adams should have been the lead actress as she was clearly more beautiful than Britt Ekland. That jury-rigged golden gun of Scaramanga (Christopher Lee) looks cheap and ridiculous. The dwarf can't act without his usual partner (Ricardo Montalban in Fantasy Island). "},{"Title":"This is when the series flagged a bit....","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After the excellent Live And Let Die, I feel the series was let down just a little bit with this story.  Christopher Lee steals every scene he is in but both he and Moore are let down by this script being a bit of a retread of You Only Live Twice with the boat and Sheriff J W Pepper sequence from Live And Let Die reheated and served again.Maud Adams is wasted here (although thankfully she got her chance to shine in Octopussy) while the dippy character of Goodnight is just plain annoying and should have been shot at the earliest opportunity.Thankfully TMWTGG see the return of the much loved Desmond Llewlyn as Q and the pace of the script keeps the attention through a few slow moments, the sub plot with the solar energy expert for example seems to be quietly forgotten about as the storyline pursues itself through Thailand on boats with some very hammy cardboard karate villains in hot pursuit.  "},{"Title":"Guy Hamilton Misfire Is Silly Bond Outing...","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN, Roger Moore's second appearance as James Bond, is a silly, loud, ultimately boring Bond outing, with so many faults that audiences stayed away in droves, nearly ending the Bond series.After the success of LIVE AND LET DIE, producers Albert Broccoli and his longtime partner, Harry Saltzman (who would sell his shares of Eon Productions, after GUN), reassembled the director/writing team of Guy Hamilton, Richard Maibaum and Tom Mankiewicz for the filming of Ian Fleming's last Bond novel. While only the title would be retained (the novel, published after Fleming's death, is a very short, sketchy work, obviously never completed), the concept Maibaum and Mankiewicz created, of the world's greatest assassin 'targeting' 007, was an intriguing concept. In execution, however, the humor that had come to predominate the series would crush any chance the more dramatic elements might have provided to make it 'work'.As the villain, Francisco Scaramanga, screen legend Jack Palance had been the producers' first choice, and with his scarred face and reptilian speaking voice, he might have made the assassin a frightening, worthy opponent for Bond. But when it was discovered that Christopher Lee was available, the famous Hammer Dracula, who had been the first choice to play Dr. No in 1962, was quickly hired for the role. Lee, who was Ian Fleming's cousin, had a jaded elegance and aloofness that turned Scaramanga into a more tragic character, and far less menacing. Scaramanga's ever-present butler, in a kind of homage to the enigmatic character from The Prisoner TV series, gave Hamilton the opportunity to create a visual 'joke', by hiring 3'11 Hervé Villechaize (of future Fantasy Island fame) to stand beside 6'6 Lee. Villechaize, a French-accented, cuddly teddy bear of an actor, would have the final fight of the film against 007, in one of the most ridiculous confrontations in Bond history. While Swedish actress Maud Adams would be a beautiful addition to the list of Bond's doomed lovers, as Scaramanga's mistress (she would appear, as different characters, in two more Roger Moore outings, most memorably as Octopussy), Swedish Britt Ekland, Bond's 'main squeeze', was shrill, superficial, and annoying.For each impressive element of the film, there was, at least, one silly element to offset it. The exotic beauty of Thailand had to compete against the return of redneck Sheriff J.W. Pepper (Clifton James), in a most unwelcome cameo (why a bigoted southern sheriff would vacation in Thailand is never explained). The spectacular 360-degree flying roll Bond's Hornet X performed across a Thai 'klong' (done, using computer calculations, in a single take), was offset by a silly, unnecessary 'loop-de-loop' sound effect added for a laugh. A pivotal scene of Bond fighting a martial arts champion at an evil school (which WAS, actually, funny, as Moore was no master, and used trickery to get an upper hand), was diluted by having two pre-teen Thai girls 'come to the rescue', and prove to be better fighters than Bond was, saving his butt. The list goes on and on...Capping everything off is possibly the worst Bond theme song, ever, a 'wall of sound', annoying jingle performed, breathlessly, by Lulu.THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN was a mess, and Albert Broccoli, who had felt, with the success of LIVE AND LET DIE, that the Bond series had settled into an ongoing string of Roger Moore 'hits', was faced with the possibility, yet again, that the franchise was finished...  "}{"Title":"Not quite as bad as the critics claim","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This and Moonraker are probably the most-slated Bond films of all, and there are certainly good reasons.  (SPOILERS AHEAD)The cartoon-like sound effect that ruins the 360 degree car leap, Sheriff Pepper and his racial discrimination, the most bimbo-like Bond girl ever, the climactic duel with Scaramanga that doesn't even happen, the dozens of grown men floored by two karate-chopping girls, Bond left behind by his getaway car - the list of awful moments goes on and on.But there are compensations.   The stunning scenery of Pang-ha Bay near Phuket and the amazing island that is now known as 'James Bond Island' even on maps, Britt Ekland in a bikini (though apparently the producers had seen her when pregnant and assumed she was bigger-bosomed than proved to be the case, hence the conservative bikini-top!), the beautiful Maud Adams, Christopher Lee as the cool and calculating villain, the British HQ in the sunken QE1 with its Avengers-like odd angles - the film has a lot going for it. And Moore as Bond is even surprisingly harsh and Connery-like at times - witness his early treatment of Maud Adams.In all, good entertainment but flawed. "},{"Title":"Interesting concepts and a lot of positives spoiled by silly errors. Spoilers","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Following hot on the heels of Live and Let Die, Roger Moore's second Bond movie The Man With The Golden Gun is a troubled and confused affair. The plot primarily concerns a duel between 007 and Francisco Scaramanga, the world's highest paid and deadliest assassin, played wonderfully menacingly by Christopher Lee. There are plenty of memorable moments, mostly whilst Lee himself is on screen, and the fight sequence between the two protagonists, the culmination of the movie, is probably the best paced and directed sequence, let down by an obvious and irritating conclusion (Bond wins the fatal moment of surprise by posing as a wax dummy of himself in Scaramanga's lair).A jokey camp feeling, ludicrous events and situations, and some rather weak dialogue undermine the rest of the film. For example, during the car chase in Thailand, the 360 degree car flip, which was technically brilliant as a stunt and perfectly executed, was overshadowed by a cheesy circus-style sound effect. Sheriff Pepper, the red neck bumpkin sheriff from Live and Let Die, is for some reason brought back, adding to the spoof dimension as he hollers and shouts in his distinctive Southern accent on the streets of Bangkok. For some reason he is buying an American car whilst on holiday there. Scaramanga's car turns into a plane, two schoolgirls defeat a horde of martial arts expert in the cheesiest fight scene in history, Bond impersonates someone by walking into a highly guarded house wearing a fake nipple as a disguise, and Britt Ekland is for some reason repeatedly refused the opportunity to sleep with 007. It's almost like an Austin Powers movie.There are so many problems with the plot I won't go into them all, but suffice it to say that for a Bond film the script is highly sloppy, with errors such as including a whole fight scene just to allow Bond a couple of one-liners. Most of the plot developments lack any kind of logic, and even obvious slip-ups are made, like M ringing Bond on Scaramanga's personal bedroom telephone. Again, this was for a gag. Additionally, all the characters are bad tempered and terse, which adds negative energy to the piece. The preference of director Guy Hamilton for set-pieces and silly humour over coherent and structured plotting and quality dialogue, the staple of a good Bond movie, encapsulates the problems experienced by TMWTGG.There are positives however. Apart from the Pepper and Goodnight characters, each individual role is well crafted, with Herve Villechaize visually effective as a henchman. Maud Adams is good as Andrea, although she would surpass this in the title role of Octopussy nine years later. Lee gives a simmering and deadly performance as the main villain Scaramanga, and adds tremendous screen presence almost allowing us to overlook the many plot holes. In fairness, Roger Moore looks quite uncomfortable and stilted as Bond, but nevertheless he holds up quite well and is a fairly strong positive for the movie, despite his character being involved in far too many seaside-style jokes.The locations, cinematography, set design, and choreography were well done, as you would expect from such an experienced crew. Despite the flaws in the written material you can still rely on this as technically pretty well done, despite what appears to have been a fairly limited budget. This was the last movie to be co-produced by Broccoli and Harry Saltzman before the latter left the franchise, selling his stake to the studio. Perhaps the imperfections in the movie could be attributed to the deterioration in the working relationship between the two, but I think that the scriptwriters Richard Maibaum and Tom Mankiewicz must shoulder some of the blame too.   In conclusion this is a fairly flawed and inferior entry into the Bond canon. The purists dislike it, and not without reason, but despite the many dead ends and holes in the script, as well as the usual Bond habit of setting out to do one thing whilst accomplishing another, there is still enough overall quality to make this enjoyable viewing. Despite its many problems, The Man With The Golden Gun is still a lot of fun with numerous memorable moments to make it worthwhile, though if I had to offer a shining example of the Bond movies to win over non-fans, it would not be this.As a Bond film 3/10. As just another movie 6/10 Interesting concepts and a lot of positives spoiled by silly errors. Spoilers  "},{"Title":"Under-rated","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is, for me at any rate, the movie in which Moore finally came into his own as James Bond. He had the good sense to know he could never replace Sean Connery in the hearts of Bond fans, so he opted to simply give the role his own twist, a lighter touch, a character that seems to know the role he's playing is as much comic strip super-hero as real life person. And yet, he was nowhere near giving us the almost buffoonish level of silliness that we got in his later films. There are genuinely serious moments, such as when he stares down assassin Scaramanga and disavows him of his delusions of being on the same moral plane as himself, and of his claims of being a gentleman, a distinction that only a Brit can fully appreciate.Of course, there's plenty of silliness as well, it wouldn't be a proper Roger Moore film without it. Sheriff Pepper is back, and while some might object to that, I think, in addition to the humor, he serves an actual point in being the butt of so many jokes in both films. The sheriff comes off as your typical redneck, and the fact that he's consistently outwitted by both blacks and Asians is a subtle way of taking a poke at racism. But the real star here is Christopher Lee, easily the best Bond villain since Goldfinger. This man was born to play evil, and it's hardly a surprise that he's still going strong, with major roles in both the Lord of the Rings and Star Wars prequel series. He has the two things any great Bond villain must possess, a cold and menacing demeanor allied to a certain charm and elegance. A perfect example of this being, as he's being given a dressing down from his employer, a wealthy Asian tycoon, he slowly assembles his pistol and then, at the critical moment, lets the man know exactly who's truly the person in command. Roger Moore will possibly be the most controversial Bond actor, in large part because he inherited the role directly from Sean Connery (George Lazenby, who only played the role once, doesn't really count) and thus had the highest expectations placed on him. And some of his films, most notably the last two, are little more than jokes, examples of wretched excess at its worst. But this is one for which he need make no apologies.7/10  "},{"Title":"Roger Moore Back In Action - The Man With The Golden Gun","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore returns in The Man With The Golden Gun. Probably one of the most underated Bond films ever. Bond is sent a bullet with his number, 007, on it. Bond, believing that an assassin is after him, goes on the hunt to find the most deadly assassin of all time, Francisco Scramanga.With great villians, henchman, Bond women, locations, stunts,  and music. This makes a great Bond movie. But why isn't it a success?Christopher Lee as Scramanga is probably one of the best Bond villians in the Bond series, Nick Nack, played by Herve Villechaize is one of the most unusual henchman. All the cast members put in great performances, especially Roger Moore.Their are some bad points about this movie.1.) The AMC Matador - They are not the nicest cars seen in a Bond movie, they have no gadgets but they do perform one of the greatest stunts ever.2.) The Q Scene - Usually we are treated to a large array of gadgets by Q. This time we only see one which is below par and is a big disappointment.3.) J.W. Pepper's Return - His appearance in Live And Let Die was average and he was an okay character. He did not really suit the stroy and his appearance was disappointing.On the whole this movie is great. It is far better than some of the other Bond movies. I recommend this movie and give it a 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Weak Bond film but certainly not the worst","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man With The Golden Gun always seems to rank low amongst Bond film lists,although as the first Bond I saw I maybe like it more than I should. There are certainly some problems with the film,such as the somewhat leisurely pace which never really gets going,surprisingly few action scenes,Sheriff JW Pepper's return from Live and Let Die which worked just about in that film but is just annoying here,and Britt Ekland playing the most sexist,dumb female role of every Bond film.Nevertheless there is still a lot to enjoy. The Far Eastern locations are truly exotic. Christopher Lee is a great urbane villain,almost an anti-Bond,and some of his dialogue exchanges with Bond are great. Moore gives one of his best Bond performances,and the script allows him a little bit of Connery-type cruelty which he carries off very well. Little Herve Villechaize is an amusing henchman although as with much else in the film he creates no real tension. There is a martial arts sequence which is completely out of place but is very entertaining to watch,and one amazing car jump that's what we need to see more of in Bond films today, REAL stunts!,although the final duel between Bond and Scaramanga is a bit limp. It should be really tense but somehow falls short. The title song,with it's crude lyrics is rather poor though John Barry's score is still good even if,as with other elements of the film,it feels slightly like an exercise in coasting.Somewhat lacking in energy and inspiration then but still good fun,and at least two Bond films are worse. "},{"Title":"Good film, wrong Bond","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Could have a spoiler or twoThe Man With The Golden Gun sounds very underrated, much like On Her Majesty's Secret Service, in my opinion the best of the Bond films. Like OHMSS, this film, while gaining much criticism, is one I find to be a very good Bond film. However, the timing of this film was off, which may explain why it didn't do too well at the box office on it's original release.This film is the only Bond film yet that doesn't deal with world domination but say that on the DVD case. The plot is refreshing after all of the assignments 007 gets; a private duel between Bond and Scaramanga, the man with the golden gun. Christopher Lee does an excellent villain. I can see why he didn't play Dr. No like his cousin Ian Fleming wanted; he wouldn't have fit the part. Scaramanga is exactly what Lee describes him as; the dark side of Bond. The villain's servant for once doesn't do all the work. Scaramanga does all the killing and deals himself. Nick Nack is only a manservant, and a very amusing character. Very funny how, after all that time trying to kill Scaramanga to get the island, he tries to kill the one who killed the man with the golden gun. We get the usual performances of M, Q, and Monneypenny, all good. I must confess though, that compared with all the other performances of M by Bernard Lee, this time he seems too hot-tempered and not calm enough. At least he's started calling Bond by his name sometimes instead of always calling him 007.This film has it's faults, like all movies. The biggest one is, AGAIN, pathetic female characters. Goodnight is a stupid blonde version of Moneypenny, Scaramanga's girlfriend could've been a heck of a lot tougher, and the tough girls in the movie barely show up at all. It's been since OHMSS; give us a good Bond girl already >= And what was the point of throwing in the solar-powered generator? From what it sounds like, Scaramanga's plans for it suit a humanitarian rather than a Bond villain. The film would've worked just as well if Scaramanga had just Bond in mind. And last but not least, Roger Moore doesn't play the part right for his era of Bond films. He isn't a light-hearted gentleman agent; he's the elegent, ruthless Bond that was Sean Connery. Had this film had Connery and been made in the 60s, it would've been a lot better.All and all, I can't give this film more than a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Your not gonna... I sure am boy!","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" No one can catch him, no hit man can match him so what chance does Roger Moore have you may ask in this his 2nd outing of Bondage. Christopher Lee is the titular assassin Sacaramanga who dispatches his victims with his trademark firearm and, in a biazaar bit of hero worship that surely puts his sanity in question, has a life-size mock up of James Bond in his basement. Lets hope Bond doesn't get in there because he could pretend to be his facsimile or something and may get a lucky shot off.This is the Bond that comes complete with third nipple, pint sized side kicks and Maud Adams who Bond fails to recognise when she pops up under the name of Octopussy 9 years hence. Its retains the cut price look of many 70's Bonds and has few surprises although Lee is fairly good in the title role and excludes suitable amounts of gleeful menace but, like Live and Let Die most of the film is Bond is transit from A to B with the occasional expositionary scene chucked in for good measure and little action.Not the series' finest hour. "},{"Title":"Love it or hate it.","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  *CONTAINS SPOILERS*Roger Moore is back with his portrayal of James Bond light, quipping, and deadly. People I've talked to about this movie either really enjoyed it or didn't like it at all. Many consider this a weak follow up to Live and Let Die or a forgotten 'in-between' prior to Spy Who Loved Me. I liked this movie a lot for numerous reasons. The Title Song The rowdy jazz band gets your attention with this loud, upbeat song with vocals by LuLu.  The Plot Scaramanger is a hitman who charges $1 million a shot from his golden gun. Bond's current assignment is to track down the Solex Agitator, a device that can harness the Sun's power.  A golden bullet with a 007 engraving arrives at headquarters and Bond is ordered off the case but he goes to investigate against M's orders. There's plenty of mystery to Scaramanger. He wasn't a Blofeld or Dr. No but more like a sinister gangster. Plus he had a cool training facility and a hot girlfriend.The Score Beautiful. Some criticize Barry's work for this film saying that it's boring when that is not so. The movements included stand out enough to be enjoyed but does not overshadow any of the onscreen drama. The slow pieces are full and flowing while the fast paced portions accompanies the action perfectly. Great Scenes Bond beats a lot of people up in this one, and although Moore plays up the lighter side of the 00 Agent we see him fiercely determined in this film. I like the scene in Beirut when he meets up with the exotic dancer who still has the bullet which killed Bill Fairbanks, Agent 002. The best scene is the duel on the beach except instead of shooting at twenty paces, the man with the golden gun lures Bond into his fun house of doom.Weak Spots A few flaws, one being the reprisal role of Louisiana Sheriff J.W. Pepper from `Live and Let Die'.  While seeing him be insult martial arts students is slightly amusing, his presence is unnecessary. Herve Villechaize's midget-butler character Nick Nack is not one of the famous henchmen of the Bond series. He does make for a fun final scene for the epilogue however.A great film and one of my favorites. Might be too slow moving or boring for some unless you're a die hard fan willing to give it a shot.  "},{"Title":"Underrated Bond","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've only seen this movie twice. The first was on commercial TV where it was cropped to 43 and filled with ad breaks. For some reason I wasn't really impressed by the film and thought it was too long. However, I recently watched it on DVD and was pleasantly suprised by it. In the proper 169 aspect ratio and without any commercials, the movie seemed to flow much better and I found it much more enjoyable.While I don't think it's the best Bond, I think many people here underrate TMWTGG. Scaramanga would have to be one of the best and most interesting villans in all the Bond films. The locations (Hong Kong and Thailand) would have to be right up there with some of the most exotic ones and as usual, it has the good looking women.*** May contain spoilers ***However, my biggest problem with this film is J.W. Pepper. Both the boat and car chases were ruined a bit by having Pepper in them. He was over-used enough in Live And Let Die. Why did they have to bring him back for this one?*** end spoilers ***Anyway, a good bond film that is constantly underrated. I would give it 7/10 "},{"Title":"Film with Golden Fun","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Entertaining Bond movie that is not particularly sexy or violent but that fits perfectly in the early seventies amusement cinematography. The dwarf Nick Nack is very entertaining and Scaramanga (the name!) is one of the best villains of all Bond films. Interesting stereotyping of Asia, where everybody practices martial arts and watches bird fights. "}{"Title":"One of the most underrated Bond films","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  At the outset, I have to say that in my opinion, Roger Moore is James Bond. The character and the situations he confronts are basically ludicrous, and to portray the character with deep human emotions and dilemnas (a la Dalton and Brosnan) seems to me to miss the point entirely.That said, TMWTGG, which is often lambasted as one the worst Bond movies, holds up as one of the best. Bond movies run to a formula, and in this one the elements of that formula come together relatively seamlessly. It's often said Roger Moore didn't grow into the role until The Spy Who Loved Me, which this movie clearly shows is not the case. He shows all the classic lighter Moore touches, witty, debonair, but also shows at lot of the menace of the Fleming novel Bonds (witness his extraction of information about Scaramanga from Maud Adams). The locations - Cairo, Hong Kong, Bangkok etc - are all glorious, international, vivid locations! Christopher Lee as Scaramanga is a believable villian who doesn't have a complete let's destroy the whole world plot and is prepared to go head to head with Bond.There are a few jarring notes - Britt Ekland's English accent, the return of Sheriff Waldo T. Pepper (even Roger Moore looks pained when he is in the car with him chasing Scaramanga) and Lulu's theme song is the weakest until Madonna came along with Whine Another Day - but no Bond movie is perfect and they all have moments like these.None of these however go towards diminishing my enjoyment of this movie. If only they made Bond films like this nowadays!  "},{"Title":"Lost Opportunity","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know which demon rode the producers, but they must have by-passed every going opportunity to come up with the best Moore Bond, yet - or even best Bond amongst the worst, which is still pretty good. There's a reason for my reasoning Christopher Lee. To cast this constantly underrated actor was the ONLY stroke of genius to hit them. Pity that it didn't inspire them for something more worthy than MWAGG. So, in the end, Chistipher Lee had to struggle against the impossible odds of an abysmal script as well as ignorant producers. Until this day he remains the most wasted Bond villain of all time. And NOTHING is his fault. In fact, he is the only redeeming force that made me buy this DVD as well. The rest is just an exercise of going through the motions within the narrow parameters of a planned Bond movie. *sigh*Schogger13 "},{"Title":"Less is Moore","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Strip this film of some of its sillier moments, and it's actually fine. In fact, I think it's highly underrated, despite the fact that it feels hurried and somehow &#145;small'. (Spoilers ahead.) The big, big problem with the film, as far as I'm concerned, is the return of JW Pepper, who taints every scene he's in. And frankly how many people go on holiday to an exotic destination halfway across the world only to go about buying a car that you can get at home? Ludicrous. And yes, the slidewshistle during that stunt is regrettable. But despite these flaws, I find The Man With The Golden Gun highly enjoyable, and pleasingly understated. What is often not remarked upon is the fact that Roger Moore's performance as Bond is quite superb, he hits the nail on the head, combining some of the tougher, more serious elements associated with other Bonds with the suave, twinkle-in-the-eye style that he became renowned for. Britt Ekland isn't great, but still better than Tanya Roberts. Title song, enjoyably rubbish, but hey &#150; it was 1974. Plot starts with a refreshing simplicity but, in the tradition of recent Bonds, gets more muddled towards the end. Christopher Lee as Scaramanga is a delight to watch, if only there was more of him in the film (and I don't mean a fourth nipple!). What this Bond outing rather lacks, with the exception of one stunt, is the &#145;wow' factor that would make its successor, &#145;The Spy Who Loved Me' such a memorable cinematic experience. The Man With The Golden Gun very much seems like an interim movie rather than a grandiose era-defining statement, but that's not necessarily a bad thing. Indeed, it makes it something of a hidden gem, more of a well-kept secret&#133;at least, it would be if JW Pepper didn't spoil the proceedings. One day I'd like to see a new director's cut of this, with Pepper erased from the film altogether, and no slidewhistle during the car stunt. Until that happens, well&#133;goodnight, goodnight. "},{"Title":"He always did like that mausoleum - put him in it! (maybe teeny tiny spoilers)","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Seems that everyone wants to dump on this film.  Call me crazy, but I think it's one of the two classically overlooked Bond films (Licence to Kill is the other) and I really can't see the reason that it gets the reputation it seems to have inherited.Let's look at it coldly, shall we?  Bond films are basically templates for the manipulation of fixed elements which generally don't change from outing to outing.  In no particular order, there's the pre-title sequence (in TMWTGG, pretty tame - but then it's just a re-do of From Russia With Love isn't it?)  the title song (awful - along with Tomorrow Never dies the worst ever - I'm not really making much of a case so far, am I?) the Villain (Christopher Lee - outstanding, one of the best ever), the girls (Maud Adams - total hottie, Britt Ekland, damn fine too and who really seems to be enjoying her work in the film), the car (AMC Hornet - cool), the gadgets (Lee's Car-O-Plane rocks!), the one-liners (some great, some meatheaded and offensive)and Bonds suits (oh goddawful!).The usual backroom team all make cameos - M seems to have some sort of grudge against the world and Moneypenny appears far too little.  The franchise can change Bonds as often as it likes, but it has never recovered, in my opinion, from the loss of Lois Maxwell's Moneypenny.  the unctuous redneck from Live and Let Die reappears, although we are comforted somewhat by the fact that he is dragged off to a Thai prison at the end, hopefully to be locked up for life.So there's very good in this film - Lee is stupendous, Moore seems game for most of it and Ekland has fun - and there's the wrongheaded and dumb (redneck, slide whistle).  But on the whole that good far outweighs the bad, I think, and we are left with a film which strings along a good story line, reveals more about Bond's psyche than any of the pretentious twaddle dished out in the Brosnan films (and it's not a pleasant message we get about Bond, either) and gives us lasting pillars to the legacy of the series.  It's not Dr. No, it's not even The World Is Not Enough but it is by no means the worst Bond film and it's certainly one which deserves to be revisited by the cognoscenti and valued for what it is - a period piece which saw the series at a crossroad, which they successfully negotiated.So, maybe all you flinty hearted Bond fans, it's time for a thawing of the freeze that surrounds TMWTGG, and we welcomed the little runt back into the fold.  Come on - you know you wanna..... "},{"Title":"A Kung Fu Bond comedy","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Man of the Golden Gun isn't one of the best James Bond movies but has been one of the most successful ones of the series in Germany and other countries. Based on Ian Flemings last 007 novel, released in 1966 two years after his death, the book is often considered as his weakest story. Filmed in South East Asia and Arabia in 1974 with Roger Moore in his second Bond appearance after Live And Let Die (1973), this one follows the footsteps of his predecessor.Live And Let Die started a new concept and added more elements to the film that attracted younger audiences - black main actors, funk music, voodoo settings, fast car chases Bullitt-style through the streets of New York and James Bond in flares. TMWTGG follows that way and imitates the large success of the Kung Fu movie wave of Bruce Le, Chuck Norris and David Cararadines Kung Fu TV series. Funnily, Roger Moore (*1927), who the most popular Bond actors amongst teenagers, is the oldest of all five Bond actors until now.Unfortunately, TMWTGG misses too many elements of the former Bond movies. The whole style here is rather comedy like and typical seventies style - the dull and non-melodic title theme, song by former sex starlet Lulu, is a low light of the series. John Barry's score misses the lush power and gentle grooves of his sixties Bond tunes. There are plenty of typical silly jokes who rather belongs to Kentucky Fried Movie, and Kung Fu fighting all around. There are no big thrills, but some very lame pacing, some simply boring moments and an unnecessary return of LALD's American redneck sheriff J.W. Pepper who was probably added to attract American audiences.The biggest mistake is the lack of a real villain. Christopher Lee gives a very fine performance as killer and Millionaire Scaramanga, but is too Gentleman-like to be considered as a real super villain. When he's talking of his childhood as an orphan in a circus with a small elephant being his only friend, he rather becomes a lovable character. His servant Nick Nack, a witty dwarf, isn't also menacing enough.The Bond girls are also no high light of the film. Britt Eklund is just a stupid Holly Goodnight who gets on your nerves very fast, and the much better acting Maud Adams, who returned to the series in 1983's Octopussy, has just a minor supporting role.The positive aspects of the film are some good fighting sequences, a motor boat chase through Bangkog, the very fine settings in South East Asia with very nice photography and a showdown on a pretty Dr. No like island in the Southern Chinese Sea. Pierce Brosnan's 007 returned to this region in 1997's Tomorrow Never Dies.The Man With The Golden Gun is at least a nice family movie and some good fun to watch - and a good exercise for Roger Moore to develop his own Bond style that he fully showed in the great The Spy Who Loved Me in 1977.  "},{"Title":"Better than given credit for","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"    I think this movie is dismissed too easily by some of the reviewers. Moore is my favorite bond although Brosnan is good. How can people say this is the worst Bond Movie when you have DR.No and Thunderball.   Everyone mentions the ruined car jump scene with the comic whistle and they are right. That decision should have lost someone their job. This does not distract from the movie as much as the tarantula on a glass sheet in DR.No. Tarantulas are not dangerous so Connery could have let it be on him instead of the cheesy special effect. However most people don't like Sheriff Pepper, I loved it. Britt Ekland was a weak bond girl but she filled the bikini nicely.   All in all this is an enjoyable movie that can be watched many times. I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Overly camp and fatuous","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Warning  This review may contain spoliers.The Man With The Golden Gun is an improvement on the farcical Live and Let Die, but it fails to impress like most of Moore's Bond entries did.  While I have a penchant for the idea of 007 tracking down an international hitman before he himself is killed, the plot simply served as an excuse for a slapstick comedy punctuated by flat action sequences. The pre-title sequence expunges any potential mystery and suspense that could have surrounded the eponymous character.  Scaramanga is seen in a gunfight with a American in his 'funhouse', a ridiculous creation in itself.  The scene where he shoots a statute of Bond should have created intensity, but it fails to do so.  The title song and sequence lack an ounce of imagination or creativity.Roger Moore obviously seems more comfortable in the role of 007 but he didn't make the role his own until the next film in the series.  But even his good performance could not add credibility to a campy script.  The only iota of intense action is to be found at the climax, when Bond and Scaramanga fight it out mano y mano on the latter's island.  Christopher Lee is resplendent as Scaramanga and the look on his face when Bond puts a bullet in him is priceless.  The scene where Bond poses as the statute of himself is very astute.There are enough twists in the plot to keep the viewer entertained.  The hunt for the solar energy converter provides Bond with an additional incentive to kill Scaramanga.  This element tied in well with the contemporaneous energy crisis in the real world.  The British Secret Service housed inside a sunken vessel was also a nice touch; this was repeated in The Spy Who Loved Me and Moonraker when Bond found his HQ disguised as Egyptian ruins and a monastery respectively.  But I found the Oriental setting to be somewhat uninspiring.Much of same crew which produced the mediocre Diamonds Are Forever and Live and Let Die also worked on this film.  Maybe United Artists should have disposed of Guy Hamilton and hired a new director.  To encapsulate, this movie is not bad but I would choose any other Moore entry for an entertaining two hours, with the notable exception of Live and Let Die.  "},{"Title":"One of the best and most unique Bond films to date?","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film, The Man With the Golden Gun, was one of the best, if not the best, film in the series. The action was constantly high, as Bond traveled from Beirut to London to the South China Sea and everywhere in between. The climactic battle between Scaramanga and Bond was also very suspenseful, and you'll never believe the ending. It doesn't matter if you are a Bond fan or if want to get acquainted with the movies, as this one will keep you hooked. "},{"Title":"Far From The Finest Of Bond Films","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The human element in this Bond film is all but absent.It works only in the case of Goodnight. Roger Moore, once my favorite Bond, lacks any touch of human feeling in this film. The script would have been much improved if Tom Mankewiecz' had completed the script all in himself.Maud Adams could use a little time back in the real world.Even Bernard Lee and Desmend Llewellyn seem out of place here.Scaramanga, while an improvement from the novel's version of the self-same character, stills leaves much lacking. Though I would do virtually anything to own his yacht. This film, while no Never Say Never Again, seems more like a film pretended to be a Bond film than a Bond film.And Roger Moore, whom I love as Roger Moore, seems less like Bond than Woody Allen in Casino Royale. "},{"Title":"A Poor Contribution to the Series","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Certainly the weakest of the bond films to date and the worst in the entire series. The Man With The Golden Gun represents the series at an artistic nadir. Almost every aspect of the film seems uninspired and the emphasis of overt humour reaches its peak here, with the movie often resembling a slapstick comedy. The screenplay is also tepid and filled with inconsistencies and absurd situations. The characters are ill-tempered and unconvincing, with little affection showed, even amongst the regulars. The heroine, Mary Goodnight, is an immature high school-type girl. No bond film features without merit, however, and golden ironically features one of the best villains of the series Scaramanga, who is played with such skill and charm. Mary Goodnight, played by Britt Ekland, performs gamely but no actress could bring this character any dignity. Lieutenant Hip is not the most interesting or intelligent of bond allies. When he pretends to arrest bond following the assassination of Gibson, he inexplicably fails to inform 007 that he is actually taking him to M, thus causing bond to initiate an escape. Later, after he and bond flee Hai Fat's henchmen, Hip speeds away in his car leaving bond behind in the dust to fend for himself! There are plenty more bonds films which possess a higher level of credibility, like 'you only live twice'. In a nutshell this film 'sucks'!  "}{"Title":"I never did nuthin` like that before Actually, neither have I","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"     For Roger Moore's Second Bond outing we get a pretty mediocre film. I will say it is definitely better than Octopussy (1983), A View To A Kill (1985), and by far better than the horribly boring Moonraker (1979). It is actually also better than a few of Sean Connery's films; From Russia With Love (1963), Never Say Never Again (1983) (probably just slightly better than this one), and definitely better than You Only Live Twice (1967).                    The films few good points are firstly its handful of excellent action sequences. Also the return Sheriff J.W. Pepper is a real treat who put his mark in the best action sequence of the film, the car chase scene, which is where the line I have placed as the title came from. Also the villains are excellent, Christopher Lee as Scaramanga gives one of his best performances. Although not to forget the brilliant performance my Herve Villechaize as Nick-Nack who would be the foot stool for the creation of Austin Powers The Spy Who Shagged Me (1999)'s Mini-Me.          The film is pretty mild on action, but high on comedy. If your a fan the comedy Bond films of 70's this is probably the funniest. I think that was probably the error with this film, the producers focused to much on the comedy, and not enough on the plot or the action sequences.      The film could been better also if they changed the theme song. Lulu's performance of the song Man With The Golden Gun is not very good. They should have used the version written by one of rock's greatest artists, ALICE COOPER, who actually wrote it in hopes that they'd use it. That move may have given the film that much more luster. But anyway the film definitely is worth seeing and it is only one of  lower great bond films. "},{"Title":"Not outstanding but STILL worth seeing.","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  LIVE AND LET DIE had both some great moments and some flaws.  It also showed a Roger Moore who was not yet comfortable in the role of Bond. These are the same traits that are evident in THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN.  Having said that, I still feel that GOLDEN GUN is an entertaining film as a whole.  The comfort zone is there with respect to elements like another great John Barry score, good locations, and even a bit of twisting (thin though it might be) with the plotline.There ARE some amusing sequences (at least the first time we see them) such as the (potential SPOILERS FOLLOW) funhouse and the cat and mouse game that Christopher Lee plays with would-be assassins.  There are some scenes that are fun to watch such as the car chase, although by this time I think most of us have had ENOUGH of the redneck JW Pepper character.  (Why a gooberish character like that would choose to visit Thailand is totally beyond belief.Golden Gun suffers from being (or at least seeming) a bit long at times. Moore is still not quite sure what to do with his Bond role and stands out TOO dramatically in unfamiliar locations.  There are also some completely ridiculous elements such as the continuous interupting ofBritt Ekland (Mary Goodnight) everytime she and Bond are about to turn down the sheets.  These flaws aside, I actually found a bit of tension in some of the Hong Kong sequences, and Christopher Lee is an excellent choice for Scaramanga.  He has a rather enjoyable Vincent Price-like quality to his approach as the man with the real Golden Gun.  In spite of the fact that the solar energy plotline seems a bit thin and Herve' Villachaize gets somewhat annoying as Nick Nack, I still find this to be a little better than some Bond outings.  If you want one that really goes TOO FAR in every respect, catch my review of MOONRAKER.  This one isn't stellar, but it sure isn't the worst two hours I've spent in my life.Rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Another great 007 entry.","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I want all this films negative critics to answer this simple question WHAT DO YOU DISLIKE ABOUT THIS FILM? It seems everyone here and at Amazon.com puts it at the bottom of their list &#150; but WHY?? I think its another great Bond entry! I don't see how it differs from any of the other Bond classics &#150; all the ingredients are there fantastic locations (You really can't beat picturesque Thailand for an exotic Bond location), a great villain, great sequences and a fantastic fast placed finale. It's a classic stereotypical and very enjoyable James Bond fest! So tell me, what is so bad about it? Why do some people label it the worst in the series? I really do not understand it! Is it because there is too much humor? I don't think there is too much, and the humor that is there works throughout and makes it very enjoyable. Is it because it is silly at times? Well, I'm sorry to all you Bond enthusiasts, but your high time favorite &#145;Goldfinger' has its share of silliness too &#150; in fact all of the Bond films do! And I still rate &#145;Goldfinger' one of the best in the series! I don't understand the reviews here that say it is boring and it lacks action &#150; I found it nowhere near boring &#150; it was really enjoyable &#150; a great mix of humor and action, right through to the end! Now Thunderball &#150; that's boring!! Or maybe its because people just don't like Roger Moore. Deary me, guys, can't you remember that he was Flemings original choice for Bond over Connery? And what's wrong with Britt Ekland? I thought she looked rather attractive in this film!For all those who do not call themselves Bond enthusiasts, &#145;The Man with the Golden Gun' is a popular choice when selecting their first Bond film on video. I can't understand why heaps of people rate the other Bond films SO highly over a classic gem like this. When it was on TV a few months ago, everyone at work watched it and they all said it was great. My 5 year old niece stayed up to watch it and loved it, and keeps reciting quotes and scenes from it! Most people I have talked to rate this as one of their favorites, and when I went to buy it in the shop there was only one left, and the person in front of me was buying a copy also! Yet when I read peoples comments on the Internet, you all seem to loath it!Wake up to yourself critics and just sit down and enjoy this good movie like we did, for god sake. Not all Bond films have to be 100% serious, just watch Golden Gun and have fun! Its quality entertainment, it's got all the classic Bond ingredients &#150; its just ultimate Bond! Well done Roger Moore &#150; The Man with the Golden Gun is just another exceptional entry in the series, with absolutely nothing wrong with it (In fact, it has everything going for it!) and it does not deserve the criticism it gets. 5 stars out of 5!  "},{"Title":"So much potential - so much waste","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film had a lot going for it, James Bond finally meeting his match and nemesis in the cruel and semi-psychotic Francisco Scaramanga - otherwise known as the man with the golden gun.Its a shame that the film never gets off the ground.  Its so slow its painful.  The fact that this film was released after Live and Let Die (which really wasn't as bad as most people say it was) probably tells us this rushed job was never going to be enjoyed.The influences of Bruce Lee are paramount throughout this film, just as Shaft influenced Live and Let Die's style.  The mirror sequence at the end and the kung-fu sequence where Moore has to fight a kung fu guy who clearly is FAR superior to Moore.There are fairly few funny parts to this film.  Britt Ekland is fine to watch, espically in a bikini! - but the film has no flow no control, no real plot or no real villian.Scaramanga has a mutal respect for Bond.  I can understand that, having read the vastly edited novelised version (I'm sure Fleming wanted Bond killed off in the novel version), the similarities between them are clear.Scaramanga is played well by veteran horror actor Christopher Lee - but his on-screen presence doesn't half represent the psychotic menance he's meant to be.In fact Scaramanga's presence is parodied later on in Tomorrow Never Dies where Dr.Kaufmann continually talks about his brilliance - just like Scaramanga.Personally I would have made this more of a cat-and-mouse game where Scaramanga would not be known as the man with the golden gun, and Bond would face Scaramanga - picking up the golden gun and shoot Scaramanga - thus bond would become the man with the golden gun.This film, in essence, had so much potential, its a shame with all the cliches of JW Pepper and the miscue of the musical interlude to the famous car jump that they have to degrade this film into a lame, boring film.A poor effort.  2/10 "},{"Title":"Silly but fun 007 movie","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Man with the Golden Gun is a sometimes silly, sometimes fun James Bond adventure starring Roger Moore. This movie, the 9th in the 007 franchise, takes the super spy to the Far East where he investigates a man named Scaramanga, the villain of the title played by veteran horror movie star Christopher Lee in an excellent performance. His presence, the exciting car stunts, and the fabulous Asian locations are the main attractions here. Britt Ekland as Goodnight is without a doubt the ditziest Bond girl in history. She had me laughing out loud most of the time she was on screen. Same goes for Clifton James' Sheriff J.W. Pepper, who reprises his role from the previous Bond film Live and Let Die. Maud Adams fares better than Ekland as Andrea Anders, Scaramanga's love interest. Adams would eventually become the first actress to play different Bond women in two 007 films. She played the title character in the 1983 Bond film Octopussy. Also on hand is the late Herve Villechaize (before TV's Fantasy Island) as Scaramanga's diminutive sidekick Nick Nack. This character is also laughable. Moore is good as Bond, but he's not the best James Bond. Moore is better than Timothy Dalton, but Sean Connery and Pierce Brosnan are better than Moore. Sometimes Moore had me laughing at the antics he goes through in this movie. This is one of the funniest Bond movies of the series, and that's why its so much fun. The Man with the Golden Gun may be ridiculous at times, but who cares.  This is an all around enjoyable adventure.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"an average bond movie","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man With the Golden Gun was to be Harry Saltzman's last bond outing before he sold his share in the Bond series to United Artists probably to ensure the maximum inconvenience to his partner Cubby Broccoli whom is alleged he detested. It's certainly not premium Bond more average at times it I really think it threatens to turn into an episode of The Avengers, especially with Scaramanga's fun house, his midget servant Nick Nack, it's human statues or the off-kilter angles of MI6's Hong Kong HQ located in the rusting wreck of the Queen Elizabeth all of which are just bizarre, not to mention Roger Moore's more Steed-like Bond (Said it before I will say it again I miss Connery). Although there are hints of the awful lows yet to come in Moore's time &#x96; Bond being saved by a pair of schoolgirls (seriously like what) or defeating a villain by pretending to be a tailor's dummy (huge question mark for me) &#x96; this is still recognisable an old-school Bond film (just about) , with thankfully few gadgets, although it's disappointing that the producers provide Scaramanga with an island lair and super-weapon to give Bond something to blow up at the end (a rather half-hearted effort to be sure and just so they could sell the film with few special effects) instead of a private army, Scaramanga simply has Herve Villachaize and a maintenance man).I really think that Britt Ekland's irritating 'typical silly woman' comic relief act was a bit hard to take in 1974 and to be honest it gets worse with each passing year, but Christopher Lee's Scaramanga is one of the more interesting Bond villains (its the only saving grace for the film actually), not least because of his imagined empathy with his prey &#x96; he regards himself as Bond's moral and professional equal (if you take Moor as Bond maybe he was better), its the kind of pathological snobbery Fleming's books were full of but the films increasingly abandoned. I do wish they had put more of this in all of the films but oh well. "},{"Title":"Funhouse - hold the fun","Date":"15 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" He loves only gold, barked Shirley Bassey, setting an appropriate standard with the undisputed classic, Goldfinger. Indeed, gold has been good to Bond, gilding the titles of two of the franchise's highlights, including 1995's bold, post-cold war reinvention GoldenEye. But, fans of the series whisper darkly, there is another. The exception to the golden rule. We speak, of course, of The Man with the Golden Gun.To its credit, the film gets off to a rather impressive start, introducing an antagonist so compelling the entire post-credits stinger is devoted to him in his element, rather than Bond's usual splashy hijinks. Embodied by the imposing Christopher Lee, the debonair, icily proficient Francisco Scaramanga presents an antagonist who (finally) poses a genuine threat to 007! The script echoes this tension, keeping the conflict taut (Bond, targeted by Scaramanga, must beat his prospective assassin to the punch&#x85;er, shot), with an intriguingly topical energy crisis subplot slow-burning in the background to keep things interesting. Wasting no time, Bond flits around Southeast Asia, with the normally suave-to-the-point-of-being-cuddly Roger Moore demonstrating a noticeably steely edge, slapping Maude Adams' femme fatale around enough to make Sean Connery wince, and pilfering grim one-liners from Dirty Harry (This rifle is pointed precisely at your groin, so speak now, or forever hold your piece). He's even suave enough to sell TWO poop jokes(?!) as clever and terse. What a tense, gripping spy adventure, just what one would expect from Goldfinger director Guy Hamilton! I can't wait to see what happens next! &#x85;oh yes you can.Once Bond, accompanied by requisite kung-fu cop Hip (the cheerily charismatic Soon-Tek Oh), trails Scaramanga to the Thailand estate of shady entrepreneur Hai Fat (the classy but largely wasted Richard Loo), things take a turn. Almost imperceptibly, the thrilling Southeast Asian setting begins to become exploited for its dubiously stereotypical potential &#x96; see Bond be embarrassingly subjected to sumo wrestler combat! See Bond be sent to karate school for no purpose other than a protracted montage designed to piggyback off the recent popularity of Enter the Dragon (the only upside this is likely the only moment ever to occur in a 007 film where Bond takes the backseat in an action sequence to two Asian women). Before you know it, Roger Moore has pushed a small Taiwanese boy off a boat, as the film spirals into steadily incomprehensible subplots clouding its prior focus. All the while, the Lulu/John Barry title theme (catchy at first, grating when repeated ad nauseum) continues to twinkle on in the background, marking every set change with a stereotypical gong, and providing some of the least thrilling chase accompaniment imaginable. Things aren't looking promising.And then, just when the audience's political correctness senses were already tingling, in swaggers Cliffton James' J.W. Pepper. That's right &#x96; back by unpopular demand, the unfathomably obnoxious, unfunny, and all-around offensive redneck sheriff who already nearly harpooned Moore's debut in Live and Let Die. And this time, he comes with a chewing-tobacco-swilling mouthful of jaw-dropping racial slurs. What &#x96; you're not laughing&#x85;? Pepper's braying even ruins an otherwise fairly entertaining car chase, although the film's infamous corkscrew car jump stunt being marred by a ludicrous slide-whistle that would put Bugs Bunny to shame is a pretty good indication of the shameful mess the film has devolved into. Just in case the bar wasn't lowered enough, however, Hamilton (now firmly channelling the unforgivable camp of Diamonds are Forever, rather than Goldfinger) has his previously compelling antagonist escape in a plane-car. Yes. A plane-car. If it sounds implausibly silly, even for the 1970s, it's because it is.If anything, this is all nearly worth it for the immediate cut to Bernard Lee's M exhibiting the most spectacularly grumpy, incredulous facial expression in cinema history. Of all the fouled-up, half-witted operations! he rumbles. Bernard Lee you may as well have just spouted the poster quote.At this point, it's purely up to Christopher Lee to keep this dire mess afloat. Thankfully &#x96; when Hamilton finally remembers he's still around &#x96; Lee doesn't disappoint. A cocktail of icy threat (his eerily calm monologue recount his first kill is one for the ages), preening self-satisfaction (witness him predatorily caressing Maude Adams with his brazenly phallic titular weapon), and his bizarre giddiness when confronting Bond demonstrating volumes of a fractured human being seeking validation at all costs, Scaramanga remains, in many ways, the Bond villain to beat. His climactic shootout with Bond, bizarre funhouse setting and all, thankfully adds a welcome splash of tension that momentarily reminds us of the film that was (the spectacularly beautiful scenery of Scaramanga's Taiwanese island also gives the film a welcome bump of quality). Naturally, Hamilton quickly pulls the rug out from under us with the most unsatisfying resolution imaginable, followed by an excruciatingly long and dull oh no, everything is exploding denouement. Ah well.And, lest we forget, Britt Ekland, evidently instructed to act as little as possible, also manages to put forward her candidacy for most irritating, asinine 'Bond girl' in the franchise's history as the loathsome 'Mary Goodnight,' so awful that even Moore appears incapable of hiding his disgust when sharing scenes with her. Hervé Villechaize is momentarily fun as Scaramanga's eerily omnipresent henchman Nick Nack, but even he is reduced to an embarrassing annoyance by the end. As such, it's left to the infallible Desmond Llewellyn to scrounge some scraps of humour as an oddly chipper Q, but saving the film is beyond even his technical wizardry.The Man with the Golden Gun's devolution from compelling beginning to risible finale remains one of the 007 franchise's biggest bellyflops. Although the film isn't a complete write-off, largely thanks to Christopher Lee outclassing the film surrounding him like a suffocating sarcophagus, there is little else 'golden' about Hamilton's final product other than misguided intentions gone haywire. One for the more forgiving Bond diehards only.-5/10 "},{"Title":"Extremely underrated outing for 007.","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Guy Hamilton returns for what I consider to be jointly (along with On Her Majesty's Secret Service) the most under rated 007 flick. Despite having many things going against it The Man With The Golden Gun manages to be one of the most entertaining and memorable Bond films.The female lead, Mary Goodnight, is weak. Weakly written and weakly acted (by Britt Ekland) she gets by on her looks and somehow manages to not annoy me as much as other rubbish Bond girls despite being a completely useless klutz. Maybe it's the great performance of Maud Adams as secondary Bond Girl Andrea Anders balancing it out that keeps things tolerable. A special mention must go to the belly dancer Bond seduces to get information from as she is the ugliest girl 007 has locked lips with thus far in the series. Grace Jones would challenge her for that title 11 years later. Moore is again good as Bond, I especially love the scene where he smacks Adams to get information and threatens to break her arm &#x96; what a ladies' man! I don't know why but I really like a darker, edgier Bond and when Moore does it he does it very well. He doesn't even seem angry, like Timothy Dalton might be, good ol' Rodge is just like Yeah, I'll shag you, then batter you and possibly kill you if I don't get what I want from you all while keeping his poker face on. I love it. Scaramanga isn't a great villain but Christopher Lee elevates the material 100% - a true thespian. Hervé Villechaize as Nic Nac should annoy me to no end being as he is a gimmicky and silly henchman but he is actually genuinely funny and watchable. Lois Maxwell was always quite plain compared to her female co-stars but she was still somewhat attractive. Here, for the first time, she looks old. It's like watching you Mum flirt with the milkman. They should have sacked the character after this one but they kept on letting her embarrass herself for a few more years, poor old girl. M has my favourite moment of his in the series when Bond asks who could possibly want him dead; Jealous husbands, outraged chefs, humiliated tailors, the list is endless! Lee's delivery and Moore's reaction are priceless.The title song by Lulu is disgustingly bad, easily the worst of the series but John Barry's score is top notch, one of his best. The music playing in Scaramanga's fun house during the opening sequence (which is blindingly good by the way) is tonally almost certainly the best work he's done with the series since From Russia With Love.Of course, this is a Guy Hamilton film so there has to be some random dumb 'funny' jokes. Sheriff J.W. Pepper, that 'loveable' hick from Live And Let Die pops up to inject more 'fun' into proceedings and when Bond is attacked by Sumo wrestlers he defeats one by grabbing his bum cheeks really hard then giving him a wedgie. Yes, you read that correctly. Scaramanga's car that becomes a plane is also pushing it a bit too far for my taste.TMWTGG features one of the best stunts in any film ever, as 007 leaps a car over the gap of a broken bridge while doing a barrel roll. This stunt was down for real and it is phenomenal. Forget about the CGI highway scene in The Matrix Reloaded, forget about whatever daft Jason Statham movie you sat through last, THIS is the real deal. For some bizarre reason though they put the sound of a sliding whistle on the soundtrack as the car makes its jump but even the ridiculousness of that decision in the post production process cannot ruin one of the greatest moments in action movie history.I am a huge fan of TMWTGG, despite its many flaws it is hugely enjoyable and always entertaining. I am at a loss why so many consider it to be one of the worst of the series but to me it will always be Bond at if not his best, his very above average. "},{"Title":"good James bond movie.","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is another good James bond movie pretty much for all the same reasons it has lots of action in it it has a good screen play to it roger Moore does James bond great once again the acting in it is good and the actors are good in it the villains are good i think Christopher lee does a great villain in this movie he does a good man with the golden gun. I think you will not be disappointed with the man with the golden gun. I'm sure you will have a good time watching it and you will watch it over and over again. Great adaption of the man with the golden gun.Overall score ******** out of *************1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Better than it's given credit for","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" *Some minor spoilers* Roger Moore's second outing as Bond is often listed as one of the weakest in the series. It may not be the best of them, but it's far from being the worst -- that dubious honor must surely go to the muddled mess that is 'Diamonds Are Forever' (1971). 'The Man With the Golden Gun' has some very fine pointsTwo stunningly gorgeous Bond girls (Britt Ekland and Maud Adams). A very suave Bond who even shows a flash or two of hard-edged cruelty (as in the arm-twisting scene with Maud Adams). Beautiful scenery in exotic Thailand (watch the seaplane sequence). Some classic Bond humor (caught in the crushing grip of a sumo wrestler, Bond tightens the man's thong to force a release). A well-executed car-chase, culminating in the spectacular twisting jump across a river (a stunt that is deservedly famous). Accomplished actor Christopher Lee gives a memorable performance as the villainous assassin Scaramanga, who uses a golden gun and bullet to dispatch his victims. An appealing Bond theme with a catchy tune and clever lyrics (One golden shot means another poor victim has come to a glittering end....). Scaramanga's flying car is an effect well done with an ingenious combination of full-scale prop and flying model.On the downside, Ekland is wasted in the bimbo role of Mary Goodnight, and the superfluous return of Sheriff Pepper (from 'Live and Let Die') is plain annoying. It may not be up there with classics like 'Goldfinger' and 'The Spy Who Loved Me', but it's well worth watching if you can rent it on video/DVD or catch it on TV. My score 7/10 "}{"Title":"James Bond on top form","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is probably one of the best Bond films out there. The story is brilliant, Bond going head to head with assassin Scaramanga, superbly played by Christopher Lee, in displays of bravado and even chivalry that are a joy to watch. Each man delights in the other's skills, there is a respect that exists between them, but also an enmity that cannot be overcome. Moore is easily the best Bond in my opinion, and that in no way denigrates the work of Sean Connery. Connery was brilliant, but Moore, to my mind, better sums up what Bond is all about; the unflappable English gent, popular with the ladies, handy with a gun and gadgets and the master of the raised eyebrow and one-liner. Moore plays the part to perfection. In this film he is at his peak, but benefits from an especially sharp script, unlike some of the later movies. The dwarf sidekick to Scaramanga, little Nick Nack, adds some comedy and cunning to the picture, his well timed dagger throws livening things up more than once. The film's conclusion in which Bond and his nemesis go head to head in a room of mirrors must rank as one of the great moments of cinema history. The theme tune is also full of character. I would recommend that all fans of Bond who haven't yet seen this rush out to get a copy, or failing that wait for ITV to repeat it! They usually oblige! "},{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" First of all, I love James Bond movies. It is very hard to find one I do not like. To tell you the truth, I am pretty much the opposite of a critic. Almost never do I hate a movie.But this one is just BAD! First of all, the dialogue is horrible! (Tom Mankawitz's final script, thank heaven!) Almost everything has to lead to a laugh, but it shouldn't! There are also tons of absurd situations! In that scene with the stupid bellydancer, he suddenly gets attacked by thugs! Who were those guys? Was there a REASON they were there, or did good IL' Tom think he should just have guys come in and randomly beat him up? Sheesh. Also, this has Roger Moore's worst interpretation of 007. He was better in Live and Let Die! And Clifton James has the distinction of being the worst actor ever to appear in a Bond film! And he ruins what COULD have been an exciting boat chase with overlong, embarrassing seens. That car stunt is sweet, but where did the sound effect come from!However, Christopher Lee is amazing as Scaramanga. He makes the movie a heck of a lot better than what it would have been without him. (Just thinking about it scares me!) This movie is the worst Bond film ever made, and is Roger Moore's all time low! "},{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" First of all, I love James Bond movies. It is very hard to find one I do not like. To tell you the truth, I am pretty much the opposite of a critic. Almost never do I hate a movie.But this one is just BAD! First of all, the dialogue is horrible! (Tom Mankawitz's final script, thank heaven!) Almost everything has to lead to a laugh, but it shouldn't! There are also tons of absurd situations! In that scene with the stupid bellydancer, he suddenly gets attacked by thugs! Who were those guys? Was there a REASON they were there, or did good IL' Tom think he should just have guys come in and randomly beat him up? Sheesh. Also, this has Roger Moore's worst interpretation of 007. He was better in Live and Let Die! And Clifton James has the distinction of being the worst actor ever to appear in a Bond film! And he ruins what COULD have been an exciting boat chase with overlong, embarrassing seens. That car stunt is sweet, but where did the sound effect come from!However, Christopher Lee is amazing as Scaramanga. He makes the movie a heck of a lot better than what it would have been without him. (Just thinking about it scares me!) This movie is the worst Bond film ever made, and is Roger Moore's all time low! "},{"Title":"Irritating","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Herve Villechaise, Britt Ekland, Clifton James, Maud Adams, Christopher Lee (surprisingly), the plot, the theme song, the martial arts, all irritating.And the bit where Q and a colleague deduce the origin of the gold in the bullet (from that woman's belly button) just by looking at it - puhleeeeease! "},{"Title":"Better than the last","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Although an improvement on Live and Let Die, this is not one of Bond's better adventures. They still tried to be getting away from the Bond formula with this one. Moore is on good form though and Cristopher Lee always makes a good villain. But the actual story is a bit poor, and where are all the action set pieces?, apart from the car chase and jump, which I agree was ruined by that stupid sound effect. The Bond girls are alright though, Britt Ekland is a bit too silly, but looks great and Maud Adams is very good and earns her special place in Bond girl history by appearing again in Octopussy (as a different character). Thankfully the next Bond film was a classic that saved the series. "},{"Title":"Moore's second time","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore returns to James Bond's role after LIVE AND LET DIE. His second Bond movie was Man with the Golden Gun in 1974.This time he fights against Francisco Scaramanga (Christopher Lee). Maud Adams is having her first James Bond experience.She returned to Bond movie in OCTOPUSSY.And in our series of weird names in Bond movies I could mention Mary Goodnight, played by Britt Ekland.Desmond Llewelyn debuts with Roger Moore as Q in this movie.Man with the Golden Gun is a great Bond movie with some great action scenes.The car chase is absolutely brilliant. Roger Moore proved that the man was made to be James Bond. I recommend Man with the Golden Gun for every James Bond fans out there. "},{"Title":"Lee's acting may have been good, but the villain was bad because there was no tension between him and bond","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Ok y was scaramanga such a great villain? Well he was suave and had a hot girl, had good aim, and was rich. However, there is no tensity during any of the gun battles. Y? becuz the movie never gives a reason to hate him (unless you count the fact he killed a circus trainer who abused elephants). A weak story, villains, acting, plot, mary goodnight pitiful 007 girl, BOMB "},{"Title":"Not the best, but not the worst!","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pretty decent film, would be a great one were it not for some bad jokes (slidewhistle, anyone?), more J.W. Pepper than we ever could possibly need, and a terrible Bond girl. But there are some other elements to this film that would have made it classic if not marred by those other errors great score, great villain, great twisting story. A must see, but not a must have. "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's farce delight","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Good music, good chases, bad editing, bad sound effects, medicore bond girls, awesome Baddie, but farce James Bond. That just about sums up the installment of the James Bond movies, Roger Moore's second going at it. Unfortunately, the audience saw between the lines and asked, what crap is this?  Ok, ok i did enjoy parts of it, but i got more laughs than adrenilne rushing in this one.  Definitely a comedy, not an action movie.  Best parts include Bond in the Karate School, the maze scenes, they music is pretty good, great sequences but the sound effects were second rate even for the 70's.  Also, Bond seems a bit out of sorts with the cigar, slapping and cruel treatment of that little kid.  And give credit for American Motors, Bond and JW Pepper chasing Scaramanga.  Problem is that American Motors no longer exists (Chrysler bought it in the late 80's FYI).  Another piece of trivia, this was Saltzman's last Bond movie, must have quit cause of the bad reviews. "},{"Title":"Mildly Flawed","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Shame. A good film, spoiled by some flaws. Like the car jump with the really crap sound effects. And the increasingly annoying JW Pepper. And the wetness of Mary Goodnight. And after all this time of them building up a good character for Bond when he turns out to be a complete and utter bastard, using a kid then chucking him into the river. But there a plus sides. Like the maze chase. And Christoper Lee excels as Scaramonga. And apart from the aforementioned sound effects, which I hope someone got fired for, the car chase. So with flaws, comes a great Bond film. Enjoy. "}{"Title":"Move over,Brosnan","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a real change of pace from most of the Bond outings, and a real breath of fresh air as a result. So what if the villain doesn't want to rule the world? That only tends to be the scenario in the most tired and lackluster entries in the series in any case. Moore is just great as Bond, hard, nasty, witty and ever ready with some quick escape routines. Not the best in the series? Maybe so, but it's a darn sight more intelligent and entertaining than either of Brosnan's efforts to date. At least this was a Bond who was worthy of the trust of nations, rather than the machine-gunning Rambo-like moron served up in Tomorrow Never Dies. Some like Connery best, but after watching this film again (I saw it when it first came out and have rewatched it constantly since) all I can say is I think you're missing something truly great in 007 performances. Well done Rog. Shame the ending wasn't properly thought out, but then neither of Brosnan's first two efforts were worked out at all, so that hardly seems a criticism. And as for Lee as Scaramanga, just listen to the monologue from Fleming's book in the kick-boxing stadium. Lee was a sort of cousin of Fleming's, and when he delivers that line he's saying it for Ian. A great villain, a great film. "},{"Title":"","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was the worst of the series to date and still is. Rushed into production since the audience seemed to accept Roger Moore in his previous outing, the film is loaded with poor sound effects and worse looping of dialog (Soon Teck Oh appears to be dubbed by two different voices, one of which is definitely not his own). And that sheriff, J.W. from Live and Let Die should have been left to die, other than Jaws from the next two movies, J.W. is the most ridiculous and annoying character to appear in any Bond film. Oh yeah, everyone goes abroad to test drive an American Motors car. This is more like a Matt Helm movie, not a Bond film. At least it was the last time Guy Hamilton directed a Bond film, his cartoon approach to the series was never to my liking.  "},{"Title":"Seriously Underrated","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, there's a few problems.  Scaramanga's solar plant set is pretty much wasted, while the funhouse is overused.  However, Christopher Lee is my favorite Bond villain  a cool, suave, anti-Bond who does his own dirty work (like Yaphet Kotto in the previous flick).  Yes, Goldfinger might be menacing, impressive, and can shoot someone when pushed, but give me a villain that can go face-to-face with Bond any day.  Herve Villachez, freed from having to be the tough Oddjob-type bodyguard/menace, provides both comic relief and a certain amount of plot diversion as someone trying to kill his boss.  Britt kind of grates on the nerves after a while (she's probably the shallowest of Bond female leads), but Moore is adequate, and the stunts and scenery are spectacular. "},{"Title":"The worst in the series","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore's second effort in the James Bond role produces the worst in the series - hands down. The plot has something to do with legendary assassin Christopher Lee purportedly targeting the secret agent and then makes nonsensical plot turns regarding laser beams and flying cars.Bond Moore is game, but he still seems to be struggling. He has neither the heft nor the acting talent to make up for a lousy Bond production. His lightweight approach to role still had not yet paid off.The villain One would think a veteran baddie like Christopher Lee would bring something to the role, but he is a surprisingly forgettable Bond villain. The less said about the obnoxious henchman played by Fantasy Island's Herve Villechaize, the better.The women Two of the worst Bond women on record. Adams' cheekbones contribute her performance in a ludicrously underwritten role as Lee's frightened mistress. And if Ian Fleming could see Britt Ekland's rendition of Mary Goodnight, he would spin in his grave. No argument that Ekland is a beautiful woman, but she is a grade-A dolt in this film. Completely weak and inept, a total obstacle rather than an assistant to the hero, and she actually cringes in fright when the diminutive and totally nonthreatening Villechaize approaches her.I hated Lulu's title track at the time, but it has improved in retrospect. Unlike many of the Bond films, the pacing is stagnant, the plot is especially stupid and there is nary a thing to recommend it. "},{"Title":"When Bond Went Bad","Date":"29 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's hard to say exactly what went wrong with The Man with the Golden Gun. Because its problems are numerous and there is almost nothing to like or appreciate about the film.James Bond is hunted down by Francisco Scaramanga; a man who prides himself upon killing his enemies with a single golden bullet. Hence he is known by the formidable name of the man with the golden gun.There are little pleasures to be had though. John Barry returns to score the film and although it's his least memorable it possesses certain energy to it. Oh if only the film had borrowed some of this energy then at least the whole affair would not feel like it is running on fumes.Christopher Lee as Francisco Scaramanga is the most enjoyable and entertaining aspect of the film. Yet he overshadows James Bond. We really should not root for the villain but this time we cannot help it. The film lights up whenever Lee is on screen and it remains fitting that he is the only character that we care about throughout the entire film.The Man with the Golden Gun sadly suffers from a plethora of problems. Scaramanga's loyal servant Nick Nack is mind bogglingly silly. From the way he acts and speaks almost like a comedic act. It just does not suit Bond's nature and goes against what we as loyal fans have come to expect from the franchise.The Bond girl Goodnight only makes an appearance so that we get to hear incredibly awful dialogue filled beyond comprehension with double entendres. What's most insulting though is how she acts around Bond. She sways from ignoring his charm to falling in love with him. She even lets Bond put her in a wardrobe so he can bed another woman. Never mind the fact that she almost blows up a small island from her bottom. Though who can really take this instalment seriously? A man with three nipples, a flying car and a fun house. This all reeks of nonsense. Because that's all that The Man with the Golden Gun is nonsense. Bond fans really did deserve better and so did Christopher Lee; the only point of interest in one of the weakest Bond entries in memory. Luckily, The Man with the Golden Gun is one of few weak points in Bond's cinematic history. We can only hope that its mistakes shall never be replicated again. "},{"Title":"Roger's second outing and a little better than it's predecessor","Date":"16 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" An interesting Bond film, concentrating at first very much on the character of the villain rather than of the hero (did you recognise the actor playing the hit-man as one of Blofield's Vegas hoods in 'Diamonds are Forever'? I wonder if it was intended to be the same character?). You genuinely get the idea that Scaramanga is one of the few Bond villains to be a genuine match for him, complete with his own impressive set of deadly gadgets, beautiful women and expensive tastes. His backstory is intriguing too, notably this is a unique villain in that he never seeks out Bond or vice-versa, their meeting is arranged by his mistress who wants Bond to kill him for her.Maud Addams is a great Bond girl, beautiful and tough yet so terrified of Scaramanga who keeps her as a virtual slave in a gilded cage and yet kills her in cold blood and dismisses her as replaceable with barely a second thought. The scene where Bond realises she's dead and takes her hand almost tenderly as he searches for the McGuffin (because of course for 007 the mission comes first)is actually quite touching, that he is sorry that he couldn't save this doomed heroine. Still, she gets to come back in Octopussy, the first Bond girl ever to do so. Britt Ekland by contrast is utterly terrible, just existing to screw up and be the butt of many jokes. Nice humour though, Bond kicking his opponent in the dojo whilst bowing is terrific, a move that preceding Indy shooting the swordsman by many years. The kick-ass schoolgirls are great, Bond's ingenuity in the final shootout (all very Avengers, especially the episode 'Game') is very clever and do love his I'll have to owe you line. Good stuff but I'll be glad when we get on to the two classic Moore Bonds. "},{"Title":"Very little in the way of a Golden Touch Christopher Lee looks like he's in another film; the piece is tonally broken and there is too much obligatory content.","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" What appears to be one of the better scenes in Guy Hamilton's fourth and final stab at a Bond entry, a 1974 effort entitled The Man With the Golden Gun, sees the two predominant forces of the piece placed next to one another at the fitting locale of a kick-boxing match; these two men at the peak of their respective professions at a large-ish stadium housing an event of grandeur spectacle featuring two warriors going at it for glory and through the pain barrier to an array of baying, paying audience members. Their eventual showdown echoes that of the two fighters, where we, the audience, are representative of the conscience crowd watching on and pining for a result. The strange thing being that neither of these two men are actually in competition with one another and, up to this point, neither of them had formally met. Where their meeting at this kick-boxing event might have encapsulated this sense of oneupmanship or duelling commonplace the two men share, we are then quick to realise that neither of these two actually share any conflict whatsoever, and their fighting with one another is purely elementary to what is a Bond installation rife with the bog-standard ingredients of pretty women wearing very little; far-off locales, which come with the benefit of being able to cash in on a territory which happens to take to the franchise, and quirky henchmen with very little of a role to actually play once all is said and done.It is a curious thing to have such an interesting villain, indeed, an interesting idea for a villain, and then forget to forge some kind of conflict with your leading man. When we are introduced to Francisco Scaramanga, we observe Chrisopher Lee taking a swim on an exotic island populated only by his girlfriend Andrea (Adams) and butler Nick-Nack (Villechaize) before being plunged into a scenario in which he must begin unarmed, against an armed opponent; turn the tables and then kill the individual whose reasons for being there were always shady in the first place. The gym equipment and his dexterity in dealing with what spontaneity he faces imbues a sense of professionalism and athleticism, a worthy opponent to any hit-man or cutthroat, professional or otherwise, that culminates in the shooting of a wax-work figurine of our James Bond. Indeed, this is a rare instance in which Bond's only presence in one of his own franchise's famous pre-credits sequence is to play the role of the shot up model, and despite the colourful nature of the name, Lee plays him with that accent Lee has which I'm not sure many from Scaramanga's nation of origin possess.Roger Moore returns after the debut he made in the previous year's Live and Let Die, the man appearing savvy to the early establishment of Scaramanga's ability in his reeling off of detailed information on the guy upon spontaneous request by his boss in London. A golden bullet has been sent to London with 007 on it; Bond is told to lay low but dismisses this by heading out to the front-line of it all, an obligatory punch up in a Lebanese nightclub preceded by, of all things, a laxative joke followed by a trip to a Macao based arms dealer, whose business is fronted by three seemingly innocuous looking natives outside eating their bowls of rice completely juxtaposing what gross implements of death transpire to be created within. Later on there will be, for absolutely no reason whatsoever other than we're in the Far-East and might as well, a kung-fu sequence against people I'm not even sure were villains. Dropped in amidst all of this is a needless love interest, if you can call them that, for Bond in the form of Mary Goodnight (Ekland); a bimbo more-so a co-agent whose soft bodied, photogenic qualities are distressingly so.Moore's portrayal of Bond has come under varying barrages of fire over the decades; the man rarely backed up by great material although here does rather well with some good stuff for the early part. From what I perceive, Bond was always an anti-hero; he was the smoking, drinking, womanising lead whom always prefigured to save his own skin before that of any organisation's or, indeed, the rest of the world's. When it is his life seemingly under threat for the early part of the film's first act, we observe the man disparagingly go against orders to lay low and consequently tear through most of Asia trying to find out why it is his masculinity and position of global recognition has been threatened, even going so far as to breeze into a woman's hotel suite and actually assault her. It is a rare instance of Moore doing what most would've liked to have seen more of, taking a strangle-hold on the material, as well as his surroundings, and going on to throw caution to the wind by getting results.Alas, the film is too misdirected and nonsensical to allow one to particularly warm to it in any way; the tone is all over the place, an energy crisis plot opens up involving Scaramanga which sees the man put a bullet in the forehead of a businessman in the upper echelons of such an industry, but this is an instance which follows on from that of the introducing of Live and Let Die's deep south heralded sheriff Pepper (James). His scene, apart from the fact he is an aggressive stereotype clumsily juxtaposing Moore's English suaveness, is goofy and is rounded off with a misplaced instance of anthropomorphism that does not do well to predate the rather brutal aforementioned execution. There is an obligatory car chase, in which the filmmakers get to namedrop an automobile company used by Bond, that doesn't make great use of the third party element that is the police force, and the whole thing feels rather limp long before it has hobbled toward its conclusion. "},{"Title":"A step in the right direction for the series","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After making his debut in Live and Let Die, Roger Moore returns for his second outing. For lack of a better term, this film is simply light years ahead of it's two predecessors and then some. However, the film doesn't quite cross into that classic Bond territory that we all know and love. Lastly, the film is also Saltzman's last Bond film to be attached as producer before selling his share to United Artists.The film is interesting for two reasons. Firstly, the film has the best casting ever with Christopher Lee as Scaramanga and secondly, the whole cat and mouse idea between him and Bond, eventually leading to a duel between the two. The trouble is that the film adds a Solex Agitor plot in addition to the assassin vs. assassin plot and both are too loosely connected. The film would have been better without the Solex Agitor plot and played out like the novel - the cat and mouse game between Bond and Scaramanga. Furthermore, the Bond girl Brit Ekland is wasted by saying or doing stupid things and really fitting the bill of the bimbo Bond girl.Roger Moore's performance in this film is one of his better ones, second only to For Your Eyes Only. Furthermore, he is more believable as Bond since he is more ruthless and human-like in this film, unlike some of his other Bond films (not his fault really, his scripts often had him as a wise-cracking, superhero-type agent). Plus the script has him use harsher methods of achieving his objectives, namely smacking Maud Adams around and getting information at gun point. Lastly, he still looks youthful at this point, before his age caught up with him and losing any credibility in the role due to staying longer than he should have.Lee's Scaramanga is one of the better villains, if for casting alone. However, the trouble is the way the character is written; at the start of the film we learn that Bond is his next target but as the film goes on, he turns into something of a anti-villain. For example, when he and Bond meet, he says something along the lines of I've got nothing against you so therefore taking away the whole point of the story. However, it isn't all bad though, I found the Scaramanga of the film an improvement over the Scaramanga of the novel. In the novel, he's merely a gangster with a lucky shot.Simply put, The Man with the Golden Gun is the bridge between two horrible films and Moore's most definitive Bond film. "},{"Title":"Fool's gold","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sorry, I'm a Connery man myself, when it comes to what my sister calls Jimmy Bond films. Roger Moore, as has been said before certainly looks more like how you'd expect an On Her Majesty's Secret Service agent to look and he certainly gives us debonair and élan. But his Bond is also aloof, staid and stiff even when rhyming off those plentiful one-liners which came to over-clutter his tenure, lacking in passion, humour and even mobility.His looks will always bowl the ladies over but I just can't believe him as a steely-nerved, physically fit killing-machine. It doesn't help in this outing that his main protagonist is a self-confessed mirror-image, only Christopher Lee is older than our hero, further giving the impression of a sell-by date already passed. Even the title song sees a screeching Lulu fail to fill the ample shoes of say, Shirley Bassey.The best thing about the film was the sub-Evel Knievel twisting loop-the-loop car stunt, but too much of the rest of the film seems very second-hand - the shooting gallery prologue and climax is right out of The New Avengers and the big stunts are redolent of cinematic flavours of the month, Enter the Dragon and Smokey and the Bandit. Maud Adams and Britt Ekland are two of the less memorable Bond girls and it doesn't help that the fate of the world isn't at stake, coming down to the last few seconds as Bond and Scaramanga square-off at the end.I watched it on a Saturday afternoon and there still aren't many less demanding watches on my TV but Bond is turning safe here and that will never do. "},{"Title":"The Yin And Yang Of 007","Date":"14 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's never easy putting a numerical vote value to a James Bond movie; they follow their own rules and employ a unique formula designed to deliver pure entertainment rather than story. No Bond movie exemplifies this as well as The Man With The Golden Gun.For every positive in this film, there's a commensurate drawback, rather like a yin for a yang.John Barry gives us one of the most interesting and dynamic scores, both lilting and driving...yet centered around a terrible main titles song oversung by a screechy Lulu.Roger Moore is a charming Bond and enjoyable company...except when he is pressed to act tough in a couple of ill-thought-out scenes that totally undercut his nice-guy 007 interpretation.Maud Adams and Britt Ekland are amazingly beautiful actresses presented to jaw-dropping effect...but underwritten as characters until they lose any point other than as window dressing.Christopher Lee is a riveting villain as title character Scaramanga...but the film uses him in a murky and somewhat goofy way, alternately impressed by Bond yet not taking him seriously.The setpieces that anchor this film are thrilling and engaging...but connected haphazardly to a central story with more ugly holes in it than one of Scaramanga's hapless targets.All in all, Golden Gun is fitfully entertaining but too stupid to be enjoyed in the same clean way you can relish other Bond adventures. Director Guy Hamilton's emphasis on laughs and grittiness finally catches up with him after his last two films more or less got away with employing the same left-field mixture.If you are going to play Bond for laughs, they should at least be good laughs, not Moore making lame wisecracks like pointing a gun at a would-be informant's crotch with the line Speak now or forever hold your piece. Or botching one of the marquee stunts in the Bond series, a 360-degree midair car jump, by running it in slow-motion with a slide-whistle. You could have gotten the same result from a model without endangering anyone. Clifton James returns from the last film as Sheriff Pepper, slowing up the action with odd scenery-chomping asides. He should have taken his cue from a previous role and spent a night in the box instead.Liking Bond, and Moore as Bond, helps a lot. His scenes with Bernard Lee as M give him more to play off of than usual, with M cleverly putting him onto an assassination job against Scaramanga without exactly saying so. Christopher Lee does seem an ideal match for Moore with his cheery civility and the brotherhood of being hired guns. You work for peanuts, a hearty 'well-done' from the Queen and a pittance of a pension, Scaramanga observes. Other than that, we are the same. The Maguffin of acquiring a solar-power magnifying device gives this film a certain timeliness that moves 007 out of his 1960s Cold-War perspective, even if Scaramanga's own interest in the device is rather lamely shoehorned in (he was brought in as a hired gun yet his lair turns out to be uniquely equipped for employing the device at film's end).We do get one cleverly-developed bad guy in Scaramanga's assistant, Nick Nack (Hervé Villechaize). Nick Nack is one of those seemingly soft ideas (Dr. Loveless, call your office) that actually delivers with Villechaize playing him for ample menace as well as laughs. His relationship with Scaramanga, whom he sets top assassins on in order to keep his boss in top fettle, establishes a creepy vibe aided by Scaramanga's funhouse-equipped lair.Here again, what you get is balanced by what you miss, namely the more expansive set-design work of Bond regular Ken Adam. You miss a lot with Golden Gun, yet it amuses and surprises enough to stay in the lower-middle range of Bond films, never devolving into the embarrassing realm of Die Another Day or A View To A Kill. Get a little, lose a little; yin and yang. "}{"Title":"rather poor and constrained","Date":"23 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film is a rare oddity in the series in that it is the only Bond movie that looks rather poor and constrained, a flaw that would never be repeated again. Director Hamilton's flair and virtuosity are still evident throughout, the locations are first class and Christopher Lee is absolutely terrific as Scaramanga, but the film is utterly let down by an inept script and a cursory lack of 'pompous largesse' - an abiding characteristic of the Bonds. Thus, it does feel sort of being deflated with a long hiss, at least in its second half. And last but not least, the film is crucially marred by Moore's funny inability to adopt an edgier idiosyncrasy for his persona. And if that's not bad for a Bond movie, I don't know what is. "},{"Title":"So Close to Bond Greatness","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The thing that upsets me the most about The Man With The Golden Gun is the potential that it could have been a great movie.It has some excellent ingredients. For instance, the acting ensemble was superb. Christopher Lee as Scaramanga is one of the better villains, Maud Adams and Britt Ekland were radiant Bond girls, and Herve Villechaize was entertaining as Nick Nack. The locations were certainly exotic with Bond traveling to Macau and Thailand. The story was pretty basic, but entertaining enough.However there were many downfalls to this movie. I felt the scene when Bond escaped the Karate School was poorly assembled. The pacing seemed awkwardly composed and it interrupted the flow of the film. However the most asinine decision in the Bond franchise is what makes this movie's value free fall immensely. The pointless, stereotypical, and obnoxious sheriff from Louisiana that we saw in Live and Let Die has somehow decided to take a vacation with his wife to Thailand!!Not to mention the irrationality of that type of character to be traveling to Southeast Asia for his precious vacation and in the early 1970s none the less. His presence makes this film one of the worst in the franchise. A movie where such a useless character is in the film for a solid 20 minutes plus is unacceptable.This Bond movie frustrates me the most. It has so much potential to be the best Roger Moore film and possibly one of the better Bond films in the whole franchise, but you visually watch the film unravel, it's too much to handle by the end. Even though the ending sequence is enjoyable.A regrettable 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  ******Spoilers included********This film, together with Goldfinger, is the best Bond-film. Why it's often rated so low among critics and Bond-fans is a complete riddle!Let me list some of the strong points of this filmThe man with with golden gun is a film which manages in an incredible way to mix action and humour, something which is very rare.The characters are maybe the most interesting in any Bond-film. Who is really Nick Nack? What it his relationsship to Scaramanga? It's hard to take interest like that in characters like Blofeld or Stromberg or Jaws.The music and the sets are amazing, as always in Bond-films. The villians nest, Scaramangas island, is a magical mystical place!It's a very nice touch that there are no luxurious ski resorts in this film. Instead there is a place like the Bottoms up club, a strip club in Hong Kong. It's also nice that the plot is not involving the usual nuclear rockets and space ships, instead James Bond is trying to solve the energy crisis. Also, the film doesen't end with the usual battle between the guys in the orange overalls and the guys in the blue overalls, which often just kills off the suspense.Many critic have complained about the reapperance of J.W Pepper, and although it's very unlikely that Bond and Pepper would meet again just by chance, his apperance is extremely enjoyable!Roger Moore is great in this film. Many of the scenes couldn't have been pulled of so well by any other actor, including Sean Connery. Christopher Lee is just as magnificent as in the Dracula films. Actually the chararcter Scaramanga is very similar to Dracula, only he has a pistol instead of fangs. Maud Adams is the best actress to play a Bond-girl, her character Miss Andres, who wants Bond to kill Scaramanga, is very rememberable. But the best performance is by Herve Villechaize as Nick Nack! Finally, maybe the critics of TMWTGG are right about Britt Ekland, she's very pretty but kind of silly...  "},{"Title":"New, modern threats, same formula","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man With The Golden Gun is the modern twin of From Russia With Love in the latter, Bond is led to assassination with the carrot of a communist code machine; in the former, this film, the assassination threat is the MacGuffin as a Chinese mogul tries to corner the world energy market. Also reversed is the classic paymaster-eliminates-his- hit-man plot as Scaramanga begins to get designs beyond his own capabilities and imagination. This makes for a bizarre final Act in which the baddies lair has but a single, wordless henchman. Inventive ideas, ill-executed.This threadbare patch aside though, there's not much one can easily point at in The Man With The Golden Gun as being badly done. Everything fits together nicely, paced evenly as a thriller we get the usual diet of titillation and spectacle with splashes of comedy and drama. Unlike You Only Live Twice, the traditions of this part of the Orient are not pressed - instead, kept in lower profile, Macau and Hong Kong are well- sourced location backdrops for the influence of the familiar West (Rolls Royces as hotel cars, the prodigious - and salacious - Vegas-in- China that is Macau).Unfortunately, the script serves the Bond-formula calcified in Diamonds Are Forever. This, added to some mixed acting, makes for a rather pedestrian drama. Roger Moore rises above this. Having served his probation in Live And Let Die, he is comfortable in his newly-minted 007, which is everything Fleming and the latter designs of Eon want 007 to be. Christopher Lee rather lets himself down, overplaying Scaramanga. He isn't helped by working opposite Maud Adams who is very good as the bitter moll. Hervé Villechaize is consigned to play a trope as Nick Nack - a shame as he is spirited in every frame of his appearance.The Man With The Golden Gun is a well-produced, water-treading installment of the franchise, with little to set it apart let alone above its confrères. However, in Bond's rejoinder to the distraught belly-dancer's 'I've lost my charm!', it does have the single greatest one-liner in the entire canon. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Nicky and the ladies?","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best Bond...  Nick, the midget... is amusing. The ladies are amusing. Mr Bond is amusing and Mr Scaramanga himself is very amusing. The acting is overall good and the scenery and music is great and the plot...? Well it's interesting and exciting. Though the blondie screams  Jaaaames  a bit too much... Her role is a bit too stupid. Overall this film is a very good film.  "},{"Title":"It's predictable, but I love the camp value. . .","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Nothing happens in this movie that you don't see coming a mileaway. The Bond girl is as dumb as a post, and Sheriff Pepper, theannoying Jar Jar Binks character from the previous movie, returnsworse than ever. It would be a pretty bad film if it wasn't for threethings  1. Christopher Lee, in his brilliant performance as the film's titlecharacter. Without him, the film would be nothing. But he is perfect.2. Nick Nack, the evil French midget. Got to love this little guy.3. The camp value. It can be darn funny at times. As such, it'sworth a couple viewings. 7/10. "},{"Title":"best bond film ever","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I can't say i am a fan of the bond films, and to be honest to me they just get worse every time. as much as i dislike them i really do think this is a very good film and dosen't get recognised for this. the story is very good and i think all the characters are great and roger moore play's a good james bond. if you are going to see a bond film i recommend you see this one for it beats all the others. this deserves a good 8 out of 10 for being the best bond film "},{"Title":"Somewhat overly humorous,but has it's moments.","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I found this particular James Bond film somewhat overzealous in it's attempts to be humorous,looking at times to be a parody of other genre's of cinema.For example,James Bond taking on almost an entire martial arts school would perhaps remind you of any Bruce Lee film.We also have wrecking police cars that would remind you of Smokey and the Bandit or The Dukes of Hazzard,though neither were around at the time this film was made.I found Clifton James' performance as Sheriff J.W. Pepper a bit overdone and completely unnecessary.On the bright side,Christopher Lee makes a very credible villain here,and Herve Villechaize,in a pre- Fantasy Island role,steals the entire show as Nick Nack.For any die hard Bond fan,all Bond films are must haves,but for the ordinary film collectors like myself,I would steer clear. "},{"Title":"Bond at its absolute worst!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, most bond movies hve james bond saving the world from a somewhat far-fetched, but equally engaging terror threat. THIS bond movie has bond traveling to a secret island in the pacific to murder a three-nippled assassin, who is already being targeted by his midget butler/personal trainer. Insert sarcastic comment here.Awful, Awful bond movie "},{"Title":"Jealous husbands - outraged chefs - humiliated tailors!","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Speaking as a Moore fan rather than a Bond purist, I think this film is very good, though not the best Moore Bond. My main criticism is the strange contrast in production values. The final scenes on the island are generally very good - the high budget glamour we expect of Bond. But some scenes are more reminiscent of 'The Saint' or a cheap TV movie. For example when Bond goes to 'Beirut', it's obviously the back lot of Pinewood. And when the solar mirror appears out of the rock, they use special effects that even Thunderbirds would have been ashamed of!The 'fun house' scenes are also rather cheesy, especially the honky-tonk piano that plays the film's theme tune. But overall, it's a fun outing for Bond who has some great one liners and I defy any red blooded male not to be bowled over by Miss Ekland! "}{"Title":"highly underrated Bond film","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Moore's second Bond movie is pretty cool.  It is a highly-underrated film. Sure, the Bond girl in this one is not the best, but Guy Hamilton's direction and Roger Moore's acting more than makes up for it.  Christopher Lee also puts in a fine performance. "},{"Title":"A movie series w/19 entries has to have some weak ones.","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Shame, shame.  This could have been a pretty good movie if they would have left out J.W. Pepper and Miss Goodnight (and perhaps that shot of Tattoo in his sumo-like briefs).  Christopher Lee is awesome as Scaramanga, and Maud Adams is good too.  Moore, as usual, is very smooth in this one.  I was most impressed with M's headquarters in the half-sunken liner.  On the whole, this is not in the upper echelon of Bond movies, but, like I said, when you make that many, some are going to be turkeys. I just couldn't figure out why that Hong Kong agent and his 2 nieces stranded Bond after they escaped from the judo/ninja school... "},{"Title":"Who says this bond movie is good? it is pathetic!","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am a huge Bond fan. I have bond encyclopedias, trivia books, novels, etc. I have a database full of info in my head, committed to memory. I, as well as many critics and fans, denounce GOLDEN GUN as a BOMB. It has silly gags, slapstick humor, no tension between bond and fransisco scaramanga, and terribly childish plot twists. Now tell me, does it disturb you that Bond is saved by two teenage girls who outfight ninjas and kung fu masters or that a midget beats bond up? And really, one would think the slapstick between sherriff J.w. pepper is horrendous. A terrible entry. WHO COULD POST OPTIMISTIC REVIEWS FOR THIS MESS? "},{"Title":"Moore is good","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of his best Bond Movies, this and The Spy Who Loved Me were the best two Moore Bonds....people say that Connery was the best Bond, I don't think he is. actually he is the best at being Bond but they gave him the dumb movies where bond is boring he would hang out with the villin, like go to his house for dinner or play golf just do stupid crap that no one would ever do.  they have re-made James Bond since Connery. even when Laznby was Bond he was the Connery Bond I don't know why people give him so much crap about being Bond he was a very good Bond he acted like Connery a lot and OHMSS was a great movie, anyway this was a really good James Bond movie great villin great plot...it was just a realy good movie "},{"Title":"When bad turns good!","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Oh My!  This movie is so full of cheesy delights I was absolutely tantilized by it!  Wow! I have never seen such a GOLDEN gun in my life!!  It was positively BRILLIANT!  While perhaps not one of the most fascinating Bond films ever made, this was certainly one of the most entertaining, as all the corny 70's camp popped up to fill the void.  And I think Roger makes a terrific bond!  He's no Sean of course, and doesn't have the looks of Pierce, but he is certainly better than Timothy Dalton!  He also brings a suaveness with the ladies that I don't think the other boys can compete with.  Do see this one if you're a Bond fan because it really is one of the most entertaining of them all.. and look out for the Golden Gun! You might need sunglasses! ) "},{"Title":"An excellent Bondmovie!","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore returns as James Bond in The Man With The Golden Gun. Bond receives a golden-bullet, which tells him that the worlds greatest assassin, Scaramanga, is after him. Scaramanga is played by Christopher Lee(Dracula).  Lee`s acting is superb and he is one of the best villains in the series.  Look forward to splendid action and a memorable soundtrack!Scaramanga is called The Man With The Golden Gun because he always uses a golden gun.       One of Moore`s best Bond-films! 8,5/10 "},{"Title":"Great film, great Bond","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yep. This is another really good one. The plot is fairly simple, though they had to fit in some heavy-duty destruction device just to make Bond interested in Scaramaga in the first place. And, mind you, TWO Swedish women star as Bond girls, Maud Adams and Britt Ekland. Maud Adams is also the only woman ever to appear twice as a Bond girl. "},{"Title":"Could have been a classic, but failed...","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Man With The Golden Gun had the potential to become a classic Bond, but failed.  Maybe if it was done a few years earlier with Connery, then it could have worked.  The ultimate low point in the entire series comes when M and Q start bickering with each other.  Q and M would never fight, no matter the conditions!  Another bad turn is taking a great action piece and ruining it with a stupid sound effect.  The car jump across the river could of been a classic action scene, but was ruined with a campy whistle sound.  The only redeeming feature is the plot, which I found to be most interesting.  Scaramanga made for a good villain, but his buddy Nick Nack was a joke.  There was no way Nick Nack could be any match for Bond.  Just bad casting I guess.  Rent this Bond when no others are available. "},{"Title":"Has the Pepper, but needs salt!","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Man With The Golden Gun is slickly crafted in lush tropical settings, backed by John Barry's music and by the two best villains (Christopher Lee, Herve Villechaize) in 10 years. Whenever Lee is onscreen, we get the feeling that a smart, From Russia With Love- type thriller might emerge from this uneven and ultimately unsatisfying film. Britt Ekland's work here ranges from mediocre to awful; she's one of the weakest Bond heroines. The naked swimmer named Chew Me doesn't really belong here. And J.W. Pepper is totally out of place in what is little more than an American Motors plug (look what happened to THAT car maker).  "},{"Title":"I am your Dark side!","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore`s second outing as James Bond sees him fighting with a man much like himself. Christopher Lee plays Scaramanga the man who considers himself the dark side of James Bond.And quite right to, he has a very neat and deadly weapon....the Golden Gun. The Golden Gun is made from 4 seemingly innocent objects. 1)A cigarette case which is the handle 2)A lighter which is the bullet chamber 3)A fountain pen which is the barrel 4) A cuff link which is the trigger.One shot with this gun means instant death and is very deadly, there is only room for one shot though, then you have to reload.Scaramanga has a henchman but unlike all the other villains` henchmen this one is different.....he is a midget, a little man about 3 foot tall named Knicknack.I give this a 6 out of 10.A truly Golden Film. "}{"Title":"Number two of Roger, Is one of the best of the lot!","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After a great start with the brilliant LIVE AND LET DIE, Roger Moore throws in another great outing as 007 in one of the best James Bond films.  Christopher Lee is highly chilling as Scaramanga, and Nik Nak is the classic pint-sized henchmen, and mixing the Bond formula with a bit of fantasy and extra-wit, make this an unmissable Bond film. "},{"Title":"The best Bond film ever made!","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This Bond is typically slammed in movie reviews/ Bond books and is frequently numbered among the worst of the series. But it's my favourite ! I don't think Bond was ever more entertaining than in this colourful, humourous, intriguing adventure.Christopher Lee is marvellous as Scaramanga, arch assassin and a kind of 007-gone-to-seed. He's menacing and interesting. Britt is amusing as the dippy Goodnight and Roger Moore (surely the best Bond !) is in top form - alternately witty and deadly, but always the playboy gentleman.Just the right mixture of humour and danger, and some amazing sets, set this one apart from the pack.  "},{"Title":"Flat on his coup de grace","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Despite it's unfortunate performance at the box office, 'The Man With The Golden Gun' can be viewed today as one of the very best films in the 007 series. After making the role of James Bond very much his own in 'Live & Let Die', Roger Moore develops a nastier streak for his second outing in the part. For the first time in the series since Goldfinger's potentially castrating lazer, Bond seems genuinely worried here at last he is faced with an adversary armed with sufficient knowledge of his skills and movements to finally engineer his destruction. That Scaramanga, the titular 'Man With The Golden Gun' fails in this task is due merely to his pompous professional arrogance. Moore delivers his finest performance as Bond here (though his wardrobe was clearly in need of some work, viz the awful green safari suit), and is matched perfectly by horror icon Christopher Lee as Scaramanga. The girls are great too - Maud Adams turns in one of the best female performances in the series, and for my money, Britt Ekland is the finest looking of all Bond's bed mates. A cutting line in wit (with even Sheriff Pepper made a little funnier), some spectacular set pieces and a dark quality absent since 'From Russia With Love' add up to make this a contender for the title 'Best Bond Film'. It could well have been an outright winner, but the logic of Scaramanga rather falls apart in the finale (how can he have all of the technical equiptment when he hasn't a clue what it does or how to use it). Still, this is a minor quible. A great film. "},{"Title":"Slow Bond","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The opening scene of this one is slow, like the rest of it. NickNack (Herve Villechaize) is not a good actor and 52-year old Christopher Lee (Scaramanga) is clearly using a body double for the action bits. I don't think Lulu's theme song has weathered the years as well as she has done though she certainly belts it out.Bond's opening scene is more traditional this time with M (Bernard Lee) and Moneypenny (Lois Maxwell), though Desmond Llewelyn's Q eclipses James Cossins as Colthorpe.We're still in the 1970s with its brown suits, brown cars and product placement Brut aftershave.Bond still has his one-liners (I've lost my charm! Not from where I'm standing) but they are weak.Maud Adams never was a great actress and yet Britt Ekland is handed the doormat role of Mary Goodnight. Scenes with Lee and Adams are unconvincing due to the age difference. Clifton James reprises his mouthy cop from Live and Let Die and in the process hurts the film more than he helps it.The car chase is good, though. "},{"Title":"Typical Moore Bond","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond is pitted against assassin Scaramanga.This is a fairly typical entry in the Roger Moore series of Bond movies - a plot of relative insignificance, lots of attractive travelogue photography, some decent stunts, action and effects sequences (the effects are rather better than usual), an above-average villain in Christopher Lee's urbane and rather likable Scaramanga, an entertaining freakish henchman, and pretty girls not wearing very much.Unfortunately, one then has to add in the regrettable tendency towards misplaced humour which always found its way into the Moore Bonds, at its worst here in the spiral car bridge jump - an absolutely stunning car stunt, given a sound effect of a swannee whistle. Appalling.And we shouldn't forget the shameful racism of Clifton James' J.W. Pepper. "},{"Title":"The man from MI-6 meets mediocrity...","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ***Warning! Spoiler Information Inside***With new actor Roger Moore (The Saint) accepted as James Bond by audiences, EON released the follow up , The Man with the Golden Gun in 1974.Someone is trying to kill an MI-6 agent. This time the target is Bond himself. As things progress , Bond becomes increasingly aware that his opponent is no amateur , and in fact may be the world's best assassin.The description matches the plot. Thin. No director in the world let alone Bond film veteran Guy Hamilton , could save this paper tiger. The premise runs out of gas forty minutes in and we are left praying for a quick resolution. To our dismay we are given a slow death. The only thing worth noting is the appearance of Andrea (Maud Adams) who remains the only woman to be a bond girl in two separate bond films (The Man with the Golden Gun , Octopussy).Sub-par.Two stars(of 5.) "},{"Title":"A Solid, if Slightly Bland, Return to Bond's Roots","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A nice return to form for the series, after wading in cheese up to their knees with the preceding Live and Let Die. It won't be giving From Russia With Love or Goldfinger a run for their money, but as the back-to-basics reality check that the series so desperately needed, this is more than acceptable. Roger Moore confidently plays a tougher, more businesslike Bond this time around, and spends most of the production flexing his detective chops in search of a rival assassin with nothing more to go on than the color of his weapon and a quick, curious nipple count. Stocked with fresh, exotic locales, skimpy beauties dressed for the beach, an adequate number of wacky, themed sidekicks (as in, less than the full dozen of the former picture) and a cool, legitimate master threat, this is pretty much the root formula for a good adventure with 007. Occasionally it gives in to a passion for pointless boat chases, and a few bad remnants of the era rear their head at inopportune moments (what was with the slide whistle during that massive car jump?) but such silly bits of self-indulgence are a part of the franchise's heritage at this point. Excellent work by Christopher Lee as the quirky titular killer nudges this into the top half of Bond's catalog. "},{"Title":"This one was a mix bag for me","Date":"12 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This one was a mix bag for me, I didn't think was great or even that good, it was OK at best nothing compared to Live and Let Die (1973) I think the plot was to weak for this movie, it got drag on a bit after first 25 mins, Which I did enjoy. And that the first fight was great, 3 and one was great scenes, it wasn't fast and it didn't drag that scene. I was board in some parts and I did how long as it got left however action dose pick up again. I love karate scenes, I thought that great also enjoy some very funny scenes and I loved funny parts with Copper or what ever he dose. The ending was kind of let down as while, I found the whole thing really predicable. This movie was very disappointing 5/10 "},{"Title":"The golden gun is wasted potential","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man With the Golden Gun is Roger Moore's second outing as James Bond and unfortunately had great potential to be one of the best Bond movies ever made but went the generic route with annoying characters, underdeveloped plotting and a great villain that could have been so much more utilized.The plot once again is a mess as it involves Francisco Scaramanga aka The Man With The Golden Gun played by Christopher Lee who does an excellent job portraying Scaramanga as Bond's equal who's suave, charismatic, debonair and dangerous but for some reason has a third nipple which was totally unnecessary. The plot of Bond vs his equal could have been so much more had they not included the dated subplot involving a solar power Mcguffin which all leads to a disappointing climax where Bond fights Scaramanga at his island lair. Roger Moore as James Bond in his second outing is alright but still hasn't found his stride as James Bond. The Bond girls are beautiful as always but are a hit and miss especially Britt Ekland as Mary Goodnight who is an incompetent MI6 agent and it makes you wonder why shes a spy at all. Clifton James for some strange reason returns as J. W. Pepper even though it wasn't needed but was a little bit funnier than he was in Live and Let Die. Guy Hamilton returns as director for the final time but the tone was still too campy and all it was doing was taking the series downhill and it was for the best that he leave the series. Case in point a great car stunt ruined by a cartoonish car whistle.A movie that could have been so much more but taken down by camp, bad plotting and an underused villain but still entertaining. "},{"Title":"Are you kidding me?","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In easily one of the worst films of the series, The Man with the Golden Gun was a low point for the series. The film has only a few things going for it, but I'll get it out of the way quick. The writing is sometimes OK, pun wise. The sidekick, Nick Knack, can be good at times, but not always. The car chase is good, well, for a little while. Not for the bad stuff. First off, you have Dracula/Christopher Lee as your villain, and you still screw it up! Come on, try guys. The Bond girl is a mope that you could replace with a broom with a wig. The return of Sheriff J.W. Pepper makes me want to destroy my TV, the end sequence is laughable, and M telling Q to shut up is totally out of character. And of course, the whole thing with this at times being a Saturday morning cartoon. A sound effect with the car flip, the deputy always commenting, and all sorts of stuff that I don't have the effort to type. "}{"Title":"A Bond film going nowhere.....yawn!","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a Bond film that I have given with a 4/10 rating and is rather underrated and Roger Moore's recent admission was that he didn't take the Bond roles seriously enough. I was disappointed with this film for a number of reasons and it seems to mark the point with several Bond films that weren't going anywhere as time would tell. Sometimes they weren't up to the point and are rather dreary or dated and er...er.. yawn. Even so, the computerised systems all around us have become totally dated as computer technology changes through the decades. Despite the good points I gave for the earlier Bond film Live and Let Die, this one there with the Golden Gun in extreme cases is much too tedious to get excited about and its rather boring. One interesting fact about the Bond girls in this film is that Britt Ekland already had a disastrous marriage to Peter Sellers while Maud Adams was later to appear as a leading Bond girl in Octopussy eight years later. "},{"Title":"This Golden Gun doesn't bang...it goes phut!","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Roger Moore's second outing as James Bond 007 and truly one of the worst James Bond movies in the series...is what you would probably expect me to write. And yes, I would really like to write that. The problem is that I believe as a critic you should try to give a film as fair a review as you can.In fact, The Man With The Golden Gun starts well for three reasons - all three of these reasons are linked, as the film starts with the three best characters.Firstly we have the Man with the Golden Gun himself, Fransisco Scaramanga. One of this film's undeniable strengths is the presence of Christopher Lee as the main bad guy. This character is truly the dark side of Bond, a man with the same tastes of good food, good drink and damn good women, and someone who must kill for a living. But Lee plays it as an obsessed cold-blooded killer, with no apparent care for his girlfriend. Speaking of which, may I introduce the second good thing about this movie, Maud Adams as Andrea Anders. A sort of updated version of Domino from Thunderball, Adams is beautiful and also a very good actress. We can tell that this is a kept woman, starved of real love and affection. The scene in the bedroom with Scaramanga is suitably chilling, particularly Lee's face when she does not give in to his toying around with his golden gun. It is a pity that she becomes a sacrificial lamb when she does, and does not carry on in the script. The third good thing about this film is Nick-Nack - it's a great contrast to see the very tall Lee up against the petite Herve Villechaize. He has that wonderfully devilish look in his eye whenever he is plotting something, and it is great that the script constantly keeps us guessing as to which side he is really on.After the opening sequence however, it goes downhill very quickly. Moore is good as Bond, but the scene where he interrogates Andrea seems rather cold and Connery-esquire. Moore has a certain style for Bond, as have all the other actors who have portrayed him, and so the script should have stuck with Moore's interpretation.The script is not great, though several elements are intriguing. The relevance of the secondary plot - the Energy crisis - is still strong today, though I don't think the producers had guessed this when making the film. M has a few wonderful put-downs as well, and in fact seems increasingly exasperated by almost everything Bond does in the film.The script turns truly awful with the introduction of Mary Goodnight, played by Britt Ekland. Ekland could have been a very good Bond Girl, but the script takes the original character - the strong, secretary-type woman from the Fleming novels - and completely weakens her. She is, without a doubt, the weakest Bond Girl in the entire series. Her only relevance seemingly that to provide Bond with a woman at the end of his mission. He has other reasons to fly to Scaramanga's island - he has the Solex, though this is thanks to the incompetent Goodnight.The return of JW Pepper is not a welcome one either - why would he want a test drive in a car in Bankock when he lives on the other side of the world? Leutentant Hip is the second most bumbling person next to Goodnight, and even Q is told to shut up by M twice. The script does pick up dramatically well when Bond and Scaramanga meet. The dialogue between them at the dinner table is superb. The duel at the end of the film is also very good, with quite a bit of tense atmosphere; though after watching the pre-titles sequence we know how Bond will eventually get rid of Scaramanga. The music is okay by John Barry standards, and this is rather worrying, considering the rather lacklustre score provided by George Martin in the previous Bond film, Live And Let Die. The opening theme is truly dreadful, the lyrics grating along with their cheep sexual innuendosHe has a powerful weaponThat sort of thing.Perhaps the reason for the poor quality of this film was the fact that the relationship between Albert Cubby Brocolli and Harry Saltzman was disintegrating rapidly - an interesting discussion about 200 or so elephant shoes springs to mind, as well as a planned elephant stampede. Maybe it was Guy Hamilton's fault - he had made two Bond films already, and in my opinion Thunderball, Terrance Young's third Bond film, had been Young's weakest. Maybe it was the original source material - the book is an interesting but short novel, the last full story Flemming ever wrote, and it would not have had enough to fill more than an hour, perhaps an hour and a half at most. They needed something to fill in the gaps as it were.Whatever the reasons, The Man With The Golden Gun is perhaps the very worst of the Moore series. But don't let this stop you from watching it. Every Bond film has it's positives, and this film is no exception - it is perhaps one of the best performances by Christopher Lee since his first Dracula and until the Lord Of The Rings trilogy.5/10 "},{"Title":"good","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The man with the golden gun was the 9th james bond movie in the series, i did like this movie, This movie is the 3rd james bond movie in the 1970's starring of course the one and only Roger Moore. I thought he was good at james bond, but i think the best of all the james bond actors that took part as james bond i think Sean Connery is the best because he was the first to do it and i think it would be hard to try and beat the original, I thought Christopher Lee played a good part as playing the man who had a golden gun. This ovie was made in 1974, so therefore now, it's been 30 years since this movie was made. Altogether from 1962, James Bond came out with Dr no as the first movie in 1962, Therefore dr no is now 42 years old. I am looking forward to the next james bond movie, there has been no information just let on what the next james bond movie will be called. I hope it will be a good title as i thought all the james bond movies did have good titles. I give the man with the golden gun 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This was a different form of suspense","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie provided suspense of a separate kind developed from the similarities of James Bond and Francisco Scaramanga. The scales of the plot tilt one way and then the other until the end. The important idea of massive solar power is expressed. This movie has, this being a very large rarity, a mixture of many different genres all blended perfectly.  "},{"Title":"The Man With The Plastic Gun.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Besides being the worst James Bond film ever, The Man With The Golden Gun had by far the most disgustingly awful opening theme song of the entire series. This time around, Bond faces an unimaginative villain named Scaramanga who has a third nipple and a midget sidekick, charmingly named Nik Nak. It seems that Scaramanga has gotten a hold of a priceless device that is capable of converting sunlight into electricity, effectively rendering him the most powerful man in the world in the middle of an energy crisis, purposely coinciding with the energy crisis of the early 1970s. Besides that, he seems to have developed an interest in exterminating Bond himself, to add to his growing collection of murdered double oh's. The main advantage that Scaramanga has is the thing that made it possible for this to have been a much more interesting film - no one knew where he was or what he looked like. Unfortunately, the nearly endless possibilities that this fact creates for the film are largely ignored, and we get an unusually run-of-the-mill spy film with this entry into the already extensive 007 series. As is very much the tradition by now, there are plenty of amusing names for the characters in this Bond film, such as the above mentioned Nik Nak, as well as others, such as the Bond girl, Good Night, one of Scaramanga's associates, Hi Fat, and a naked Asian hottie named Chu Me.  Roger Moore fits the spy element of the James Bond character fairly well, but as is the case in every Bond film that he starred in, he is totally unconvincing as the endlessly charming womanizer that Sean Connery so effectively portrayed.(spoilers) There is an interesting scene in The Man With The Golden Gun in which Bond pretends to be Scaramanga to talk to Hi Fat, who has never seen him, which leads into the most interesting part of the film. There are a lot of plot twists during the duration of the film, and this makes it a lot more entertaining because you never know who knows what. Hi Fat takes Bond in as Scaramanga, but then when he leaves, we find out that Scaramanga was on the island he entire time, and both men know that it was Bond posing as Scaramanga. There were also plenty of idiotic fight scenes in the movie, such as the laughable scene between Bond and a couple of sumo wrestlers. Needless to say, the sumo wrestlers EVENTUALLY win the fight, at which point Nik Nak joins in half naked (did we really need to be subjected to that?) to finish him off. Luckily, Hi fat interrupts just in time to save his life and send him to school instead, sending him to some kind of martial arts school, which is held on an impressive set that is amazingly reminiscent of something out of an Akira Kurosawa film. Unfortunately, this is also followed by loads of pathetically staged fight scenes, but luckily, it's followed by a thankfully well-done car chase. The car turning into a plane was too much, as was the jump over the river (but at least it was pretty impressive), but the chase itself, for the most part, was pretty good, despite the fact that Bond had a redneck salesman as a completely unnecessary passenger. Ultimately, Bond is invited to Scaramanga's lair to partake in a civil dinner that desperately but vainly tries to achieve the same effectiveness achieved by the identical scene in Dr. No, but this rivalry finalizes in a trivial duel between Bond and Scaramanga. The final conflict is one of the least effective of all of the Bond films, and the by now clichéd ending on a ship in the middle of the ocean didn't help much either. It is never very clearly explained why the entire island would self-destruct if the sub-zero helium rose in temperature even the smallest amount, and we're left with a lot of questions and not a very impressive film. After this installment, it's amazing that Moore was ever hired to play Bond again. "},{"Title":"So-so","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not one of the best Bond films, by far. A little too much bad comedy for my taste. The sheriff J.W. Pepper character is not at all funny and Nick Nack doesn't deliver the fun that we expect from him. The ladies are beautiful -just like in other Bond movies-, especially Goodnight, played by Britt Ekland. Roger Moore is good in his role, but I think Christopher Lee surpasses him with his great portrayal of the villain.Out of 100, I gave it 72.  "},{"Title":"Best Car Jump Ever!!","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of Roger Moore's best outings as James Bond.The critics were very hard on this Bond picture. But I think that it had a lot going for it. The one kick knock-out of that martial arts student was hilarious,as well as some of lines that Sheriff J.W Pepper said. I was glad that they brought him back again, after his funny performance in Live&Let Die. The highlight of the film was the amazing AMC Hornet car jump. I was glad to see AMC cars in it. They were at the bottom, out of the big three car makers, and so was this Bond movie to most critics, but I am going with the underdogs,and to say that this Bond movie deserves better recognition than it received. Take another look at it. "},{"Title":"A Jealous Husband, Perhaps?","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore begins to get used to the Bond role in the 9th of EON's 007  productions.  Tired of pecking at the Russians as the eternal enemies, this  movie makes little reference towards the Soviets and focuses on an  extremely well-rounded and developed villain - Francisco Scaramanga.   Perhaps Bond resents the fact that the man he is ordered to kill is so much  like him - a refined gentleman who kills professionally (albeit without a  licence).  Although the action lacks occasionally, the title character's  funhouse is one of the greatest sets ever devised for a Bond film; it's  outrageous and cartoony twists and turns has the viewer at the edge of  their seat.  Comic relief is found at the hands of Q (who is back again  after a notable absence in Live and Let Die) and a returning Sheriff J.W.  Pepper.  One should also note the amazing Javelin Jump performed during a  car chase - even if the effect was destroyed by a misplaced sound effect.  "},{"Title":"The Man With The Golden Gun? More Like The Film Made With Fool's Gold","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If Live And Let Die was the film that saved James Bond, then The Man With The Golden Gun is the film that just about killed it again. With the success of Roger Moore's debut Bond film, producers Albert R. Broccoli and Harry Saltzman sought to follow it up as a fast as they possibly could. This rush to follow up one success produced one of the least successful films of the series.Roger Moore follows up a good debut performance with a performance that is anything but good. Like Sean Connery in You Only Live Twice and Diamonds Are Forever, Moore's performance is basically sleepwalking his way through the film. His line delivery is flat virtually the whole way through no matter what the situation is be it facing down villains, seducing women or making any one of the horrible one liners. The result is one of the worst performances of any actor in the role.Much the same can be said of Britt Ekland as Mary Goodnight. Goodnight embodies the very cliché of what a Bond girl is a pretty face and not an ounce of acting talent. She does little more in the film than whine about how Bond is treating her yet keeps trying to get into bed with him. Outside of this whininess and helping to get the last act of the film going, neither the actress nor the character add much to the film otherwise. The result is pretty close to the worst Bond girl ever.Much more interesting than either Bond or Goodnight is the villain Francisco Scaramanga played by Christopher Lee. Scaramanga is almost the anti-Bond he's suave, charming, seductive and a man who kills for money. Lee plays the role brilliantly, encompassing all of those aspects into his performance. This villain, in the hands of a lesser actor, could easily have been one dimensional, is instead a fleshed out character that is far more interesting than anyone else in the film. In fact, it's almost a shame that Christopher Lee never got the chance to be James Bond himself based on his performance here.The rest of the cast is almost a disaster. Virtually the entire cast is played for laughs whether it is Herve Villechaize as Nick Nack, Richard Loo's over the top performance as Hai Fat and of course the unnecessary, cringe-worthy return of Clifton James as J.W. Pepper. Soon-Taik Oh's performance as Lieutenant Hip is okay, but heavily undermined by some bad dubbing. Even the usual supporting cast members disappoint such as Bernard Lee's grouchy M. If there is a shining star of the supporting cast its Maud Adams as Scaramanga's mistress Andrea Anders who, like Scaramanga, outshines the rest of the cast. The result overall is one of the worst Bond casts yet assembled.The problem with the entire film is that it all feels rushed and lacks polish. The production design and cinematography are both good, but they lack something that worked so well in the previous Bond films. Maurice Binder turns in his first set of lackluster title sequences as well, further undermining the success of the film. Even the score from John Barry shows this lack of polish. Compare the score for this film with that of You Only Live Twice, another Bond film set largely in Asia, to illustrate the point. The score lacks Barry's usual lushness as it feels shockingly cramped and unoriginal. Much the same can be said of the title song as well. Barry is even guilty of taking the film's one truly good stunt piece and undermining it with a silly piece of music. Indeed, the entire film feels like it is being played more for laughs then for suspense, something that proves to be the undoing of it. Where does the fault of that come from though? Nothing else in the entire film is as big a culprit in that department then its script. It's a script filled with a lack of logic, overly convenient plot twists and bad one liner's. After a suspenseful pre-credit sequence, the film becomes little more than a list of Bond film clichés that undercuts suspense for the almost two hours that follows right up to the point that it manages to undermine its own climax. Writers Richard Maibaum and Tom Mankiewicz, along with director Guy Hamilton, simply reuse the formula they used in the two previous Bond films with the result being stale and unoriginal.At the end of the day, it is easy to see how this film ends up being named one of the worst Bond films ever. Despite an excellent villain and at least one good supporting cast member, this is a film that embodies everything that can be bad about a Bond film. Bond himself is uninteresting, the girl is window dressing, it's played for laughs and it's utterly formulaic. The Man With The Golden Gun? More like a film made with fool's gold&#x85; "},{"Title":"Easily the WORST Bond picture EVER!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  While Roger Moore improves his performance as Bond the movie just goes bananas. This movie is horrible! It's hard to imagine that director Guy Hamilton who directed Goldfinger which is still the best Bond picture can turn around and direct the worst.*out of****stars  "}{"Title":"A little weak but still has some fun bits","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When a scientist developing a powerful new solar cell for energy is murdered, it is linked to the actions of hitman Scaramanga.  Scaramanga uses a golden gun and charges a million dollars per hit.  When he seems to be targeting Bond as he tries to track down the solar cell, leading to a show down between the two men.Roger Moore will never be one of the best Bonds, simply because his films aren't as good as some of the other Bonds.  Here it is actually one of my favourites despite not being great.  The basic story is little more than an excuse to bring Bond into conflict with Scaramanga.  As a plot this is better than the usual Russians as baddies stuff and he is a better subject.  The best element of this is that it allows Bond to be more fully explored because, really, both Bond and Scaramanga are really alike and do have much in common and this fact is well used.Outside of this the stunts are good and the action is nicely mixed with comedy in a Roger Moore raised eyebrow type of way.  Sadly the best stunt (the 360 car jump) is spoilt by a `comedy' sound effect right on top of it.The cast are good.  Moore is definitely a different type of Bond but he's good in his own way.  Christopher Lee is a really good villain &#150; simply because he isn't a Russian who wants to take over the world etc but rather a fleshed out person.  Britt Ekland is a bit bland as a dipsy Bond girl but it's nice to see Q brought back into play as well as a brief return for Clifton James as J.W. Pepper.Overall not the best Bond but it has plenty of good moments and a good baddie.  Also the theme music is one of my favourites simply because it's quite fun! "},{"Title":"You know that a film is bad when not even Christopher Lee can save it","Date":"28 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The ninth Bond film and the worst in the series after Die Another Day. Roger Moore's light-hearted Bond is as charming and debonair in his second appearance as he was in Live and Let Die but he was saddled with a very poor script which not even Sean Connery at his best could have made interesting. Its plot is surprisingly sparse for a two hour film and the solex agitator has to be one of the least interesting MacGuffins in film history.For the third consecutive film, the main Bond girl is very naive and it's beginning to wear a bit thin. While Solitaire's naivety in Live and Let Die worked well for the character, the same cannot be said for either Tiffany Case in Diamonds Are Forever or Mary Goodnight in this film. Britt Ekland isn't the best actress but the problem lies mainly with the way that the character was written. She's essentially a rehash of the incompetent CIA agent Rosie Carver from the last film but to the Nth degree. It's completely unbelievable that someone so, quite frankly, stupid could become a MI6 field agent. Having been in Hong Kong for two years, it's amazing that she hasn't caused a major international incident! Bond seems exasperated by her presence and I felt the same way whenever she appeared on screen. She's certainly the worst main Bond girl to grace the series to date. Maud Adams does a better job as the more interesting Andrea Anders who, while she is basically the same character as my previous least favourite Bond girl Domino Derval in Thunderball, I would still have liked to have seen as the female lead rather than Goodnight.Other than the typically excellent design and use of locations, Christopher Lee's performance as Francisco Scaramanga was the only element unique to the film that could be considered truly successful. Scaramanga is a fascinating character and is played with great menace, charisma and style by one of my favourite actors. His wonderful interaction with Bond - prior to the silly shootout in his funhouse, anyway, where absolutely no one could have foreseen that the Bond waxwork would play a role - is the highlight of the film. However, his manservant Nick Nack, the evil twin of Tattoo from Fantasy Island, was less successful. The character failed to make much of an impression on me, I'm afraid, other than mild annoyance. He was no Oddjob, Baron Samedi or Tee Hee, it has to be said.Bernard Lee is reliably excellent as M, though he seems rather contemptuous of Bond on this occasion. Lois Maxwell plays Miss Moneypenny for the ninth time but there's very little warmth in her interaction with Bond. In comparison to previous films, they seem oddly distant. Given the lack of any gadgets bar the fake third nipple, Desmond Llewelyn makes only a few brief appearances of Q and seems mostly devoid of his trademark quirks. At least they brought him back though, after his absence from Live and Let Die. However, there was one character seen in Live and Let Die whom I wish had been absent from this film Sheriff J.W. Pepper. I knew that he was returning for the film and wasn't looking forward to it but I thought that the boat case scene was bearable and, not realising that this would not be the last that we'd see of him, was glad that I had gotten off comparatively lightly. However, his later, extensive involvement during the car chase scene - in which, in his mind at least, Bond deputises him - is painful. I could barely look at the screen at times. I said in my review of Live and Let Die that the character of Sheriff Pepper marked the nadir of the Bond franchise and his encore appearance has only served to reinforce that in my mind. At least Eon had the sense to quit while they were behind and the character was never seen again. He really belonged to a far different genre than the one occupied by the Bond films. The film's other supporting actors, however, are better cast such as Richard Loo (who, like Christopher Lee, brought some much needed dignity to the proceedings), Soon-Tek Oh, Marc Lawrence (again playing a gangster, possibly the same one from Diamonds Are Forever) and James Cossins.Overall, this is the first real failure for the Bond franchise. Thunderball was very dull but this was just plain bad. This is one of those rare films that is so bad that not even Christopher Lee can save it, though he did make parts of it very watchable. It's a shame that one of the best Bond villains turned up in one of the worst films. "},{"Title":"James Bond fights to save Big Oil . . .","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" . . . in THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN, by making sure that the world's first solex agitator energy converter (SAEC) is also its last. The Spectre of unlimited, virtually free solar energy always has had this planet's Haves shaking in their boots. Since the prime directive of all Earthling police, epitomized by Agent 007, is to make sure the One Per Cent get richer at the expense of the rest of us, the mere existence of the SAEC is the biggest threat ever faced by Bond and his bosses. The fact that we don't have SAECs in every home today, coupled with M's congratulatory phone call to Bond at the close of THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN, is all the evidence needed to prove that Agent 007 is a mere Capitalist stooge. (Ask yourself Did Bond lift a finger to save Dr. Martin Luther King and the other Civil Rights martyrs, or Jared Leto and all the rest of the AIDS victims? Heck no!) James Bond doesn't care about the problems of ordinary people, unless he's creating them at the behest of the Super Rich. But if you mess with Big Oil, as does THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN, you've got a death penalty coming, Buster! "},{"Title":"Where The Man With The Golden Gun Stands","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man with the Golden Gun is one of my least favorite Bond films. Roger Moore is pretty dodgy here and really fails to top his previous performance in Live and Let Die. The film is pretty weird and I guess it entertains you most of the time but it just... I don't know what to say. Nick Nack is a cool henchmen and Scramanga is an even better villain. Those are some of the upsides of the film. Sheriff J.W Pepper returns and I actually don't mind him here, unlike many people do. Mary Goodnight IS the most annoying Bond girl in the whole franchise and one of my least favorites. Roger Moore makes the Bond character feel like a fool and is why I don't really like him as a Bond actor. The Spy Who Loved Me, For Your Eye's Only and Octopussy were his best performances. And so ends my review of The Man With The golden Gun which stands 21st on my list where I have ranked the James Bond films from worst to best. It just fails to exceed the classic Bond feeling. "},{"Title":"Too Wacky. Should Have Been A Bit More Serious.","Date":"6 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have never really been one who likes Bond films. I have only seen a few of them and I should say that this one is probably one of my least favorites. I'm going to start with the worst. The silliness of this movie sticks out like a sore thumb. I would have rated this movie a whole point higher, then I saw the chase scene that looked exactly like something straight out of The Duke's of Hazard, complete with an outrageous car jump with a sound wacky effect. That was really bad.I also feel like this movie tried to fit way too much into it. You have a funhouse, a car chase, a casino, a boxing match, a bayou boat chase, a karate sparing event, and a private island all serving as locations throughout this movie. That is way too many. Had they just stuck with some of those and improved the action that occurred in them, I think it would have made for a more successful plot.For the positives, I did really like the villain in this movie. An assassin who uses a golden gun is a very good Bond enemy. Christopher Lee does a good job with that character. The rest of the characters in this movie, from Nick Nack, to Goodnight, to Bond himself, all work well. With all the different locations, you would really not think this movie would be boring, but it did indeed bore me at times. The plot is a big problem throughout the film. Someone who really likes the Bond genre would probably like this movie more than I did. If I was to make a suggestion I would advise someone to seek out a better 007 film. I'm sure they would not have to look very long to find one. "},{"Title":"Moore has the golden touch","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN (1974) *** Bond is out to stop sinister assassin extraordinairre Francisco Scaramanga (the always spooky Christopher Lee)  whose plot to use a solar device to unleash the sun's radiation sets the action with a waycool title weapon, pre-Fantasy Island Herve Villechaize as tiny but deadly henchman Nick Nack and Britt Ekland as affectionate fellow agent.  Best bit Bond taking on an entire school of martial arts students. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of Bond enthusiasts will say this movie was bad. I disagree. As a kid, I was raised on Roger Moore as Bond so I admit a bias when it comes to his films, and I admit there are some dumb things in this film that may have swayed from the regular Bond fare, but for pure entertainment, this film is great.Chris Lee is one of the best Bond villains ever, and the whole idea of Bond and Scaramonga fighting it out in his maze is what the whole idea of Bond films are about.  There are usual fights and a cool opening sequence (except for the gunman being so cliched, it's almost annoying) and Roger Moore looks most like James Bond than any of the other actors.The JW Pepper stuff probably could have been left out (although when I was a kid and saw it, I loved it) and there is a lot of humor in the film that people who hate Moore hate period. But forget about that. If you want a good action film, some cool lines, interesting characters (Tattoo is great!) and a Bond film that doesn't follow the exact formula of some of the others, this is the one to watch. Want to see a good movie, escape your everyday life and just enjoy a film? The Man with the Golden Gun is a great one. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Watch this when none of the Bond movies are available...","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One of the worst Movies of the series. A Very thin plot. And what is this ? Frustrated with the situation 'M' asks 'Q' to shut up and 'Q' lets 'M' go without a return remark. A truly hilarious moment is when Bond does a one-kick knockout during a Martial Arts fight. Nick Nack is very annoying most of the times. Christopher Lee could not give right justice to the character of Fransisco Scaramanga. He was never that chilling. The broken bridge jump was good but was ruined by the terrible Sound effect. The Golden Gun which could be folded into a lighter was a good weapon , a perfect match to the Walther PPK though. The giant maze created by Scaramanga is quite good but there's nothing in this movie which can be enjoyed by a Bond fan. Neither there is enough suspense nor there is enough action. Don't bother if you haven't bought or rented this one. You can consider yourself lucky. "},{"Title":"Needed a man with a golden touch","Date":"11 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Title A mouthful, but gets straight to the point.Bond Review.Pre-Titles Scaramanga is stalked by a gangster in his fun house as he tries to locate his golden gun, which he does and he kills the gangster. This is a well-staged and intense opening that does well in presenting just how dangerous Scaramanga is. It gives us some tension and action straight away which is always a good way to open, just a shame we don't get any sign of Bond.Theme Song Lulu's title track is one of the worst in the series. The tune is totally lacklustre and the lyrics are terrible, with innuendos about guns and powerful weapons. Lulu's scratchy off-key vocals only succeed in making everything sound even worse than it already is.Plot Bond is informed that the world's most expensive assassin Scaramanga has made him his next target and Bond decides to hunt him down. During this Bond becomes embroiled in the hunt for a missing solar energy harnesser that Scaramanga has links to. The plot with Bond going off again someone as dangerous as himself is set-up solidly, but it is still a let-down. It should have been seen as an intense battle between the two and made to feel more important than it is here. The solar energy device is clearly just tagged on to give Bond more to do and feels completely unnecessary.James Bond Roger Moore goes against his usual portrayal for a more hard-edged approach and it doesn't really work. With such a foe a tougher turn makes sense, yet Moore isn't very convincing in the scenes where he acts tough and in other he acts so calm that you doubt he's even worried. He is still as debonair as ever, but he just isn't that much fun to watch.Bond Girls Britt Ekland makes great eye candy but she is truly woeful as Goodnight. She just plays the role like a stereotypical ditzy blonde and it's not remotely believable that she's an agent. She looks dumbfounded throughout and delivers some already bad lines horribly. Maud Adams is simply okay as Scaramanga's mistress Anders. She certainly shows the desperateness of the character, but she isn't given anything that interesting to say or do.Villains Christopher Lee pretty much saves the film as the confident Scaramanga. Lee brings his usual touch of class and dignity to the role, really selling the idea that Scaramanga is Bond's equal. Lee just has a magnetic screen presence and his scenes are easily the most interesting. Dwarf actor Herve V is charming and rather amusing as butler/henchman Nick Nack. It is certainly a unique villain, but he simply isn't a convincing threat.Support Clifton James returns as sheriff Pepper and really isn't used well here. There is no need for him to feature, the jokes are painful and his mugging for the camera quickly wears thin. Soon-Tek Oh is pretty good as Bond's ally Hip and Bernard Lee is great again with more screen time than usual.Action The action scenes are pretty bland. Kung-Fu is featured which is fun and gives us something different, but then we get Hip's nieces beating up an entire dojo which makes a mockery of the area. We do a get a pretty cool fight scene over a gold bullet and a well shot car chase through Bangkok, but that's the only good stuff. The final confrontation is such a let-down and has none of the tension required, whilst watching Bond 'fight' Nick Nack is both awkward and ridiculous. We also get a truly incredible stunt with a car leaping a bridge, which is then totally ruined by having slide whistle sound effect over the top of it. Score John Barry's score is just decent here. To be fair there is nothing that good on screen for him to enhance, but the music feels a little rushed. There is nothing here that fits into the film or sounds catchy and it's by far Barry's weakest work on the series.Production Values Visually there is nothing special here, this is pretty much the most average looking Bond film you'll see. Hamilton has shown before he has a good eye for shots, but he clearly isn't on top form for this one and it shows. Bangkok is quite a good location and lends itself perfectly to the exotic adventures that Bond goes on, while the private island that Scaramanga uses does look beautiful. The production design is lacklustre with a lot of the sets looking like they are from the 1960's and most of them being bland, even if we do get a couple of good ones like the hidden headquarters in a ship. The pacing and editing is also very uneven, as at times things seem to be flying along and at others it feels like it's unnecessarily slow. The writing is again weak, apart from a couple of Scaramanga's lines I can't recall any of it and most of the humour feels very forced. Conclusion Golden Gun is one of the weakest films in the series. Almost nothing seems to work here and there are a lot of bad choices made. Christopher Lee is the only standout by making a classy and compelling villain. As said Moore is iffy at best here, Ekland is terrible, the action is weak and there just isn't anything interesting on screen most of the time. The writing is very poor, there is no need for such broad humour or numerous goofy moments in what really should be a very grounded film. Overall though this feels like a wasted opportunity, a lot of the ingredients were there for an exciting Bond film and what we get is one that has to drag itself to a finish. "},{"Title":"Not trash,  but not far away","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Clearly the worst Bond-movie. Nothing seams to work here. The movie never manages to take of. It's boring from beginning to end, and the hole film seams to fall apart. Even the action-scenes is dull. One of the few positive moment in this film is when the American sheriff (from Live and let die) meets Bond in Thailand.    (4 out of 10) & (1 out of 10  as a Bond-movie) "}{"Title":"The Absolute Nadir of the Bond Series","Date":"7 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" To me, the Bond situations are so ridiculous, so outrageous. I mean, this man is supposed to be a spy and yet, everybody knows he's a spy...What kind of serious spy is recognized everywhere he goes? It's outrageous. -Roger MooreIs that really what James Bond is supposed to be? Dr. No is not a comedy, and the movie's villains learn about him only via their own local spy network. Only after the events of that movie do Bond and the SPECTRE organization know about each other. Auric Goldfinger likewise knew nothing of him at first. Even Kamal Kahn in Octopussy believed him to be an adventurer and blackmailer. People did not attend the first seven Bond movies expecting to howl in laughter, nor do they today, nor did the readers of Ian Fleming's novels. Diamonds Are Forever began a very sad era for the James Bond movies, and The Man with the Golden Gun is the saddest example of how far they fell. By a large margin, it is the worst of the James Bond movies.James Bond movies began by setting the trends, not copying them. As the years have passed, the James Bond movies have been best when they move with the times without placing their identity in them. Just as Live and Let Die heavily pilfered from the, and I hate to use the word, blaxploitation genre, The Man with the Golden Gun often tries to make itself like the emerging martial arts movies of the time. That sin is bad enough on its own, but it is made even worse because those movies, while popular and new, were poor quality.One sequence in the middle of the movie most gloriously displays both faults mentioned so far. Remember, everybody knows James Bond is a spy. The screenplay forgets this, and he walks into a trap only to be defeated by a midget disguised as a gargoyle. Of course, the midget waits until after Bond defeats a sumo wrestler (in Thailand?) in a truly unfunny fashion.The following degenerates into brain-freezing silliness. Bond is forced to fight in a martial arts school but quickly escapes in time for his ally Hip (Soon Tek-Oh) to show up with his early teenage nieces. What comes next involves the two girls effortlessly beating half of the school, the getaway car leaving without Bond, an unfunny encounter with a young boy selling wooden elephants and the racist Sheriff from the previous movie (Clifton James) spouting his garbage before being given his comeuppance by a baby elephant.Bond (Roger Moore) is drawn into action when a golden bullet with his code number shows up in the mail. How far these movies have fallen since the time when Bond punched one of his best friends in the stomach to keep that number secret. Only pricey assassin Francisco Scaramanga (Christopher Lee) is known to use such bullets. Bond decides to find Scaramanga first, but his reputation precedes him. Yes, another character says that. What an international celebrity our secret agent is! His female teammate is Mary Goodnight (Britt Eckland), the kind of person who can make everybody in a room think, Does she understand anything? Her most important purpose is to prolong an already boring movie.The early part of the story has the potential to turn into a neat battle of two extremely skilled people constantly trying to gain the upper hand. Instead, The Man with the Golden Gun continually comes back to an annoying MacGuffin that made me think that again? and roll my eyes in frustration. Boredom rules the movie. It has its share of great sets and scenery, but very little interesting action or story happens around them. Director Guy Hamilton spends inordinate amounts of time on camera shots that desperately needed to be shortened or cut altogether. That flaw is magnified with a screenplay that also needs major editing.The final act is the worst. It is at this time that the movie is supposed to give its best. Instead, the boring MacGuffin dominates once more. This segment does have one of the series' defining moments when Bond tells Scaramanga that he only kills under the orders of his government and that those he kills are themselves killers. Unfortunately, the decision-makers behind the most recent Bond movies may be losing sight of that. If they do, they will be losing the essence of the character.Maud Adams plays a minor but important role, and the only one who earns praise for her acting. Scaramanga's puny sidekick is a complete embarrassment, Britt Ecklund plays a role that would make any actress look bad, and Christopher Lee has been better in every other part I've seen him play. Bernard Lee and Desmond Llewelyn have some amusing moments as M and Q, but some of M's lines and reactions, are out-of- character. Roger Moore is no longer tentative and unsure, but now smart, suave, and courageous. The problem is that the entire movie is embarrassingly fatuous and Moore is too serious. Even the signature stunt, whose awesome difficulty I did not realize until I watched the DVD feature, is completely ruined by a dreadful sound-effect. The encore appearance of the imbecilic Louisiana Sheriff butchers the rest of that action scene.The Man with the Golden Gun marks the end of what I call The Unholy Trilogy in the Bond series. Fans around the world also detected that a great deal was missing, and voted against The Man with the Golden Gun with their money. Some real soul-searching was in order on the part of the producers, who did make the series right again. I only save this a one star rating because of James Bond's character defining line and Q's great return after a one movie absence. Overall, it is a boring, bad movie of interminable length. The Bond series survived this golden misfire, but barely. "},{"Title":"Take the Bond name out of the mix and it might be an acceptable spy thriller...but expectations run too high","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The ninth 007 adventure, and one of the very weakest. After making an inauspicious debut as James Bond in 1973's lackluster Live and Let Die, Roger Moore returns unceremoniously to the iconic role (he isn't sexy--or sexual--enough to fill the bill, squinting his eyes and squirming under pressure like a prep school graduate being reprimanded). Bond travels to the Far East for a face-off against assassin Scaramanga (Christopher Lee, the man with the golden gun as well as three nipples!) and pint-sized henchman Nick Nack (a well-cast Hervé Villechaize), who plan to misuse solar energy for world destruction. Scaramanga is being double-crossed by mistress Andrea Anders (beautiful Maud Adams), while James is assisted by Britt Ekland's incredulous Mary Goodnight. The chase sequences are rote, the jokes (one expanded from Die involving a redneck sheriff) are unfunny, and Moore (though trim and tanned) isn't wholly convincing as a super agent. The complicated plot (including karate asides and a visually inept funhouse opener) isn't involving, however Guy Hamilton's direction is clearly tighter here than in the previous installment. ** from **** "},{"Title":"When Austin Powers appears in The Man with the Golden Schlong, you'll know THAT series is in trouble, too","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When Roger Moore took over as caretaker of the Bond franchise he was handed a good portion of the momentum and goodwill that had been generated during the Sean Connery era - and he spent it all on Live and Let Die (which, miraculously, DOES feel like something of a continuation from where Connery left off).  He started his next film with no reserves.  It shows immediately - and never stops showing.  There atmosphere is all wrong, there's no energy, precious little REAL ruthlessness (when Moore does the dirty on someone he comes across as distant and vague, as though he's a butler).  Nor does he have a title song by Paul McCartney or a babe as luscious as the young Jane Seymour to support him this time.  He's clearly come down in the world.  He's no longer up against supervillains plotting to take over the world; even if you'd resigned yourself to expecting, say, a mere drug baron trying to corner the American market in narcotics, you'll find the villainous plotting (when it's at last unveiled, all too late) terribly disappointing and earthbound.Another black mark the two most memorable supporting players are the short guy from Fantasy Island (serving as, what do you know, butler, on, what do you know, an eccentric millionaire's secret fantasy island), and the tobacco-chewing redneck sheriff from Live and Let Die, serving up the same cheap, painfully over-the-top schtick as before, only there's more of it, and in order to work him into the plot at all they had to have him take a holiday in Thailand (as if such a redneck would EVER go to Thailand!).  They're memorable, but you kind of wish they weren't.At the time of writing I've seen all of the James Bond films.  This was the last I managed to lay eyes on.  It's obvious enough why it proved so elusive.  It may not be quite as BAD as On Her Majesty's Secret Service or Moonraker - I'm not sure on this point, and I don't care - but it is, in some sense, the biggest embarrassment the least timeless, with all the silliness of any other Bond film, yet none of the grandeur which the silliness sometimes made possible.  Yes, it's directed by the guy who did Goldfinger.  No, I don't understand how this could be either. "},{"Title":"Phuyuck!","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man with the Golden Gun didn't do very well at the box offices just for no reason. This Bond adventure is one of the least likaeble and even slightly boring.I don't know what it is that makes this Bond movie so uninteresting to watch. Maybe it's the lack of a good Bond girl or villain that has a plan to destroy or take over the world. Or maybe it's because the movie lacks some typical Bond moments that all the other Bonds are filled with. But fact is that this Bond is nowhere as good as others.Still this Bond flick has one interesting thing Christopher Lee. Nevertheless it stays very unfortunate that a man like Christopher Lee had to be in one of the weakest Bonds. I must also admit that I liked Hervé Villechaize as Nick Nack, who is one of the few memorable things about the movie.Like I said before; The movie lacks some typical Bond moments, with the exception of Bond at the fighting school which was the only scene that gave me a Bond feeling. The movie also lacks the fun feeling and humor for which Bond (especially Moore's Bond) is so well known.Only watchable because of Christopher Lee.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Another blip in the franchise!","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Oh dear. The Man with the Golden Gun for some time was considered the worst Bond film (along with A View to a Kill), until Die Another Day came along anyway. As with most of Roger Moore's films, they were either hit or miss, and this one really was a miss because of yet another confused plot that hadn't chose the subject it wanted to really focus on (much like Diamonds are Forever).In the opening sequence, a Las Vegas hit-man is hired and sent to kill master assassin Francisco Scaramanga (Scene stealing Christopher Lee). Scaramanga is too good, however, and kills the Hit-man with his iconic Golden gun. Subsequently, Bond is sent a bullet with '007' on it, and this is traced to Scaramanga. Bond and MI6 naturally assume that Scaramanga wants to kill him, so Bond is sent to kill Scaramanga first. And this is where the plot loses it. It turns out that Scaramanga doesn't care about Bond really, and in fact respects him. Instead, this is all about some 'solex agitator' that can turn sunlight into electricity. Scaramanga has this agitator, and uses it in a laser to blow things up, and wants to sell it to the highest bidder. This, mixed in with some cartoonish action scenes (complete with scene-wrecking cartoonish sound effects), ruins this film and it's a dreadful shame.This film should never have included the solex agitator and the whole 'electricity' thing. This should have focused on Scaramanga and Bond in a face-off. That would have made for a stronger, more believable plot, and it would have played to the strength that this film had, which was the wise casting of Christopher Lee as Scaramanga. If it wasn't for him, this would be truly dreadful. As it is, Moore does an all right job, but Lee really does haul it up a notch as best he can. This doesn't even make the most of the Bond girls. Maud Adams is far better than Britt Eckland, who suffers because of her poorly written part. This is much like Diamonds are Forever. It's good for sitting and watching aimlessly with something alcoholic, but it's not good enough for much else. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Don't set your sights too high.","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond (Roger Moore) attempts to track down top assassin Francisco Scaramanga (Christopher Lee) after receiving a gold bullet through the post, indicating that he could be the killer's next target. As Bond gets closer to locating Scaramanga, he discovers that his nemesis has taken possession of a stolen top-secret solar thingumajig, capable of solving the world's energy crisis, which he intends to sell to the highest bidder...In his second stint as 007, Roger Moore continues to make the character of Bond his own, effortlessly handling the baddies, the gadgets, and the girls with a debonair demeanour that only a true Englishman could muster; but even though the star does a bang-up job as Bond, easily registering eleven on the 'Suave-ometer' as he once again does his bit for queen and country, this proves to be one of 007's more mediocre missions thanks to a plot that lacks focus, some ill-considered humour (a contract should be taken out on whoever had the idea of bringing back Clifton James as Sheriff J.W. Pepper), a weak final showdown between Bond and Scaramanga, and one of most inept Bond characters ever in the form of MI6 agent Mary Goodnight (Britt Ekland), who looks good in a bikini, but who clearly has the IQ of a brick.Even the inclusion of some fun kung fu action (I'm a sucker for 70s chop sockey), an absolutely amazing car stunt&#x97;a jump across a river via a twisted half-bridge that results in the full rotation of the vehicle before landing&#x97;AND my favourite line of dialogue from the entire Bond series ('Tight in all the right places, not too many buttons.') cannot make up for the fact that The Man with the Golden Gun doesn't hit the target as often as one might expect. "},{"Title":"One of the better Roger Moore Bond movies, but not the best of the franchise-still a solid movie","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Man With the Golden Gun is a fun James Bond movie. While not my favourite of the Bond franchise, it is one of the better Bond movies with Roger Moore in the title role. The film does have its slow parts, the plot isn't quite as tight as it could have been and the script isn't quite as well constructed as previous Bond outings due to some of the slapstick humour that didn't quite work. On the plus side, it is fun and is better than its reputation certainly. It is hugely benefited by the beautiful exotic locations, and Maud Adams is stunning here. So is Britt Eckland. The stunts are neatly executed, and the performances are brisk and solid. Roger Moore doesn't quite have the charisma and flair of Sean Connery, but gives a convincing enough portrayal of our favourite special agent, that makes Geoge Lazenby think Now I know where I went wrong. Scaramanga is one of the more interesting Bond villains and is played with crisp efficiency by the majestic Christopher Lee, and Herve Vilechaize is certainly a scene stealer as henchman Nick Nack. And the music is outstanding. Overall, a very good movie, that is well worth watching for the locations and Lee's performance. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"No no seven.","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The last of the real James Bond stories The man with the golden gun seemed - even on publication in 1965 - the work of an author who was growing tired of his creation.Ian Fleming was not impressed with Mr S. Connery who was clearly not a Public School Man and was at least ten years too young for the part as conceived by the author.He described Connery as far too rough for the role whch,as a prediction,is right up there with the man from Decca Records who thought The Beatles would never make it.Whatever his shortcomings as a seer,Mr Fleming wrote fast moving,punchy prose that translated brilliantly to the screen in the remarkable Dr No but rapidly fell victim to the film makers' urge to make everything bigger and better,so by the time his final novel reached the screen his dialogue had been hi - jacked and turned into a mass of double - entendres worthy of a Carry On movie and flabbed out with a series of tired and unfunny one - liners. Bond was now being played by Mr R.Moore as an over - coiffed clotheshorse with all the athleticism of Les Dawson but none of the charm.His voice was replete with the strangulated vowels and over - careful articulation of the unsuccessfully coached London boy trying to fit in at Cambridge. The man with the golden gun contains an embarrassingly bad opening sequence that goes on for far too long,a rehash of the redneck sheriff joke that wasn't very funny first time round - which also goes on far too long - and Mr C.Lee is slightly less convincing as a deadly hit man than A.E. Matthews would have been. As the Bond movies - and Mr Moore with them - got flabbier and flabbier their resemblance to the original character got slighter and slighter. The present incumbent,Mr Daniel Craig,may make the ladies' hearts flutter as he displays his six - pack,but he is just a narcissistic show -off,one of the few things the real Bond could never have been accused of. 33 years on from The man with the golden gun the gravy train shows no sign of slowing down.If they ever run out of authors eager to make a quick buck perhaps someone would approach J.K.Rowling to churn something out that will let them cash in all round.James Bond and the philosopher's stone?Smells like money to me. "},{"Title":"One Of The Worst Bond Films","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Let's face it, the 1970s were a crap decade for Bond films. All of the Bond films released in this decade were rubbish, with the exception of The Spy Who Loved Me, which followed three years after this film. The Man With The Golden Gun is one of the very worst and one of the worst of the entire series too. There is very little that redeems this film, apart from Christopher Lee's villain and the locations, which are admittedly breathtaking. Britt Ekland's assistant is embarrassing and cringe-worthy, Maud Adam's character has very little to do and Roger Moore just seems permanently irritated in this film. It is not much better than the previous film, Live And Let Die and also features one of the most awful Bond themes I have ever heard, performed by Lulu. John Barry must have had a mental block when he wrote the music to this film. I also got the impression that this film was made to cash in on the then very popular kung-fu films of the early 1970s starring Bruce Lee and others, though it fails dismally here. I cannot recommend this film at all, except to the most devoted Bond completists or insomniacs. Thank God that the next film was a vast improvement over this. They certainly couldn't be much worse. "},{"Title":"A good 007 film with good action!","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Man With The Golden Gun is very good 007 film. Moore was good, Christopher Lee was excellent as Francisco Scaramanga! I was glad to see Clifton James return as Sheriff J.W. Pepper! Hervé Villechaize was very good as Nick Nack.I think he is very funny.  This 007 film is good and I recommend James Bond fans to see it!  "}{"Title":"Now with racism!","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In a series rife with sexual objectification...  this movie contains the usual horridly sexist tripe, but this time (although not the only time), it's also extremely racist.  Nothing in the plot makes up for having to put up with those two elements in a movie!  The heroine is especially pitiful, being of no help (except in getting herself kidnapped) and is just plain pathetic when she pretends to reject Bond only to show up in his room later. Barf. "},{"Title":"Boring, stupid, ridiculous, confused, bizarre and very sexist","Date":"20 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It is odd how my opinion of the Bond movies has changed since I watched them in the 1970s and 80s. Then, I found them exciting and fascinating. Now, I only find them boring, stupid, ridiculous, confused, bizarre, unpleasant and very sexist. The plots are completely uninteresting.This Movie,The Man with the Golden Gun, is one of the worst... for one thing, that they are using an extremely short actor, in the way circuses showed up dwarfs for money before everyone learned of human rights. And Scaramanga's kinky love-play with the gun involved, before he is going to shoot someone, is very sick and unpleasant, and certainly not anything I would let my kids watch. In Sweden the Bond movies are nowadays shown on television in the afternoons, and I find that highly inappropriate.The only thing that still holds up in the Bond movies, are a few funny situations, Bond's quick repartees, Miss Moneypenny's unrequited love which is so easy for a woman to identify with, Qs funny and ingenious technical gadgets, etc.. And of course the Bond actors - Roger Moore being the best for his ingenious humour and his self-distance. I think the other Bond actors have all taken themselves to seriously. "},{"Title":"The Cast Makes it Worth Viewing","Date":"20 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Man with the Golden Gun, The (1974)*** (out of 4) James Bond (Roger Moore) is given information that the greatest assassin in the world (Christopher Lee) has been paid one-million to take him out. Wanting to stay ahead of the game, Bond goes out to locate the assassin and when the two come face to face there's a tad bit more behind the assassin's plan. It seems most reviews on this one here are split but I enjoyed the story, the performances and I think once again we're given an all-around great cast who really fit their roles nicely. Once again we have Moore leading the way as Bond and I'm really starting to enjoy him more and more. There's no doubt that the character is a little different from the one Connery played but I think the screenplay really lets Moore do his own thing. That thing is more comedy but the actor is very good with his one-liners and is constantly charming in the part. I also thought Lee turned in a wonderful performance and one you can tell he's having fun with. I'm not the biggest fan of Lee the person but there's no question that he's a very good actor and especially when he's given something to work with. You can tell he and Moore are having fun going at one another and the two make a great hero/villain team. Lee's co-star from the previous year's THE WICKER MAN, Britt Ekland, is the Bond girl here and I found her quite charming as well. I certainly didn't believe her in the part but she's certainly cute and charming enough to make the role her own. Maud Adams gets a few good scenes with Moore as does Herve Villechaize who is a lot of fun playing Lee's sidekick. For some reason they brought back the racist sheriff from the previous film. Once again he has a couple funny bits but on the whole I think his brand of comedy really stopped the film in its tracks. As far as action goes we get a very good car chase as well as a kung fu sequence that was pretty funny simply because of some of the humor Moore brings to one of the fight. Once again we're treated to some nice cinematography and a good music score but I must admit that I wasn't a fan of the main song. I know Alice Cooper claimed his version, which finally appeared on his Muscle of Love album, was originally meant to be in the film but the producer's got worried over the controversy surrounding him. His version certainly isn't one of his best songs but I thought it was better than the Lulu version here. In the end, the great locations and the star power of Moore, Lee and Ekland makes this an entertaining entry in the series. "},{"Title":"A Boring Experience...","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The set-up for this movie is great. Former KGB agent turned professional assassin, Francisco Scaramanga (Christopher Lee), whose identity and whereabouts are unknown, has apparently sent a golden bullet to James Bond (Roger Moore) to announce that he intends to kill him. James Bond is immediately taken off his assignment and instructed either to go into hiding or find the elusive Scaramanga and kill him. He decides upon the latter course.After this set-up is explained, it becomes apparent that the weaknesses of The Man with the Golden Gun greatly outweigh its strengths. Christopher Lee is a terrific villain and, if he was given more lines and more screen time, his performance alone could have turned The Man with the Golden Gun into a decent film. Unfortunately Lee is given little to say or do throughout this picture, which is a shame because he plays Scaramanga terribly well (in the few scenes that were allotted to him). As for Roger Moore's James Bond, the verdict is mixed. The problem with Roger Moore is that everything is a joke to him, even when he is in the most trying situations, and therefore we never feel that he is in any danger. The outcome predictably enough is that The Man with the Golden Gun loses most of its tension and suspense. To a certain extent, a movie has to seem real to its audience to be entertaining; but Roger Moore's cornball remarks belie the notion that the world of James Bond is genuine. But more than the characters, The Man with the Golden Gun is a casualty of a flawed vision. Director Guy Hamilton and the producers have packed this movie with boat chases, car chases, a silly karate school, and Scaramanga's incredibly dull fun house. This decision not only crowded out the film's human characters (especially Scaramanga), but also drained this film of all its excitement because the scenes themselves are dull. One reviewer suggested that The Man with the Golden Gun was the worst Bond movie that he had ever seen. I personally think that ignominious honour should go to A View with a Kill or Quantum of Solace. But The Man with the Golden Gun certainly is one of the least impressive Bond films. It may have a great villain (though he unfortunately gets little screen time), sexy Bond girls (Maud Adams and Britt Ekland), and an amusing performance by Bernard Lee (as M), but unfortunately these small virtues are not enough to save this film from the trash heap. "},{"Title":"Is that a gun or are you glad to see me?","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Moore as James Bond is targeted by the world's greatest assassin Scaramanga(Christopher Lee). All the expected new gadgets are there; some real decent car chases; awesome locales and the obligatory eye catching women like Maud Adams and Britt Ekland. This 007 episode works hard, but still leaves an empty feeling. Lee's talents are wasted. Moore is growing into the role of the super spy Bond. In support are Richard Loo, Herve Villechaize and Clifton James. Be careful where you point that thing. "},{"Title":"Roger Moore's worst and flabbiest Bond film.","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is clearly the most languid Bond film ever made - seriously lacking in action and excitement. Most people seem to dislike the addition of sheriff Pepper as a comic-relief character, but at least he participates in the film's liveliest sequence (the car chase) and is broadly funny in a film that otherwise sorely misses the humor and wit that are so evident in other Roger Moore entries (Octopussy, For Your Eyes Only). Moore is actually very good and believable in this film, but the other actors don't match him Christopher Lee isn't given anything interesting to do, and Britt Ekland is a slim but colorless and (may I say) not terribly attractive Bond Girl (bring back Claudine Auger!!)     (**) "},{"Title":"Utterly feeble","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Of course all the Roger Moore Bond films are rubbish but this bad even amongst them. The plot seems to take ages going nowhere, the direction is poor and the script atrocious. Factor in a stupid villain, about as frightening as custard, useless love interest in Britt Ekland, a final showdown that that is yawn-inducing and even a rubbish theme song from Lulu and you have the worst Bond ever made with no redeeming features at all. I do not have anything more to say but it seems I must write more. Why was Moore always such an awful Bond? Apart from being devoid of any vestige of acting ability he was always lacked the essential muscularity for the part. Seeing him as Bond was like having Woody Allen as the Terminator. "},{"Title":"The Man with the Golden Gun","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For the second of Sir Roger Moore's James Bond films, this is a pretty good one. In this film, Bond is assigned to look for links leading to find Francisco Scaramanga (Christopher Lee) to question him. Scaramanga is a high paid assassin and obviously plans to put his name in history for killing James Bond. He is the man with a golden gun made with a pen, a cigarette box and and a lighter, he also has an extra nipple on his chest. Bond, with the help of agent Mary Goodnight (Britt Ekland) is also trying to return a Solex Agitator unit that completes a powerful laser controlled by the heat of the sun. Also starring Octopussy's Maud Adams as Andrea Anders, Hervé Villechaize as short (midget) henchman Nick Nack, Clifton James returning from Live and Let Die as Sheriff J.W. Pepper, Richard Loo as Hai Fat, Soon-Taik Oh as Lieutenant Hip, Bernard Lee as M, Lois Maxwell as Miss Moneypenny, Marne Maitland as Lazar and Desmond Llewelyn as Q. James Bond was number 3 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, Christopher Lee was number 31 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 13 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, and the film was number 14 on James Bond's Greatest Hits for Lulu's title song (they also mentioned the Alice Cooper version). Good! "},{"Title":"The First Bond Movie I Saw","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this in the Regal cinema in Rothesay in 1975 and can remember not being too taken by it . Maybe that explains why I`m not a great Bond fan . Having familiarised  myself with the Bond series in later life it`s easy to see that THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN is one of the poorest Bond films , Moore makes a weak Bond , Britt Ekland plays a bimboesque Bond girl ,  the script is silly AND boring and Guy Hamilton doesn`t come close to the heights he reached in GOLDFINGER. I really get the impression that the film would have been so much better if the producers had stuck to the book and had Sean Connery back. As a sidenote the Regal cinema closed in 1976 , was knocked down in the mid 90s and a housing development was built in its place   "}]