[{"Title":"It's a kid's adventure movie with imaginative animation","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"38 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Ignore pointless comparisons about how it pales in comparison to Lord of the Rings. This isn't Lord of the Rings, nor is it Citizen Kane. Why some fools insist that every movie must be measured by the yardstick of their own personal favorite I will never understand. If you're so spoiled by state-of-the-art computer graphics where each creature has an entire team of people working on it, and can't appreciate the human creativity and craftsmanship of great stop-motion animation, don't waste your time on this movie, go watch the latest Pixar release.Harryhausen's work is remarkable not because it's the most realistic animation ever, but because he was able to achieve remarkable things with sculpture and movement on a budget comparable to today's 30 second ad spots.Tom Baker steals the movie. He's terrific as the evil sorcerer, villainous but with enough humanity to his character to make him at least somewhat sympathetic. "},{"Title":"Mostly excellent film, but there are a couple flaws","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"36 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" After Sinbad (Jon Phillip Law) happens upon a strange gold bauble while at sea, his ship ends up at a town where a similar gold piece is kept by a Vizier (Douglas Wilmer), whose city is threatened by the evil prince Koura (Tom Baker). Sinbad, his crew, the Vizier, and two other people from the town begin an adventure to solve the mystery of the baubles.This is a fine fantasy/adventure film, and definitely one worth watching by any fans of the genre, as well as Ray Harryhausen fans. Mostly excellent, The Golden Voyage of Sinbad also has a couple of flaws that brought my score down to an 8 out of 10.The main problem is that the film tends to meander at times. There are also a few minor problems with direction or editing, such as the less-than-convincing sword fight in the cave near the end of the film. Also, the mostly episodic nature of the script lessens the overall impact. It often feels like a string of short stories arbitrarily strung together, although in the end, the overarching goal ties the film together well enough.But what short stories those are! The script, production/set design and costumes easily propel you into a captivating fantasy world, and Harryhausen's creatures, as always, are a delight to watch. No, they're not exactly realistic--no more realistic looking than cgi, in my opinion--but I'm not looking for realism when I watch a film like this. I'm looking for brilliant artistry, especially if it has a horror edge, and Harryhausen's stop-motion animated creatures fit the bill.Most of the scenarios in the film are cleverly conceived. They're constantly leading to intriguing puzzles that have to be solved by our heroes, somewhat similar to a fantasy role-playing computer game, which films like this surely influenced. This maintains a gradually heightening suspense throughout the length of the film, as each puzzle tends to be more difficult than the previous one, and most are accompanied by fascinating beasties of some kind.Although this genre is not usually noted for its fantastic performances, everyone in The Golden Voyage of Sinbad does a great job. Even as a Doctor Who fan who grew up watching the Tom Baker era of that show, it took me awhile to figure out who Baker was here. He is a joy to watch as a slightly campy villain. An even bigger joy to watch was Caroline Munro, who is breathtakingly beautiful. And Law, as Sinbad, is completely convincing and cool.As long as you don't expect a masterpiece, you should have a lot of fun watching this film. "},{"Title":"A good romp","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"23 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  'Golden Voyage' is much better than the later 'Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger' and equal to the earlier 'Seventh Voyage of Sinbad'.The Harryhausen creatures are impressive. Stop motion animation does give solidity to the image, more so than the usual CGI effect. There are some fine ones here including a one eyed centaur, a homunculus, a griffin, a six armed statue, a ship's wooden figurehead. The story is standard but the effects, the locations and the plot weave together well. There is also a dry humour in the dialogue which is entertaining. Scenes like the sword fight with the six armed statute (with six swords!) or the final confrontation at the fountain of wisdom (or something like that) are exciting. The great Miklos Rosza's music adds considerably to the atmosphere.John Philip Law is OK as Sinbad and does attempt an Arabian accent unlike the usual English one, but the role isn't Shakespearean and he does well enough. Caroline Munro looks splendid in her costume, low cut almost everywhere. The rest of the cast support well.Tom Baker is excellent as the villain Koura. He makes him sympathetic; what drives him is common to all people. He just uses different means to gain his ends. He dominates the scenes he is in and it is a pity that more big screen roles never came his way. He was the best 'Doctor Who' in the BBC series, in my opinion of course.A good fantasy romp to appeal to the adventurer in all of us. Did I mention Caroline Munro's costume? Oh, I did. "},{"Title":"Not a patch on '7th Voyage',but great fun all the same","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Made 14 years after The 7th Voyage Of Sinbad, this follow up is ,unsurprisingly, not as good, but that WAS a ground breaking classic. Perhaps sensing that they could not top the first film, the filmmakers give this movie a slightly different feel. If 7th Voyage was full of colour and size, Golden Voyage is somewhat darker and less spectacular. Most of the action occurs at night or in caves, while none of the creatures are especially large. This makes Golden Voyage slightly less of a delightful romp, but it's certainly not just a rehash. There is a strong sense of the uncanny to some scenes,such as the villain's resurrection of the tiny humunculus, or the coming to life of the ship's figurehead.The pace is possibly a little two leisurely, but the action is still terrific, the showstopper being Sinbad and his men battling the 6 armed statue of the Indian goddess Kali, a masterpiece of effects and editing. Tom Baker is the most sinister of all Harryhausen's villains, and Miklos Rozsa's wonderfully rich and grand score never fails to provide excellent backing. It's very different from Bernard Herrmann's classic Harryhausen scores, but as effective.Despite their flaws, there is a wonderful innocence to these Harryhausen films. A modern version would be filled to the brim with CGI, hyperactive editing, 'clever' laughs that show that no one is bothering to take any of this seriously ,etc....... Is that really an improvement?  "},{"Title":"Trust in Allah, but tie up your camel!","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ah, yes; Ray Harryhausen and Sinbad.  This is my favorite of the Sinbad films.  Yes John Phillip Law is not an a-list actor; but, for once, he's not bad.  Tom Baker is outstanding as the evil wizard.  Carolie Munro is the breast, er, best sight in the film.Harryhausen really captures the atmosphere of the Arabian Nights.  There is adventure, mystery, terror, love, comedy, and some pretty good sword fights.  I'll put the six-armed Kali up against the skeleton from the Seventh Voyage of Sinbad any day.  And Tom Baker's wizard is far more evil.Look, forget about CGI and enter the world of Dynamation!  You'll have a good time.  Now, where's that scene where Caroline Munro.........  "},{"Title":"6 ARMED GODDESS & JOHN PHILLIP LAW IN THE SAME MOVIE","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  How can you not love this film .. it's difficult to imagine that anyone could pan the astounding performance of John Phillip Law as Sinbad ..His turn as the beloved Arabic pirate is more adventureous than the boring and cardboard studio fave, Kerwin Matthews and far better than the bland and horrific Patrick Wayne ..The special FX of Ray Harryhausen are his best to date ..The plot is solid and the talent pull this tale off without a hitch or glint of camp which is generally the norm in a cult film such as this..This is Saturday afternoon television at its best ...Onward and upward with John Phillip Law all the way ..  "},{"Title":"Pure Gold!","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Contrary to a previous viewer's opinion, The Golden Voyage of Sinbad is a wonderful, exciting film.  The plot is a bit complex as a malevolent sorcerer races with Sinbad against time to secure a missing piece of an amulet that will insure the holder of powers beyond imagination.  John Phillip Law is a pretty decent Sinbad, and the rest of the cast is quite adequate with Caroline Munro busting out of her outfit as both a figurative and literal standout and Tom Baker is very good as the evil magician.  The real star once again, however, is Ray Harryhausen.  His stop-motion creations are all very good. This time round we get a gargoyle-like homonculus, a wooden siren, a griffin, a centaur, and the image of six-armed Kali.  The action sequences are riveting and the pace of the film is nice and brisk.  Very entertaining! "},{"Title":"The best Sinbad from the trilogy!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've said it before and I'll say it again, Love that Ray Harryhausen. As far as Harryhausen's effects go, this is a very adventurous effort for him. The animated ship figurehead,AWESOME!, the six arned statue, BRILLIANT!, and the epic monster summoning battle at the end is a dream come true. I can't believe the griffon got beat by that brain-dead centaur. And Tom Baker! Hell yes! He is my favorite actor. His portrayal of Doctor Who is the best. Someone made the comment that this came out the same year as the dungeon's and dragon's game and that it came out right before star wars and how it doesn't live up to expectations and blah blah etc... Well, feel free to rent the Dungeons and Dragon's movie that came a few years ago done with that oh so wonderful computer animation we have now. What a joke, other than the special fx from star wars, Rob Bottin(The Thing) and a select few others, Harryhausen's effects are the best! Buy this movie! "},{"Title":"Great Sinbad Film from 1974","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film was a big hit in 1974 and many other Sinbad films have been made and there is no comparison to our new films today, it was a great success in the 70's and is enjoyable to view and enjoy the great acting of John Phillip Law (Sinbad) and his woman companion, Caroline Munro(Margiana) who battle all the evil spells and evil powers that Tom Baker,(Koura) tries to use against Sinbad. Every time Koura uses the Evil Powers, his face begins to look like an old man and he even gets weaker and weaker. There is clashing of swords and deep pits of hell Sinbad falls into and he still manages to fight the bitter struggles of Evil vs. Good. Caroline Munro gives a great supporting role and Tom Baker is completely in control of his role as a very EVIL Demon. Enjoy this Sinbad from the Past, it is worth watching. "},{"Title":"A tale of wonder that has aged well and who's luster keeps shining.","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This truly is a great adventure film.Like many others, this Film was part of the canon of my childhood's imagination and fascination, now more or less mature or at least bearing a manly hair on my chin, this movie still captivates me. In fact it has aged like a fine whine, to use a snobbish metaphor.The movie's plot is decent but a little rhapsodic, nevertheless the story progresses in such a way, that it keeps your attention. The Script is witty and spiced with enough simple poetry to create the world of medieval middle-eastern lore, despite creating characters that are slightly void but still serve as interesting players in this tale. Of course there's the mouth-watering Carolin Munro, whose customs only seem to grow more revealing as the movie progresses. Her sweaty, glistening décolleté during the climactic battle between good and evil, seems almost to doubly upstage Harryhausen's effects.But of course the special effect take center stage in this film. This movie still features one of the most beautiful scenes of stop-motion animation. The dance sequence of the Kali statue (To all those who have critique that it is not Kali but Shiva go burn some incense and watch boring fantasy-trilogies, ye hippies!) and subsequent fight between Sinbad and the six swords wielding Goddess is simply breathtaking. (I still get little jolts of pleasure every time I see Kali descending the stairs from her shrine and hearing the metallic clangs of her feet as she slowly dances down the steps, her arms sensually moving.)Not only are the effects beautifully executed,the entire cinematography surrounding the creatures is brilliantly done, building suspense and delivering an exciting sequence when the monsters(Sorry Ray) appear. (There are no ill-filmed scenes of ugly designed monsters simply bursting through doorways with out tension-building here, thank God) And Miklos Rosza's golden-age film score only adds to the enjoy of this Movie I highly recommend this movie to those, whose senses aren't dulled and surfeited by decadent CGI effects of these days and would like to see a stimulating visual feast.Booyah! "}{"Title":"Something for everyone","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie with my 8 year old daughter on a big-screen TV in 2006 for the first time since seeing it in its original format in a theater as a kid when it was released. I couldn't remember why the movie made such an impression on me as a boy but now it's obvious. There's everything present for good escapist entertainment imaginative, exotic settings, lot's of classic Ray Harryhausen creatures, acting that's not too serious but not so self-aware that the cast behaves like it's a joke, a fun script and Caroline Munro - in all of her G-rated plunging cleavage wonder, even if most of her dialogue is spent repeating the same line Sinbad look! (probably because poor Sinbad was too distracted by her presence to pay attention to the approaching monster). Munro was probably the deciding factor in making the film a stand out when I was pre-adolescent male! Oh yeah, and my daughter loved it! Don't bother waiting for the next $400 million overproduced Hollywood fantasy epic. Just go rent or buy this and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Old-time Saturday Fun","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Despite many outings, including the poorly-received animated opus of 2003, Scheherezade's most famous hero has never made much impact on the big screen, compared to less likely but more politically correct freebooters such as Robin Hood. It must be that there's no underlying message, such as Up-Yours to the Man, in these tales of Baghdad's intrepid sailor & explorer of mythical lands. One of the best efforts was this film made just before Star Wars compelled B-budget adventure movies to take to outer space & Raiders made stunning visual excess the duct tape of plot holes. A mysterious golden tablet leads Sinbad's ship into an alliance with the gold-masked vizier of Moravia (Wilmer) & a race against time against sorcerous Prince Koura (Baker) to find a power that will confer either the means to stop Koura or make Koura unstoppable. Law is game in the lead, deftly playing Sinbad between earnestness & camp, but still looks a bit like a fugitive from the Mod Squad. Actresses get short shrift in these films unless they get to be villainesses, but no such luck for the ladies here. The beautiful but unfashionably voluptuous Monroe, whose career hit its high point here, isn't more than the obligatory decoration & damsel in distress. Her scenes with Law are too awkward to be either romantic or campy. Harryhausen's Dynarama effects are the star, as usual, making all the films he treats a cut above average, at least. They are up to the task here, with the fight against the six-armed Kali not far short of the classic climax in Jason & the Argonauts, but are not quite his best. Supporting parts give the film unusual & pleasant depth, including Wilmer's pessimistic Vizier & especially Shaw as the cautious but valiant second-in-command, Rashid. It's Baker who makes the film as Koura, effectively depicting the torment he brings upon himself in his evil ambition. The film is generously endowed with sage, ostensibly Arab sayings from Sinbad & others, notably Trust in Allah, but tie up your camel. Koura gets the best ones, though, including He who searches for pearls should not sleep and my favorite, He who is patient, obtains. Darth Vader's I find your lack of faith disturbing was a better catchphrase for an America made, perhaps, less credulous by Vietnam & Watergate. The subsequent Eye of the Tiger, which featured the stunning young Jane Seymour in the stereotyped decorative role, wasn't up to the unpretentious old-fashioned fun of Golden Voyage. Sinbad remains in his hidden harbor, waiting for an effort like Boorman's Excalibur or Milius's Conan--and perhaps also an end to America's ugly image of the Persian Gulf--to make sail again. "},{"Title":"He who is patient obtains.","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Golden Voyage of Sinbad is directed by Gordon Hessler and stars John Phillip Law (Sinbad), Tom Baker, Caroline Munro, Douglas Wilmer, Takis Emmanuel & Martin Shaw. It includes a score by composer Miklós Rózsa and features stop-motion effects from Ray Harryhausen (this one in Dynarama). It's the second of three Sinbad films that Harryhausen made for Columbia, the others being The 7th Voyage of Sinbad (1958) and Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger (1977). The plot sees legendary sailor Sinbad come into possession of a tablet dropped onto his ship by a mysterious flying creature. The tablet is one part of a map which greatly intrigues Sinbad so he wears it as an amulet. However, the tablet was bound for evil magician Koura (Baker) who now wants it back as it will lead to The Fountain Of Destiny. Can Sinbad, aided by the Grand Vizier Of Marabia (Wilmer), fend off Koura before he gets the rewards from the fountain to use for his evil ways?A smooth adventure piece that's low on plotting but high on magical mystery fervour. More known for directing horror films, Hessler does an admirable job in not letting the thin story bog the movie down. Sometimes with Harryhausen led movies the stop-motion creations end up being the sole reason for watching the film. And while, as always, they are the best thing in this movie, they give the film an Arabian Nights feel to the piece, managing to charm and engage enough to round it out as a full film viewing experience. Yes the cast are sub-standard B listers, with John Law and Munro featuring, one thinks, for looks (cool beard and turban look) and bosom (whoosh!) respectively. While Tom Baker's pantomime villain act could never become tiring; such is the fun he and the audience are having with it. But this be a good old yarn that's spun well in conjunction with Harryhausen's effects. Here we are treated to a vengeful ships Figurehead, a Centaur, a winged Griffin, a tiny Gargoyle and best of the bunch-the goddess Kali, a six armed statue that is brought to life by Koura. The latter giving a moment to rival that of Talos' awakening in Jason & The Argonauts. Look out for Robert Shaw who features uncredited as the Oracle Of All Knowledge. Rózsa adds the aural joy with mystical Arabian flavours, and Ted Moore's cinematography brings the gorgeous colours and costumes to life.Good wholesome family entertainment. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Fascinating Adventure","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" WARNING May Contain SpoilersThe Golden Voyage of Sinbad continues the magic of Ray Harryhaussen's unique style of animation and his love of exotic mythology. Understandably, the film's special effects pale in comparison to the CG eye-orgies of today, yet the real strength of the movie rests in the portrayal of the fantasy realm itself.In the second installment of the Sinbad trilogy, director Gordon Hessler crafts a much darker realm than The 7th Voyage of Sinbad and a much more believably Arabic one than Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger. Sinbad is now pursued by a Dark magician on his journey to an uncharted island. This desolate and dangerous island supposedly holds the prize of incredible power to which both Sinbad and his Nemesis hold keys. Along the way he confronts a number of Harryhaussen's most stunning creations to date, including a six-armed living statue, a cycloptic centaur, and a griffon. The island itself is a beautiful array of ancient ruins, mysterious oracles, and a labyrinth of underground caverns. Color contrasts intermingle seamlessly as gigantic fountains bubble red water and green temple interiors are antagonistic to the dusty sandstone of the surface.The characters in The Golden Voyage are also much more distinct and memorable in this installment. The dark prince Koura is sinister in his machinations, yet vulnerable as he ages each time he summons up his dark powers. The grand vizier's scarred face is hidden behind a placid gilded mask and the clumsy Haroun never fails to spark a laugh. John Philip Law's Sinbad is a quieter, more subdued captain than Kerwin Matthews' macho portrayal in the previous installment, yet he performs his role with stern concentration.Overall, the film is exceptional not through its special effects or set design, but for the personal feel it portrays as a whole. An earthly design pervades the exotic locales and fearsome beasts which is lacking in many of the fantasy films today. Harryhaussen remains Hollywood's most legendary effects artist because he understood the importance of allowing imagination to precede the effects themselves. Fantasy, even relating the darkest story, can still have a sense of warmth. "},{"Title":"Hours of family fun and entertainment","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A genuinely good flick to watch with little kids. A real family movie in the old-fashion sense of the word. True, it is not as good as the 1958 Kerwyn Mathews 7th Voyage of Sinbad but still a lot of fun for the little ones. Does drag a little bit at points for the elders though (hence the presence of the gorgeous Caroline Munroe to keep us awake !). Tom Baker camps it up as the villain and ditto John Philip Law as the hero of this piece. The dancing Kali sequence is very, very impressive, although disagreeably short, and is worth watcing the movie for alone. Great special effects from Ray Harryhausen - ignore the petty critics. Trivia Kurt Christian (playing Harun) turned up in the 1978 Sinbad flick. Where is he now ?  "},{"Title":"Riveting adventure film with  amazing creatures by Ray Harryhausen","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The pic talks about the hero Sinbad and his extraordinary and surprising adventures . Loose retelling of the ¨ 1001 Arabian nights¨ , based on ancient legends , deals with Sinbad The Sailor (John Philip Law) who travels until an island to discover a fountain of fantastic power with the aim to heal a Vizier (Douglas Wilmer) . Simbad sets off in search of the fountain and aboard a ship along with a motley crew (constituted by an enticing Caroline Munro , Martin Shaw , Aldo Sambrell and Kurt Christian) . They will have to face off several dangers  Homunculos , ominous monsters , giant animals and villains (Tom Baker and henchmen) .In the movie there are mythology , emotions , adventures , fantasy , swashbuckling and it's pretty bemusing . It is an exciting fantasy-adventure full of special effects created by means of stop-motion technique by the magician Ray Harryhausen . The runtime is adequate with various incidents and sub-plots . Harryhausen works his animation magic around a well-developed screenplay and engaging acting by the entire performers . Ray can once again claim credit for the unusual and marvelous mythical creatures springing to life . The confrontation amongst the protagonist and enemies along with monsters is mesmerizing and fascinating  impressive duel between ¨Goddess Kali¨ with amount of arms and Sinbad , great monsters as the centaur and the breathtaking scale models are made by the Dynamation system , by means of stop-motion . The motion picture is the best from ¨Sinbad trilogy¨  ¨The 7th voyage of Simbad (directed Nathan Juran with Kerwin Matthews and Kathryn Grant)¨ and ¨Simbad and the eye of tiger¨ (directed Sam Wanamaker with Patrick Wayne and Jane Seymour)¨ . The film obtained much success and achieved enough Box Office . Good production by Charles H. Scheneer habitual of Harryhausen's films . Cinematography by Ted Moore is colorful , brilliant and shining and classic music composer Miklos Rozsa creates a magnificent and astounding score . The motion picture is rightly directed by Gordon Hessler . The yarn will appeal to fantasy and fancy imagination movies buffs . Rating  Above average . Well catching .Other pictures about the great hero Simbad are the following  ¨Sinbad the sailor¨ (1947) with Douglas Fairbanks Jr , Maureen O'Hara and Anthony Quinn ; ¨Sinbad of the seven seas¨ by Enzo G Castellari with Lou Ferrigno and John Steiner and the cartoon movie ¨Simbad the legend of seven seas¨ (2003) produced by Dreamworks , a combo of computer generator and hand-drawn animation by Patrick Gilmore and Tim Johnson with voices from Brad Pitt and Catherine Zeta Jones . "},{"Title":"More Harryhausen magic","Date":"1 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" John Phillip Law dons the turban last worn by Kerwin Matthews (OK, so Kerwin Matthews didn't actually wear a turban), Caroline Munro is a pleasingly pneumatic maid of mystery, and Tom Baker makes a splendidly sinister master of magic. Plus there are exotic locations and a fabulous score.And who cares? We want Ray Harryhausen's creatures! let's be fair, a bad script and poor production values could have fatally harmed Harryhausen's movies fortunately, in this one (16 years after the previous Sinbad venture), all the backup is great, which enables Ray's creations to shine.And there are some wonderful creations in this entry, although my favourites have to be the 6 armed Kali - a sword fight to rival the skeletons from Jason - and the cyclops/centaur as is full of character as the cyclops from 7th Voyage.Whenever I watch this movie it transports me to the land of my imagination, just as it did when I first watched it all those years ago. Which, I suspect, is exactly what Mr H hoped for. "},{"Title":"Swashbuckling Hidden Treasure Mythic Monsters High Seas Adventure","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sinbad the Sailor makes port in Moravia, wherein he learns of the legendary island of Lemuria, said to contain a fountain of untold riches. He sails in search of this paradise but is followed by the evil Prince Koura, who has his own reasons for wanting the treasure ...This middle picture is my favourite of the three Ray Harryhausen / Sinbad movies (he co-wrote, co-produced it and supervised the special effects), loosely based on the tales of the Arabian Nights / Scheherazade. It's a cracking good story featuring plenty of swordfights, a guy with no face, a forgotten continent, a fountain of eternal youth, a battle with a one-eyed centaur, a griffin and the six-armed Hindu goddess Kali, and a busty slave-girl with a weird tattoo. The adventure gallops along at a fine pace with great characters, plenty of intrigue, scares, good-natured humour (Trust in Allah, but tie up your camel !) and mystical moments. What makes it so enjoyable is the terrific cast; Law is a great dashing hero, ably supported by Shaw and Christian, but especially Baker and Munro, two of the finest British cult actors of all time. Baker is about as Arabian as The Beatles but he is perfect in this role; gleeful in his fanaticism but also tormented and even pitiful, as his black arts consume his body and soul. It's a terrific example of a younger actor (he was forty) playing a tricksy old knave. Munro is equally fabulous, adding so much frisson and glamour to the antics and getting the tone of the piece spot-on. She's one of the most fun and most beautiful actresses of the seventies - don't miss her in Captain Kronos - Vampire Hunter and The Spy Who Loved Me. The other stars of course are Harryhausen's wonderful Dynarama special-effects creations; Kali in particular is just stunning, but they are all amongst the most beautiful stop-motion animation ever done. Add to this the eye-catching locations (it was shot in Majorca), goofy art design (with elements of Aztec, Hindu, Buddhist and Persian culture all chucked in together) and a great score by Miklós Rósza that could be from a movie forty years older, and you have a tremendous escapist family adventure film. The voice of the Oracle is an unbilled Robert Shaw. "},{"Title":"Sexy Caroline Munro Leaves Biggest Impression In Best Sinbad Movie","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Behind 'Eye Of The Tiger' this was my second favourite Sinbad movie growing up, so when I saw it was on TV I sat down to watch it with my 8 year old son. Plot In A Paragraph Sinbad (John Phillip Law) and his crew mount a quest across the seas to solve the riddle of the map, accompanied by a slave girl (the sexy Caroline Munro) with a mysterious tattoo of an eye on her palm, whilst being Pursued by Koura (A pre Dr.Who Tom Baker).Whilst I revelled in the nostalgia from my youth, my son would say that looks so fake whilst I would tell him about how old the movie was, and the effects were great back in 1973 and the wonder of Ray Harryhausen, he would say 'Star Wars' and 'Superman The Movie' were out in the 70's too Whilst I found Phillip Law to be a likable hero and I enjoyed spending fine with what seemed like an old friend, my son found Sinbad to be a poor version of Captain Jack Sparrow. The only thing we both had in common was our appreciation of Caroline Munro and her wonderful cleavage. She is gorgeous and I could not take me eyes off her when she was on screen. It's a pity we never saw more of her, outside of 'The Spy Who Loved Me' I can't remember seeing her in anything else after this. Such a shame. "},{"Title":"I'm glad I stuck with it","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sinbad was made just a few years before I was born. A lot of my (slightly) older friends speak very highly of this adaptation and reminisce about it with much fondness. Throughout my childhood I managed to accidentally catch the odd few minutes here and there and, I have to say, I always liked what I saw.This is the first time I have ever seen the whole film. In short, I was bored. The first half dragged and I found myself idly browsing my laptop for other things to amuse me. I was just on the verge of turning it off when it suddenly picked up.Ultimately, I'm glad I stuck with it (and not just for Caroline Munro's outfit). The second half features much more action, better sets, many more monsters and even a bit of tension thrown in there.It's a good romp. I'd give it a solid 3/5. But I'm guessing that if I'd watched it more when I was younger I'd probably regard it with a bit more nostalgia (like I do with the awful Star Crash *blushes*). You have to like a bit of cheesiness to sit through it, but, if you can appreciate the time and effort put into the sets and monsters, you might get something out of it.Did I mention Caroline Munro's costume?http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "}{"Title":"Dynarama, Boobs, and Doctor Who","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sinbad (John Phillip Law) and friends search for the third piece to a map that leads to the Fountain of Destiny. Along the way they must deal with the evil magician Koura (Tom Baker) and the many threats he puts in their way. These threats are brought to life by special effects legend Ray Harryhausen.Wonderful fantasy adventure film, highlighted of course by the Harryhausen creations homunculi, centaur, griffin, ship's figurehead come to life, and a six-armed Kali idol. But we also have Tom Baker having great fun playing the villain Koura and the beautiful Caroline Munro as Margiana, whose cleavage steals the picture. It's solid pure entertainment and my personal favorite of all the Sinbad movies. "},{"Title":"Adventure, Ho!","Date":"26 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Golden Voyage of Sinbad is a classic fantasy adventure film from the visual effects master Ray Harryhausen. The film relies on the appeal of the cast, monsters and the adventure. It's no Lord of the Rings or other highbrow entertainment. Like other Harryhausen's films, The Golden Voyage of Sinbad is aimed at general audience that wants to see heroic heroes, beautiful damsels, villainous villains and story of high adventure with monsters and untold treasures. And this film perfectly succeeds at doing that.The cast in Sinbad, is very good. John Phillip Law makes a cool and handsome lead. He is the hero you want to be - charming, good looking, smart and noble. Caroline Munro plays the beautiful damsel and wears clothes that expose her beautiful body just enough to be classy and sexy at the same time. To put it simply, Caroline Munro plays that kind of girls that worth the effort of losing your friends, nations and your own sanity. Tom The Doctor Baker gives a memorable performance as the villainous dark wizard. He is a very intense screen presence and brings me joy of watching being evil. The rest of the cast just spout out exposition and point out the obvious. And that doesn't matter since your attention will constantly placed at Caroline Munro and then to Tom Baker and the to monsters and then to Sinbad and then to everything else.Ray Harryhausen's monsters are great as usual. We have plenty of creatures and wonderful sets to make the adventure more adventurous. While some people might find some the effects dated and rather cheesy, but if you are as technically minded as I am, you will enjoy the sheer amount work and creativity put into making the film. Watching the monsters and all the other fun things Harryhausen created, is wonderful and almost as hypnotic as Caroline Munro.The script isn't that good but for the film they were making, it's completely fine. The characters are paper thin and the motivations are simplistic but who cares. It's all about the adventure and there Sinbad works perfectly. All we need to know what the villain wants and what the hero wants. The villain wants to get the ultimate power and treasure, Sinbad wants to stop him. You do not need to be more complicated than that. The Golden Voyage of Sinbad is a good family entertainment. If you are looking for slick CGI and more better known actors, then your going to be severely disappointed. Sinbad is an old-school adventure film in all the good and bad ways. But if you like the work of Ray Harryhausen and are big fan of Tom Baker and Caroline Munro, this is a must see. "},{"Title":"Ray Harryhausen's special effects steal the show...","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" THE GOLDEN VOYAGE OF SINBAD is an enjoyable fantasy with lavish looking sets, colorful costumes and a plot that takes advantage of the odd looking creatures Sinbad must fight to achieve whatever goals he has.John Phillip Law makes a dashing Sinbad, Caroline Munro is the briefly clad heroine and Tom Baker makes a menacing enough villain who often steals the scenes he's in. But the real scene-stealer in this case are Ray Harryhausen's special effects creatures, particularly the six-armed statue that comes to life. All of the stop animation is amazingly well done for the time.Only drawbacks are the lack of humor to keep the story moving with a lighter touch here and there. The music by Miklos Rozsa is fitting and the color photography is gorgeous to behold in the outdoor scenes. Many of the indoor scenes take place in dark caves which only emphasizes the dark nature of much of the story. But as with Harry Potter, kids seem to love dismal darkness as well as the brighter aspects for their fantasies. Here there's a mixture of both.Well worth watching for escapist fantasy entertainment. "},{"Title":"My Very First Experience With Sinbad The Sailor","Date":"1 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When I think of The Golden Voyage of Sinbad, fond memories of my childhood immediately flood my mind. When I was a child, my mother would take me to our local library to check out different kinds of books and movies. Now, since I was boy, I tended to gravitate towards anything that had to do with dinosaurs, monsters, and a variety of other beings and one day we happened to spot this gem of a movie, took it home, and watched it together. The story revolves around Sinbad coming across a strange amulet and losing his ship in a storm after having a strange dream involving a figure in black. He soon learns that the amulet is part of a puzzle to find the fountain of destiny which gives man youth and untold riches. He goes on this journey with a grand vizier and a slave girl who is also part of the puzzle. However, they must hurry for the evil magician Koura (the black robed figure) also seeks the powers of the fountain. While The 7th Voyage of Sinbad may have had slightly cooler monsters (especially the cyclops), I personally consider Golden Voyage to be the best of the Sinbad movies done by Ray Harryhausen in terms of cinematic value due to the story, its look and tone, and also the acting. John Phillip Law plays an excellent Sinbad, the beautiful and talented Caroline Munroe plays the part of Margiana, the slave girl, very well and then there is Tom Baker as Koura. Out of all the villains of the Sinbad movies, Koura is probably the most solidly played and its easy to see why Tom Baker went on to play the legendary Dr. Who. And don't misinterpret me when it comes to the monsters of the movie; they are all very well done in a way that only Ray Harryhausen could do, such as a griffin, a one eyed centaur, and my personal favorite, a six armed, sword welding idol of Kali brought to life by Koura's magic. So, if you're looking for a nice, family friendly movie to watch with the kids or if you just want to enjoy a good fantasy tale, you can't go wrong with The Golden Voyage of Sinbad. P.S. Thankyou Ray Harryhausen for creating something that will always have a special place in my heart. "},{"Title":"dated animation the only drawback to this fantastic tale","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If you are looking for an enjoyable adventure, full of swashbuckling heroics, colorful characters, and of course, the battle of good versus evil, then you've found it. All aspects of the production contribute to a fantastic tale of conflict, destiny and glory.This is one of a series of Ray Harryhausen (animator/story) movies about Sinbad, the legendary sailor. He comes into possession of a shining gold object, and is soon drawn into a struggle between a benevolent kingdom and an evil sorcerer who both need it and will do almost anything to secure it. The sometimes mysterious, sometimes humorous, and sometimes beautiful characters Sinbad meets along the way are all wonderfully conceived and truly contribute to the story.In the first ten minutes, this film shows its true colors as a fantasy. It will pull you in and keep you musing, wondering, and entertained mostly all the way through. There are a few lulls in the story, but this breathing space is a hallmark of the era in which the film was made, and only the the truly impatient will find them disrupting. The lands, stop-motion monsters, and mystical objects are colorful literally and metaphorically, making this journey highly enjoyable. To boot, Miklos Rosza has written a sparkling score that--along with mentions of Allah and destiny--provides a feeling of wonderment and exoticism as we glimpse into this great culture (though this is not a highly accurate presentation). Kids will love it, and adults too, especially if act your age is not your mantra. 8/10 for excitement, story, and best of all, atmosphere. "},{"Title":"A Voyage of Golden Fantasy","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Golden Voyage of Sinbad is one of the better Arabian Nights movies, starring John Phillip Law as Sinbad, and Caroline Munro as Margiana, a slave girl who comes along on the voyage. In this story, Sinbad is looking for pieces of a golden amulet before Koura, an evil sorcerer, can find them for his own selfish purposes. This is one of the best classic movies to feature the work of Ray Harryhausen. His animation gives us the dancing statue of Kali, and the classic battle between the gryphon and the cyclopean centaur. Caroline Munro also provides some nice eye candy. It's movies like this that show that the modern effects of digital animation may be nice, but Harryhausen's work is something special. "},{"Title":"Arabiana Jones","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Boy, I'll tell you that when this was new, it was great. This was before Lucas and Spielberg made it impossible to have a straight ahead adventure film with no winks at the audience.This was when special effects were more believable because the monsters were so unlike humans.This was before Arabs became equated with uncontrollable anger, and instead could be seen as mysterious and wise. Indeed, so thorough is our acceptance of the Arabian perspective here that the inner, more primitive (and unrefined) magic is Hindu. A very cool touch.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"A fine family fantasy film.","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" With a raft of wonderful Ray Harryhausen effects and a great cast (including the brilliant Tom Baker and the impossibly sexy Caroline Munro), The Golden Voyage of Sinbad is excellent fantasy entertainment for the whole family. The story may be fairly forgettable stuff, but the fantastic creatures and spectacular set-pieces still have the power to capture the imaginations of young and old alike.This time around, Captain Sinbad and his men must travel to a mysterious island to find the third piece of a golden tablet that, when completed and placed in a magic fountain, will give youth, untold riches and a cloak of deception (which makes the wearer invisible). Also along for the ride is a badly scarred vizier who wears a golden mask, the young son of a rich merchant, and a beautiful slave girl (Caroline Munro, looking devastatingly gorgeous in a skimpy outfit revealing her ample, sweaty cleavage).Unfortunately, hot on their trail is the evil magician Koura (Tom Baker) who will do anything to ensure that it is he who benefits from the powers of the tablet. On their travels, Sinbad and his companions must contend with Koura's sorcery, and also do battle with an assortment of marvellous monsters, including a winged homunculus, a centaur, a wooden siren and an animated statue of Kali, complete with a sword in each of her six arms!Probably my favourite of the three Harryhausen Sinbad movies (Golden Voyage was preceded by The Seventh Voyage of Sinbad and followed by Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger), this great adventure film delivers enough spills and thrills for even the most fussy of adventure-film fans. "},{"Title":"A very charming and enjoyable fantasy adventure romp","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Brave sailor Sinbad (an engaging performance by John Phillip Law) goes to the island of Lemuria in search of the mystical Fountain of Destiny. Assisting Sinbad on his perilous journey are the badly scarred Grand Vizier (solid Douglas Wilmer) of Marabia, ravishing slave girl Margiana (a positively enchanting turn by the gorgeous Caroline Munro, who looks smoking hot in skimpy outfits), loyal crew member Omar (the always excellent Aldo Sambrell), and a helpful oracle (an unrecognizable Robert Shaw under extensive make-up). Out to thwart Sinbad is wicked and powerful black wizard Prince Koura (superbly played by Tom Baker of Dr. Who fame), a surprisingly complex and strangely sympathetic villain who needs to find the Fountain of Destiny to regain his youth. Director Gordon Hessler, working from a witty script by Brian Clemens (who also gave us the terrific Captain Kronos - Vampire Hunter), ably creates a charming magical atmosphere and maintains a steady, if occasionally rather sluggish pace throughout. Ray Harryhausen's wonderfully lifelike and expressive stop-motion animation creatures include a tiny winged flying homunculus who spies for Koura, a ship's wooden siren masthead which comes dangerously alive, a sword-wielding six-armed Kali statue, a ferocious gigantic cyclopean centaur, and a golden griffin who fights the centaur in an especially exciting set piece. Ted Moore's rich, vibrant cinematography, Miklos Rozsa's lush, rousing, spirited score and a perfectly pitched sincere tone of awestruck wonder further enhance the overall superior quality of this immensely enjoyable fantasy adventure delight. "},{"Title":"One of Harryhausen's best.","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I saw it when it came out, and it still seems to have everything going for it (and I'm not prejudiced about EVERY Harryhausen film). Among other things, Ray Harryhausen has always had a knack for taking mythological things and actually turning them up a notch - a combination Cyclops and Centaur, a Centaur-Griffin battle, and so on. John Philip Law really looks the part as Sinbad (that joke about no actor looking dignified in a costume definitely doesn't work in his case). As others here say, Tom Baker made a great villain, with a sympathetic side. And Caroline Munro - that kind of speaks for itself. It takes about one minute to develop a crush on her in that movie. But one other thing this one has, which many Harryhausen movies don't (and don't really TRY to) is a very good comic relief character, the sort of lazy teenager, slacker, so to speak (Haroun?), who's Shanghaied on the ship (Please show me to my cabin.). Even John Philip Law (someone you wouldn't think of as a comic actor) had some funny moments with that actor. And it even had a running joke that worked - Tie up your camel. (Of course, you have to hear that in the film for it to make sense.) "}{"Title":"Caroline Munro proves that bigger is better.","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The second of the Harryhausen Sinbad films coming some 16 years after 'The 7th Voyage of Sinbad'. Film offers reasonable entertainment, but the stop-motion monsters are used to cover up the gaping holes in the script, performances etc. Not surprisingly this proves too much to handle, and the film becomes a disappointment.John Phillip Law is a bland Sinbad while Caroline Munro shows little acting prowess in the token scantily-clad female role. That said her bra-busting-breasts provide a memorable vision for every adolescent teenage boy. Tom Baker ( TV's best Dr Who ), makes for a good villain and to be fair the film looks great and is exciting for its intended teenage audience. For those who can see through the veneer though, this is a poor production.The first half of the film drags with limited Harryhausen effects, including a very poor ships figurehead who provides Sinbad his first stop-motion opponent. Things do pick up with a one-eyed Centaur and a Griffin providing the films highlight ably supported by a six-armed statue.One would hope to see advancements from the much earlier '7th Voyage of Sinbad', but this is never the case. The first film was superior in every department, which only highlights the flaws and shortcomings in 'The Golden Voyage of Sinbad' - kids will still lap it up though.  "},{"Title":"Short appraisal for Ray Harryhausen","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This must be the ultimate film-thrill for stop-motion fans. This film was made before the days of computer enabled special effects. Ray Harryhausen excelled himself with this film having a field day with the special effects. The 'Kali' sequence still remains one of the most memorable moments of film history. The film is well paced and there is something for everyone. A good cast and script but they are all overshadowed by Ray Harryhausens special creations! Excellent film. "},{"Title":"The Masterpiece Sinbad Movie","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Of the three Ray Harryhausen Sinbad movies, this is my personal favorite. The Arabian Nights setting is dialed in, Sinbad and his crew look like they actually belong on a shady adventure ship, the ship looks accurate for the period, the evil sorcerer and his powers of darkness are perfectly and sensibly integrated into the movie, the little bits of humor work, and Caroline Monroe is out of control sexy. Oh and the stop motion monsters are in top form, not only do they look good, but they fit in perfectly with the story.The actors are all believable and interesting. Sinbad, played by John Phillip Law is the best Sinbad of the three movies. He plays an active, smart Sinbad who handles danger and moral situations in true heroic fashion. The other characters support the story and add to the depth of the movie.I think the most important element in a Sinbad movie is a credible supernatural threat. This movie features one of the best evil wizards in all of fantasy. Tom Baker plays Koura the magician, and he gives an impressive performance. But sorcery in this picture is not just for show, there is an underlying structure to it that makes sense. Koura pays a price for aid from the powers of darkness - every time he uses sorcery, he ages. This is a brilliant way to show Koura slowly slipping into the clutches of dark powers. The monsters he summons or commands come alive with the magic of Dynamation and every monster makes sense for the setting and story and has a dramatic impact on the story. And the wicked little pet homunculus - I want one! The story moves along briskly. Sinbad and the Sultan race Koura across the seas to a lost island where they hope to solve the riddle of the 3 golden pieces and thereby restore the kingdom. Compare this ship race with Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger - the Golden Voyage has so much more tension, it moves much quicker, the stakes seem higher. The scenes on the lost island are varied and interesting. There is lots for everyone to do, and all if it is important. The final battle between creatures representing good and evil is really cool. The mystical powers of the Fountain of Destiny make sense and provide a fitting and dramatic end to the movie.This is one of my all-time favorite fantasy films. "},{"Title":"No race is lost until it is won.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERSAs with the later Eye of the Tiger, this is another load of slow, dated fantasy nonsense with blacked-up actors pretending to be Arabic. As with Tiger, it also features a Doctor Who actor in a lead role. In 1977 Patrick Troughton had long left the part. His performance here helped Tom Baker to get it the following year. He's pretty good, using that voice and those eyes to striking effect, though as with Tiger, Sinbad (why is the hero's name a blend of two Western words for evil?), here played by John Phillip Law, is about as interesting as a bag of sugar. There seems to be no real beginning with these films; who is Sinbad? Where does he come from? What makes him tick? It's assumed we already know, or don't care, as we're dropped in what feels like the middle of events, Sinbad already in mid voyage. His crew are similarly dull - Captain, he who walks on fire will burn his feet says one of them in what some might call stating the sheer bloody obvious. Even Sinbad himself joins in, doling out such considered advice as you cannot pick up two melons with one hand. Maybe not, but if they were Caroline Munro's I'd have a try. Poor Caroline has nothing to do, save stand around showing off her toned, tanned midriff and cleavage - for which I am eternally grateful. Sinbad claims his voyage will take two or three years, and in a touch of screen realism it certainly feels like it. However, it's certainly more appealing than Tiger as the plot and character dynamics are not continually disrupted to make way for Ray Harryhausen's stop motion effects. When they do appear, they're there to supplement the action, rather than replace it. As always, they're variable - the Gryphon, Homunculus and Centaur leave something to be desired, but the ship masthead and Kali are quite effective.I wonder how people of differing religions view these films? Sinbad's Muslim crew speaks frivolously of Allah, while Buddhism is checked and evil Hindu Goddess Kali dances to a sitar soundtrack. I doubt Christianity would have been treated with such trivialised disdain.Ultimately though, the predictable narrative - Sinbad goes on quest, bad guy makes multiple failed attempts to defeat him with poor special effects, Sinbad eventually kills him and saves the day - does little to compel. It also has a false ending to add to the misery, carrying on for a good twenty minutes just when you think it's all over. When the ending proper does finally arrive, it features a fountain of blood, which might be disturbing for younger viewers. "},{"Title":"Golden Voyage of Sinbad 5/10","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sinbad's Golden Voyage although a good flick, didn't seem to quite stack up with his first film, the 7th Voyage. The characters of Sinbad, Koura and Vizier all had solid performances but weren't as likable as a view. Margiana, played by Caroline Munro had a phenomenal screen presence but didn't have the acting chops to play Sinbad's female love interest. Koura and Sinbad's quest to hunt down the golden pieces that together bring eternal youth was a solid start. Also Koura clay-mated miniature gargoyles were an awesome touch to draw the viewer in. However, the middle of the film fell flat up until the end, which itself was rather disappointing. There were some good clay-mated creatures, especially Kari the six-armed swordess, but the others weren't as impressive. It's kind of cool knowing Robert Shaw played The Oracle at one scene but I wish he had an actual physical performance. Still worthy of a watch but was a let down on my first watch. "},{"Title":"High adventure with Sinbad and Caroline Munro, but too many dark dungeons/caverns","Date":"24 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Released in 1973, The Golden Voyage of Sinbad was the second of three Harryhausen Sinbad flicks; the other two being 1958's The 7th Voyage of Sinbad and 1977's Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger. In this film Sinbad (John Phillip Law) and crew mount a quest across the seas to solve the riddle of a map, accompanied by a slave girl with a strange eye tattoo on her palm (Caroline Munro), a masked Vizier (Douglas Wilmer) and a humorous green recruit (Kurt Christian). Meanwhile the evil sorcerer Koura is on their trail (Tom Baker).Sinbad adventures play like a Middle Eastern version of Conan the Barbarian, albeit with a slightly funner edge and a less dour protagonist. So, if you love Conan you'll likely appreciate all three of these Sinbad films. And even though I describe these movies as having a fun edge, they're not goofy. They're serious sword & sorcery movies; the protagonists just exude the joy and vitality of living.The items I demand in a Sinbad adventure are obvious A good casting choice for Sinbad, a great adventure story, exotic locations, a colorful assortment of likable characters & love-to-hate villains, beautiful women, and quality F/X work (for the era). The Golden Voyage delivers in most of these areas, although the production values seem kinda cheap here and there. While John Phillip Law fits the Arabic role of Sinbad better than Kerwin Mathews, Patrick Wayne is even better in the sequel. Caroline is easily the most beautiful woman to appear in all three films despite the stiff competition from the likes of Kathryn Grant, Jane Seymour and Taryn Power.The score is fitting, the F/X work is entertaining in a nostalgic way, and the Spanish locations are good, what we see of them anyway. This brings up the film's biggest weakness (to me anyway) It's too set-bound with most of the sets being the bowels of ancient temples or caverns. I can handle this because it's just one film in a trilogy, but the enclosed/underground sets take away from the sea-going high adventure one expects with Sinbad. Furthermore, like I said, the production values are easily the least of the three. However, the movie makes up for it with perhaps the most colorful cast of characters, including the green-skinned tribe.All three Sinbad movies are very different since each has a different person in the title role, not to mention the rest of the characters. I marginally prefer this one to to the first one, but Eye of the Tiger is my favorite because it has the best cast, story and sense of a long voyage/quest. But each has its strengths and weaknesses. For instance, Kerwin Mathews in The 7th Voyage was way too whitebread for the role of Sinbad while the runtime of Eye of the Tiger seems a bit padded.The movie runs 105 minutes and was shot in Spain.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"yes there's Harryhausen, but how about Tom Baker!","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Golden Voyage of Sinbad is a prime example of a mixed bag. I really couldn't stand many of the actors; Caroline Munro is nice eye-candy, but not much more, and Aldo Sambrell feels wasted, and don't get me started on the 'comic relief' of the young kid with the big hair and goofy attitude). And the first half hour especially, or the first half really, is flatly directed and poorly written stuff.Two things keep this afloat though the Harryhausen effects (though they take time to really get going, it's really the six-armed buddha-statue, and the Minotaur and falcon-beast that steal that part of the show, though a bat-spy is kinda cool), and, actually more than Harryhausen, Tom Baker. Just his eyes are the stars of the movie. At first I thought he'd come off kind of like a second-rate Anthony Quinn from Lawrence of Arabia- kind of an Arab minstrel show. That goes away very quickly, and he really digs in to the heart and soul of his character. He is a dastardly villain this Prince Koura, going after these three golden trinkets that will give him the fountain of youth. And of course he conjures monsters and every time he does it makes him old and weak.But keep an eye on his intense, sky-blue eyes and how he moves his face and mannerisms, or just the fervor his Koura has when he is searching through the golden chests inside the part of the temple for the piece as Sinbad and his men (and woman) approach you almost want him to get it, just by the nature of how bland Law is. He might have been a fine Diabolik, but that was without a lot of his face showing. It has the similar problem as Jason and the Argonauts - matter of fact, the similar structure of a Man on a Voyage on a Ship (he even gets some crew, though a lot of the men are already assembled ad the start) - only with Argonauts, the effects were really masterpieces of effects work.Here, frankly, Harryhausen has his moments, surely for the climax of creatures, but he has not one but two creaky statue-monsters this time (the woman on the ship that break off and attacks the men is OK, but feels like a retread of Talos from Argonauts), and the final fight involves an invisibility trick that hasn't aged well, one of those rare times watching a movie with practical effects where I wished for CGI of all things.So even with him it's not all aces. Still, there's a part of me that has an admiration for this fluffy stuff meant to really keep kids in 1973 occupied on a Saturday afternoon. For that, it is a low matinée-worthy price. And Baker especially, well, one can see why he was picked as the Fourth Doctor after this movie. He really is the reason to see the movie more than anyone else a fully embodied, passionate, crazed and even sympathetic villain. "},{"Title":"A fun Harryhausen adventure!","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Golden Voyage of Sinbad follows the legendary sailor as he races against a dark sorcerer to an ancient land. Sinbad and his crew are aided by two golden tablets which contain clues to finding a treasure beyond any of their imaginations. Some may consider this film a cheesy, old, over-the-top, episodic waste of time. Well that is all correct, aside from the waste of time. This is a fun and nostalgic film, and contains some terrific stop motion animation from Ray Harryhausen. John Phillip Law plays Sinbad in this version of the story. He adopts a somewhat convincing accent. This makes him a little more believable than his eventual successor Patrick Wayne. Although not as energetic or enjoyable. He gives a passable performance, but he is overshadowed very easily by his more interesting supporting cast. Caroline Monroe and Douglas Wilmer are worthwhile in this film. Their performances show commitment to the subject matter, which could be very difficult to take seriously. Although it can be frustrating that their characters Margiana and the Vizier are not developed in any way past their uses to advance the plot. Kurt Christian does his job as comic relief, although his character Haroun's dialogue is where most of the cheesiness comes from. Tom Baker, who would later gain worldwide popularity as the Fourth Doctor on the iconic British science fiction series Doctor Who, portrays the main antagonist of the film, Prince Koura. Tom Baker gives a joyfully over-the-top performance in this film. His memorizing voice will distract you enough from the fact that a lot of what he is saying is pure gibberish. There is a particular scene where Koura is controlling a creature aboard Sinbad's ship from a distance, and he does not move from his chair the whole time, but his pure commitment to the intensity and pain of the scene would make anyone think he was really there, experiencing every moment. Baker seems to be both charming and slimy in this film and it makes for a very intriguing performance. There is not much to say for the story of this film. However, the story has a nostalgic feeling to it. It is almost better than most modern fantasy films because of the simplicity of the script. The beautiful production design and clever animation make up well for the lack of compelling writing. The final set piece of the fountain is particularity well done. It is gorgeous to look at and very well built. Although some of the scene is obvious green screen, it integrates well with the action and the set remains pretty enough to look at. Almost all of the worthwhile material in this film comes from Tom Baker's performance and the animation from industry pro Ray Harryhausen. Harryhausen, of course, was the most well known animator of the time. He was known for his imaginative creatures and almost flawless stop motion techniques that melded with the films so well. I was first introduced to this film as a child in the 90s, and the effects seemed more interesting to me than dated. Which in later years got me thinking that stop motion may be the only timeless for of special effect, because of the sheer amount of effort it takes. Sidenote I would like to mention Koura's theme music composed by Miklos Rozsa, every time I see this film, this particular piece of the score gets completely stuck in my head. It is energetic and perfectly befitting an over-the-top villain such as Prince Koura. Overall this is a fun adventure film, probably more for the film buffs among us than the general crowd. The effects are brilliant, as Mr. Harryhausen's always we're. The story has a nostalgic feel. Tom Baker gives a very fun performance to watch, and an intriguing villain at that. I give the film 7 out of ten for a couple of reasons 1 The classic feel of the film. 2 Tom Baker's terrific performance as the evil Prince Koura. 3 The production design and sets are fantastic. 4MOST IMPORTANTLY! Ray Harryhausen's unique special effects and creature designs. The film loses points due to the following 1 The script is cheesy and for the most part uninteresting. 2 The story is very episodic. 3 John Phillip Law seems for the most part disinterested when playing Sinbad, aside from his accent. 4The comedy in the film feels tacked on. "},{"Title":"New Sinbad Adventure.","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Gordon Hessler directed this new Sinbad adventure with fine Ray Harryhausen F/X. John Philip Law takes over the role of Sinbad(though this isn't really a sequel to 1958's 7th Voyage) Here, Sinbad and his woman companion, a former slave girl (played by the beautiful Caroline Munro) intercept a golden tablet that is part of an inter-locking map that an evil magician named Koura(well played by future Doctor Who actor Tom Baker. In fact, it was this role that got him cast as the Fourth Doctor in 1974!) Koura is desperate to get the map, and will go to any lengths to achieve this... Good film isn't quite as compelling as its predecessor, but the three leads make all the difference. "},{"Title":"Holds Up","Date":"6 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Many Adventure films before RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK are great films but perhaps do not gel with our current conception of adventure. This is one that does. It is an old-fashioned tale certainly, but it was deliberately retro in 1974 too. The action scenes are exciting and imaginative. Harryhausen's effects are vivid, tangible and fluid; a world apart in artistry to the effects in something like last year's joyless CLASH OF THE TITAN update. The characterisation and performances are above average for the genre too; John Phillip Law is a charismatic and photogenic Sinbad, and it's a great shame he didn't stay on for SINDAD AND THE EYE OF THE TIGER. Tom Baker is a marvellous villain, who under the circumstances is rather restrained. Kurt Christian does brilliantly with a role that could have easily been lazy comic relief, but ends up as more, holding his own in the drama and fight scenes. And Caroline Munroe was one of the best Bond girls and is simply stunning here.All in all, THE GOLDEN VOYAGE OF SINBAD is a great watch for anyone of any age who wants some good old fashioned adventure fun. "}{"Title":"Sinbad versus Harryhausen.","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This story is based on The Thousand and One Arabian Nights and on the imaginations of Brian Clemens and special effects artist Ray Harryhausen. The Arabian Nights were a Medieval collection of stories in the Middle East that borrowed from all kinds of sources -- Persian, Greek, Indian -- and they all established a certain undeniable atmosphere.You have to hand it to the Medieval Middle Easterners. The stories are full of magic, adventure, mystery, and beauty. Jasmine is mentioned often. It is sometimes used as a girl's name. It was the name of Rita Hayworth's daughter by Aga Kahn, and there is, or was, Yasmin Bleeth. I don't know who else has grown jasmine but there is no other scent like it. But the Arabian Nights evokes all kinds of perfumes, as well as melons, turbans, bloused pantaloons tucked into boots, sandals, pomegranates, and monsters. It's an entire iconic universe.Then there is the Wisdom Of The East as reflected in the dialog of this fantasy. He who walks on fire will burn his feet. And A live dog is better than a dead lion. And Always trust in Allah, but tie up your camel. The writers omitted one passage from Richard Burton's translation that's puzzled me for years Her navel was so capacious that it could easily contain an ounce of ointment. Anyway, Sinbad comes into possession of part of a small golden charm which, when fitted together with two others, will give him absolute power. He sets off in pursuit of the other two pieces, not recognizing the danger of absolute corruption. He's pursued by an evil prince who can make statues come to life and do his bidding, and he runs into a couple of Harryhausen's creations. The most effective monstrosity, I thought, was the figurehead on Sinbad's ship. The wood suddenly acquires life and tears itself away from its wooden prison to fight Sinbad and the crew. It moves slowly, wears a puzzled expression, and creaks and groans with every motion, rather like Dolph Lundgren trying to act.Mention should be made of this young woman Sinbad picks up along the way, the delicious and hypermastic Caroline Munro. She doesn't have much to do. She's given only a dozen lines at the beginning and the end. She spends most of her on-screen time cowering against walls, wearing an expression of distress. Sometimes her expression changes to one of disgust, as if someone had just offered her a jellyfish to hold. Her chief job seems to be following Sinbad and her bosom around from place to place.Harryhausen's effects always have an appealing fey quality, but here they seem a little crude. A bat-like creature spies on the hero and his body resembles that of the Ymir in Twenty Million Miles to Earth. When an organic creature is killed, it often quivers realistically, which gives me the creeps. One of the inorganic creations is a direct copy of the famous Hindu dancing Shiva or Nataraja statue, here called Kali because everyone knows the evil Kali from Gunga Din. Most of the creatures have a garish color. The little bat, for instance, is a sort of magenta. I wonder if Harryhausen's best days weren't behind him by this time.It's not an insulting movie, and these days that's saying a lot, but it seems mainly for kids or for moments in your life when you're looking for entertainment that's less than challenging.Does Sinbad get the crown that brings absolute power? Does he give it away because he enjoys his freedom and doesn't want the responsibility that kingship would bring? Does he get the girl? Is she bursting out of her bodice with love for Sinbad? Are we kidding? "},{"Title":"Stunning Details!","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This story unfolds effortlessly with noble characters who take us on a spontaneous adventure. It is a spin on the original story from 1,001 Arabian Nights. John Philip Law makes a dashing Sinbad, and he and his costars do a great job of underplaying. Even the villain is likable. This movie is a feast for the eyes with amazing costumes, sets, and Ray Harryhausen's legendary special effects. I love the historical and anthropological references to the evil eye, the temple of faces at Ankor Wat, the Gryphon, and a multi-armed Kali doing best version of Bharata Natyam. I also appreciate the message of fighting evil with bravery, positive attitude, etc. This is a great movie for kids. "},{"Title":"Plenty of fantasy and special effects","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" 'The Golden Voyage of Sinbad' is not a great movie, but it is one that you can sit and watch one afternoon and enjoy the adventure unfolding on the screen. There's just enough to keep you preoccupied and seeking more with plenty of fantasy, monsters, and even a little bit of romance.This film is packed with special effects, and there's always the interaction of these 'special effects' with the actors and actresses. I think the special effects made in this film were ahead of their time. (Sure, they may not look like much now with computer animation, but they still look good and do enough to contibute to the story without distracting from it like some of the effects do today).It's not the best film, but it's a film that you can watch if you are looking for a no-brainer with some adventure. "},{"Title":"Alf Leila wa Leila (1001 nights)","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's entertainment for entertainment's sake but perhaps best taken with a pinch of salt.For more authentic Arabian Nights entertainment, read a few stories from one of the many English translations of the book (Burton 1880s or Husein Hadawy's 1990s have excellent translations of Sinbad's voyages)Happy reading! "},{"Title":"Have a good time--but check your standards at the door","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sure, my keenly-developed sense of aesthetics tells me Golden Voyage of Sinbad isn't a very good movie. John Phillip Law basically just stands there, as does Caroline Munro (though, to paraphrase John Lennon in Backbeat, what's important is the *way* she stands there), and most of the other characters are nameless ciphers. The plot is rudimentary and even the characters don't seem that concerned with it. The dialogue, with the exception of one line (Trust in Allah--but tie up your camel) that is repeated constantly, pretty much sucks.But I like it. For two reasons.One, it's a nice example of an average, low-budget late-60s/early-70s kiddie yarn. Not a superior example; in fact, it's its averageness that lends this movie its charm. It brings you back to an era before flashy editing permanently shredded children's attention spans, when audiences allowed a movie to simply show them things a ship drifting toward the horizon, a line of men trudging through some immense exotic locale. Sinbad takes you back to a time when they still made adventure movies rather than action movies, when it was understood that you could hold viewers' attention through more than simple hyperkinesis. Sure, Sinbad may be pretty much crap, but I'll take it over today's crap any day.Second reason Tom Baker. Of course any Doctor Who fan is going to enjoy this movie, but I think I'd be just as taken with Baker's performance had I never seen him don a hat and comically long scarf. He goes all out at every opportunity, grinning, scowling, popping those huge blue eyes, wielding that deep, weird voice of his like a cowpoke handling a lariat. It makes you wonder what great character performances we missed in exchange for seven years of the Fourth Doctor.Summary It's not a great movie, but it has a great performance and is a solid reminder of an era of moviemaking where even the crap films were better than what we have today. "},{"Title":"What happened to the bald bloke?","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ray Harryhausen brings this tale to life (as always) through his wonderful stop motion creations. There are plenty go around here a centaur, a griffin, a 6-armed fighting statue and a ships figure head come to life. They aren't the best Harryhausen creations but still have a sense of awe and wonder about them. Kali, the 6-armed fighting statue is good and the choreography for the fight scene with the sailors is very well done.As for the actual film, I wonder why Sinbad actually bothers to go on these quests any more. He is more of a hired gun now than a true explorer and adventurer. John Phillip Law doesn't really make a good Sinbad - that honor is for Kerwin Matthews! Caroline Munro looks fine in revealing Asian clothes but does little to warrant a pay cheque. Tom Baker is the only one putting any effort into the acting side and he makes Koura seem quite evil, if somewhat over-the-top at times.Finally what happened to the bald crew member? Sinbad and his men stood facing the centaur. It charged at them. The next thing you know the poor bald bloke is lying on the floor, presumably dead. Does anyone know what happened to him?  "},{"Title":"Who is the real star of this flick?  Law or Baker?","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tom Baker clearly relished the rare opportunity of playing the villain of a movie, and delivered the best performance of the film and one which earned him a starring role in a popular BBC television series.  Martin Shaw has since become one of the most bankable stars of British television but his role here will have paid his bills but is otherwise forgettable.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining fantasy adventure","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a pretty entertaining sword and sorcery film. The stop-motion effects are pretty good, especially for 1974. Not a classic, but a pretty entertaining film to watch one night. Features Tom Baker just before being cast in Doctor Who and Caroline Munro in her prime.  "},{"Title":"A Misinterpretation of True Mythology (For the Kids) ........","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Saw The Golden Voyage of Sinbad yesterday...hmm...well what can i say...one thing is for sure its no Lagaan or for that matter even JAkbar ...its like the movie lacks a soul...the director has dealt with not just one matter/topic/issue...its neither just a story of their love nor just a story of Sindbad...Harryhausen has not been able to do justice to any one particular topic...this plus its 200 mins viewing time doesn't make u feel satisfied at the end of the show...nevertheless its a magnum opus in terms of the detailed sets, costumes, jewellery, etc. which add to its larger than life image/feel...the effort gone into making the movie is really commendable but then again the war scenes are very average...nothing much to write about on this front and the plot is also not very exciting...while watching the movie u will not feel bored but at the same time the proceedings are not exciting enough to keep u engrossed.On the acting front full marks to John Nelson...splendid stuff from him...speaking abt aishwarya...hmm...did her part decently well but has much less screen time as compared to others...rest everyone is average to good.Final Suggestion if u have 1.5 hours(and more if u consider the entire act of movie watching) to spare its worth a watch or u can just re watch Troy/Kingdom of Heaven/Braveheart or any other war movie on a DVD at ur home...u will not be missing much. But a must for die hard Sindbad fans. "},{"Title":"Ray Harryhausen's special effects make this delightful film worth watching","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" By all means this is not my favourite Sinbad movie, that is the family favourite that is The 7th Voyage of Sinbad, but I still really like this movie. The ending isn't quite as strong as the majority of the film, in fact the last twenty five minutes or so meander slightly, but it is certainly isn't terrible either. The Golden Voyage of Sinbad is still a delight to watch, especially visually. The story is exciting enough, the screenplay has some nice elements to it, the direction is fine and the score by the legendary Miklos Rosza compliments the film beautifully. The acting isn't that bad really. John Phillip Law is likable enough in the lead, and Caroline Munro is incredibly beautiful. Tom Baker is a joy to behold as a somewhat campy villain(even so it works!), while Douglas Wilmer is good as the Vizier. The cinematography is skillful, and the scenery is splendid. What steals the film though are the fantastic special effects by Ray Harryhousen. They all look wonderful and meticulous after all this time. My favourites are the walking figurehead, the hideous centaur and the multi-armed statue. Overall, delightful film, well worth watching for the special effects alone. 9/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Hwhy Sinbad, hwhy?","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The statue of the Hindu goddess Kali coming to life, the fight between the centaur and the gryphon, the wooden creaking of the ship's figurehead as she fights Sinbad and his sailors, Caroline Munro saying Hwhy Sinbad, hwhy?; there's something for everyone in this delightful piece of escapism. I think it's Harryhausen's best film of the 1970s and anyone who loves fantasy or mythology will get a kick out of it. I also liked the sets, especially the places where the well of the Oracle of all Knowledge (just loves Robert Shaw's Shakespearean performance as the Oracle) presides and the temple of Kali too. I must for my growing collection of beloved films. "},{"Title":"good movie with good SFX and a decent plot","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" well, this is a good movie (genre-wise) with good SFX by Harryhausen and a decent plot that (for once) sticks together. The brave Sinbad winds up finding a pendant, or something he uses as a pendant, carried by a flying little gargoyle. It turns out it is 1 out of 3 pieces able to show a map to a secret location where the gods would reward the bearer with youth, a screen to make him invisible and a Jewelled crown. Of course there go the bad guys (Koura the evil magician & his servant ) & the good guys (Sinbad & some disfigured Grand Vizir who has another medallion). There is a subplot about an affluent father sending his own lazy son with Sinbad for 400 gold pieces + a pretty slave (Munro) but it doesn't get much screen time and basically serves to give Munro a pretext to be there. The plot stays together and moves without long pauses and long subplots. SFX are good - for the era & genre-wise - and don't stick out. A movie with some atmosphere & some plot switches. The part with the savages is especially good. a movie you'd watch twice. "},{"Title":"Underrated classic.","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The fantastic special effects (Courtesy of Ray Harryhausen) highlight this underrated fantasy epic. Loaded with action, special effects and drama, this is destined to become a fantasy classic. "},{"Title":"Best of the Sinbad Movies","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't know why people keep badmouthing the old Ray Harryhousen effects, I think they're better than most of today's computer animation (like the new Hulk movie?  Awful...)  Plus, Doctor Who himself as the bad guy?  Great, fun movie with some fantastic action scenes.  It has become a goal in my life to fight a multi-armed Shiva statue!  (At least, I think it's Shiva). "},{"Title":"Complete strangeness engulfs ancient world of myth","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Friends, I love this movie. Tom Baker is possessedly fiendish as the evil sorceror, conjuring a personal-viewer / flying demon from Mandrake root and aging preternaturally as more of his black magic is used.For his part, Sinbad is glibly heroic and unmoved by uncommonly strange monsters as he boats along with his pal in the golden mask. Caroline Munro FILLS the screen, statues come to life and enormous monsters threaten the intrepid band on their mystery trip.The film generally follows the 'quest' trope in lieu of plot and well it should. This is a good vehicle for introducing one Harryhausen spectacle after another.More Sinbad films! What is Hollywood waiting for "},{"Title":"great fun","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Harryhausen at his best, this ranks among the best fantasy films ever, with 'Seventh Voyage of Sinbad' and 'Jack the Giant Killer'. Most of the emphasis is on the stop motion animation which seems a bit dated today. I love fantasy, so this was a big hit for me. We need more films like this and less like 'Jeepers Creepers', one of my most hated films of 2001. "},{"Title":"Harryhausen for the kids, Munro for the dads","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Golden Voyage Of Sinbad finds the adventurous Arabian man of the sea on assignment from the Grand Vizier when Sinbad comes into possession of a sea chart. The Vizier's face has been burned off and he wears a mask in the film. Great riches and power are for those who find the fountain of youth which is not located in Florida as Ponce DeLeon believed, but somewhere in the Indian Ocean if we believe this film.John Philip Law is Sinbad and Douglas Wilmer is the Grand Vizier. The competition comes from Tom Baker who later in 1974 would become the fourth and most prolific Doctor in the Doctor Who series in terms of episodes. Along for the voyage is also Caroline Munro who bears a mysterious tattoo on her right hand. But I assure you the audience was not looking at her hand throughout the film.Ray Harryhausen provided his usual classy special effects for the film. The monsters are a creation of Tom Baker who conjures them up. The trouble is that the conjuring ages him, he's got to get to that fountain of youth or he's in big trouble.The Golden Voyage Of Sinbad was fine enough for the kid trade and for their fathers who took them to see it, Caroline Munro was enough to gain their attention. "},{"Title":"Complete strangeness engulfs ancient world of myth","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Friends, I love this movie. Tom Baker is possessedly fiendish as the evil sorceror, conjuring a personal-viewer / flying demon from Mandrake root and aging preternaturally as more of his black magic is used.For his part, Sinbad is glibly heroic and unmoved by uncommonly strange monsters as he boats along with his pal in the golden mask. Caroline Munro FILLS the screen, statues come to life and enormous monsters threaten the intrepid band on their mystery trip.The film generally follows the 'quest' trope in lieu of plot and well it should. This is a good vehicle for introducing one Harryhausen spectacle after another.More Sinbad films! What is Hollywood waiting for "},{"Title":"Good but not great","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I absolutely loved this film when it came out. I remember being 13 and going to see it (on the big screen) with my brother and some friends and loving the romance of the story and all the great monsters. On viewing it today I am struck with one main problem too much of the film seems to have been shot in a studio and the film feels closed in. If you view THE 7TH VOYAGE OF SINBAD(1958) (by the same team) you will see mysterious islands and eerie blue seas that feel as if they are inhabited by monsters. GOLDEN VOYAGE has very little of that as most of the action is in caves/caverns and even the scenes on the boat very rarely show you the water. However, the story is still exciting and Caroline Munro is simply stunning to look at so the film is still enjoyable. John Philip Law is ok as Sinbad and not as bad as most critics point out. My favorite moment still remains the fight against the 6 armed goddess. On the whole I give this 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Silly fun...","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sinbad (John Phillip Law) is in search of the third part to a golden map. However, the evil magician, Koura (Tom Baker), is out to steal this for himself--using his black magic to try to defeat the powers of niceness. Interestingly, however, every time Koura uses his demonic powers, they extract life from him--making him look progressively older and more haggard. In fact, this character is the most interesting one in this film and I found myself rooting for him since Sinbad and his friends were a bit dull by comparison.Along the way, you see statues seemingly come to life, Koura's little gargoyle-like spy and other stop-motion characters done by Ray Harryhaussen. By today's standards they are a bit lame but CGI was decades later and this was the best we had back the old days when dinosaurs ruled the Earth (in other words, when I was a kid). While not exactly realistic, it was pretty cool entertainment--though I assume younger audiences might roll their eyes at such characters.So is it worth seeing? Well, its fun and Caroline Munro isn't bad on the eyes. But what I enjoyed the most was seeing Baker--who not only did a good job as the baddie, Koura, but would soon go on to gain fame as the next Doctor on Dr. Who. This was pretty interesting--and the film worth seeing. It's fun escapism.By the way, the statue supposedly of Kali looks little like her (Kali has a horrific face and a necklace of skulls) but more like Shiva or Vishnu. However, one of the priests in this same place wore a mask that looked very much like Kali--scary, tusked and with the skulls surrounding its face. I am sure Hindus in the audience would have quickly spotted this inconsistency and the film makers should have gotten this right. But, as other Harryhausen mythological films NEVER get it right, I guess it's just par for the course. "}{"Title":"Not my favourite Sinbad film by any means.","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Golden Voyage of Sinbad starts on the open sea as Captain Sinbad (John Phillip Law) & his crew spot a strange flying creature known as Homunculus, after firing an arrow at it the Homunculus drops part of a golden amulet which Sinbad takes. That night Sinbad has visions & dreams that lead him to an island where the evil sorcerer & dark Prince Koura (Tom Baker) tries to reclaim the part amulet but Sinbad escapes to a nearby city ruled by Vizier (Douglas Wilmer) who has been horribly disfigured by a fireball from prince Koura, the section of amulet is part of a map which leads to the land of Lemuria where a magical fountain of youth can be found, Koura wants to find the fountain & gain immense evil powers while Vizier wants to reach the fountain to regain his human looks & rule his people as a proper King. Sinbad agrees to lead the expedition to find the fountain but Koura & his evil magic is never far behind as he attempts to overcome all sorts of dangers...This British American co-production was directed by Gordon Hessler & was the second of three Sinbad films produced by Charles H. Schneer & legendary special effects man Ray Harryhausen for Columbia Pictures, the first was the magnificent The 7th Voyage of Sinbad (1958) & the third & final one after The Golden Voyage of Sinbad was the equally magnificent Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger (1977) & while all three are great fantasy adventure films The Golden Voyage of Sinbad is probably my least favourite although not a bad film by any means. Full of adventure, monsters, swashbuckling sword fights, daring escapes in the nick of time, magic & a journey to mystical lands the Sinbad films are just great to watch, even now today in 2010. However The Golden Voyage of Sinbad does take a while to get going, it's rather slow at times & the lack of monsters surprised me a bit, for the first forty odd minutes we get a few scenes of a little creature flying around & that's it. Even when the film kicks into gear only the wonderful fight between Sinbad & the six armed statue of Kali has any real spectacle to it, sure the Cyclops Centaur creature & Griffin fight is alright but not up there with Harryhausen's best. The script is a bit wooden at times, the dialogue is basic, there's little characterisation & the plot seems to take care of itself. At 100 odd minutes The Golden Voyage of Sinbad feels quite long which it really shouldn't. This is still great entertainment & I did like it but the basic plot & slow pace meant my interest did start to waver at a few points.The stand-out parts of The Golden Voyage of Sinbad are the generally superb effects from Ray Harryhausen, from the detailed little Homunculus from medieval alchemy, the Cyclops Centaur & Griffrin from Greek mythology & Kali from Hinduism complete with a cool little dance she does. There's also a living figurehead of a ship in a another scene. All the effects are very good from the stop-motion animation to the matte work to the way the models interact with the actor's, this is certainly a very impressive film to look at. The whole Arabian culture is used as a backdrop & some of the costumes look a little garish now, would hardened sailors really wear bright pink, green & blue clothes? The locations look nice too I suppose & the sets are pretty good.With a supposed budget of about $1,000,000 it looks like the majority of the money went of effects & they are impressive, although a little clean & bright the production design is great too. Apparently shot in Spain but funded by British & American money. The cast is good with John Phillip Law as Sinbad, Caroline Munro as the love interest, Tom Baker as the villain & Martin Shaw as his sidekick.The Golden Voyage of Sinbad is a classic fantasy adventure that was maybe a little too slow for my tastes & the lack of any really memorable monster action (desoite how good the effects are) means it's my least favourite of the three Harryhausen produced Sinbad films but that in itself doesn't mean it's not a great little fantasy adventure in it's own right since it is. "},{"Title":"lesser Harryhausen effort","Date":"8 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Although this film is usually rated highly by Ray Harryhausen fans (of whom I'm one), it's always been one of my least favorite of his films - in fact, I even liked Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger more. Occasionally livened by exotic and evocative backdrops, sets, and - of course - the Dynamation creatures, Golden is otherwise hampered by an often juvenile script (with dreadful comic relief), and a cheap, made-for-TV feel to its production (especially objectionable and painful to watch are the montage of Sinbad's dreams near the beginning of the film and the goofy horned oracle). The premise of the storyline is initially compelling, but quickly runs out of steam as it fails to develop beyond the level of crude and perfunctory action.The best parts of the film are the villain - Tom Baker is quite good as the unsettlingly intelligent and evil Koura (Baker is really a master of the cold-blooded smile), and he was so much more interesting than the heroes that I found myself rooting for him instead; and the Dynamation creatures - you can't go wrong with Harryhausen's creations, and the monsters of Golden are no exception. The only problem is that, unlike The Seventh Voyage, there's not enough of them, and those that are there aren't given enough screen time to make the impact that they deserve (the one-eyed centaur in particular is wasted).So, for its relatively scarce merits (and for the fact that anything Harryhausen ever did is worth at least one look), I give the film a 6, wishing that it had been better than it was. "},{"Title":"Starring Ray Harryhousen, Tom Baker and that other guy","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's not that this is that great of a film, but today's film makers could learn a lot from it. One make the bad guy as interesting and as smart as the good guy. Two build on the special effects, but don't make them the main star of the movie. Three don't overwhelm the audience with non-stop action; give them some breathing points to bring about the story.The other star of this film is Caroline Munro, who makes up for a lack of lines and acting skills with her ample and sweaty cleavage. She has some part of the story but who are they kidding? The catch-phrase of the movie is Trust in Allah, but tie your camel "},{"Title":"Terrible Ending","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I enjoyed this movie right up to the ending, the special effects are really cool and I loved the homunculus, it is probably one of Harryhausen's best creations. Overall a very decent and enjoyable movie to watch for the first three quarters of the movie. Unfortunately things go wrong toward the end; that bearded head that comes out of the well and tells Sinbad to go north is unfathomably unbearable to watch and the closeups of it's mouth made me cringe, this isn't even the worst part - those green cavemen are even worse, I could not even look at them without wanting to burst out laughing, they totally ruined the atmosphere of the movie, I suspect they were just extras that were just thrown into the movie in the last few days of shooting to somehow make the ending more interesting but with disastrous results. Also there was not enough explanation as to why the Griffen was there, was he just passing by? or was he also just thrown in at the end to somehow make the ending more interesting? Overall I give this movie an 8/10 for the first three quarters and 1/10 for the ending. The other 2 Sinbad films are more consistent and enjoyable to watch and I really do think the 'The Eye of the Tiger' Is very under-rated. "},{"Title":"The 8th Voyage of Sinbad","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" While sailing ancient Arabia, heroic John Phillip Law (as Sinbad) happens upon a golden amulet, which turns out to be one-third of a magical medallion. Part two is easily located, but villainous Tom Baker (as Koura) wants a piece of the action. Helping Mr. Law are curvaceous Caroline Munro (as Margiana), disfigured Douglas Wilmer (as Vizier), kidlike Kurt Christian (as Haroun) and the Ray Harryhausen special effects crew. This long-awaited follow-up to The 7th Voyage of Sinbad (1958) lacks that film's spirit and spark. Here, the highlights are the Harryhausen creatures and the leading lady's tightly prominent bust.***** The Golden Voyage of Sinbad (12/20/73) Gordon Hessler ~ John Phillip Law, Tom Baker, Caroline Munro, Douglas Wilmer "},{"Title":"Sends you on a nostalgic and otherworldly voyage of your own&#133;","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I vividly remember reading and listening to the tales of the courageous Sinbad the Sailor as a child, but for some reason I never watched any of the acclaimed movies until now. Well, to be entirely honest, it's mainly the work and involvement of special effects wizard Ray Harryhausen what makes the Sinbad movies acclaimed, as his legendary name is linked to the production, the special effects and the scripting. Harryhausen undeniably delivered great craftsmanship here, but the success of The Golden Voyage of Sinbad also relies on the superb work of others, like the competent direction of Gordon Hessler (the underrated horror director of The Oblong Box and Cry of the Banshee) and the magnificent casting choices of John Phillip Law (Diabolik, Barbarella), Caroline Munro (Maniac, Captain Kronos) and Tom Baker (Dr. Who). Last but not least there's Brian Clemens terrific script, which is fast paced and plentiful of adventurous action. The movie opens with Sinbad obtaining a golden amulet by coincidence, when a winged gargoyle drops it on his ship. Later on, a lively nightmare and a heavy thunderstorm cause Sinbad and his crew to go off course and arrive on an island where the sailor's courage and knowledge are desperately needed. The amulet Sinbad holds is just part of a puzzle and there's still one piece missing. The island's Vizier &#150; wearing a golden mask since a fire destroyed his face &#150; searches for the third piece, but so does the malignant sorcerer Prince Koura. Sinbad and his crew embark on a dangerous and long journey to find the missing piece, along with Vizier and a ravishing girl slave with a mystical birthmark on the palm of her hand. The evil Prince Koura follows the trail and practices his black magic art against them, but every magical effort weakens him. The Golden Voyage of Sinbad is the prototypic example of a versatile mythological fantasy flick. The heroic titular protagonist consecutively battles against a ship's figure siren come to life, a Vishnu-like deity holding no less than six swords in each arm, a centaur, a griffin and his nemesis when turned invisible. Harryhausen's stop-motion effects are extraordinary and perfect to the smallest detail. The battle sequences as well as several others (like the escape from the ruined temple, for example) are very suspenseful and the set pieces are enchanting. Caroline Munro has the yummiest cleavage ever (another highlight in the movie) and Tom Baker makes a perplexing bad guy. "},{"Title":"Formulaic Fantasy","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sinbad and his crew find a mysterious golden plate which may or may not be the key to the legendary island of Lemuria, once part of a prehistorical continent that sank into the sea. The crew sets out to find the island. Sinbad gets aid from a certain Grand Vizier who carries an iron mask, but there is also Koura, an evil wizard who wants to gain control of Lemuria, and he always gets in Sinbad's way.Ray Harryhausen wrote the screen story and produced this film. Of course he also created the visual effects. They are the best part of the film, which otherwise is rather tame and formulaic. It's miles - even nautical miles - away from great fantasy masterpieces like Lord Of The Rings and The Never-Ending Story. "},{"Title":"Probably Harryhausen's Least Impressive Effort","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Ray Harryhausen is a special FX god who knocks todays CGI wizards into a corked hat . Compare the skeleton scenes of JASON AND THE ARGONAUTS with many of today's movies and tell me what effect is more convincing ? No contest is it ? Unfortunately the problem with THE GOLDEN VOYAGE OF SINBAD is that the audience is sitting there waiting for some great stop frame animation to come along and the film drags its feet in this respect . Twenty five minutes into the running time and there's only one small sequence featuring the Harryhausen effect , instead the audience have to put up with a bunch of not unknown British television actors standing around talking . The stop frame animation sequences do eventually come but how many children would have been bored senseless by this time ? Watching THE GOLDEN VOYAGE OF SINBAD today is of interest for only two reasons . One is that the heroes are obviously Muslim which you probably won't be seeing in too many movies these days while the other is that the producer of DOCTOR WHO at the time Barry Letts decided to cast Tom baker in the title role after seeing him in this movie "},{"Title":"On the Harryhausen thing","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not by design, it seems I'm watching Ray Harryhausen's films in reverse order.  I've reached The Golden Voyage of Sinbad, and it's occurred to me that ...Well, perhaps I should reserve judgement on his oeuvre for the present. After all, The Seventh Voyage of Sinbad (1958) has a classic reputation, whereas this one doesn't particularly - but all the same it strikes me that...I'll just say it it's not very good.  In fact, it's downright bad. Sorry, but I'm certain of this.  There are just too many reasons for me to be wrong about all of them.The year of release (1974) marks the start of the Dungeons and Dragons era, and this is the perfect movie to act as its herald.  It has a plot only a dungeon-master could love.  Sinbad and his crew must search for the golden this to partake in the ceremony of such and such in order to thwart so-and-so; the reasons offered to Sinbad don't strike me as particularly compelling ones, but he sets off without demur nonetheless.  Every so often the dungeon-master will drop him a broad hint.  There's even an oracle who speaks vaguely in verse - can you believe it?So the story isn't so great.  It isn't well presented, either.  I get the distinct impression that Harryhausen is fast-forwarding through the exposition so that he can get to the bit where he does his stop-motion. We have an encounter with the first of the five stop-motion monsters in the very first scene, before we have been properly introduced to the characters - indeed, we are never properly introduced to the characters.  (Note, though, that it IS a sequel.)  This film is really an older version of the special-effects flick, where the story and everything else is just an excuse.  The parallel goes further than you might think.  Consider that first monster.  It is, as it turns out, just a plot device, by which the wizard can magically spy on the heroes.  There was no need for it to have been a stop-motion plot device a crystal ball would have served.  The same goes for some of the later creatures.  One of them is even a humanoid, and could easily have been played by a live actor (and since the interaction between humans and stop-motion figurines is often clumsy, this would have been preferable).  Or consider the animated six-armed statue.  A similar creation actually WAS played by a live actress in The Thief of Bagdad (1940), in a better looking and far more memorable scene.  And just stop yourself a little, in the final confrontation between stop motion creations, and ask yourself if you can with any certainty say what is going on and what has been going on for the last ten minutes or so.  I couldn't.Harryhausen, in an interview, claimed that the stories of Sinbad and Greek myth have far more warmth than, say, Norse myths, and I know exactly what he means.  The Mediterranean sunlight makes this seem like a holiday of some kind - a holiday to a cultured as well as an exotic land, for The Arabian Nights and Greek myths are sophisticated fictions by highly cultured civilisations.  I'm just trying to understand what charm people see in this movie, because I still think the execution fails miserably.  Maybe another source of charm is the women.  Here we get to see a gorgeous, busty Caroline Munro, although we don't get to see very much of her - either of her body or of her character.  If it's the women you're after then check out the next in the series, Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger (1977), which has Taryn Power AND Jane Seymour, both of whom at least play some reasonably prominent role in the story AND display considerably more flesh.  It amounts to roughly eight times the eroticism.I mentioned The Thief of Bagdad earlier.  That it's a far better film than this one I need not bother to say; the interesting thing is that they have in common one Miklós Rózsa, who wrote the score to each.  Both times he wrote his very best, most luscious music.  I wish he had worked on more fantasy films.  If you're after a good reason to see The Golden Voyage of Sinbad, he's the only one I can think of. "},{"Title":"Not a sin maybe, but still bad","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A salty sailor of the seven seas, acting like Indiana Jones with a wraparound do-rag, vies with a venomous demon worshipper for a golden amulet which will allow the holder to rule the world....or some such crap. The story was dumb, the special effects especially non special, and the props looked like they were purchased at Woolworth's end of the year super blowout sale. This may rate as the yawner of the decade.  "}]