[{"Title":"This Is One For The Ages","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I rented this movie because it was the kind of campy silly movie that Roger Corman is famous for.  I watched and was pleasantly surprised to see that it was still interesting and Angie Dickinson at 43, was better looking then most of today's young starlets.  The sex was way over the top but it was the seventies.  William Shatner in some of the more racy scenes was worthy of America's Funniest Videos (R-Rated).  All in all it was a good for it's time and if you are in your 40s like me, it will make you remember when cheesy movies were truly cheesy.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"24 July 2010","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of those films, where you kick yourself for listening to critics who, at the time, trashed this film. Finally saw it and while it is, as some suggest, trashy, this is one of the most entertaining films I've seen in quite some time.I've always admired the talent of Mr Corman and his production of BBM is, for me, one of the highlights of his career. I've no illusions that his fans will suggest otherwise however this is a film that grabs you by the lapels, if one has lapels that is, and doesn't let go! Steve Carver takes a VERY low budget and gets the maximum out of it, there are some performances in this movie that will demonstrate the talents of some of your favorite actors that other, more popular and acclaimed films will NOT. As someone who is NOT a Tom Skerrit fan I've got to admit he was the standout actor in this, (I refuse to refer to actresses as 'actors', he really is a talented man. However the standout is the truly gorgeous Angie Dickinson, I knew she could act, I just never realized just how beautiful and sexy she really is, until this film. She singlehandedly transcends the material and thereby lifts BBM out of trash into a slam-bang adventure/crime/sex romp that is stunning. The supporting cast is excellent, however outside of 'Succubus' I've not quite gotten the appeal of William Shatner, at least in any serious sense. think we all realize how much talent got early starts in Corman films and I think you will also enjoy noting those who went on to do excellent work in other films and especially TV, such as Michael Talbott of Miami Vice TV series.After watching this film I felt rather upbeat, BBM is the sort of fun film that we used to see more of, sans all that CGI and other expensive and often tawdry special effects, good entertainment that takes one out of the humdrum and into a place where ordinary belief is suspended and one is cheering for the heroes, albeit not the nicest heroes/heroines, wink.One can only wonder if there is a Director's cut somewhere as this is rated 'R', Angie Dickinson, Wow! Did I mention Wow? "},{"Title":"The archetypal 70s Roger Corman drive-in movie","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Big Bad Mama is the archetypal Roger Corman 70s b-movie, with the monsters and sci-fi of the 50s and 60s replaced by plentiful low-budget action, tongue-in-cheek humor and mandatory nudity from almost every actress in the cast in a fast-moving Depression-era backroads gangster flick. Angie Dickinson is the Ma Barker figure trying' to do right by her two gals, stumbling her way from bootlegging to armed robbery to kidnapping with the aid of Tom Skerritt's bank robber and William Shatner's Southern conman (unfortunately the mandatory nudity rule also applies to him, though we are spared the sight of the captain's log). While not as smart as John Sayles' and Jonathan Demme's Corman flicks there are occasional nods to history &#150; not least the resistance of hypocritical establishment figures and the Big Rich to the New Deal, leaving the poor to fend for themselves as best they can &#150; and some mildly anarchic sight gags (watch out for the cripple 'healed' by William O'Connell's phoney preacher) but mostly this has few aspirations beyond throwing in as many shootouts, car chases and nude scenes from Ms Dickinson as it can in its 83 running time. "},{"Title":"Great '70s Movie!","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Here is a quote from another review of this movie The early 1970s has some of the most blatant anti-Christian messages ever put out by Hollywood filmmakers and this is Exhibit A. You can just feel the hatred of these atheists pouring out in this movie. There are not one but two separate instances of picturing phony and blasphemous preachers in here. That, plus a ton of GDs, mostly said by Angie Dickinson, make this a despicable, extremely bigoted film.Huh? (Scratching my head), it's just a movie...it's not real life!This is a great '70s movie about gangsters in the early part of the century. What is not to like. The ever present bad acting of William Shatner. The beauty of Angie Dickinson. Tom Skerritt, Noble Willingham, Royal Dano, Sally Kirkland. What a cast of characters! The music of Jerry Garcia. Produced by Roger Corman. What is not to like? If you have never seen it, I think you will get a kick out of it. '70s movie making at it's best. Period! "},{"Title":"Trashy Fun","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" - Wilma McClatchie (Angie Dickinson) wants more for her two daughters than depression era Texas can provide. With no money to speak of they set off for California to find their fortunes. Along the way, they rob a bank, pick up a bank robber, mug a preacher, steal the take from a racetrack, take on a penniless drifter from Kentucky, kidnap an heiress, and kill a few people. It's just an ordinary cross-county trip.- This is one of my favorite of the Roger Corman produced movies. I realize that it's basically trash, but what fun trash it is. Around every turn there's a robbery, a car chase, a gun fight, or someone having sex. These people are ruthless and will do whatever it takes to get the money they desire. Amid the violence, though, the movie is not without it's moments of comedy. The opening wedding service is simply sublime. I actually found myself laughing out loud.- The cast that Corman was able to assemble rivals that of the best movies from the 70s. Angie Dickinson, William Shatner, Tom Skerritt, and Dick Miller are wonderfully cast. But my personal favorite is Susan Sennett, playing one of the daughters. As far as I'm concerned, she steals every scene in which she appears. It's a shame she didn't make more movies. "},{"Title":"A brilliantly fun piece of trash!","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Imagine Bonnie and Clyde without Clyde and with more of a trashy B-movie style to it, and you've got an idea of what Big Bad Mama is like. With Roger Corman on producing duty, you've to expect some silly trashy fun, and this film delivers that in droves as it's clear that nobody cared about making a credible film, which is usually good news for entertainment value. Angie Dickinson takes the lead role and makes good of it, as she carries the film with her engaging and enthusiastic performance. The film focuses on Dickinson's character Wilma, who decides to go into bootlegging when her lover is killed. Along with her two daughters, Wilma travels across the country and eventually meets a bank robber named Fred, and the pair decides to put their relative talents to good use in order to 'earn' themselves some money. The support cast is good, with the likes of William Shatner, Dick Miller and Tom Skerritt being put to good use, while lesser known performers such as Robbie Lee and Susan Sennett also giving entertaining turns. The reason this film works so well is undoubtedly down to director Steve Carver's focus on entertaining his audience. This does leave it feeling more than a little bit empty, but in a film where bank robberies, sex scenes, car chases and more feature heavily, this isn't a big problem. Overall, if you fancy a fun filled eighty minutes or so - you could certainly do a lot worse than this little flick! "},{"Title":"Not Oscar material but a first rate film anyway.","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Although it is very campy and a little silly, the plot is fairly strong and the acting, while not Academy Award material, was still very entertaining and good. But the highlight for me was the frontal nude scenes with Susan Sennet. What a beautiful young woman and what a fantastic body! If the US economy were in half as good a shape, we'd all be millionaires! She is not only very attractive but a very capable actress and I'd like to see her in more serious parts and films. I've followed her career for many years, and she keeps on getting better and better. Again, BIG BAD MAMA may not be Oscar caliber but it is a very entertaining film and will keep your attention and interest throughout the entire film; get in on DVD today! "},{"Title":"Bibles, Babes and Bankrobbers","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Crashing cars, splatter guns, sex and nudity&#x97;whatever else about Roger Corman, he never made a boring movie, and this one seldom lets up. Take Wilma (Dickinson) and her two hormonal daughters. When they're not sticking a .45 in some moneyman's hapless face, they're stripping down for extra-curricular action. Lucky Skerritt and Shatner, except Skerritt's strictly low-class, while Shatner's a little short in the guts department. But Wilma's got high-class aspirations. So, being a hardscrabble, rural woman, she robs folks out in the open instead of behind boardroom doors.But note the people she robs. All are pillars of what the counter-cultural 70's would call the establishment. There's the huckstering preacher, the mortgage bankers, the boozy American Legion, and finally the wealthy snobs who think they are the better people. In fact, their talk about not taxing the better people sounds almost contemporary. Note too that it's the high-class pretender Shatner who double-crosses the others. Yes indeed, screenwriter Norton may have been blacklisted in the 50's, but the political echoes continueThere's no room here for nuance or lengthy dialog. These folks don't waste time talking when there's another bank to rob or another car to crash. It's strictly the fast life for Wilma and her brood. Note how Mom sabotages daughter Polly's wedding, saying Polly'll only wind up on a poor farm with a bunch of skinny kids. That's probably some insight into those bank-robbing desperadoes of the Dust Bowl '30's. And so, America's back-handed liking for up-front outlaws like Wilma and Co. gets another jazzy installment. "},{"Title":"Classic Drive-In Trash","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Big Bad Mama (1974) *** (out of 4) Angie Dickinson got the role of her career playing the title character, a Texas mother of two teenage girls (Susan Sennett, Robbie Lee) who grows tired of being poor and decides to turn to robbery. Along the way she picks up a couple different men (William Shatner, Tom Skerritt) as they head towards California to make it rich. If you're easily offended then this might not be the movie for you but if you like sex, bloody violence, nudity, threesomes with sisters, robberies and just about every other sinful thing in the world then BIG BAD MAMA is just the film for you. I don't think there's any question that this here is one of the greatest drive-in movies ever made and from the opening dialogue where Dickinson is wondering why her angels turned out so wrong the film just delivers one great thing after another. Of course, those expecting CITIZEN KANE are going to be disappointed but to this day I can't see why certain film buffs go into every movie expecting a masterpiece. Some movies need to win Oscars and others like this one just need to be entertaining. It's very clear that the writers, the director and producer Roger Corman wanted to throw just about everything into this film that they possibly could. One of the big selling points in having someone like Dickinson appear in a movie like this and her presence certainly adds a lot. I'm sure most of her fans will be downright shocked to see her appearing in several sex scenes and she's nude for three different scenes including one full frontal. In interviews she has said that she wanted to show off her body and it's easy to see why. Dickinson is so good in the role that you can't help but love her character and the toughness she brings to it. Both Sennett and Lee are good looking in their parts. Those expecting great performances are going to be disappointed but I think both actresses delivered just what the film needed in terms of good humor. Shatner and Skerritt are both very entertaining in their roles and Corman regular Dick Miller plays a nice part as well. Considering how low of a budget this movie had it's rather shocking to see how good the costumes are and the period detail is really terrific because you feel as if it's really the 1930s. Director Carver does a very good job at keeping everything going at a nice pace as the 82-minute running time goes by without a problem. BIG BAD MAMA didn't win any Oscars when it was released but all these years later the charm is still there and it certainly deserves its reputation as one of the best drive-in flicks of the era. "},{"Title":"Good, sexy, trashy 30's Depression-era set 70's drive-in exploitation fun","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Tough and gutsy Texas widow Wilma McClatchie (a splendidly brassy'n'sassy Angie Dickinson, looking mighty fine in her early 40's and frequently out of her wardrobe) and her two equally feisty hottie daughters -- the sexually precocious Billie Jean (adorable blonde sprite Susan Sennett of The Candy Snatchers) and dim-witted Polly (pretty brunette cutie Robbie Lee of Switchblade Sisters) -- embark on a wild'n'rowdy crime spree in 30's Depression-era America in order to escape hard times. Accompanying the lovely ladies are charming, but cowardly con man William J. Baxter (the ever-hammy William Shatner sporting a hilariously hokey Southern accent) and ill-tempered bank robber Fred Diller (the hunky Tom Skerrit), who happily jump in the sack with the willing wanton women in between breaking many laws. Directed with tremendously rambunctious gusto by Steve (An Eye for An Eye) Carver, jam-packed with a pleasing plenitude of car chases, shoot outs, cuss words and tasty gratuitous nudity (even Sally Kirkland as a local harlot and Joan Prather as a snotty heiress the gang abducts doff their duds and bare their beautiful bodies), further enlivened by a ceaseless forward-ho quick pace, a rousing hillbilly bluegrass score by David Grisman, a cheerfully irreverent tone, and nifty supporting turns by Royal Dano as a profanity-spewing preacher and the always terrific Dick Miller as huffy fed Bonney (a sly homage to Bonnie and Clyde, methinks), Big Bad Mama supplies a handy helping of joyous down-home trashy entertainment that's a true treat to watch. "}{"Title":"Kind of a satire of 30's crime movies","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The 1930's where America was at its worstThe Great Depression, The Dust Bowl in the Midwest. Hard times was at its worst, especially for Wilma(Angle Dickinson) and her two daughters BilliyJean(Susan Sennett) and Polly(Robbie Lee). Tired of being poor, they head out West to make a living. They come across Wilma's bootlegging lover(Noble Willingham) at a church to attend Polly's wedding which never takes place because Mama objects the man and his family. They would later find new partners in crime after Uncle Barney gets killed by the Feds. They would me etc a bank robber(Tom Skerritt) and a gambler(William Shatner) . Think they can pull it off? Of course. Big Bad Mama packs a lot in this movie Laughs, drama, romance, even gunfire. No one has been left out of the fun. Billy Jean is the tough older daughter, while Polly is the very hormonally, emotional one. They did give the bank robber some lover while Wilma did the gambler. I heard that this almost got an Oscar nomination, but the silliness gave it a nod. I say, It's good! Silly or not, its a great movie. Great for late night viewing. 4 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"Bad? Yes, but entertaining trash if you don't expect too much.","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Angie Dickinson stars in the title role as tough, but sexy matriarch, Wilma McClatchie, attempting to keep her family together during the Depression. After a shoot-out with the cops, Wilma's world is turned upside down by the death of her lover Barney (Noble Willingham). She initially tries to continue with Barney's bootlegging business with the help of her uncontrollable daughters Billy Jean (Susan Sennett) and Polly (Robbie Lee of 'Switchblade Sisters' fame). Things don't work out and they have to hit the road, all the while being pursued by tenacious lawman Bonney (B-grade legend and Roger Corman favourite Dick Miller). A chance encounter with a bank robber, Diller (Tom Skerritt), causes a career rethink, and when the fugitives meet charming con man Baxter (William Shatner), the gang is complete. Will they find true love and happiness and a new life in California? Will they meet their end via the deadly force of Dick Miller and company? Will they all screw each other and say hot damn! a lot to the accompaniment of banjo music? Watch this Roger Corman produced campy trash and find out. "},{"Title":"One Unpredictable Scenario After Another","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Wilma McClatchie (Angie Dickinson) is a single parent trying to raise two teenage daughters named Billy Jean (Susan Sennett) and Polly (Robbie Lee) during the Great Depression. As luck would have it, Polly has become betrothed and despite Wilma's objection the wedding is still going to take place. As a result Wilma creates a disturbance at the church which causes all three to escape with their bootlegging relative named Uncle Barney (Noble Willingham). Unfortunately, Uncle Barney is killed by federal agents not long afterward and so Wilma decides to continue his business in the meantime. One thing leads to another and soon Wilma, her daughters and two men, Fred Diller (Tom Skerritt) and William J. Baxter (William Shatner) are involved in a murder and robbery rampage extending from East Texas to the California coast. Anyway, I liked the performances of Angie Dickinson, William Shatner and Tom Skerritt but I thought the nudity and sex were a bit too plentiful and were more raunchy than actually sexy. Still, there was plenty of action and one unpredictable scenario after another which managed to keep it entertaining. Slightly above average. "},{"Title":"Nude Angie worth the rental","Date":"13 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first Big Bad Mama is a favorite of collectors of celebrity nude scenes - Angie Dickinson has couple - and it's not a bad movie for what it is. It's a quickie Bonnie and Clyde wannabe on a much lower budget and a much shorter shooting schedule. The story is nothing special - Depression era criminals plot a kidnapping which goes predictably bad - but the low budget was well used, the production looks decent enough and Angie, Tom Skerritt and Bill Shatner all contribute solid perfs with little help from a largely illiterate script. Angie looks good and seems to be enjoying herself in a rare bad girl role, and there are enough car chases and shoot-outs to keep the viewer from falling asleep, but don't look for too much in the way of originality here. "},{"Title":"Drive-In Classic Fails To Disappoint On Some Levels","Date":"28 December 2012","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I met director Steve Carver when he came to town to shoot Lone Wolf McQuade, and I'm something of a fan, but even with screenwriter Bill Norton aboard, this lacks the wit and cool characters that enliven his Chuck Norris movies or even Steel. Dialog is particularly lacking, in some scenes even leaving Tom Skerritt with nothing to do but mutter incoherently, or a game Shatner mugging as if he's about to say something but either gets cut off or thinks better of it. The two actors do their best, Skerritt all steely-eyed intensity and Shatner oozing lily-livered Southern charm, as do Royal Dano as a flustered preacher and a shockingly young-looking Noble Willingham as a lecherous bootlegging uncle. As for the actresses, they certainly deliver the goods, and frequently, especially Angie Dickinson. Yowzah. If you're worried, Angie gets progressively more naked as the plot moves along. Look close for a young and quickly unadorned Sally Kirkland.Plotwise? Angie, rural 1932-vintage single mom, saddled with two unmanageable daughters (one way too naive and one way too not so), after extricating one daughter from a hasty wedding, dips her toe into crime (bootlegging and DAV-smoker-jacking), then gets mired in it after hooking up with bank robber Skerritt. An encounter with down-and-out Southern gent Shatner seals their fate, as he proves to be their little gang's weakest link. Along the way, much blood, clothing and inhibitions will be shed.Considering the budget and shooting time, the action is boisterous enough but haphazard and disjointed, with a lot of repetitive car chases featuring Dick Miller and a sidekick (representing the entirety of the FBI) in hot pursuit, miraculously always one step behind our anti-heroine and her mob. One shudders to see how many vintage autos run up dirt ramps and flip over. Even if you know that the Hollywood hills don't actually look a lot like East Texas (the geography of where our characters are supposed to be at any moment in the plot isn't always made abundantly clear), the small-town locations and antique cars do an impressive job of keeping the movie in its Depression-era period.Look quickly for second-unit director Paul Bartel as a party guest, following in the footsteps of Francis Coppola in The Young Racers. "},{"Title":"Not bad if you pay attention to the clues about what you're getting","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Not too bad if you come into it without unrealistic expectations. It being a Roger Corman production should be a pretty big clue. The film doesn't take itself too seriously, and neither should you. In fact, it edges up toward camp, but backs away. Bill Shatner was, well, Bill Shatner. Angie Dickinson seemed to a little bit amused about the material throughout. She was gorgeous, though, and this film contains her best nude scenes. (I found it interesting that she made no attempt to bleach or otherwise disguise her dark pubic hair. Apparently a bottle blonde. Eye candy, nonetheless.) Sally Kirkland contributes one, too, as do the actresses (previously unknown to me) who play the daughters. One of these, Susan Sennett, was also very lovely. It was too bad she did not continue her acting career. According to IMDb, she married Graham Nash, and hasn't been seen much since. "},{"Title":"a person can do a lot with the Depression...especially when Capt. Kirk is present","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Roger Corman reaffirms himself as one of America's coolest directors with the trashy-but-great Big Bad Mama. It's 1932 Texas, and Wilma McClatchie (Angie Dickinson) has just lost everything. No problem! She and her daughters take to the road and go around robbing banks and messing with society, bilking the system for all that it's worth. Along the way, crook Fred Diller (Tom Skerritt) and gentleman William Baxter (William Shatner) join up with them, while snide lawman Bonney (Dick Miller) chases them. It's like Bonnie and Clyde taken to the next level! Maybe this really isn't the sort of movie that could ever get ranked among history's most important, but it's a thrill every step of the way. And it's always great to see movies poke fun at religious wackos and focus on the important issues of the Depression. This is truly a movie that you won't want to miss. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, fast paced and incoherent fun","Date":"31 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Released in 1974 and not viewed again since I saw it in a local late night theatre back then, I remembered this only as a rather crude B film which provided an enjoyable romp for killing a few hours, but was not intended to leave any lasting memories. I was vastly surprised when I saw it listed on Turner's Classic Movies program recently. A Classic! - what was wrong with my recollections of it.? So I decided to watch it again and find out. As I remembered, it was a well made but essentially very bad film, most of which is in very poor taste and was difficult to justify watching. Nevertheless it proved to be a classic guilty pleasure that I kept remembering and drawing amusement from for a long time afterwards, so I found myself again facing the eternal question to be answered by every movie enthusiast - what constitutes a good movie? Does it have to be educational, enlightening or inspirational? Can't it just be lighthearted fun, perhaps in bad taste, but nevertheless welcomed for providing a little real relaxation after a period of hard work? I have always accepted the latter position, so after re-watching Big Bad Mama I am happy to report that, although it is a movie in rank bad taste which deserves only a low IMDb rating, it provides a hilarious and very enjoyable viewing experience. I am now on the lookout for its successor Big Bad Mama 2  which I have never seen.Its failures are largely in content, it makes fun of every serious concern it can look at during a relatively short running time of just over 80 min (ideal for cramming onto an 80 min VCD disk). These are all covered at a cracking pace that leaves viewers with little chance to think seriously about any message. In retrospect I am sure it tackled as many targets as it could possibly cover, but with no objective other than to amuse, certainly with no intention of forcing us to think. Politics, religion, the law, prohibition, misuse of firearms, bootlegging, taxes, burlesque, kidnapping - you name it they were mostly there (although I do not remember any references to race relations, which was probably wise.) Its period was set squarely in the middle of the depression and the location was somewhere in the deep south of the USA where this was biting particularly severely. The pace was such that each sequence tended to end just a tad too soon, so there was no opportunity for any boredom. Its ending was interesting. As Mama with her daughters escaped from their last shoot out, (apparently) with a minor wound to her arm, she suddenly collapsed and passed out. Her implied death tied up loose ends and no doubt pleased advocates of Hayes Code, morality rules, without prohibiting her eventual recovery to participate in a sequel 13 years later. Bravo RC - too many sequels created recently have been spoiled by illegitimately changing the ending of the original film.What more should I say? First I should commend Angie Dickinson who has undertaken an incredible range of roles over almost 50 years. Perhaps none were truly memorable, but I can't remember going home unhappy after seeing any of them. This film earns one star for excellent photography, including some extremely enjoyable shots of many delightful 1930 era vehicles, another for Roger Corman's usual impeccable direction - it is incredible how many different genres of film he has made that deserve this comment, and a third for its very acceptable acting - far above what I remember as the standard I used to expect from B movies, especially those seen in Drive-in theatres. Despite its entertainment value; I found difficulty in justifying another star without ignoring artistic quality, but eventually recognised its outstanding and almost unmatched pacing by awarding a fourth. I must also thank TCM for giving me this chance to see it again, and look forward to doing so next time if they decide to give it another spin. If not - with a bit of searching I might find a DVD still available, or perhaps I should suggest the release of a Blue-ray edition. "},{"Title":"Lively but stupid and (sometimes) boring","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In the Depression era Wilma McClatchie (Angie Dicksinson) and her two daughters--Billy Jean (Susan Sennett) and Polly (Robbie Lee)--became robbers to make a living. They are joined by bank robber Fred Diller (Tom Skerrit) and con man William Baxter (William Shatner--yes THAT William Shatner). Wilma has sex with both Fred and William and her daughters go after Fred also!Stupid and sometimes dull. The plot is virtually nonexistent, the dialogue is terrible and (since this is a Roger Corman film) it was made on NO budget (and it shows). Still it has frequent pointless car chases and crashes; plenty of female nudity (Dickinson has nude sex scenes with Skerritt AND Shatner); Corman regular Dick Miller as a policeman and plenty of bloody shootouts. Despite all this going on the movie comes to a screeching halt for dull dialogue stretches which are far too frequent. Sennett and Lee are terrible actors, Shatner and Skerritt are OK but Dickinson is great. She gives her role her all and looks very good nude (especially considering she was over 40). Stupid, bloody and dull but works pretty good on a no-think level. I give it a 5. "},{"Title":"A Roger Corman Curio","Date":"6 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Well, it's clearly a ripoff of Bonny and Clyde, from the old 1930s square-sided cars (often rolling over) and the chattering Tommy guns spraying lead all over the place and the rollicking getaways and the brazen self-promotion during the robberies to the hokey banjo music that accompanies everything.I enjoyed the splendid performances of Angie Dickenson as a thoroughly unbelievable redneck Mamma of two pretty girls, given to industrial-strength language, and Tom Skerritt, miscast as a footloose no-goodnik, and the hammy William Shattner as a Louisville aristocrat who prefers mint juleps and a gentleman's game of poker to loud noises. Dick Miller's presence is always welcome. His chin simply juts. Angie Dickinson is marvelous. She looks just fine, especially with no clothes on. The sinewy, supple type, you know. Skerritt and Schatner both get chances to savor her indisputable charms. The young girls are splendid too. Skerritt gets a crack at both of them -- at the same time. Kids Please leave the room for a moment. Thank you. I said THANK YOU. Now, Mom and Dad, this business of having a threesome is known in cosmopolitan circles as a menage a trois, sometimes misspelled by the less sophisticated as menage a twot. Okay? Right. Boys and girls, you can COME IN now.I kind of liked it. It's unpretentious garbage. It's made for the drive-ins and must have been lots of undemanding fun for an undemanding audience. A lot of people get shot up between the nudity and the vulgar exchanges. It follows that the bandit leaders must themselves be extinguished, and so they are, by gunshot. The men die instantly, perforated by a thousand bullets. Angie Dickenson dies gently, with a wan smile on her face, only a trickle of Technicolor number 9 red down her delicate arm betraying the presence of the fatal wound. But they're free, thrumming along a dusty road in a convertible, and Big Bad Mamma has saved her two young offspring for better things than a life of crime.Frankly, I don't see much ahead of the two little lambs, although who knows? The blond has an attractive face and saucy figure and one can imagine her as the illicit, pampered pet of some millionaire rock star from New York or Georgia -- that is until the house collapses around them. The pregnant younger daughter, a retard by any metric, who insists on toting around her teddy bear, is a different story. She's made for a career in politics. "}{"Title":"Best Worst movie EVER !!!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well people I don't think it gets any better than this, Big Bad Mama had it all! I think its front cover really does it justice, I quote,Hot Lead, Hot Cars, Hot Dames, Hot Damn!If you can get your hands on this baby, then its definitely worth the watch.  "},{"Title":"It's hard to imagine any film trying any harder to be this trashy!!","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Subtle and wholesome this movie ain't! In fact, it's about the trashiest film I have seen in ages--and I've seen a lot of films!! The characters in the film are 100% awful and low-class--sort of like a 1930s version of the guests from The Jerry Springer Show! The film is unapologetically trashy--with boobs (and a whole lot more), cursing, irreverence and rednecks galore! It's obvious that Roger Corman was NOT trying to make a film that would be featured on Masterpiece Theatre or in the Criterion Collection! The film is about 'Mama' (Angie Dickenson) and her two rotten daughters. After starting a fight during a wedding and running off, this lovely brood goes into business selling moonshine and doing anything else they can to earn a buck...and I mean anything. And yet, despite being trashy and wicked to the bone, Mama declares that they are a nice family and refers to her white-trash daughters as my little girls--even when they strip in public or sleep around with practically anyone or anything. We are obviously NOT talking about a deep or particularly consistent group of people! Later, this wholesome family kinda drifts into the bank robbing business. In a genuinely funny scene (one of the few in the film), during their first robbery, another gang also tries to rob the bank at the same time! In the process, one of the gang members are killed and the two gangs merge--with Tom Skerritt now becoming the love interest for Mama. Just a bit later, Mama meets up with William Shatner--and almost immediately jumps into the sack with him. Skerritt isn't pleased and assuages his feelings by jumping in the sack with BOTH of the younguns'. Despite also living during the 1930s, this WON'T be mistaken for The Waltons!In addition to this sick group are two Federal agents--one of which is a perennial actor in Corman films, Dick Miller (Bucket of Blood and Little Shop of Horrors). Both these agents have the intelligence of maggots and I assume they were added for comic relief--just like Boss Hog and the boys from The Dukes of Hazard.This is also obviously NOT a film to show your pastor or rabbi!!! I can also see CC's point--this film is bound to offend ANYONE--particularly religious people. This film is obviously what you might call a guilty pleasure--you just turn off your brain (and your sense of moral outrage) and enjoy as best you can. It is especially recommended for people who consider The Dukes of Hazard and Jackass and Flesh Gordon to be fine family entertainment.So, despite being 100% trashy, is the film worth seeing? I would say for most people, no--mostly because the writing and acting are incredibly broad (i.e, BAD). This simply is a poor and rather vulgar film--though possibly enjoyable in a low-brow sort of way. While some might like such an unapologetically bad film, others might just have their jaws drop in disbelief at the utter awfulness of it all. Of course, stupid people may enjoy this mess of a film. You KNOW this is so when William Shatner's performance is the most subtle and understated in the entire film!! A couple final notes, and not that it matters as this is NOT a film for purists, but one scene has a picture of J. Edgar Hoover on the wall--circa 1960. A mistake but hardly important considering everything. Also, over a decade later, Big Bad Mama II debuted. Considering how the first movie ended, I have no idea how such a sequel could have been possible. "},{"Title":"Uncoordinated, ramshackle gangster camp with a breast fixation...","Date":"6 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Roger Corman-produced junk which struck a chord with audiences in the early years of cable-television. Depression-era Texas widow with two sex-happy daughters plans to rob and swindle her way to California, picking up a two-bit gangster and a penniless con-man on the journey west. Some of the hillbilly dialogue, as well as an early sequence where Mama tries door-to-door moonshining, is very funny (perhaps due to the script contributions of the estimable William Norton); otherwise, there isn't much to this narrative apart from the embarrassing overtures to Bonnie & Clyde and Angie Dickinson's intermittent nude scenes. Self-conscious, ugly-looking picture flails sloppily away at would-be action scenes with energy but no talent. The direction, the editing, and most of the acting is positively atrocious. Followed by a sequel in 1987. * from **** "},{"Title":"a fun romp ruined by political agenda","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was so enjoying this film. I had rented two films, both from the seventies, one a big budget comedy and then this low budget Corman show. I hated the big budget and loved this one, until the political demon started barking up the plot's far-left sleeve. The heart on the sleeve, that is. I mean, we all enjoy watching films when the rich are being taken from, and the poor get to steal it. That's the basis of all crime movies and why we like them; and why we root for the bad guys so much. But this movie actually mentions such things, and they are mentioned by the filthy rich, and you can tell when certain lines are uttered, they're in it for a reason other than dialog/conversation. In one scene a rich guy at a party mentions about how bad taxes are because they tax the rich (as if the rich are the only ones taxed), in another a guy gives a speech about how bad socialism is both characters are filthy disgusting villainous types and are made to look stupid. And in the end, or towards the end of the film, a rich girl with an inheritance is kidnapped by the main characters who'd been having a blast robbing banks before, and from that point the movie goes from a fun romp into a mean spirited film with social envy written all over it. Oh well. For an hour I had fun. Till it all started getting see-through. And then, I saw through. As usual. Pity too. I love watching movies. I just wish they'd all keep their agenda to themselves or else better obscured so that we can all enjoy ourselves, not just those in the blue states. "},{"Title":"Big Bad Bigotry","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"16 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The early 1970s has some of the most blatant anti-Christian messages ever put out by Hollywood filmmakers and this is Exhibit A. You can just feel the hatred of these atheists pouring out in this movie. There are not one but two separate instances of picturing phony and blasphemous preachers in here. That, plus a ton of GDs, mostly said by Angie Dickinson, make this a despicable, extremely bigoted film.Dickinson, and this era when movie makers had just gotten their freedom to spew all this bias, are about as low at it gets and sleazy with a capital S. It isn't just the hatred and the sleaze and gratuitous nudity in here, it's just the pathetic immaturity of Hollywood during this period.Of course, it's more than just anti-religious bias. We get the usual elitist Left Wing agenda with a myriad of plugs for socialism, too. This is pitiful trash and so typical of the early-to-mid-70s. "}]