[{"Title":"Gory, sexy, witty and political updating of the classic tale.","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"43 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  'Blood for Dracula' began shooting the day principal photography for 'Flesh for Frankenstein' finished, and utilised the same three lead players Udo Kier (as Dracula), Arno Jeurging (as his manservant) and Joe Dallesandro (as a socially conscious and randy farmhand). In comparison to the earlier film, 'Blood for Dracula' may appear somewhat more restrained, with less of the delirium and dementia which made it's sister movie so memorable, but in place of the outrageous black humour and OTT excesses it possesses a more subtle sense of satire and a frequently beautiful and poetic visual style.Just a quick recap of the story Dracula, who is here only able to feed from the blood of virgin girls, is forced to leave his ancestral home in Transylvania (apparantly he's exhausted the supply there) and travel to Italy with his manservant, under the pretence of seeking a 'suitable wife'. They come across a family of supposedly noble stock, whose daughters are not in fact as pure as they might seem to be. This is due to the presence of a hot-headed young farmhand, whose political ideologies have been much influenced by the recent revolution in Russia...Morrissey's first image in the film is a mischievously existential sequence that immediately works to blur the distinction between the realm of the film and that of the filmmakers. Dracula, a bone white albino, is seen applying black dye to his hair, rouge to his cheeks and ochre to his lips in an effort to appear more robust and more human. The obvious parallel is that of an actor being made up in preparation for a scene; Dracula's 'scene' is the rest of the movie and therefore we do not see this process repeated. Opening with such an introspective shot, one that is entirely outside the narrative and which so successfully marries the worlds before and behind the camera, denotes the artistic sensibility which will lend the film a modernist flavour and throw the hokier aspects of vampire lore into sharp relief. Here Dracula merely has an aversion to sunlight, garlic and crucifixes, rather than crumbling to dust at the sight of them; if outside during the day he only shields his face with his hat, and in his room at the inn he simply takes down the cross on the wall and puts it away in a drawer. It's a good example of how rules of legend as interpreted through iconic cinema (think Bela Lugosi repulsed by a crucifix, or Max Shreck dissolving in the dawn's light) are not binding in any sense, and in any case such constraints on the character would sit badly with the plot of the film. The director's personal touch allows him to express his ideas with more structure and balance, which makes for a more satisfying and coherent picture.In 'Flesh for Frankenstein', Morrissey used the basic set up of the Frankenstein story, itself heavy with Freudian overtones in the context of Man attempting to create life independently of Woman, to showcase and satirise a gallery of corrupting behaviour and sexual deviancy. Here the contemporary relevance is the political subtext of the Dracula myth. The Count as a wealthy aristocrat is presented as both a literal and metaphorical vampire he drains the blood of innocents in order to perpetuate his existence, and his social class figuratively leeches off the lower orders for it's own survival. His sickly pallor and physical frailty is both representative of his caste's dying influence and perhaps also a comment upon the debilitating results of long term inbreeding; a sharp contrast to the youthful strength and virility of Joe Dallesandro. The character of the latter is a dedicated communist who despises the Count for being, as he sees him, the wasted product of an archaic and fading tradition of social inequality, and the perception of aristocracy as decrepit and defunct extends to, and is reinforced by, the Italian family upon who's daughters the count has set his sights. Clearly once wealthy and influential they have now fallen on hard times and are under financial strain; the daughters work in the fields and gardens and the house is in need of repair and redecoration which they cannot afford. Hence the Mother's desire to marry one of her children into a moneyed lineage, in spite of such an unattractive groom and her daughters' unsuitability for his requirements, is an act of both base greed and snobbish ambition.The film also makes great use of the power of human sexuality. One character early in the film remarks, upon hearing of the Count's intention to marry 'A wife? He doesn't look up to it!' Indeed the key to Dracula's undoing is ultimately sex. He cannot drink the blood of non-virgins, yet is tricked several times into drinking the contaminated blood of the family's daughters, which leads to bouts of copious vomiting. His servant's somewhat erroneous belief that Italy is a good place to find a chaste wife, because of that countries Catholicism, demonstrates his unfortunate reliance on, and faith in, the upholding of old fashioned principles. The girls' unrestrained sexual familiarity with Dallesandro is indicative of their embracing of a more modern and unconcerned attitude to sex, where the crumbling social climate and values of their parent's generation have little bearing. When Dracula reveals that due to his families' 'traditions' he can only marry a virgin, the Marchesa knowingly tries to palm him off with her daughters, whom she knows are experienced, anyway. There is little genuine sense of honour about such duplicity; the motivation is wealth even at the expense of her children's happiness. Morrissey is always quick to savage the supposedly sacred community of the family; in 'Flesh for Frankenstein' it was blighted by incest and depravity, and here the briefly seen relationship between Dracula and his sister (also a vampire) is more touching and heartfelt than the caustic behaviour of the Di Fiore's toward one another.The film remains to the end a coruscating and biting take on human values. At it's conclusion the enforced tyranny of an autocratic society has symbolically been put to a bloody end and supplanted by another that of communist oppression. It is not a happy ending, perhaps because Dracula here is a much more pitiable and ambiguous character than generally depicted in other films. He does not communicate a sense of being an evil and vicious monster; he comes across as a weak and highly strung aesthete, delicate, sensitive and refined (the fact that he can only drink the uncontaminated blood of virgins is an extension of his discerning tastes and a genuine reflection of the traditional requirements of well-bred families in matters of marriage). Violence is abhorrent to him, yet ironically it is concomitant with his survival, whereas Dallesandro's character is brutish, self righteous and far more morally dubious (he more or less rapes the youngest daughter so that Dracula cannot now feed from her impure blood).The key performances here are perfectly realised and genuinely involving. Kier captures the lethargy and malaise of the ailing Count with inimitable panache, although in order to shed the necessary weight for the role he simply didn't eat anything and was therefore actually too weak to move most of the time anyway! Arno Jeurging here plays an authoritative, arrogant and controlling servant who is worlds away from the submissive and degenerate Otto character in 'Flesh for Frankenstein', while Maxime McKendry imparts a very real sense of desperation in her part as a declining aristocrat grasping at straws in a changing economic climate.  Dallesandro here seems as out of place as he was in FFF, with a hilariously anachronistic Brooklyn accent despite supposedly being a second-generation servant to the family. You could look at this as the Director articulating his indifference to the conventional importance of verisimilitude, or merely the inclusion of a bankable international star for the purpose of returns at the box office (I suppose it depends on how cynical you're feeling). Whatever, Dallesandro endows his character with the sense of preening and aggressive self-importance that is vital for the film, where the intention is to have no clearly demarcated hero and villain. The girls are all achingly beautiful and shed their clothes at almost every opportunity, while two notable directors, Vittorio De Sica and Roman Polanksi (!) have brief parts as the Merchese and a cunning villager respectively. Jeurging's mother also plays a small role as a customer at the inn.Gore wise, although the film, as noted, somewhat lacks the unrelenting intensity of FFF's flying entrails and severed heads, it is still not for the squeamish. The protracted scenes of Dracula throwing up unsuitable blood into the bath are pretty gross, as is his lying on the floor to sup at the remains of the youngest daughter's hymen after Dallesandro takes matters into his own hands. The conclusion takes the grotesquery to the heights of blackly comic inevitability, with a mess of severed limbs and a double puncture with a single stake. However, the elegance of the cinematography, despite the low budget, renders these scenes almost as beautiful in their own perverse way as the long establishing shots of the Italian countryside.This film, like it's predecessor, remains a genuine cult classic, and in my opinion they are both valuable documents of the prevalent artistic attitudes of their day and two of the most important, literate, well composed and intelligent horror films of the last thirty years. Maybe someday Morrissey and Kier may make another. Here's hoping.  "},{"Title":"Great, beautiful and artistic ...TRASH!","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"35 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This very free and rather deranged interpretation of Bram Stoker's legendary Dracula tale by Paul Morrissey is one of the best independent vampire stories I've seen so far. The sheer brilliance of this film completely lies in the characterization of the bloodsucking count. Dracula no longer is a vile and overruling monster here, but a sickly and almost pathetic weakling. He and his assistant (Renfield with brains!) flee from the Romanian castle to settle in rural Italy where families are believed to be particularly religious. This is essential to the count because he can only feed on virgins' blood. The count and his assistant are homed by a family with 4 four marriageable daughters, pretending to be wealthy. However, the girls aren't as 'pure' as they're supposed to be (these cuties like to screw around with the revolutionary servant boy) and the impure blood of the girls only causes to the count to get weaker. Despite of its filthy reputation, this film isn't that gory or nauseating. The finale is pretty blood-soaked but the film is overall more absurd and eccentric than it is gore. Blood for Dracula is an outstanding trash-film! The humor is black as the night itself and the substance is essential viewing for every cult cinema admirer. Udo Kier is terrific as the needy count while pretty boy and Morrissey regular Joe Dallesandro has the time of his life portraying the manly skirt-chaser. The budget of Blood for Dracula was low (almost non-existing), yet the set pieces and atmosphere-creating elements are great! The musical score in particular is beautiful and contains a few gripping piano compositions.In conclusion, Blood for Dracula is outrageous fun and a must-see for everyone whose tired of the same old unsatisfying horror films. It might not fit for all audiences but I'm sure the more developed genre lovers will love seeing Udo Kier licking a virgin's blood of the floor. Equally recommended is the Morrissey variant on that other classic tale, Frankenstein. That film is even more extravagant and a whole lot nastier. You can either take that as a recommendation or a warning.  "},{"Title":"A campy sexy treat","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I love this film.It plays like a fantasy for decent perverts.  That may sound like an oxymoron.  You have 3 sexy  daughters alone with their mother at some European manor.  Of course there is the groundskeeper Joe Dallesandro, the hot stud who deflowers the virgins, well, all except one daughter who seems to be holding out.Udo Kier plays the perverted ill Dracula who needs virgin blood to gain strength. Guess who's coming to dinner at the manor house?  One problem; he needs virgin blood to survive. Anything else proves lethal.Young Joe has taken care of two of the daughters therefore Dracula gets a little sicker when he takes of their blood.Does he get the youngest and prettiest who is the Virgin or does Joe take care of that as well.Not big on budget.  Funny at times.  It is actually well filmed.  Very campy and nasty. "},{"Title":"Watchable","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Not nearly as disgusting as its closely made forerunner Flesh for Frankenstein, Blood for Dracula has some nice, stylistic moments, excellent period piece settings and costumes, wild overacting from Udo Keir as Dracula(subdued though when compared with his performance as Dr. Frankenstein) and a non-performance by Joe Dallesandro, a sluggish pace at times and, of course, lots of gratuitous sex scenes.  Dracula must go south for his health and find a virgin(for he can only drink the blood of a virgin girl).  He chooses Italy and finds a family with three beautiful, unwed daughters all professing innocence of man.  A swarthy gardener(Dallesandro) works there.  Add two and two and you have the basic premise of the film.  For me, and let me say that I get what camp is and what the filmmakers were trying - TRYING - to do, the best part of this film is easily the brief cameo of Roman Polanski as a man in the pub playing a game of do-what-I-do.  Polanski has brilliant comic timing, and he reinforces my opinion that he was and could have been a very good actor.  I am thankful he still directs though.  As for Blood of Dracula, it will definitely take a bite out of your time. "},{"Title":"One hell of a fun comedy horror film","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In this retelling of the story of Dracula, the world's most famous vampire (Udo Kier, in a breathtaking and charismatic role as the count) lives in rapid deterioration in Romania with his watcher, Anton. Dracula is nearing death due to the fact that he needs the blood of a virgin in order to survive as tainted blood makes him deeply ill. Dracula decides to travel to Italy after burying his sister because Anton tells him that there are many religious girls there who value their virginity and do not have sex until marriage. The plan makes sense, but problems arise when Dracula and Anton take shelter in the home of a religious family consisting of a greedy and thoughtless wife, a bitter husband, their four daughters, and their communist worker (played by the consistently memorable Joe Dallesandro). The plan is to pretend to be an aristocrat looking for a virgin bride, but issues arise when Dracula discovers that the daughters are not as innocent and as virginal as they are reputed to be, thanks to their worker, in this bizarre and extremely bloody vampire fable.Excuse me for seeming rather melodramatic for saying this, but this has got to be one of the most depressing horror films I think I have ever seen. The idea of Dracula being a terrifying and intimidating demon of a human being is completely altered here. Dracula is no longer the great monster that legend states, but rather a frail and deteriorating creature who is weak and pitiful. Call me crazy, but to me this idea is truly heartbreaking. This is a very tragic, pessimistic, and cruel film, and watching it is like watching a weak old man slowly bleed to death in a creek after getting in a bicycle accident. It is basically the mental equivalent, and as a result I would highly suggest that folks who aren't privy to films about tragedies better steer clear of this. For everyone else, however, who is a 70s grindhouse horror fan, fans of erotic horror cinema, and fans of Euro-trash, there is a lot here to recommend. For starters, Udo Kier as Dracula. Oh my god can this man tug at the heartstrings. His performance as Dracula is as pitiful, feeble, and tortured as you can ever imagine. Say what you will about his theatrical line delivery, but I found myself tearing up just looking at the guy. The opening scene in which we watch him cover his old frame with make-up is one of my favorite opening scenes in horror. It is sad, it is tranquil, and it is classy all at once. Udo Kier has such gentle and expressive eyes that help give the character a sense of lost humanity that I found incredibly poignant.Arno Juerging as Anton is also astounding. He allows his character to be somewhat charming and timid while still allowing him to show a vicious tendency. He's an unusually memorable aspect of the film that certainly helps to differentiate this picture from other films of it's nature. Joe Dallesandro is a lot funnier and has a lot more fun with his role here than in the past, but above all he just looks great on camera regardless of the quality of film stock. He has such a wonderful presence here, and his character is a lot more interesting and clever than you would expect from this type of role. Above all, however, he's a hero who you don't feel entirely comfortable rooting for. He's a main character whom the writer doesn't mind showing you his sleazy side. He's not an entirely likable protagonist, and I always appreciate when filmmakers have the balls to do that. It worked in 2009 with District 9, and it works just as brilliantly here. The musical score by Claudio Gizzi is one of the great haunting horror film scores of the 70s. This score, as well as his equally powerful score in Flesh For Frankenstein, are two of my favorite music scores of all time. It fits the sadness of the film like a glove.This is one of my favorite vampire films and one of my favorite films of it's kind. It's not going to appeal to everyone, especially the easily offended, but it is a tremendous piece of horror filmmaking that I personally think deserves it's place in film history. Best of all, it is a vampire film that, like the 2008 Swedish film Let the Right One In as well as the 1996 actioner From Dusk Till Dawn, follows all the basic rules in vampire lore. This film also includes a cameo by Roman Polanski, and to this day I think it's one of the funniest and most intelligent cameo appearances of all time. What more can I really say? This is a cult classic of the highest caliber. It's beautifully shot, it's evenly paced, it's gory as hell, it's genuinely erotic, and it's not afraid to break your heart. If you are a fan of cult horror and you haven't seen this, you are seriously missing out. "},{"Title":"Udo vs. Joe Volume 2","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Here we are, the end of 2009, and Vampires have found their way back in style. Well, hot damn for them. We all knew it would happen sooner or later. Since Bela Lugosi redefined exactly what a Vampire is, back in the 30's, these guys are here to stay. However, the current crop of Vamp-entertainment has me a little worried. Twilight, eh? The Vampire Diaries? Oh yeah, I forgot, everything has to be targeted towards children now. I hate to admit it, but the so-called golden age of the 30's is a tad slow for my taste, and of course the fact that I'm an adult stands between me and the latest Vamp-craze. Fortunately, there was a period in between where they got it right. Enter Paul Morrissey, and his pal, Andy Warhol. The year is 1973, and rebelliously independent director, Paul Morrissey just wrapped up Andy Warhol's Frankenstein. Days later, Morrissey starts filming the logical next step, Andy Warhol's Dracula. Udo Kier (Mark Of The Devil) plays Count Dracula, and Joe Dallesandro (Andy Warhol's Trash) plays a guy who gets laid all the time. In this version of the legend, Dracula can only consume the blood of virgins, which is unfortunate for Udo because Romania has been sucked dry, so, now , the Count is headed to Italy in search of a nice, rich family, with nice, wholesome daughters. Once a destination is chosen, Dracula has high hopes of taking one of these pristine, young ladies back to Romania to marry (drain dry). The parents also think this is a swell idea, and the girls aren't putting up much of a fight. Only one problem, Joe Dallesandro is the live-in handyman, which means, yep, you guessed it, not a virgin in the house. Tough luck, Drac. Now would be the time to take this hopeless mission elsewhere, because if Joe finds out there's a Vampire about... It's on!!! Blood For Dracula is every bit the Masterpiece as Flesh For Frankenstein. Each one, a dismal, morbid work of art, although, this one is a bit more on the mean-spirited side. Udo Kier's portrayal of Count Dracula is so accurate, as if he were born to play the role. And Joe Dallesandro is always entertaining, with his acting issues and what not. Anyone out there who wants in on the latest Vampire craze, who isn't a pre-teen girl, HBO's Trueblood may be worth a look. And for the schlock lovers, you may want to check out Chris Seaver's latest masterpiece, Taintlight. although still semi-unknown, Paul Morrissey's version of Dracula just might be the definitive edition. Not bad for a guy who didn't do Horror. If you ask me, I could have totally gone for a few more of these. Imagine, the possibilities were endless. Maybe an Andy Warhol's Wolfman, or how about an Andy Warhol's Mummy? No, that would be stupid... I got it!! Andy Warhol's Jekyll & Hyde!! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Good...for laughs","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Count Dracula (Udo Kier) can only drink the blood of virgins or he becomes violently ill. He comes upon a family with a bunch of virgin daughters. He plans to have each of them but the family's horny gardener (Joe Dellesandro) is after them too...for sex! Silly but you just can't stop watching. Like it's companion piece (Andy Warhol's Frankenstein) the story is silly with over the top acting and gore. Kiers convulsions after drinking the blood of non-virgins is SO disgusting they're hilarious. And (in the X rated version) there are some fairly explicit sex scenes between Dellesandro and the daughters. And Dracula's death at the end is just great! Silly and stupid but very funny. Try to catch the X rated version. "},{"Title":"Another must see Morrissey trash classic!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  While I rate Paul Morrissey's 'Flesh For Frankenstein' just a little higher than this one, it is without a doubt a vampire trash classic, and highly recommended viewing. Morrissey once again teams the legendary Udo Kier ('The Story Of O', 'Suspiria') with Warhol superstar Joe Dallesandro, and the creepy Arno Juerging (Otto from '...Frankenstein'), and adds to the strong supporting cast Italian veteran Vittorio De Sica, and even a cameo from director Roman Polanski. '..Dracula' features a similar mixture of horror and camp to the earlier movie, but this time the emphasis is more on sex and decadence than gore and humour. Dallesandro's performance is below par as a Communist servant, but Kier once again excels in the title role, creating some genuine sympathy as the sickly, desperate Count who can't get enough wer-gins blood to sustain himself. 'Blood For Dracula' is essential viewing for all 1970s cult movie buffs. "},{"Title":"Pretty funny.(**Spoilers**)","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Paul Morrissey's Blood for Dracula is definitely a cult classic.Udo Kier is excellent as a Dracula.He can't suck the blood of anyone but a virgin or he vomits.In one outrageous scene he licks the blood of a virgin off the floor.The film is about as sleazy and politically incorrect as you can get.There is plenty of soft-core sex in this one plus incredibly gory climax when Dracula is dismembered.There is also a lovely cameo by Roman Polanski(Rosemary's Baby,The Tenant).Check it out in pair with its companion piece Flesh for Frankenstein(1974). "},{"Title":"Brilliant - but can you take it?","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film opens with a close up of Udo Keir, possessor one of the most beautiful male faces of the era, applying makeup in front of a mirror. The camera then reveals that being Count Dracula, like all vampires, he has no reflection! thus the humorous tone is set for the rest of the film. The dialogue is wild and delicious, helped along by hugely overstated accents of all kinds and exaggerated overacting and in many cases - no acting at all. The film is stunningly photographed and is often beautiful to look at when you can, but you may find it difficult to watch Dracula regurgitate gallons of impure (i.e. non-virgin) blood or watch him lick pure virgin blood from the floor. Much more easy on the eye is the sight of a naked Joe Dallesandro, the camera drinks it's fill of this guy and many close-ups of his amazing face fill the screen. There is also an excellent cameo from Roman Polanski who challenges Count Dracula to an amusing game in a bar. The climax is blood soaked and bizarre and like the whole movie, way over the top. A hugely entertaining film providing you have the stomach for it! "}{"Title":"The blood of these whores is killing me.","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Udo Kier has 180 roles to his credit. Most recently he was in Grindhouse and Rob Zombies Halloween. But, it is his roles in Andy Warhol's Frankenstein and this film that really show him at his campy best.Here, he plays Count Dracula, a man we really feel sorry for, as he only has two weeks to live unless he can find a virgin's blood to drink. he travels to Italy with his manservant (Arno Juerging) to the château of a Marchese (Vittorio De Sica) who happens to have four daughters ranging from an old maid to a 14-year-old, and a gambling problem that has left him almost penniless. He welcomes the Count (and his wealth) to choose one of his daughters for marriage.What he does not know is that the one servant he still has on staff (Joe Dallesandro) has been using more that rakes and shovels. He has a special tool that is admired by the two middle daughters and, suffice it to say, they are no longer virgins.Count Dracula finds this out the hard way. Who knew that he was bulimic? He throws up a disgusting amount of blood after noshing on their necks. The servant figures out what is happening and rapes the 14-year-old to save her from the vampire. Isn't he a thoughtful guy? But, the spinster saves Dracula temporally until the servant used an ax to turn him into a quadriplegic before putting the stake through his heart. Despondent, the spinster falls on the stake also to be with her love forever.What a sweet story of love. "},{"Title":"Classic soft-core weirdness and one of the best Dracula movies ever made","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Paul Morrissey's follow-up to his outrageous FLESH FOR FRANKENSTEIN is much more low key but superior in many ways, with a witty script, funny performances and some genuinely shocking moments. It's one of the few movies to successfully bridge the gap between the art house and the grindhouse. It is a sleazy American exploitation movie as much as it is an avant garde European art film. Dracula (Udo Kier) has become weak and sick from a lack of pure blood and travels to Italy with his servant (Arno Jeurning) to find virgins, who's blood may revitalize him. He picks a family in financial trouble, assuming that they will welcome the marriage of one of their daughters to a wealthy stranger.Unfortunately, the girls are far from virgins, regularly servicing handyman Joe Dallesandro, and Kier is unlucky enough to discover this only after feeding on them and violently puking their tainted blood back up in a pair of outlandishly gruesome sequences.Slowly, the family begins to suspect who their new guest is, leading up to an outrageously gory finale in which Dallesandro dismembers Kier with a axe! Blood for Dracula (aka Andy Warhol's Dracula) is one of the oddest--and best--vampire movies ever made, with a sharp sense of humor and some nice satirical touches that raise it above the usual grindhouse fare with which it shares the spotlight. Morrissey's direction and dialog is far more polished than what he displayed in his earlier films but the irreverent and off-the-cuff feel of Trash and Heat is intact. There is some second unit photography by Antonio Margheriti and the bloody make-up effects were provided by future Close Encounters and E.T. creator Carlo Rambaldi.Highly recommended for fans of cult horror! "},{"Title":"Are you a wergin?","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have mixed feelings about this movie. For starters, It's a goddamn Andy Warhol production. In addition, most of the actors and actresses are pretty hammy (for example it has a Italian family where the dad has what sounds like an Italian accent, the mother sounds British, two of the daughters sound German, and the gardener is obviously from Jersey).Udo Kier continues to yuck it up as the title character after playing Baron Frankenstein in Flesh for Frankenstein this film's sister picture. Udo is obviously enjoying playing a complete and total ham and vomits up blood as well as any I've seen. Is he the glue that holds the picture together???? Not really. The whole thing is basically a vehicle for shameless (and I stress shameless) sex and violence, some of which good old Udo takes part in. The flick also has some pretty cheesy dialog. One of my favorites is when Joe Dallesandro tells two of the daughters (after having sex with them) that he'd like to rape the hell out of their 14 year old sister. After this, he says he'd love her right and treat her good. What the hell? In my book, raping the hell out of and then loving up right are two totally different things.However, this little flick does have its shining moments in spite of itself. There are some funny moments in the film and I think that they weren't really taking it that seriously, so it has that campy feel. In the end I think that it's good points and bad points strike even, so I recommend watching when you're feeling in that I want to watch something so bad, it could actually be kind of good mood.Film fans should also look for the Roman Polanski cameo. He plays a game against Count Dracula's aide in the restaurant scene. "},{"Title":"Strange Film.","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This has to be the strangest of all Dracula movies. A camp, terminally ill Count Dracula goes to Italy to find virgins, whom he needs to feed from if he is to survive. He targets a family with three young daughters He arouses the suspicions of a randy servant who is having an affair with the two eldest sisters. The emphasis is on ridicule of the whole Dracula legend rather than scares and the film is loaded with kinky sex and features perhaps the nastiest axe killing is cinema history. The cast barely keep a straight face, especially Udo Kier who goes barmy as Dracula. This stomach-turning brew is an acquired taste and in way too long but Horror Fans with a sense of humour may enjoy it. A bit weary but worthwhile. Not for the squemish. My Rating - 6 Out Of 10. "},{"Title":"Annoying Dracula 'classic'","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Bananas age better than this trainwreck of a movie. You know those soft porn movies that Cinemax airs really late at night?? They're better than this.I suppose it was audacious and cutting-edge in '74, but now it's just silly and boring. You keep waiting for it to get better but it never does. The parts that could be funny never follow through on their potential. (the green light they shine on Drac's face when he realized the blood he's just sucked out of another pathetic daughter's neck is kinda funny, tho. And the only laugh the whole movie got out of me.) The sex is even boring. The women are vague and too willowy. The studly farmhand boorish and bland.Don't waste your time.Total, pretentious claptrap. "},{"Title":"Dreadful, but not in the way a horror movie should be","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This wasn't as bad as Flesh for Frankenstein, which was so abysmal I couldn't bring myself to comment on it, but it's a bad, bad, terrible, horrendous movie. What makes it all the worse is that it has a terrific theme...or would have had, but the script was so atrociously written that every socialist subtext was forced screaming to the front to beat you over the head. That said, a terrible script doesn't excuse acting as bad as this. The 'actors' are about as convincing as the housewife and the delivery man in your favorite skin flick. And in a way, this is a skin flick--it's a feeble attempt to infuse promiscuous sex into a story originally focusing on the Victorian demonization of sex. In capable hands, it could have worked. These were not capable hands. In my own humble opinion, every copy of this movie should be destroyed. "},{"Title":"Pooh","Date":"25 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie as to mush sex. To mush nudity. And is not very well acted. There are a lot of great Dracula movies out there. And this is not one of them. Pooh pooh. Pooh pooh pooh pooh. Do not wast your money. Do not see this movie. Pooh. It was badly acted and not very scary. It is difficult to watch at time. And a Dracula movie should not be difficult to watch. Don't see it. Don't see it. Don't see it. Don't see it. Wast of time. Dracula 1931 is great. So Dracula 1979. But this is pooh. It is not scary. Not scary not scary not scary not scary not scary. Not scary not scary not scary. Pooh pooh and pee pee. Not scary not scary. It is a very bad movie. "},{"Title":"What Really Killed Off the Vampires","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There is usually a sexual element in vampire movies, but in this one, Count Dracula must have the blood of a virgin. Although set in the early twentieth century, times have changed so much that there just aren't many virgins anymore, and the Count is dying of malnutrition. He and his henchman leave Romania and go to Italy, where they think the strong religious traditions of that country will provide him with plenty of virgins to pick from. Boy, has he got a lot to learn.One family in particular is aristocratic but hard up for money, and they are more than willing to let Dracula, who is quite wealthy, have his pick from their four daughters. Unfortunately for him, Mario, the budding proletarian communist who works for the family has already has his way with a couple of the sisters, who are quite slutty. They present themselves to Dracula as virgins, and he believes them. Oh well, even men who are not vampires have fallen for that line. But in each case, when he plunges his fangs into their necks and drinks their blood, he becomes violently ill and starts throwing it all up.When Mario realizes what is going on, he nobly saves the fourteen-year-old sister, who is still a virgin, by busting her hymen, thereby spoiling her for the Count as well. And in a really gross scene, Dracula licks the blood from the floor where the deflowering took place. Unfortunately, the remaining sister, who was also a virgin, gets fanged by Dracula and becomes a vampire herself, and so she tries to save him from being hacked to pieces by an ax-wielding Mario. When the ax breaks, he drives the handle/stake into Dracula's heart, and then the newly minted vampire sister impales herself on the stake as well. Mario has been dreaming of the coming revolution when all the aristocrats will be wiped out and the workers will take over, and thus he gets to act that out in his own small way.Original, funny, and entertaining, this is one of the better vampire movies. "},{"Title":"There's a vampire in it A DVD Extras review","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tartan Video 2006 Contents Commentary featuring Paul Morrissey, Udo Kier and Maurice Yacowar, Screen-test, with commentary, Production stillsThe first striking thing about this extras package, is that director Paul Morrissey literally never stops talking - which suits our purposes just fine. The second is that director Paul Morrissey could talk the legs off a centipede which, again, suits our purposes down to the ground, as you learn a lot about this movie over a good two hours. In the screen-test we see footage of Flesh For Frankenstein's Srdjan Zelenovic auditioning for the role of Dracula (before Udo Kier ultimately stepped into his over-sized shoes). Morrissey was clearly very taken with the towering and aloof actor, who he recalls as having an extraordinarily deep voice, as if coming from the grave. You pay attention to a man like that. We also learn that the aristocratic Zelenovic grew up in a Soviet slave camp (aka Yugoslavia), that his brother (who was just as tall) was a basketball player; and that his father was a general in Tito's army. The production stills segment (featuring some great photos of Morrissey and Kier) lasts a good 25 minutes, affording Morrissey more time to discuss casting, characters, and behind-the-scenes stuff. Among other things, we learn that cameo performer Roman Polanski wanted to write his own part, rather than improvise; and that Udo and Joe Dallesandro were given haircuts so they could start shooting the minute Flesh wrapped. A fan of spontaneity, Morrissey wasted no time in bringing his next project to the screen. Dracula started shooting at 1pm after finishing Frankenstein an hour before. I suppose if they'd ask me to make a third right afterwards, I'd probably have done it. The real meat is in the director's commentary proper - which is slightly confusing until you work out these are three separately recorded interviews edited (not entirely seamlessly) together. Mostly, this works. Sometimes, as with the juxtaposition of crusty but avuncular film historian Maurice Yacowar and the more down-home Morrissey, it renders matters redundant. Kier's own introduction I'm Udo Kier, I'm Dracula, I'm on the search for the blood of a virgin and I hope you enjoy it, comes quite out of the blue, and makes you jump out of your skin. I didn't want to overplay it and play Dracula when I'd just played Frankenstein, Kier recalls. Once persuaded, Morrissey next explained he'd have to lose 10 kilos. I said, 'I know how to do it.' I just didn't eat anymore. And he ended up in a wheelchair. Still, he appears to have relished the chance to star in something other than the more sombre fare he was used to. Dracula was important for me, it was seen by a lot of people. If you make a film in German, where's the audience? Some old guys hiding away in Brazil, if you know what I mean! Yes, Udo, we know what you mean. Some of those Nazis probably got off on Joe Dallesandro's heaving buttocks too. Elsewhere he comments that vomiting blood looks so great when you have a tuxedo on. Look at the red... it's beautiful. Sometimes, Udo, you seem like a strange and scary man. Morrissey, often introduced by a disembodied woman's voice, reveals that the castle belonged to someone who was in a madhouse and was rented out; and that, I did almost no research - I respect the legend, but I wasn't going to have my hands tied. Yacowar's commentary, though erudite, can occasionally become intrusive, and an unwitting parody of 'Cahiers Du Cinéma'-speak, for a discussion about what is essentially a trashy horror-comedy. There's an inexplicable psychology between their stripping in the fields and their sexual banter, he notes of the Di Fiori sisters, while the combination of blood and bread makes the scene an infernal parody of communion. Morrissey must really enjoy the sex scenes played with Marxist polemics. He is sexually exploiting the class that exploits him economically. This sequence is so beautifully photographed, Morrissey interrupts. But Yacowar is far from finished. For both of the vampire's climaxes Morrissey uses quiet piano music. This gives the blood-taking act the calm of satiety and culmination... the toilet is Morrissey's personal metaphor for the moral vacuum that has been created by liberal self indulgence. Later he'll concede, Maybe I'm reading too much into that line. I usually do. He's mostly good value, however, especially for priceless stuff like, This is a very elegant composition, with the little mound of breast in the foreground, romantically heaving. To summarise, then Keir? There's communism in it, there's sex in it, there's revolution in it, there's aristocracy in it, and there's a vampire in it. Thanks, Udo. Final thoughts, Paul? It's looking for the ambivalence of serious and silly, the meaningless and meaningful. And last but not least, Maurice. Who, for once, seems totally lost for words. Whatever it is, he reckons, it's some sort of a vampire movie. Got that? But it raises more questions than it answers. Yes? It's a kind of strange tribute to the horror movie mentality. Uh-huh. A little bit horrible in some parts, and enjoyable in others. Come, Maurice, you're simply not reaching. It's not one simple thing. Bless. "},{"Title":"Good bloody fun!","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film was made immediately after Flesh for Frankenstein with some of the same cast and much of the same crew. Dracula, the last of his family, can't find any more werrgens (as Udo Kier memorably puts it) in Romania so his servant has the idea of going to Catholic Italy, where they must be growing on trees. In Italy he gets himself invited to visit a poor noble family and their four unmarried daughters. The parents are delighted that the supposedly rich Count may marry one of their daughters and boost the family coffers. However the Count is only after virgin blood! Unfortunately thanks to Dallesandro's character who works on the estate, the middle 2 daughters no longer qualify as virginal.However the Count has to find that out the hard way, leading to much vomiting and blood regurgitation. Not surprisingly after this he is found out and the films heads towards it's OTT climax. I preferred it to Flesh for Frankenstein for a few reasons. The story is better, there isn't as much horror and the characters are (slightly) more realistic. It is interesting to see the Dracula story taken out of Transylvania and to see the Count portrayed as unwell. There aren't as many funny one liners as in Frankenstein but the behaviour of the characters is quite amusing. Director Paul Morrissey still includes some striking scenes e.g. the opening credits where the sickly Count dyes his white hair black and reddens his pale lips. The four daughters are also interesting characters in different ways. Their parents are a bit mad, especially the father, and provide some comic relief.The acting is pretty good. Udo Kier is more low key than in Frankenstein as the ill and melancholy vampire, though he certainly gives it his all in the blood vomiting scenes! Arno Juergens again plays his servant, a much stronger character than in Frankenstein. Here the Count relies on him completely to arrange his life and most importantly provide food and drink. The daughters are all played well. Milena Vukotic as the eldest, resigned to being a spinster. Dominique Darel and Stefania Casini work very well together as the more liberated middle daughters. Silvia Dionisio plays the youngest daughter and though she doesn't look 14 as the character is supposed to be she has the right air of innocence. Maxime McKendry plays the Marchesa di Fiori. Her very English accent is a bit offputting at times but her practical attitude to the families situation contrasts with her husband,the Marchese, played by famous Italian director, Vittorio Di Sica. The director's commentary tells us that Di Sica wrote his own lines and this is easy to believe as he comically rambles on about the suitability of Dracula as a name for his daughter's potential suitor, even before he has met him. The revelation that he is responsible for the family's poverty isn't surprising. You get the impression Dallesandro is playing himself as the last estate worker and he does a good job of looking brooding and serious, spouting Communist theory while rolling in the hay with a daughter or two. The director's commentary on the DVD is quite interesting. Morrissey reveals that there was all of an hour between the end of Frankenstein and the beginning of Dracula, enough time for Kier and Dallesandro to change hairstyles. He also says that he loves using actors with varying accents together. He certainly hit the jackpot in this regard with Dracula. Another revelation is that Morrissey went to Italy to make Frankenstein only, but he asked producer Carlo Ponti for so little money to make it Ponti suggested he make two films for a little more money. When pressed for another story Dracula was the first thing that came into his head. Most surprising of all is that Udo Kier was not first choice to play the Count but only came in at the last minute when Srdjan Zelenovic, who played the male creation in Frankenstein, wasn't able to stay in Italy. Morrissey says Zelenovic had the aloofness and distance he wanted for Dracula, though, having seen him in Frankenstein, I'd describe his acting style as wooden. The film isn't meant to be taken too seriously but I certainly enjoyed it. Harmless fun! "}{"Title":"Okay horror satire/revision is undone by unevenness of tone and performances","Date":"7 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Udo Keir is Dracula in Paul Morrisey's follow up to Flesh for Frankenstein. Like the earlier film the film carried the Andy Warhol name above the title, but Warhol had nothing really to do with the film. A political and social satire as well as a horror film the movie has the Count leaving his home for Italy because the supply of virgins has dried up and its believed that an endless supply of pure blood will be found in the Catholic country (Dracula will get violently ill if the person isn't a virgin). Things don't go that well for the count who finds not only less pure blood then he thought, but that his plans to drain the few remaining virgins are being thwarted by Marxist Joe Dallesandro as a Brooklyn accented peasant looking to smash the upper classes. An occasionally clever film, this is one of several films from the early 70's and late 60's that re-imagined vampires in ways that go against the typical image of night crawling beasties ala Bela Lugosi (Jonathan, Nosferatu, Nosferatu in Venice). Here the count does go out in the day, he is not really all powerful, but anemic and sickly. Better than the earlier Frankenstein film this is still not a particularly good film. The film is stilted with an odd collection of performances and accents. The film's serious musings about class structure and the vampire myths are under cut by the silliness of some scenes (the finale echoes the Black Knight sequence in Monty Python and the Holy Grail, with the addition of the counts lover behaving so stupidly- she literally rolls her eyes like a maniac-that it ruins any satisfaction at the end of the film.) The film does have its moments so its worth a look for horror fans in a forgiving mode since its an influential film of a sort. "},{"Title":"Roman Polanski's finest hour","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  PAUL MORRISSEY'S ANDY WARHOL'S DRACULA tells the slow-moving tale of a vampire, named, oddly enough, Dracula, played by Udo Keir (BLADE, SHADOW OF THE VAMPIRE, SUSPIRIA, and the only actor to work with both Rainer Werner Fassbinber AND Michael Bay). Unlike other movie Draculas, this one is only mildly annoyed by things like sunlight and crosses. After putting his laconic sister to bed, he and his servant head to rolickin' Italy in their jaunty jalopy (with a coffin and wheelchair strapped to the top, they look a bit like The Beverly Hillbillies) on the prowl for wirgins (the Romanian word for virgins). They hook up with a once-prosperous family with four comely daughters (including Stefania Casini from SUSPIRIA). Two of the daughters spend most of their time frolicking nude with socialist gardener Joe Dallesandro (CRY BABY) and each other. The doddering patriarch of the family trusts Dracula implicitly because his name has three syllabels (logical). Dracula sets about- slowly- ferreting out the wirgins and goin' to town on their necks.This is a pretty okay vampire movie that has a lot of neat stuff but moves a little slow. Udo Keir is excellent. His sickly Dracula opens the movie by painting on his face in a non-existent reflection. When he bites a non-vigrin he goes cross-eyed and vomits- a lot. And the climax of the film SPOILER AHEAD consists of him running around with his arms cut off and blood spurting from the stumps. And if that's not your type of thing, there's some of lesbian action. And if THAT'S not your thing, you do get to see the naked butt of the retarded guy from THE LIMEY.A Dracula movie with something for everyone! "},{"Title":"Amateurish acting, campy and nauseating.","Date":"12 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Andy Warhol's Dracula isn't that bad of a film. It isn't great but it actually isn't terrible. Udo Kier's acting is very amateurish and I'm starting to think that the only reason he ever got roles was because of his striking blue eyes and unusual features. He was handsome when he was young but he can't act. The rest of the actors are comparable to very good porn actors. Joe Dallesandro actually doesn't do too bad here although he seems bitter. Maybe even he knew that this was yet another low budget, strange, tacky and disgusting Warhol film. Don't get me wrong-I like most Warhol films-Bad is one of my favorites. The problem I have with this is there are scenes of Dracula having seizures that are very poorly done and scenes of him vomiting blood that go on way, way too long. If these scenes had been edited shorter I could have handled them. Also, Dracula, like Frankenstein, contains some stomach turning scenes. I literally spoke out loud and said, no, no, he isn't going to do that, no. Ah yes, now I know why some Warhol films were rated X. Joe Dallesandro does his usual nude scenes and looks good as always. As I said before the film isn't terrible. It actually has some interesting scenes, sets and some good acting. But some of this is just awful and ruins whatever good the filmmakers had achieved. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good erotic vampire film","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Blood for Dracula is one of the genre's best and sleaziest efforts.**SPOILERS**Nearly dying in Romania, sickly Count Dracula, (Udo Kier) ans his servant Anton, (Arno Juerging) decide to leave it behind and head off to the country. Arriving at an isolated Italian villa owned by Il Marchese Di Fiore, (Vittorio De Sica) and his wife La Marchesa Di Fiore, (Maxime McKendry) the two claim they are trying to find a virgin to marry as his custom dictates, and they provide their daughters Perla, (Silvia Dionisio) Saphiria, (Dominique Darel) Rubinia, (Stefania Casini) and Esmeralda, (Milena Vukotic) for his bride. Deciding to stay, he begins to woo each of them, only to discover that they've been lying about being virgins, making him even sicker. Discovering that the local handyman Mario Balato, (Joe Dallesandro) is the one responsible for that, he tries to take him out, only instead revealing that he is a vampire out fr virgin blood, and forces him to protect the family from his bloodthirsty manners.The Good News This here is one of the best vampire films around. The fact that this one is so sleazy for a vampire film is something to enjoy, and is one of the film's best features. This offers up plenty of nudity in here, both male and female, which is always nice. From sex scenes that get quite graphic to bathing sequences and also having the women dress on-screen, this one throws the female nudity around with great abandon. That it even has throwaway sequences, such as the beginning where they disrobe for no reason other than to feature extra nudity makes for some real fun to be had. This also extends to the male nudity as well, since, unless most movies, this one takes the time to show that both participants are nude during the sex scenes and reveling in it the way that very few are comfortable with showing, means that this one is an equal opportunity when it comes to showing it off, and that's never a bad thing. The sleaze also extends away from the nudity, as it's got a lot with the sexual antics to deal with as well. Aside from the graphicness of the straight sex scenes, the fact that there's an incestuous lesbian couple in here that are involved in a couple of sequences alone seals the film of most of it's sleaze right there, and coupled with the insane amount of nudity and the continuous frank conversations about virginity and sexuality in here, this here is a really graphic and sleazy kind of film. What also works here is the really fun story, for the back-story and the reason for the journey away from Romania is great and manages to feel rather creative and a logical reason for a vampire film. That's really great for a film to be like that and feature something that unique and creative from a simple vampire film. The other part to this that works is the last half of the film, which here works wonders. This features a pretty nice selection of sleaze, the great realization scene where all the others realize what's going on, it's also where most of the violence comes in as well. The violence works here because it's a dry film up until then, and then to be inundated with tons of graphic violence and bloodshed ensures some remarkable feelings from the film's ending. From a complete and utter dismemberment of all the limbs to a knifing and a couple impalings through the chest with a wooden stake, leaving a lot of blood flowing, there's a lot from these sequences. Also using some fun through here is the great chase through the house, out into the garden and continuing, which injects a lot of excitement into the film and the fact that the dismembering is done along the way is really great with some more fun to be had. All these reasons make this one enjoyable.The Bad News This one here only had one flaw to it, and it's a little damaging but non-detrimental to the film. That is the fact that it plays fast and loose with conventional vampire story-telling. The vampire walks around in broad daylight only shielding his eyes but no other damage is done. Being able to bite his victims on the neck and draining blood to turn into vampires should work for all victims, yet here only virgins are turned. The others do fall under his spell, but he can't use his hypnotic powers on them otherwise. These here are quite different from usual vampire fare, yet it keeps the distaste for garlic, no reflection in the mirror and a wooden stake through the chest to finish it off are still here. That it mixes them around is something some hardcore fans are gonna get upset about, but otherwise that is the film's only flaw.The Final Verdict Perhaps one of the sleaziest films in the genre, this one here is one of the best all-time and really doesn't have a whole lot wrong with it. Highly recommended to extreme European horror fanatics, sleaze aficionados or vampire fans in general, while the weak-hearted should ignore this one altogether.Rated R Full Nudity, several sex scenes, Graphic Violence, Language and a rape "},{"Title":"No classic, but certainly underrated","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm only writing to help move this cute film up into the realm of the ought to see. While there is due deference to some aspects of the Dracula myth (blood-lust, no mirror reflection, no garlic) there's lots of innovation and cinematic merit in it. Much better cinematography and location interest than I expected. The casting is better than the usual, I can't help thinking the wooden delays in delivering lines are an intended effect. There is even an intriguing social-political angle in playing Dallesandro as a working-class, almost Bolshevik, hero. Much more interest in the victim family members' individual charms and wickedness even than in the more recent Coppola version. No undue delays in the exposures of pretty breasts. The sound track is subtle and comes in at the right moments. "},{"Title":"Great and very original take on the classic vampire tale","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Blood for Dracula definitely takes the prize for the most odd take on the classic story that I've ever seen. Not that I'm saying that in a bad way, however; not at all, it's most definitely a good thing! Director Paul Morrissey has created a horror movie that is camp to the point that it pokes fun at the European style that it is a part of. Udo Kier stars as the title character, but he's not the Dracula that have horror fans have come to expect...not at all. It is with the character that this movie's main element of originality comes into play. We are used to seeing the count being all-powerful and drinking the blood of numerous victims, but here the king of vampires doesn't quite appear to be himself. The Dracula in this movie is a frail man, almost at the point of death. He needs the blood of virgins in order to maintain himself, but the girls in his native Romania are somewhat less than innocent. He therefore decides to travel to Italy, as it's a religious country and that is leading him to believe that the girls there will still have their innocence intact. The story picks up when Dracula is invited to stay at the home of a family with four daughters.Blood for Dracula is an extremely sleazy movie, and despite being primarily about vampirism; there's far more nudity than gore in the film. In fact, the film isn't even all that gory for the most part, and it's only the ending that goes all out for sick gore. The story is well done and inventive, particularly during the moments when Dracula drinks the girls' blood, only to find that she wasn't a virgin after all. Seeing the count writhe in pain after drinking the wrong blood isn't something you will see in many takes on the classic story; so this version gets plaudits for that. It also gets plaudits for an outstanding performance from the great cult actor Udo Kier. His screen presence fits the role that Morrissey has given him like a glove, and Kier impresses throughout the film. The obscure element of humour is nice and gives the film a real cult movie feel. Because the film is so absurd, it wont be enjoyed by all viewers. But if you like your horror to be different and inventive, you could do a hell of a lot worse than this flick! "},{"Title":"Udo Kier is Count Dracula.","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Andy Warhol's Dracula (1974) is a very funny parody of Count Dracula. This U.S./Italian co-production was co-directed by Paul Morrissey and co-starred Joe Dallasendro (The Warhol Connection). German actor Udo Kier (who's command of the English language was not that great at the time of the production) brought a sense of frailty and a complex individuality to the role.Dracula has moved from his castle and heads towards the most Catholic country around, Italy. He needs to find the blood of a virgin (non-virgin blood gives him a nasty side effect.). Dracula and his assistant find a place, an Italian Count's villa. Joe played the lazy villa hand who's filled with revolutionary ideas and is also having sex with the young daughters of the nobleman for whom he works for. He dislikes the Count and the way he puts on airs. Dracula sees the daughters and interviews them individually, he's looking for a pure virgin. Will he find one? What about Joe, the Italian farm hand with a Brooklyn accent, can he start his own revolution by making an example out of the Dracula and the noble family that he works for? To find out you'll have to watch Andy Warhol's Dracula!A highly recommended farce from the underrated film maker Paul Morrissey. He recreates the legend of Dracula and breathed life into a tired character. If you like horror films with comedic elements you'll enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Fangs for the were-gins.","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A strange film indeed, Blood for Dracula manages to avoid most of the typical horror elements of vampires films and instead develops as a social satire depicting the overthrow of Dracula's wealth and decadence by the underclass, here represented by a gardener with some strong political views.Udo Kier is a frail Count Dracula who must relocate to find fresh blood.  He can only gain sustenance from were-gins, which are apparently in short supply in Transylvania.  Dracula travels to Italy but finds that were-gins are almost a thing of the past there, too, mostly due to the efforts of the virile gardener played by Joe Dallesandro.Extremely silly premise makes for an amusing film, especially for fans of kitsch and sarcastic wit.  The sets are excellent, as are most of the performances, although Joe Dallesandro's performance must be seen to be believed. "},{"Title":"Although most Warhol films are god awful this one I enjoyed and own!","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A well done film and Warhol's best improvement at making a film than just showing people with skin and fornicating all the time as whenever I saw his flicks it drove me nuts as it was so damn twisted! Of course we have Joe Dallesandro who plays a character who works for a mansion and molests some of the women there but ends up being a hero in the end and his acting is starting to improve as he was so awful in his past work (Probably he was getting off of drugs at this time) and he moved on to acting in non-Warhol films afterwards and doing well for himself. Scream king Udo Kier is great as Dracula and got alot of fans from this film. A film worth checking out and done in Italy where the horror population really lies for films. "},{"Title":"A seriously psychotronic version of Dracula","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Blood for Dracula is the companion piece to the other Andy Warhol produced horror film, Flesh for Frankenstein (1973). It was made at the same time so shares a lot of the cast members, while it's twisting of its traditional source material is equally demented. Different people prefer one or the other and I personally prefer Flesh, finding its content so wonderfully over-the-top in so many outrageous ways that it entertains on several levels. Blood for Dracula, on the other hand, is a fairly restrained film by comparison. Although this is a relative statement because going by any other standard this is a quite delirious version of Dracula. Needless to say, it entirely ignores the original novel and furrows its own path, updating the character quite successfully for its 70's time-frame. In this sense, Dracula is what can best be described as a blood junkie. He spends considerable screen-time vomiting up unpure blood and generally is more akin to a drug addict than the gallivanting count of old. The story has him moving from Romania to Italy in search of fresh virgins. He is welcomed by a down-on-his-luck marquis who actively encourages him to marry one of his four daughters. Before long he is feeding off them but, unfortunately for him, a local handyman has been going around systematically de-purifying them!You've got to hand it to Paul Morrissey; he has directed another bona fide cult classic with this one. It's very interesting how the traditional myth has been twisted into the tale of a junkie vampire. Its Cinecittà origins also ensure that this is an exploitation film that has the added advantage of looking quite sumptuous. But much of the strengths here, like its sister film; can be found in the campy deadpan performances and insane dialogue. Udo Kier is on form again as Dracula in another commendably committed performance, his assistant is played by Arno Juerging in an eye-poppingly bizarre way and Joe Dallesandro under-acts spectacularly again as the somewhat questionable 'hero' Marxist handyman who at one point rapes a young teenage girl in order to make her unsuitable prey for the dastardly count! This latter scene is topped off with Dracula licking blood off the floor that was discharged on account of it being the girl's first sexual encounter. Yech! Look out too for a humorous cameo performance from Roman Polanski and a rare chance to see future Suspiria actress Stefania Cassini speak her dialogue in her real voice, usually she is dubbed but here her very heavy and quite beautifully exotic Italian accent is on full display (as well as pretty much every other part of her it has to be said).This is probably as much a sexploitation film as it is a horror movie. There are significant amounts of screen time dedicated to naked fumbling. This approach, along with the film's generally quite transgressive content does make for a pleasingly in-your-face viewing experience. But, while it may not have been as horror-oriented as you may have expected, this situation is addressed in quite spectacular style in what can only be described as a hilariously OTT gory finale that really has to be seen to be believed. "}{"Title":"Not an exceptional Dracula, more blood, please Draccy baby","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm not really a fan of Warhol. When seeing him portrayed by a few other actors, he's one out there cat. Like Flesh For Frankenstein, which I hold in better regard to this, these flicks are way better than a lot of his other stuff, I imagine, as seeing Heat and Trash, and being less than happy, let me tell you, the one which especially, which involved daddy feeding his infant milk, over silence. This is where Warhol's talents really lie, with these flicks, though really there's nothing exceptional about this one, that takes it's time before the real gore comes flowing, outweighed by sex scenes and nudity, a lot of lesbianism. The count Dracula (Udo Kier who I love in these roles) desperately needs blood, from that of a virgin, so he travels to this castle in France, masquerading as someone else, with his chauffeur as you will, the same guy who co starred with Kier in FFF. Striking out with two girls, non virgins, he goes after the last who hasn't been deflowered and she's only 14 (and the rest) where it becomes a race against time. Joe Dallesandro as the handyman, got really annoying, with his dialogue, all delivered in angry tones, had me thinking, what makes this frickin' guy tick. In one way, the real gore came all too late, this one, kind of boring and testing in bits, where they threw in the sex to hold us over. Don't expect another Flesh And Frankenstein here, in a Dracula that really doesn't impress, where we really don't see nothing new. Only if you like lesbianism and nudity, that's fine. "},{"Title":"Drop the axe and just get the scissors.","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Unevenly entertaining and often just plain boring, this visually beautiful Paul Morrissey Dracula drama rattles on for 103 minutes instead of 73 minutes, as there is little more than an hours worth of interest here. The film improves considerably each time Joe Dallasandro loses his clothes but his hilarious NooYawk accent jars with the seductive and plaintive voices of the gorgeous women in the film. Costumes and villas are magnificent, Udo Keir is gasping ridiculous, his butler simply high school camp, and music good and the production quite acceptable. But over all and before Joe grabs the axe, the film is one long serious tedious scenes of what Dracula wants to eat for dinner, and silly long scenes of the Countess moaning about suitors. Edited back to 73 minutes with all the sex and gore left in, would make this not so difficult to find the juicy bits. Sex scenes are eye popping. Some rough which is irritating, but mostly quite watchable. I think I saw it in 3D in 1975. The DVD I have now is just a transfer with no restoration of materials. It is quite grainy. "},{"Title":"Sex and Humor -- All That Makes Dracula Great","Date":"14 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Count Dracula (Udo Kier) has encountered a problem of the modern world -- it is dreadfully short on virgins, and his desire to drink pure blood is becoming more difficult. His assistant Anton (Arno Juerging) suggests they go to Italy, because the country's Roman Catholic faith will be sure to keep the populace clean. This assumption may not be worth much.One may wonder about the beginning -- how can Dracula see what he is doing while he grooms himself in front of the mirror? But if thoughts like this trouble you, you are taking this film too seriously. This film is neither serious nor horror.Joe Dallesandro plays the servant who has studied Marxism and the Russian revolution, and tries to interject his thoughts on class and such throughout the film. Professor Maurice Yacowar believes his words satirize the political pretensions of the European art cinema, which may be so. His beliefs translate to action in the latter part of the film. When he is is not talking, he is butt naked, making love to one sister while another watches and waits her turn. Sometimes the sisters love each other... and it is not as weird as it sounds for some reason.I am curious how this film connects to Dario Argento, if at all. The cinematographer is Luigi Kuveiller, who has worked with Argento. And both Udo Kier and Stefania Casini went on to make Suspiria together with Argento. Is this merely a coincidence, is the talent pool in Italy very small, or is there something more? Unfortunately, when I met Casini last month (March 2011) it did not occur to me to ask.I had picked up this film for the Roman Polanski cameo as a drinking peasant, as I am currently working through his filmography. Simply put, do not get this for Polanski -- a cameo is all you get. Luckily, it is enjoyable on its own. The humor is great, especially with the socially awkward assistant, the sex is as raw as you would expect fro ma Warhol-approved film, and seeing Kier so young and with his desirable accent is wonderful. Mike Mayo spreads the rumor that writer Paul Morrissey may not have been the actual director, with those duties being handled by Antonio Margheriti. I make no personal claim on that issue. The Criterion DVD has audio commentary with Morrissey and Kier... perhaps this clears it up? I would not say this is a great film by any means, but fans of Udo Kier or Stefania Casini need to see it. And it is a rare modern twist on the vampire myth that has some social commentary, though of what sort I am not sure... this is by no means a condemnation of immoral behavior, yet is it promoting such things? You will have to watch and judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"Very sick Count","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Another movie that i was banned to see along with flesh for Frankenstein back in 1974.This the first Dracula movie that i ever saw where the Count is in search of a pure virgin,daylight don't bother him,dosen't sleep in his coffin,drink blood from the floor,if i'am correct that was some kind of blood discharge after a virgin is being broken in..very sick.once again overacting on Udo and his co-helper,the eyes,just like flesh for Frankenstein.and of all Dracula movies,this is the first time i see Dracula get all chopped up and brutally helpless.Udo play Dracula fine but his crying talk was childish.this is one Dracula mixing it up and looking for Cinderella before the big bad wolf get her..i gave it 8 stars because it was different,sexy,sick and for adult only. "},{"Title":"A Sickly Dracula Thirsts For Virgin Blood","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Blood For Dracula (aka. Dracula Cerca Sangue Di Vergine... E Morì Di Sete!!!) of 1974 is, after Flesh For Frankenstein (1973) the second bizarre take on a classic Horror tale by the team Paul Morrisey (director), Udo Kier and Joe Dallessandro (stars) and famed artist Andy Warhol (co-producer and prominent name). While this film is, in my opinion, not quite as great as the insanely brilliant Flesh for Frankenstein it is yet another beautifully bizarre, atmospheric, amusing and highly unusual vision of a Horror classic.Blood for Dracula introduces the most pathetic version of fiction's most famous vampire. The great Udo Kier plays a sickly, sniveling Count Dracula, who thirsts only for the blood of virgins, as any other blood makes him fatally ill. Aided by his servant (Arno Juerging, who also played Frankenstein's demented assistant in Flesh for Frankenstein), Dracula goes to Italy, where people are supposed to be religious and unmarried women are supposed to be virgins. Claiming to be looking for a bride, the Count approaches the aristocratic Countess Di Fiore, who has four beautiful teenage daughters - unmarried daughters which are supposed to be virgins. However, virginity does not last long when the super-potent handyman (Joe Dallessandro) is around... As its predecessor Flesh For Frankenstein, Blood For Dracula has a delightfully absurd storyline, which is very well brought to screen. Udo Kier is once again great in the villainous role, the sickliest vampire ever seen in cinema, as is Arno Juerging as his exaggeratedly weird assistant. Joe Dallessandro once again plays the hero who has sex with every female that crosses his path. The daughters are very beautiful (except for one), the youngest being played by the ravishing Silvia Dionisio (who plays a 14-year-old although she clearly is in her 20s). As Flesh for Frankenstein, the film is beautifully shot and director Paul Morrisey delivers a great visual style and thick atmosphere. As its predecessor, the film is sleazy and quite gory (though not nearly as outrageously gory as Flesh for Frankenstein. The film's greatest quality is its outrageously funny and very dark sense of black humor. Overall, this is another great film by the Morrisey/Kier team, though Flesh for Frankenstein is even more essential in my opinion. My rating of Blood For Dracula 9/10 "},{"Title":"Lightning Doesn't Always Strike Twice","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After Paul Morrissey finished filming 'Flesh For Frankenstein',he went right to work on his next epic,another satire on the ultra gory horror films of Hammer & Amicus Studios (word has it that he even wrote the outline for Dracula during the filming of Frankenstein). The proof in the proverbial pudding was 'Blood For Dracula',or 'Andy Warhol's Dracula',although it was re-released with various title changes over the years (Young Dracula,etc.). The plot has Dracula,who is tired of not finding virgin blood in his native Transylvania, so he & his weird assistant,Anton,decides to move to Italy,in hopes of finding more virgins (with the influence of the Church,to up the ante). The problem is,once he does arrive in Italy, it seems most of the women are either nymphomaniacs or lesbians. This makes for a campy horror/comedy that actually eases back a bit on the gore factor (but not that much). This film was out of circulation for the longest time,but has found an audience in it's eventual DVD release (although it was available in the old VHS video format for some years,as well as 'Flesh For Frankenstein'). Originally slapped with an unfair 'X' rating by the MPAA (I guess some of the blue noses on the ratings board just saw the name Warhol,and assumed it was pseudo/quasi porn & acted predictably),it was eventually reduced to an 'R' for bloody,gory violence & some sexy goings on (with some brief nudity) "},{"Title":"A review Blood for Dracula (1974)","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Blood for Dracula (1974)Directed by Paul MorrisseyWith Udo Kier and Joe DallessandroWarhol's famous Dracula (Who else than Kier!) need blood from virgins and goes to an Arystocrat house in search of it, at the same time communist servant Dallesandro suspect of the thing for an ending of bloody consequences. Beautiful, dark, bloody and kind of funny vision of famous vampire, with a great Gothic atmosphere and a magnetic Kier vomiting blood. Look for Vittorio De Sica in a small role. Also known as Dracula cerca sangue di vergine ... e mori di sete!!!. Rated X in it's time, see it uncut. "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of 4","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" *This review applies to Andy Warhol's Dracula that runs 93 minutes. Udo Kier is without a doubt the sickliest of vampires in any director's interpretation of the Bram Stoker tale. Count Dracula knows that if he fails to drink a required amount of pure virgin's blood, it's time to move into a permanent coffin. His assistant (Renfield?) suggests that the Count and he pick up his coffin and take a road trip to Italy, where families are known to be particularly religious, and therefore should be an excellent place to search for a virgin bride. They do, only to encounter a family with not one, but FOUR virgins, ready for marriage. The Count discovers one-by-one that the girls are not as pure as they say they are, meanwhile a handsome servant/Communist begins to observe strange behavior from the girls who do spend the night with the Count. It's a race for Dracula to discover who's the real virgin, before he either dies from malnourishment or from the wooden stake of the Communist!Ultra campy take on Bram Stoker's Dracula. Sometimes funny, sometimes fun, but it really doesn't take off until the over the top finale.Rated R for Sexual Situations, Nudity and Graphic Violence. "},{"Title":"Worth a look","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I saw this film for the first time just the other day, but I did some research before I bought it.And I have to say, knowing something about this film before seeing it is definitely a good tip. To me, this is one of the best films I've ever seen, it is of course not an Oscar-nominee, but it really found it's way to my heart. Much thanks to Udo Kier, who really portraits the Count in a believable way, you start to care about this weak and pale creature desperately searching for the blood of a where-gin. And the facial expressions that his servant sometimes reveals is just too funny. Joe Dallesandro on the other hand doesn't do much, but he is a great and more vital contrast to the more reduced Count with his I'd do you-attitude.If you like old cult-classics, Udo Kier, or just some trashy class I really recommend this film. I have not yet seen Flesh for Frankenstein, so I can not yet compare these two films. But if you're a girl, or a boy for that matter, I'm sure Joe Dallesandro's butt will attract you to both. "},{"Title":"Sleazy, tongue-in-cheek horror from the Flesh for Frankenstein team","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Blood for Dracula is Paul Morrissey's follow-up to his equally outrageous horror-outing Flesh for Frankenstein. Again starring square-jawed Joe Dallesandro as the hero, Udo Kier as the title character and Arno Juerging as his loyal helper, the movie is more-of-the-same combination of laughs, horror and erotica.More over-the-top than its Hammer rivals, Morrissey's film remains eye-opening even now, more than thirty years after its release. His Dracula is a vampire who has seen better times. Starved of virgins' blood, he desperately searches for one to feed his hunger. Udo Kier's hunger pangs are shown as agonising stomach cramps and things go from bad-to-worse when his blood supply turns out to be tainted. Clearly, the ladies of the aristocratic Italian family are not as pure as first expected! An amusing film, Flesh for Frankenstein is so bad it's actually enjoyable. My only complaint is that it's a little on the long-side and could have comfortably lost a few minutes. The tone of this film and Flesh arguably set the scene for future horror-comedies such as Re-Animator and Basket Case. "}{"Title":"S10 Reviews Blood for Dracula (1974)","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Dracula (Kier) is dying or rather is ceasing to exist. The only way he will be able to save himself is through the blood of a virgin. Due to the unavailability of virgins in Romania the count is forced to go to Italy to search for a pure girl. He takes his servant Anton (Juerging) and packs his coffin and hits the road. Their search takes them to a tavern where Anton finds out that an aristocratic Italian family has four daughters of purity. When the count arrives at the ramshackle mansion we learn that the Di Fiore Family has faded from the aristocracy and into the lower class. Their last remaining servant Mario (Dallesandro) is hell bent on reversing his class by taking advantage of the daughters and bedding several of them. Dracula must soon sort out which of the daughters has been deflowered before the hired help ruins it all for hum.Told during the contemporary 1920's, Blood for Dracula is a relatively loose modernization of the great character. The film is a rather slow but very well shot socio-political tale that brings deeper meaning to the story. The class struggle subtly peppers a very well written script that is finished off with a much understated score.A good film with a descent amount of gore mostly toward the end, but won't appeal to fans just for that alone. However it does contain quite a bit of nudity, sex and some lesbianism to boot. All-in-all an above average entry into the vampire mythos but will probably appeal most to fans of the genre and not to the casual viewer. "},{"Title":"Udo Kier shines as a sensual and dramatic Count Dracula.","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Even though this movie is far from the best Dracula movie and it doesn't live long on in memory, it still is a perfectly watchable movie to watch.Main and perhaps only reason why this movie is perfectly good to watch, is the portrayal of Udo Kier as Count Dracula. He doesn't portray Dracula really as a scary character but more as a tragic and vulnerable villain. I like his approach of the classic character. Also both his accent and looks are just simply perfect for the role.The story however is a bit dragging and doesn't really seem to go anywhere. The characters also aren't really much good and I couldn't tell the 3 daughters apart because they looked too much like each other! Oh and Joe Dallessandro is an horrible actor, amazing thing that he managed to play parts in movies ever since. Funny thing is that Arno Juerging once again plays Udo Kier's servant, the same sort of role he played in Flesh for Frankenstein. The movie is not really scary or gory, except for ending, what a gruesome death for Dracula that was!Yes it's watchable but not a must see Dracula movie by any means, not even for the fans.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not as Good as Flesh for Frankenstein","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Though BFD is stronger visually than Morrissey's FFF, it can't quite achieve the camp heights of the latter.The cinematic twins were made back to back, and the fresh spark of the first (FFF) is missing here.The usually beefy Joe is looking more pale thin & sickly than Udo here, kinda like he's ready to head back to NY for his fix...The acting is not nearly as over the top & exaggerated as the first, and that ultimately hurts the film because the laugh factor is decreased substantially. Udo is not the same obsessive manical mess of the first film.The genius of FFF was the exterior of pure trash cinema filled with thematically rich undercurrents of class structure and corruption & manipulation of the poor by the upper crust. Kinda like an eclair.Similar themes are touched on in BFD, along with some parallels to the Russian Revolution, but ultimately, it just isn't as much fun. And the second installation is sadly missing some of the key players of FFF. Kinda like a stale cookie.Of the two, I definitely recommend FFF as an intelligent film in disguise of trash cinema. It improves with repeated viewings, and for me it is a strange classic.BFD is good to watch as an appendix & bookend to the Morrissey/Warhol collaborations, but for the most part, everyone looks like they're ready to go home. "},{"Title":"Be warned","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie years and years ago in the cinema, and I quite liked it, I saw it later on Dutch TV and also liked it. However, having such good memories I bought it on DVD in Germany. This was a mistake. Not only this includes only the German soundtrack, but this is done well, and not all that bad, worse is,Spoilers Spoilers Spoilers Spoilers Spoilers Spoilers they cut out the really great scene's at the end. When dracula is chased by the farm hand and his arms are chopped of, basicly hacked to bits, spluf splatter and splif, no way to be seen. You will only see very little of the great gory scenes in the original movie. Very Very sad indeed.  "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of 4.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This review is for the R-rated cut called Andy Warhol's Dracula that runs 93 minutes.Ultra campy take on Bram Stoker's Dracula finds the Count (Udo Kier) in search of virgin blood. He and his assistant head off to Italy because families there are known to be extremely religious. They find shelter in the home of a couple who claim to have four virgin daughters ready for marriage. However, a pesky servant (Joe Dallesandro) is helping all of the girls to lose their virginity. It is now a race to see if the Count can drink the blood of one the girls before the servant takes all of the girl's virginity. Sometimes funny, sometimes fun, but it really doesn't take off untill the over the top finale.Rated R; Sexual Situations, Nudity, and Graphic Violence. "},{"Title":"so different!!!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Count Dracula leaves for Italy in order to find the pure blood he needs for surviving, because, as Arno Juerging role put `you and your sister are too well known in rumania'. When they reach the country, met Di Fiori family and arrange a redenzvous between the daughters and Count Dracula. Although educated acording to the `Holy Church' two of them are not virgins cause the gardener(Dallessandro) impedes it. Unable to find what he wants, Dracula decides leaving the country and returning to Rumania. But it is too late he is killed by Dallessandro and his servant shot to death by the mother of the girls. This is the plot. Directing is sometimes poor, but performings, specially by Arno Juerging(Where is he know? If somebody can help me, please get in touch with me) are good. Kier plays fine a sad Dracula with not-so-bad heart, and Vittorio de Sica is the father, a non-stop gambler who always loses including the furniture of  his house. But there is a political content in this movie as you will see, the father(Sica) is portrayed as a out of fashion guy who likes poetry unable to understand what is happening there; the house is full of dust and empty rooms; and, at the end, the servant(pay attention when Juerging says to him `Excuse me i misunderstood I  thought that servant and worker are the same' what a line!!) takes control of the house and the family by killing Dracula. You could see all this as a metaphor of the Russian Revolution, maybe...   Three stars  and a half  out of four.    "},{"Title":"Probably the most bizarre, but not the best Dracula-adaptation..!","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Paul Morrissey´s second adaptation of the classic horror-stuff (he did very well with his Frankenstein-version) is more a soft porn/drama than a horror movie. There is much talk and lots of naked women, but it lacks in gore and suspense, what makes Blood for Dracula being quite uninteresting for real horror fans, more for those of the deceased artist Andy Warhol. Udo Kier is excellent as ever, Joe Dallesandro and Arno Juerging are repeating their roles from the first movie. Worth a look, but Flesh for Frankenstein is way better!!!  "},{"Title":"An entertaining camp classic","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Warhol's retelling of the vampire legend instead becomes an excuse for him to relish in his usual excesses; gory violence and blood with lots of sex.  And what a combination it turns into in this hilariously innept semi-classic.  Udo Kier portrays Dracula searching for virgins (wheregins) to quench his bloodlust.  However, all the women he finds seem to be, well, somewhat less than pure, resulting in him vomiting their blood all over the place when he tries to drink it.   This one is quite bloody and violent...and quite perverted and sick (Dracula licking the blood off the floor...) on top of that.  This makes it quite fun and entertaining to watch.  Made with almost the same cast as the similar FLESH FOR FRANKENSTEIN, produced around the same time.  Both of these flicks are must sees for fans of campy hilarity.  Recommended for cult fans. "},{"Title":"Comedy/Gore/Udo  - What else could you want!?","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What a great movie! I saw this a few days ago, and I automatically fell in love with it! It's a really different twist on the Dracula story, but it totally works! Udo brings comedy into this role. Which is great.The plot is - Count Dracula needs the blood of a virgin to live (lol). So his assistant takes him to Italy because he thinks girls there are very religious, and keep themselves pure. Well he meets this family with four sisters, which turn out to be total sluts. LoL And things just go downhill from there...He gets sicker...And you will have to rent the movie to know the rest! =) Once again, the music is creepy...And in his portrayl, Kier actually puts human feelings and traits into the Dracula character. Not just a vampire who sucks blood. It kind of makes you feel sorry for him! But this really is a good, funny movie. The only problem I had with it, was it's tasteless overuse of sex. I see why it was rated X! PMy rating - ~*~7/10~*~ "},{"Title":"Ha ha ha! Great for a Saturday night!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Plastic acting, plastic body parts, what more could a movie buff want from a post-pub video?This film was quite funny throughout, but the ending was hilarious. And this is supposed to be scary? This movie's Sister, Andy Warhol's Frankenstein was on the video nasties list following the introduction of the Video Recordings Act in the UK. Blood For Dracula is supposedly worse, but never made the list. Like many films on said list, that one should have been left alone by the do-gooders in order to give the genuine movie buff a good laugh. Thankfully this one is still available and so serves that purpose. Yeah, like I'm really gonna go out and commit unspeakable acts after watching this! And that was why Frankenstein was banned along with the other 73! Loony Left crowd Leave us alone! We're intelligent enough to make our own minds up. If you think the likes of this will destroy our minds, you are seriously misdirected. This isn't horror, this is comedy.My apologies for the apparent over-use of quote marks, but I use the quoted terms in their broadest possible sense.Genuine film fans Go out, get drunk, arrive home and fancy a laugh Watch this film, it's good! "}{"Title":"See Frankenstein instead","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I had just seen Interview with the Vampire and it immediately became my favorite film.I then had a craving for more vampire films.I had seen Flesh for Frankenstein and loved Udo Kier's hilariously over the top performance(I love his accent!)and the overall bloody over the topness of the film.I was therefore expecting his performance as Dracula to be even better,but he does nothing more than lay around complaining about how sick he is.Also,the Italian setting and characters did not go well with the character of Dracula,almost making this feel like a fish out of water story.Morrisey did very well camping up the Frankenstein legend but he just seems to lose direction with this one. "},{"Title":"Blood for Dracula","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Odd, almost insanely funny film about the great Count, played here by Kier who's about as menacing a Dracula as Fozzie the Bear. Not much blood and not much to look at. If you need a  demonic twist and a simple laugh added to your  evening, I highly suggest this.   "},{"Title":"Horror and Comedy/Satire about a world legend","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Andy Warhol's Dracula, aka Blood for Dracula is a superb satire on both the mythology of Nosferatu, and the decline of legends, both social and religious.The Count Dracula requires the blood of virgins... and his assistant takes him on a journey to Italy to look for a bride, under the presumption that Italia is ripe with virgin Catholic girls. But the times are a changin', and not only are virgins a rarity, but the social order of things are equally askew!Enter Joes Dallesandro, (Mario) the farm-hand, caretaker, and stud de celeb! Advocate of social reform, bitter over the social class system, he is sure to bring change! Only he sees through the Count's evil plan to seduce the daughters of the Fiori estate into becoming the brides of Dracula, but his means of remedy are hilarious!Recently re-issued in Wide-screen format, this title is a blast from the past! Fans of this satirical type of humor should also view Flesh for Frankenstein, though one should note that this companion film is quite a bit more gory, and not for the easily upset. "},{"Title":"So very bad that it's good!","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a very difficult film to review. If you look at it from the usual perspective of acting skill, dialogue, plot etc., Blood for Dracula is probably one of the worst films you will ever watch. But you have to have a soft spot for such films, especially the sort you saw originally 25 years ago.Andy Warhol as mentioned in other reviews had very little to do with the film, he was quoted when asked of his involvement that he went to the parties. There is some debate who the director/directors where, but that doesn't really matter.As already mentioned the plot is actually OK, Dracula travels from Transylvania to Italy looking for virgin blood, as the stock in his own area has run out. He finds an Italian family with four daughters who he sets his sights on, gradually discovering that they have not been as virtuous as they have led on.Firstly there is some good comedy, Draculas' coffin on top of his car is a great image. Unfortunately from that point on I doubt the laughs are intentional. Draculas' aide is probably the worst actor in film history, he seems like he has walked in from another movie. Udo Kier is actually not too bad, he looks ill enough for the role and has piercing eyes. There are some hilariously stupid parts, such as the 100 year old waitress in the hotel, the really stupid game that Polanski plays with Dracula's aide, the accents are all over the place and so varied it is like a UN meeting.There are no special effects, apart from the ending with an hilarious dismemberment scene and dual staking. There is also a Marxist undertone from the gardener and general hero Mario, who is so heroic he has sex with the youngest daughter very quickly so that Dracula will not be interested in her! The sporadic nudity keeps the viewer interested throughout, as there are very long pieces of dialogue that go nowhere at all.That's it really, not a very good film, but there are laughs to be had and it gives us all hope to become actors one day. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Bizarre Versions of the Classic Tale","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film opens with the title Andy Warhol Presents, although it's not actually clear what he did on it (when he was once asked the question Warhol replied I go to the parties). It was written, produced and directed by Warhol crony Paul Morrissey (although some claim Antonio Margheriti was responsible) and starred Joe Dallesandro (another member of Warhol's gang, who is probably most famous for being referenced as little Joe in the Velvet Underground song Walk on the Wild Side).The story opens with Count Dracula (Udo Kier) feeling very ill, because he is running out of virgins (or wer-gins) whose blood he needs to survive. On the suggestion of his creepy butler Anton (Arno Juerging), he travels to Italy to find what he needs. They discover a once wealthy family with four unmarried daughters. However, the family's Marxist handyman (Dallesandro), is intent on rendering as many women as he can ineligible for the Count - whether they want to or not.The film should be taken as seriously as it sounds. It is a mixture of dark, but camp, humour, and plenty of nudity and blood. The production values are pretty high and Kier gets into the spirit with a hilariously demented portrayal of the Count. Dallesandro's acting is awful, but he seems to enjoy himself, as the repellent so-called hero. This is certainly better than it's companion film, Flesh for Frankenstein (and is certainly less gruesome than the Frankenstein one). It is often quite funny but totally fails as a horror, because it just isn't scary at all.There are small roles for acclaimed Italian director Vittorio DeSica and Roman Polanski. "},{"Title":"Not that scary","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I thought this movie would at least have a small aspect of horror. I thought that it would be disgusting, but all of the bloody scenes seemed fake.  All of the acting was done well, but the actors didn't get me very convinced. (Spoilers ahead)The sex scenes seemed to be quite pointless and long. When I saw Dallesandro in the movie, I figured out what he'd be doing(*wink wink*). When Dracula kept barfing out the blood, I thought that it was a little weird. I was just thinking, when will it end. The only scene I was disgusted by was when he licked the blood off the floor. When I read reviews about him licking blood off the floor, I didn't really know what people meant, but now I seem to get it.    If I were to categorize this film, I would put it in the camp films.. If you want to see a campy film with little horror and little nudity, then go see this film. I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Best Dracula Film","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Along with the original Nosferatu, I rate this as the best Dracula film. Though I am a fan of the genre as a whole and enjoy many films of this type, I feel the above two contain the best representations of the undead bloodsuckers ever committed to celluloid. True, this film will not be to all tastes. In many ways it is inferior to its companion piece 'Flesh For Frankenstein', being somewhat sluggishly paced in comparison, but its good points outweigh the bad. Udo Kier and Arno Juerging are hilarious. The film is itself an attack on the conventions of the vampire film. No wonder Hammer films went bust around this time. In 1956 people ran in fear from the sight of Christopher Lee's bloody fangs. By 1972 they were still churning out the same kind of stuff, but without any style and resorting to gimmicks like producing kung-fu/horror hybrids, bringing Dracula to the present day etc. All good fun in its own way, but 'Blood For Dracula' is Dracula for the seventies; how scary is someone you can ward off by simply making a cross with your fingers anyway? Not scary at all, really, and the film treats the count as a pathetic, weakened Blood-Junkie, who finds his preferred virgin krovvy in short supply. The sexual nature of the film also brings this aspect of the Dracula myth out into the open, none of that tedious repressed sexuality that was still held over from the '30's and was utterly dated by the '70's.There is also gore aplenty on display; especially in the climax, but mostly just blood, no chunks of eviscera like in Warhol's Frankenstein. If you have a sense of humour and are not averse to sex and violence (and if you are, what are you doing watching a film called Blood For Dracula), I recommend this film. I'd imagine any horror fans over the age of 13 would enjoy this film.           "},{"Title":"The Blood Of  These Whores Is....KILLING ME!!!!!!!!","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There are few movies in the Cinemaverse, which can top the detritus of Andy Warhol, and I mean that, in the reverse. His films were the worst kind of popular tripe, the dialog so bad that it equates unintentional camp, the sets so cheesy that most of his works were filmed in someone's garage.And then there's Andy Warhol's Dracula. This one tops the rest as far as how BAD a movie can be. Some have called it original, creative, even a loose adaptation of Bram Stoker's masterpiece. I'm here to tell you that these descriptions are NOT the case.This work is pure garbage! There is NOTHING, not ONE redeeming quality about this movie. Don't waste your time. You'd have more enjoyment from a root canal.It rates a 2.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"one of the best vampire movies","Date":"4 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" this movie is quite different, I think, from flesh for frankenstein which is much campier and sort of tongue in cheek. even though the films are on the surface so similar. this has always been my feeling anyway. I don't know what the intention was but this movie is much more poignant and scary and overall has much more emotional impact.it's not without campy humor but on a horror movie level it still ranks very very high up with Let the Right One In and the original Draculas well above the vast majority of vampire films, of which, when you get right down to it, there are very few that are not profoundly disappointing. For one thing, Udo Kier's performance is spectacular, really breathtaking. Gary Oldman's Dracula may be virtuosic, but it's not that gripping there's not so much feeling coming from him. You really see what a great actor UK is in this film and what a stage actor he could be if he wanted to be. It's amazing how he moves, how physical his performance is. You can see in this film that he could do really well with Shakespeare. One of the problems with all vampire movies even the original is that they are almost all period pieces in essence even when set in the present day, because they are alway so self censored and Hays Code ready. This movie, set in the late teens/roaring 20s, is much more involving for its grappling with certain issues that movies did not whatsoever up till the 60s and 70s - as the petit bourgeois finally caught up with what the lower and upper classes were up to in the silent film era. Most vampire movies deny not only the virginal thing but really even sex itself. An even more fundamental drawback, making vampire movies by and large so unsatisfying, is well illustrated by something I remember hearing Clive Barker say at some talk I heard him give Who wouldn't want to be a vampire? You can live forever f*** whoever you want just by looking at them from across the room! etc etc. That's the problem with most vampire movies - they don't give you any sense of what the drawbacks are of vampirism so there's nothing not to like about it. Ya get to fly like a bat and turn into mist and well you have to get shaved by a barber I suppose is the only drawback. This Warhol Morrissey version and Let the Right One In are the first two to convey that there is conflict in the whole vampire lifestyle and so they are by leaps and bounds more powerful than any others that I can think of offhand. "},{"Title":"And now for something completely different ...","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Funny, gory, campy, sad and beautiful - all in the appropriate doses. People go see Blood for Dracula expecting a more serious work, and, as it turns out right from the amazing opening scene, it is not. It is a (very) dark parody of Stoker's tale, with an unusual sense of humor. That being said, it is not without it's own intellectual overtones. The story itself is basically a metaphor for socialism in 1920's Europe, as basically what Joe Dalessandro's character's motivations are that of destroying the dying capitalist society, represented by a shockingly weak and pitiable Dracula. This film has probably the most fresh and unique take on the classical vampire character, which makes it throughly more interesting. The role is played by German legend Udo Kier who plays it to perfection, delivering as many hysterical and memorable lines as he did in Flesh for Frankenstein. Morissey's stylish direction and Claudio Gizzi's melancholic score give the film a sense of class and something of a twisted beauty, amidst it's strong sleaze element. Some have complained the story doesn't make any sense, and non-English speaking actors rather humorous attempt at the language. For me, these elements only enhance the film's intentional weirdness, and make it even more enjoyable. 10/10 "}{"Title":"great! WARNING SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  wow this is gonna be a hard review to type it was great LOTS and LOTS of blood for gore fans (like myself) we have Campy acting Udo Keir is awesome as Dracula and gives a strong performance Joe Dallesandro is decent as the heroine he must bite virgins or he pukes this had some good atmosphere great set pieces a GREAT score although the dialog is laughable and this is pretty slow paced until the exciting finale still this is an engaging almost engrossing Vampire Flick it's weird don't get me wrong and it some parts it is sloppily made but most of the time this is a well made romp with an engaging script a couple of cool characters lush scenery (at least in my opinion) and over the top performances the girls acting is laughable especially the one that does not stop screaming for about 5 minutes as for the gore we get cut off arms cut off legs cut off limbs and a staking through the heart a kinda sad flick must be seen to believe overall a witty and and good vampire flick that i recommend ***1/2 out of 5 and quite a bit better then flesh for Frankenstein "},{"Title":"The greatest independent Dracula film made!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film is a work of genius! It shows the aging Dracula in the early twentieth century (1920s or so) faced with the main problem of monsters that was beginning to manifest itself even then; the lack of female virgins. This shortage is not due to a lack of women, but rather to the sexual liberation that was already beginning at that time and which would reach it's zenith in our own day and age. The Count needs female virgin blood, but has essentially despaired of ever finding any. In desperation his valet suggests a road trip from Romania into other parts of Europe (though not specified in the movie they seem to have gone to Italy) to perhaps find a virgin for the terminally ill vampire. Certainly in a small conservative town one could find an adult female virgin.... Such is the Count's search and it leads him to a worn down castle with a family consisting of four daughters (three of whom are young adults) and a hired hand-the only laborer they can afford. He, of course, is having a very explicit affair with two of the adult daughters (there is only one available male for these passionate women so they agree to share him).Though the sex scenes are explicit enough the sex is innocent passion; not pornographic. The women are drop dead beautiful actresses who obviously take pride in the beauty of their nude bodies. But, there is more to it than simply sex. The farm hand is a social revolutionary of the time; knowing how to do the chores while citing Karl Marx. Social change is in the air. Also, he suspects the new guest, the Count. He suspects him of something but is not certain of what or who the Count really is. It is a story of social change; of people coming to terms with the next world order as it appeared after WWI. The days of monarchs and large estate owners are numbered even then. Will the hired hand help overthrow the existing social structure and is the vampire part of that now obsolete social structure? Will the vampire meet the same fate as the former Kings of Europe who were overthrown during and after World War I? See the movie to find out! it is a thinking persons Dracula!!! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable, great settings.","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this on Criterion's widescreen laserdisc so I have no idea how this plays on VHS full screen but it looked beautiful,  and the settings (especially the interiors) were great. The premise itself is pretty amusing, watching the exasperated Dracula trying to find a wergin whose blood he can suck. Dallesandro is pitiful, but some of the performances are quite professional.   "},{"Title":"A pathetic Dracula","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This version of the legendary Bram Stocker character by Paul Morrisey is one of the worst, if you see it as an horror movie. Nothing is creepy, really. Udo Kier is the less menacing Dracula ever, a pale and sick figure in a wheel chair looking for virgins' blood with the help of his assistant. But this Count can travel and live by daylight, so his vampire condition is really odd. But if you're not looking for a Dracula in the Lugosi-Lee vein, this Andy Warhol production is funny and entertaining. Check for Roman Polanski in a brief cameo, or listen to the terrible Vittorio De Sica's accent. Compared to him, Lugosi sounds like a BBC narrator. Sex and nudity are plenty, and the vampire killing is closer to Monty Python than Hammer or Universal (no Van Helsing here). A curious and odd Dracula movie all the way, but a must see for fans of 70's extravaganza. "},{"Title":"Very good, darkly comic horror.","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In this darkly humorous vampire offering directed by Paul Morrissey and Antonio Margheriti and produced by Andy Warhol, Count Dracula (Udo Kier), desperately requiring the life-force sustaining sustenance of virgin's blood travels to Italy on the advice of his servant, Anton (Arno Juerging), in order to take advantage of strong religious beliefs and pray upon innocent young women.Bearing stylistic similarities with the cycle of Hammer vampire films of the time, Blood for Dracula differentiates itself from the former with sharp mood changes, graphic violence and a slight but notable change in traditional vampire lore. The result of this is a suitably distinct new direction for the perhaps now-tired Dracula formula, and consequently a more fulfilling experience than one might at first expect. Perhaps the most surprising accomplishment of Blood for Dracula is in the perspicacious use of dialogue, negating the requirement for tedious, protracted sequences to explain and develop and therefore allowing the film to progress at a steady pace. The explorative dialogue coupled with an adept technical ability succeed in producing a vastly altered image of the monstrous Count Dracula and contrary to conventional dogma, this incarnation of the inhuman abomination is actually a weak, feeble and pathetic specimen devoid of the awesome presence viewers are accustomed to; instead laughable in inferiority. It is in this singular likeness that horror looms, for this apparently vulnerable figure is still not without the ability to commit heinous acts of pure, malevolent evil and impatiently waits to strike.Aesthetically the film is stunning, mixing gloomy, foreboding Gothic visuals with lighter, playful sequences and even in the darkness, there is still an unequivocal beauty to be found in the presentation. It is perhaps the most daring feat of this unconventional film that the truly horrifying actions undertaken by the demonic being are not confined to the dark. As haunting as the gloomy, brooding and atmospheric darkness may be, it is in the traditionally safe light, amidst the majestic splendour that the awesome and malicious power of Dracula can be felt the most. However, the horror can be unleashed at any time as the directors are happy to build the tension, misleading the audience and only when the end credits roll can one be assured that it is over. In essence, one has to look to Udo Kier as the foremost reason for this, as his performance blends extravagance with subtlety; occasionally subdued, occasionally forthcoming. He is complimented perfectly by the devilish Arno Juerging who is always forcibly commanding as the Count's malicious assistant. Sadly, a mixture of tragic overacting and horrible non-acting from the other cast members (particularly the highly annoying Joe Dallessandro) harm the atmosphere and production and seem to have prejudiced more than a few against an otherwise fine work.To call Blood for Dracula a classic would be a misnomer, but to call it an accomplishment would easily be justifiable. In spite of some poor performances, comical pro-socialist ramblings and one or two poor effects, Blood for Dracula remains one of the foremost examples of how to create an intriguing and entertaining vampire film outside the confines of the traditional story. Those who want to see something a little different should certainly watch this one. Look out for a brief appearance from Roman Polanski! 7½/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointingly dull companion piece for Flesh for Frankenstein.","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Count Dracula (Udo Kier) is dying. He needs fresh human blood, the blood of a 'pure wirgin' as Dracula pronounces it. Dracula is to well known in Romania to be able to locate a virgin, so together with his servant Anton (Arno Juerging) he sets out to Italy to find one, because of the Italians strict religious upbringing they believe the chances of finding a virgin will be high. Upon arrival they question some locals and learn of a married couple who live nearby, the Marquis (Vittorio Di Sicca) and Marquise Di Fiore (Maxime McKendry) who have four unmarried daughters, Esmeralda (Milena Vukotic), Saphiria (Dominique Darel), Rubinia (Stefania Casini), and Perla (Silvia Dionisio). The Marquis has gambled the Di Fiore's family money away and by marrying one of their daughters off to a sick looking Dracula they think they will inherit his money when he dies. Dracula and Anton are invited to stay at their large, but run down house. Once there Dracula has the opportunity suck all the blood he needs, but thanks to Mario Balato (Joe Dallesandro) the Di Fiore's servant, some of the girls aren't as pure as Dracula needs. Before long Mario becomes suspicious of the Count, but will he find out the truth too late?Written and directed by Paul Morrissey I was very disappointed by this extremely talky, overlong and rather dull excuse for a horror film. In fact it's more of a historical drama/sex film rather than horror. There's a lot of naked flesh and sex on show, the girls even go topless when gardening. There are only three gore scenes in the whole film, two scenes where Kier violently throws up impure blood and when Dracula is gorily killed at the end with an axe. After the funny black humour and over the top gore of Flesh for Frankenstein, which was made at the same time with some of the same cast and crew, I was expecting more of the same. Unfortunately I didn't get it. The film looks quite nice having being filmed in real historic locations in Europe and Kier is watchable as Count Dracula, as he always is. But the film just takes too long for anything interesting to happen and it becomes very boring to watch. There are very few characters in the film, once Dracula arrives at the Di Fiore's house the Di Fiore's themselves, their daughters, Mario, Dracula and Anton are the only characters seen on screen for the whole of the rest of the film. Apart from some nice scenery there is very little to recommend here for horror fans, disappointing. "},{"Title":"Not very bloody, sexy, or entertaining...sound like a cult classic?","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    This movie was a big disappointment.  I had read all these great things about this movie, so I didn't going in wanting to dislike it.  In the opening scene with Udo painting his grey hair black I thought that I was in for some good camp fun, but then nothing happened...They go to Italy, and kind of hang out for a while.  There is some very un-sexy sex scenes which go on for way too long.  There is very little actual killing (which comes at the end) and Dracula is really a wimp.  The pacing is slow and the dialogue isn't very funny, especially when Udo is off the screen.  When stuff starts happening in the last 15 minutes it's too little too late to salvage this yawner.  Morrisey really missed some good opportunities to go over the top, he had Udo as Dracula and a commie rapist (which sounds cooler then it is) to square off against him.  Instead the movie is NOT camped out and is in fact boring through large stretches.  If there is anything this movie should NOT be is boring, but it is.Zoopansick "},{"Title":"the blood of these whores is killing me","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In this companion piece to Flesh for Frankenstein, Udo Kier is Count Dracula. Desperately in need of virgin blood, he moves to Italy thinking virgins abound there. They find a family with 4 'virgin' daughters and it's up to the horrible actor Joe Dallesandro once again a servant to save the day. Almost everything I said in my review of Flesh for Frankenstein applies to this one as well. So i'll just jot down a cliff-notes version. Udo is the best part, Joe is the worst part, so bad it's good up to a part, yadda yadda yadda... These films seemed a lot better when I was a kid. Oh well, not everything is worth revisiting I guess.My Grade C Image DVD Extras Commentary by writer/director Paul Morrissey & actor Udo Kier (the same one as the Criterion track); Screen tests with commentary; and Production stills with commentary "}]