[{"Title":"Boy, did this get great press in 1974","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"36 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Critics at the time were impressed by this new director, Steven Spielberg, who had previously directed Dennis Weaver in that spooky TV movie Duel, but they were really impressed with Goldie Hawn, still mainly known as the blonde nitwit from Laugh-In. She had been quite respectable in Butterflies Are Free in 1972, but she turned in a beautifully nuanced performance in this one.I would certainly argue with any notion that this film is underrated. It's always been well regarded, even back in the days when Spielberg was known as the clever kid who made Jaws. That doesn't mean it has ever been easy to see.Now, with the passage of time, Sugarland Express looks even better than it did in the 1970's. One still has no trouble at all getting caught up in the quixotic mission of these characters.  "},{"Title":"Spielberg's Forgotten First Film","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" After the success of Duel (which was really a TV movie) Sugarland Express (Spielberg's first feature film) flopped at the box office, though it received a reasonably warm critical response. In fact this is a great little movie for all kinds of reasons.If you're interested in Spielberg as a director this is fascinating as it begins to lay out most of the themes that have driven his work ever since - family (especially divided and dysfunctional families), childhood, parenthood, outsiders, America and Americana etc. It's also a really interesting piece in terms of his developing style. This is the first Hollywood film in which panaflex cameras were used allowing Spielberg to produce fantastically elaborate and fluid shots even in the confines of a car (see the superb 360 pan fixed on Ben Johnson's car when he first talks to the Poplins)- a kind of cinematography that has become a hall mark of Spielberg's, as have the rising crane shots and extended tracking shots that pepper the film. Spielberg skies and God Light (his term for shafts of light in mist/at night) also feature heavily.It's also a really interesting if somewhat unrecognised influence on films like Thelma and Louise which seems to lift its basic structure and characters right out of this film. The way Ben Johnson's Captain Tanner equates to Harvey Keitel's police officer in Ridley Scott's film seems particularly close.Fantastic performances all round too. Johnson, Horne and Atherton (a much under-used actor who has been largely wasted since, playing roles like the self serving journalist in the Die Hard films)particularly shine.It's also very funny, sad and engaging from beginning to end. Can't recommend this one enough - especially if you're a Spielberg fan. "},{"Title":"Spielberg's sleeper- a tragic-comedy that delivers what it proposes","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Before Jaws propelled Steven Spielberg to the moon, he was a television director, often on episodes of Columbo and Night Gallery. Then came Duel, his taut, experimental feat of man vs. man in machines thriller that made him notable, if not bankable, in the Hollywood eye. His first theatrical release, The Sugarland Express, is to me still one of his ten best (maybe not top five, but up there). Along with his screenwriters (whom would all go to win at Cannes), Spielberg brings a true story with a sense of the tragic realism, but also the sense of adventure and fun that goes into Spielberg's most entertaining films. There's usually a sense of excitement, but one can sense this is not the kind of story that will end up as the main characters think.Goldie Hawn (as pretty as she is dramatic and chippy) and William Atheron (later impressionable in Ghostbusters, very much so here), are a husband and wife- the husband is in jail at the start of the film, and Hawn breaks him out with little trouble. They have a custody battle, literally, going on with their son, who is away at a home. They have to go through Texas- aka the 'Sugarland Express'- but it won't be easy. Soon there's a pursuit across the state, as the couple becomes rather famous in their simple pursuit of getting the one they love. Hawn and Atherton play off each other well, and Spielberg even at his young age as a director here gets very good performances out of them, especially out of Atherton who has a kind of urgent, tense, but focused way about him throughout. Hawn here isn't totally in the kind of mode like in her vehicle comedies- she's playing the worried mother, as determined as her husband, but her performance still contains a kind of naiveté that's crucial to the character.And in full widescreen glory Spielberg flexes his technical chops to a full capacity. He doesn't make the film as a thriller like with Duel, but it still drives suspense on in its road movie way. There are a couple of shots that are done for the first time (see trivia) to great effect, and there is a scene in a small town I still remember very well due to the amount of people that are in it, and how Spielberg directs this wonderfully. In some ways this is like one of those Lifetime movies crossed with Smokey and the Bandit only played more for realism; there's something very interesting that we don't get to see much with the son, he's always in a world of his own inside the house, as the situation builds on the outside.This all builds up to an ending that some have said doesn't work, or (like with some of Spielberg's other films, War of the Worlds for example) is too abrupt. I found that it worked just as well as with the opening scenes. It's realistic, at least for the period, and its important to remember this is based on a true story, and in these establishing and closing scenes the audience gets the real meat of the story (Catch Me if You Can did this too, though in a different way), and then in the middle some of the more dramatized parts come in. It wasn't a smash success on its first release, but it made enough of an impression with its win at Cannes and its writers guild nomination (ironically it was nominated for Best Comedy) to get Spielberg his next gig, which ended up being the real test of his career. As a nifty tale of overly concerned parents on-the-run, its really very impressive. "},{"Title":"Spielberg's first film is wonderful, a classic.","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"31 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Haven't heard about Sugarland Express till recently and I had to see it because it was vintage Spielberg, and I'm a fan.  And I wanted to see the young Goldie Hawn.  I was not disappointed.  It was one of these road-chase movies, bigger than life, but it was unique, especially because it was based on a true story.  That fact made me incredulous throughout the film, but everything in Texas is supposed to be bigger than life.Goldie desperately wants to get her baby back.  She was in jail for some minor crimes and was found to be an unfit mother and her baby was put in a foster home and the foster parents were going to adopt him.  Despite being a young girl, or maybe because of it, she was desperate to have her baby back.  It was a love-child and the mother-love was passionate and obsessive.  Hawn played the part to the hilt and used her sexuality and femininity to overcome the objections of her husband who was in a pre-release facility with low security.She had a plan to help him escape, but he didn't want to risk it, take a chance of being caught and being incarcerated again.  He only had four more months to serve.  The other inmates were incredulous as they disguised themselves and got an old couple to give them a ride.From this quiet beginning the film proceeded to repeated crescendos of drama and excitement.  Try to imagine the young couple, young officer in tow, leading a chase of police cars, first a few, then a few dozen, then many dozen and ultimately hundreds, law-enforcement officers from all over the state and then snipers and a helicopter.Lucky for the young couple an old-hand cop realized they were just a couple of kids and he staved off snipers with telescopic long-range rifles and a couple of vigilante gun-nuts.You know something bad is going to happen at the end, because these kids didn't know what they were doing; they were madly in love and in a fantasy-land of getting their little boy back and living happily ever after in Mexico.  Something bad happened, but something good happened.  It will be worth your while to see this little classic from one of the greatest directors of the 20th century. "},{"Title":"Fun movie!","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Man, I forgot how much fun this movie actually was. In my mind it was a heavy drama but on my recent viewing (finally it's on DVD!) I rediscovered this movie and found out how fun it was. It kind of has the same fun feeling the other 'based on a true story' Spielberg movies Catch Me If You Can and The Terminal have.The movie is made with lot's of profession and very little money. The small budget does not stop Spielberg of making a good movie. This movie was also the first Vilmos Zsigmond/Steven Spielberg collaboration. They later worked together on Close Encounters of the Third Kind. But more importantly; it also was the first collaboration of John Williams and Steven Spielberg, one of the most successful collaborations in movie history, as later turned out.the movie features a young Goldie Hawn and William Atherton who I really like as an actor. Atherton is probably best known for his role in Die Hard 1 & 2, Ghostbusters and the more recent movie The Last Samurai in which he has a small part early in the movie.It might be a bit too slow and probably boring for some people but I still recommend this movie. It has both action and substance. In a way also a must see because it was Spielberg his first real big hit and can be regarded as his breakthrough.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Early Goldie, early Spielberg, both first-rate...","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Petty crook is busted out of pre-release jail by his determined-yet-reckless wife; seems their infant son has been farmed out to a wealthy foster couple while the two were behind bars and the Mrs. wants her baby back now. Director Steven Spielberg's first theatrical film has a scene midway through that still takes my breath away Goldie Hawn and William Atherton take refuge in a mobile home parked in a lot behind a drive-in movie theater, a cartoon is up on the screen and Atherton supplies the sound effects--but, as the cartoon descends into violence, he stares out the window while his wife giggles on, oblivious to the parallels between the film and the paths their lives have taken. It's a miraculous moment in a high-spirited comedy-drama about trying to get what you want--even at the expense of the law. I'm surprised most Spielberg fans turn their noses up at this movie, it's one of his best. The finale doesn't really work (the picture switches gears too many times and eventually leaves us eating dust), but Goldie Hawn's performance is brave and funny and wonderful. In fact all the acting is excellent, right down to the last two-line player. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Early Spielberg is just as fun as any Spielberg","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There's something so incredibly fascinating about watching the humble beginnings of a director as renowned as Stephen Spielberg. The Sugarland Express is one of his earliest films and it is not of the calibre of films like Jaws, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, and the Indiana Jones franchise, but it still remarkably entertaining. It tells the story of two lovers who go on a mad run from the law in order to kidnap their son from his foster parents. Lou-Jean, played by Goldie Hawn, breaks her husband, Clovis, out of jail in order to do so and this sparks mad paranoia in the two. The run from the law doesn't occur until the two kidnap a policeman and his vehicle, forcing him to drive them to Sugarland, Texas in order to find their baby boy. This is a wild, exciting, often hilarious film, and to top it all off it's based on a true story.I think what defines this film more than anything is the distinct new Spielberg smell. It has all of the things we recognize from the bigger Spielberg films, just on a much smaller scale. The dialogue flows so naturally and fits right in with the action and camera work of the film. There are lots of familiar camera techniques in the film, especially the fluid camera movement that goes on within the confines of the police vehicle, where a lot of the film takes place. Nothing is as grand and widespread as Spielberg's classics, but anyone who respects the genius can respect this film for what it is because, like it or not, this is where it all began.But not only is The Sugarland Express a fascinating look into how Spielberg got his start, it is also just an incredibly fun film. Goldie Hawn plays the border line psychopath mother perfectly. She wants nothing more than to see her baby boy again, and she won't let anything stop her. The film hits both ends of the spectrum very nicely. A lot of it is very comedic, ranging from cleverly hilarious to downright goofy at times. Yet there are also moments of sincere dramatic tension. Through all of the offbeat wackiness, the film never forgets the situation it is dealing with. Despite everything, it is still two convicts running from the law, a subject that the characters must handle with care. And the film brings this to light very well, as it is very gripping at moments, and almost touching at others.The Sugarland Express isn't much more than a very exciting adventure story with some enticing moments of drama thrown in, but you have to love it for that. It doesn't try to be much more and it pulls off everything it wants to deliver with a lot of talented finesse and grace. This is not a film to miss. It's only mistake was coming right before Jaws, a masterpiece that overshadowed it greatly, hence why we know that name, but few of us have heard of the pleasant little gem that is The Sugarland Express. "},{"Title":"A Quality Work Of Passionate Filmmaking.","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Steven Spielberg's theatrical feature film debut is a smartly crafted, expertly composed & skilfully executed adventure drama that clearly exhibits the legendary director's penchant for turning an on-screen moment into a larger-than-life event without ever going over the top and is also significant for marking the commencement of one of cinema's greatest collaborations.Based on a true story, The Sugarland Express tells the story of a young woman who successfully breaks her husband out of prison to help her assist retrieving her child, about to be placed in the care of foster parents. Things soon take a turn for the unexpected when they're left with no choice but to take a patrolman hostage & are pursued by the police throughout their journey.Directed by Steven Spielberg, the film wonderfully introduces many of his trademarks & themes that would continue to recur in his later works and is a solid work that has enough style & substance to keep the viewers engaged for the most part. Camera-work is dynamic, makes excellent angle choices & remains consistent throughout while editing steadily paces its narrative.Coming to the acting department, the cast comprises of Goldie Hawn, Ben Johnson, William Atherton & Michael Sacks amongst which it's Hawn who chips in with the most impressive performance. Marking his first collaboration with Spielberg, John William provides a score that beautifully reflects the film's tone with tracks that are adventurous, light-hearted & at the same moment, slightly poignant.On an overall scale, The Sugarland Express is one of Spielberg's highly underrated flicks & although far from a masterpiece, it's still a quality work of passionate filmmaking that's admirable for a number of things. Full of crowd-pleasing elements, presenting the then-young filmmaker refining his craft & an indication of greater things to come, The Sugarland Express is a must for Spielberg's fans as well as critics. "},{"Title":"You look like a pea picker to me.","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on a true story, a woman (Goldie Hawn) helps her husband (William Atherton) escape from prison so they can kidnap their child from the foster family he's been placed with. Along the way the duo takes a state trooper hostage and are pursued by police while their story gains media attention. Steven Spielberg's first theatrical film (Duel was made for TV but released in theaters later). Also his first collaboration with John Williams. It's a fun dramedy with some great performances from Goldie Hawn, William Atherton, and the rest of the cast. Especially good are the colorful supporting characters, many of which have an authenticity about them that gives the film some nice flavor. An under-appreciated gem in Spielberg's oeuvre. "},{"Title":"Not sure what I expected from this, but I'm thoroughly pleased.","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Sugarland Express is an altogether satisfying movie-going experience, and ably shows off Spielberg's skill as a director. He knew from the very beginning how to get great performances out of his actors (namely Goldie Hawn, William Atherton, Ben Johnson and Michael Sacks), how to ratchet the tension with clever editing as the climax approaches, and there's some interesting camera work with the continuous shots in and around cars. And the story itself is so out there that you just have no idea how this thing will end. Things move at a steadily outlandish clip, with one getaway car pursued by fifty, and our main characters even stop for some fried chicken and a pee break. Then the car lot shootout changes the mood, double-crosses start to unfold and the foreboding really sets in. Hawn's daffiness is a delight here, and really underscores the goofy ride that is most of this movie. And that snide change in tone is what really gives The Sugarland Express its lasting impact. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Shoot, jest a couple of kids.","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Spielberg has constructed and shot his first feature film with skill. The camera seems to be exactly where it should be in every shot. The editing is done with skill, and Vilmos Zsigmond's photography vividly evokes a bare and wintry day in southern Texas. The musical score is a kind of whimsical folksy harmonica solo smacking of a Christmas carol. It was written by John Williams, he of the bum bum bum bum shark theme from Jaws. His scores are usually orchestrated, fully and fulsomely, but you'd never know it from this spare tune. The director got a fine screenplay out of Hal Barwood and Matthew Robbins. Most of these good folks sound dumber than they are. And the performers really get into the characters. Sometimes they ARE the characters.Here's an example that always cracks me up. Ben Johnson is a captain in the Texas Highway Patrol (or whatever) and has brought Goldie Hawn's wrinkled old father down to talk to his daughter over the police radio, urging her to surrender. Johnson has just given the old timer instructions on how to use the microphone in the police car. Hawn's father listens intently. Then we expect him to say something like, Gimme the mike. Instead, in his cracked and weathered voice, he repeats Johnson's instructions word by word Press -- this -- button -- and speak -- in a NORMAL tone of voice. It's as if he's trying to memorize all of the instructions for getting the most out of Windows 8. And Johnson plays the scene straight and convincingly, showing a total respect for the man, being sure to call him Sir, probably as Johnson would in real life. The father is played by George Hagy, who never made another appearance on any screen and who was probably picked out on the spot from the crowd of extras.The story is simple. Goldie Hawn talks her prisoner husband, William Atherton, into escaping from pre-release, planning to kidnap their baby and flee to Mexico. The police soon catch on and the pair take a highway patrol officer, Michael Sacks, hostage and ride off to the baby's home in Sugar Land, followed by a string of police cars a mile long. There are numerous comic incidents, and a few scenes involving gun shots and action. I hope the stunt men were paid well for the scene in which the news van flips over into a puddle. In some ways, the movie follows a trajectory illustrated by Bonny and Clyde. As the scenes of action progress, they get more serious until they turn tragic. The couple are also lauded and helped by the ordinary folks of the towns they drive through. Spielberg has kept an eye on the size and response of the audience. It's not an art film. Hawn's and Atherton's first escape vehicle is an old clunker that steams and bangs at its full speed of twenty miles an hour, but when the escapees spin around to elude the police, the sound of the engine changes from a loud knock-knock-knock to that of a Formula V Maserati. And, for my taste, too much time is given to cute Baby Langston, a habit Spielberg has rarely been able to shake. In ninety percent of respectable movies, all children should be stomped. Their appearances tend to cheapen the film, except in W. C. Fields' movies.Goldie Hawn is sexy and delivers a fine performance as the mercurial screecher with the IQ of a head of broccoli. Whose breath blew out the light within this brain? Atherton, with his vacant face, is okay as the submissive husband. Once in a while, a pale beam of reality shines through his antics, but generally his character prompts one to ask whose was the hand that slanted back this brow? As the police officer who is their hostage, Michael Sacks is earnest and although he gets to like his captors and play games with them, he at least is in touch with the outer world. Ben Johnson is simple but reliable, and I miss the guy. "},{"Title":"Outstanding debut by Steven Spielberg","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Steven Spielberg's first feature is outstanding. Goldie Hawn springs her husband from jail and attempts to travel across Texas to retrieve her son. The dim-witted couple are relentlessly pursued by lawman Ben Johnson. To say the movie is fast moving is an understatement. It's entertaining from beginning to end with Hawn giving a very good performance. She's very much out of her element but pulls it off. She's funny but more tragic than comic. She's well matched with William Atherton as her husband. Michael Sacks is the not so bright junior cop they take hostage. The stunning cinematography is by Vilmos Zsigmond. The movie has a lot of suspense, a lot of humor, a lot of sadness...elements found in virtually all of Spielberg's subsequent films. "},{"Title":"Ambling into Film History, Young Spielberg Starts Out","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The first theatrical feature by Spielberg, his last as just another director before Jaws, this story is saddled by what I call an 'idiot's resolve' plot. This means the main characters behave like complete idiots and, in real life, wouldn't get two steps in the direction they're going, much less the miles of roadway managed in this pic. But - and this is an important point - the story is supposedly based on a real life incident, which means such theorizing may not apply here. It all depends on how much Spielberg and the writers exaggerated events, which I tend to think was quite a bit. The story is jump-started in that a 2-year old baby is placed in foster care; the real parents (Hawn & Atherton), small-time criminals, won't have it and break the father's incarceration to set out for the foster home. But, from the outset, these two are presented as such obvious losers, I was hoping they'd never reach the kid. The father, for example, has only 4 months remaining of post-prison time to do; in short order, the idiot couple's transgressions escalate from auto theft to kidnapping of a cop (Sacks). In essence, they quickly sabotaged any chance for themselves of getting the kid back in a happy fashion.I also got the impression Spielberg was poking a lot of fun at Texas and Texacans in general, where this takes place. Besides the two idiotic so-called parents, most everyone else is also presented as a buffoon, a country hick with no clue. The more sinister examples are those who live for the opportunity to shoot someone - this is gun country, after all. The only one who escapes with his dignity intact is the police captain, well played by Ben Johnson. There are traces of the imagery and poignancy which many of Spielberg's later pictures would be laced with. There's the absurdity of that long, very long line of police vehicles, lights flashing, following that one car with the fugitives (I guess no other crimes needed attention in the county that day?). And the sudden look on Atherton's face when he watches a Road Runner cartoon is amazing. But these are a few instances far and between in an ambling picture. Hawn is immensely likable, of course, but in the end she comes off as an idiotic screaming shrew who directly causes bad stuff to happen. Maybe it's just me, but I don't really like women such as this. But then, if this is true-to-life, Spielberg captured some sense of an unpleasant reality we have no control over. It just didn't retain such a consistency through the entire movie. "},{"Title":"Never really grabs at the heartstrings it is reaching for.","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" n 1974, Spielberg finally stepped out of television work and into the major leagues. His first theatrical feature had a good deal in common with Duel in that it is another wall-to-wall car chase, only this time the results were far more human.Based on a true story, The Sugarland Express follows Lou Jean Poplin (Goldie Hawn) and her husband Clovis (William Atherton), whom she convinces to walk away from the pre-release program after several years on a prison stretch from which he is about to be released. She's desperate because their two-year old son Langdon has been taken by The State of Texas and has been given over to a foster family.What follows is one damned thing after another. Clovis and Lou Jean steal a car and, in a bizarre twist, end up kidnapping a good-hearted young patrolman named Slide (Michael Sacks). Meanwhile the police don't want to upset the couple since they have Slide at gunpoint. The two become national heroes to the public and prey for local gun-nuts.It takes some time to sink in, but as your watch the film you get the feeling that the themes of The Sugarland Express are ahead of their time. The idea of two fugitives on the lam on a mission of mercy whose plight captivates the public is more current now then it was in 1974. Lou Jean and Clovis become darlings of the media even though what they're doing is wreckless and unlawful.For me, while it has noble intentions, it is problematic at a very base level. Yes, it's based on a true story, but it asks us to accept fundamental flaws that keep us from really getting involved in the story. I suppose that when the movie was made, it was during a time when outlaws were seen by the public as heroes. The image of authority figures had been tainted by the police beatings of demonstrators in the 1960s and by a nationwide trucker strike in the early 70s. The Sugarland Express seems to be feeding that legacy, yet it fails to win us over because fundamentally we are not on the same page as the movie. Clovis and Lou Jean could easily have worked the system without going on the lam so their ill-advised decision keeps us at odds with their plight.Plus, the chase goes on for days and days when in reality it might have gone on for maybe a day. By this point we've seen so many police dash-cam videos that let us know how the police work in this situation that it seems impossible that such a thing could drag on as long as it does. But, maybe that's not the point, maybe this is supposed to be seen as an outlaw fantasy. I could buy that if it weren't based on a true story. This is a technically good movie with an interesting premise that just never really grabs at the heartstrings it is reaching for. "},{"Title":"Shows signs of Spielberg's greatness","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Sugarland Express is a decent chase movie about the world's most harmless prison escapees and the policeman they're forced to take as a hostage, becoming famous in the process.It's pretty slight, but Spielberg's direction shines through, a whiz kid even at this early stage in his career. It is slick and unobtrusive while still being inventive and masterful.Goldie Hawn is also a stand out. She would have stolen the show from the other two lacklustre performers anyway, so I'm glad Spielberg had the sense to focus the movie on her and not on one of the dullards like Hal Ashby did in The Last Detail.Ben Johnson is, as always, fantastic as the crusty old police officer who leads the chase.The movie does drag a little, though, ironically for a movie about a chase. It's not really Smokey and the Bandit - the runaways lead the police right at the front like a funeral procession. "},{"Title":"A must see for Spielberg fans.","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Notable for being the first theatrical release of Steven Spielberg The Sugarland Express definitely displays the early signs of a maverick filmmaker who would go on to entertain millions around the world and wow movie buffs with his technical prowess. In keeping with his style of creating events that take on a grand scale, this is a story of two fugitives hijacking a police car while holding the police officer hostage, that goes onto become a major phenomenon of massive fanfare and pompousness with even 200 cars following them at a time. And for the director this means setting up grand shots of outstanding complexity which are an exercise in crowd control. And Spielberg pulls them off with outstanding realism and fluidity while creating shots of striking blocking complexities. And talking of shots the movie boasts of an innumerable amount of extraordinary shots including a 360 degree pan inside a moving car which also happens to be the first ever (imagine the car attack scene of Children of Men but of lesser complexity).Other notable things worth mentioning are Goldie Hawn's comic scenes as the naive desperate mother Lou Jean Sparrow Poplin and John Williams' score.A must see for Spielberg fans along with his TV movie Duel to understand the birth of this unique voice and chart his growth as a director who goes onto become an industry in itself with a career spanning over four decades. "},{"Title":"Early car chase caper from a famous director","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" THE SUGARLAND EXPRESS was the first film that Steven Spielberg made that was released to cinemas. A year later he would make JAWS and never look back, so this quirky oddity, mostly forgotten about today even by Spielberg fans, is worth a look. It's a familiar car chase caper, a genre which was all the rage back in the '70s.The film charts an odd line between intense character drama and comedy. Most of the humour comes from the quirky supporting characters and the situations in which they find themselves. The crowd scene at the climax is chaotically done and very well handled by a director in his prime. Goldie Hawn looks impossibly young as the female lead, but the real star for me is William Atherton, a decade away from his typecasting as the usual '80s baddie in the likes of GHOSTBUSTERS and DIE HARD.The film is packed with well-shot car chase scenes, the scale of which is remarkable given the obviously low budget Spielberg had to work with, although none of them are particularly thrilling or exciting. You never get a chance to feel really involved with the storyline or the characters. Some of Spielberg's cinematography is very good, and the film as a whole has a naturalistic feel to it. It's not my favourite '70s car film, but it's certainly not bad. Plus, it has an ending nearly as downbeat as the one in DIRTY MARY, CRAZY LARRY, which is very unusual for a Spielberg film. "},{"Title":"fun Goldie on a great ride","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Lou Jean Sparrow Poplin (Goldie Hawn) tells her imprisoned husband Clovis (William Atherton) that their child has been taken by Child Welfare to Sugarland. She plans to breaks him out of minimum security with four months to go. They get into a chase and kidnaps Officer Maxwell Slide (Michael Sacks). Captain Tanner (Ben Johnson) takes charge of the chase.Right from the start with the old couple, the movie is a fun ride. It needs some more jokes but it's quirky car chase movie. They certainly use a lot of cars. Goldie Hawn is a bag full of fun crazy. I prefer somebody funnier to be Clovis or Maxwell. It does have a gritty real-life edge to it which Spielberg doesn't do anymore. The ending is a downer but that's kind of interesting too. "},{"Title":"True Story A Bit Erractic","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Normally when you put Spielberg, John Williams, and a great cast together, you get a super mega hit adventure. This one does not fit that mold because it is based on a true story with some Hollywood embellishments. While it is well directed, it is not on a par with this famous directors later films. The are 2 major assets in this movie. Goldie Hawn is great, as she plays the role of the mother who wants he child back perfectly. She is obsessed and yet a little cracked. There might not be as much of Goldies skin in this one compared to some films, but there are several sequences which do use her figure to great advantage. The 2nd major asset is Ben Johnson. His role as the major lawman in pursuit of the escaped boyfriend and his wife in pursuit of their child who was placed with foster parents is very well done. While this is not everyones best, just Goldie and Johnson make this one worth watching. "},{"Title":"A Well Done Drama Based Upon a Real Life Incident","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this film, based on a true story, for the first time in a theater while I was in college. I remember the film well for two reasons. One was because I was on a date with Cindy, whom I liked a lot. The second reason was because I felt sorry for the film's hapless husband, Clovis Poplin, quite ably brought to life by William Atherton.Thirty seven years later I still see the film from time to time. I can't say the same thing about Cindy. I have absolutely no idea whatsoever what happened to Cindy. Hopefully only good things because she was, and hopefully still is, a very special person. The movie showed up on cable the other night so I watched it yet again. I still enjoy the movie, but for different reasons than I did back when I was learning how to think. Atherton is effective as the husband who loves his wife so much that he is willing to do anything for her, including getting shot. And Goldie Hawn is equally successful in portraying the wife who can no longer distinguish fantasy from fact, or need from want.Atherton's character, a good old kind of guy who isn't the shiniest bulb in the box is inspired by the life of Robert Dent. His wife, Lou Jean Poplin, inspired by the very real Ila Fae Holiday, is trashy in a cute sort of way and has an overwhelming desire to get back her baby from foster parents. Lou Jean masterminds Clovis' escape from prison, and then commence to reclaim their baby.During their escape, the lovebirds carjack an old, cranky couple, and later kidnap Texas trooper Maxwell Slide, believably played by Michael Sacks, and steal his patrol vehicle. The character is based on the life of Texas Department of Safety Patrolman John Kenneth Crone. Coordinating the ensuing police pursuit is the life weathered and compassionate Captain Harlin Tanner, effectively dramatized by Academy Award winner Ben Johnson of The Last Picture Show fame.As a retired police officer, I tend to judge critically the accuracy of films regarding police procedures. I don't know how much of the police work portrayed in this film really happened, but I hope not much. The police pursuit in this case involved at least 100 police cars, all with their lights and sirens on, many which crashed, often into each other. People lined up along the road to watch the chase as news media hovered about ground. As the happy couple drives through one particular town they are celebrated as heroes. In another town they are the target of a reckless vigilante ambush that doesn't succeed.Trooper Slide has 9 months on the job. His actions are not, shall we say, text book, and his conduct surely suggests that he was not ready to do police work on his own. So let's give everyone the benefit of the doubt and say the lapses were based on cinematic license.This was Director Steven Spielberg's first theatrically released film. Prior to the Sugarland Express, he had directed the made for TV movie, Duel, an effective drama involving a trucker versus a road salesman. I like action as much as the next guy. Really. But the pursuits portrayed in Sugarland Express are ludicrous. I would have preferred watching less pursuits and delving with more depth into the lives of the people involved. Cindy and I probably enjoyed watching the pursuits when we saw the film in the theater. Of course, I wasn't such a brilliant analyst of police procedures back then, or the lover of thoughtful biographies.According to the Texas Monthly, in real life Crone worked for a few more years for DPS, and then went on to become a director of security for the U.S. Department of Energy. He died February 10, 2011. Holiday was sentenced to five years in state prison, did 5 months, and cared for her mother and children. She died in 1992 as a dietitian at a Holiday Inn.This is a fine movie well worth seeing. As you will see, even Spielberg's early work was distinctive, compelling and thoroughly entertaining. They just were not police training films. "}{"Title":"A Protracted Ride into John Ford's Sunset","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" They clearly didn't think it through, but they do it anyhow. They're both just 25, but they've served time, and now the state has carted off their baby boy and given him to a foster family. So she breaks him out of jail, and then they bumblingly commandeer a highway patrol car, accompanied by highway patrolman, and pilot a spectacle across Texas in an endeavor to reclaim their son. That's the narrative of Steven Spielberg's second film, for which he takes the vacant desert of his tense, spare debut and fills it with a Looney Tunes parade of used-car lots, drive-ins, diners and a detained, eccentric force. Indeed, all the engines drown out all the common sense. While it's derived from an actual event, like so many things in Texas, it doesn't seem that believable. It happened in 1969, and the young couple garnered a lot of support from the people along their path. More like Natural Born Killers than Bonnie & Clyde, the lovers on the lam find brief sanctuary from their Looney Tunes world by watching Looney Tunes in a camper.Funny that Spielberg and Malick would be on the same thematic page now and twenty-five years later. Except here, the lateral-thinking young lovers should acknowledge, sure enough, that they can't expect to walk away from kidnapping a cop. The husband does understand, more or less, but he's intimidated by his wife and, as if she herself were the child, he would do nearly anything to pacify her. The wife, as played with an inspired vacuousness by Goldie Hawn, lives in the present tense despite that they're being pursued by roughly 200 police cars. She raids a gas station of trading stamps, then sifts through to see how many will get a bed for her boy, much like another young boy's compulsive collection of labels in Spielberg's Catch Me If You Can. Except the down-home American family that characterizes so much of Spielberg's ensuing work is but a feeble daydream here.Indeed the chase is guided by another of Ben Johnson's cowboy father figures, a wholesome cop. He's never killed anyone and hopes to maintain this record. But close on his trail are a literal sea of local, county and state cops, ad hoc amateurs, even a couple of Louisiana troopers who came over for the thrill. And TV news mobile units permeate the convoy every chance they get, and things develop into a sort of spin-doctoring affair. Ultimately, the renegades and their captive grow less central than stopping the pageant and preserving the apparent dignity of the authorities.The entire film is a protracted ride into John Ford's sunset, and knowing Spielberg's passion for Golden Age Hollywood cinema, I'm sure he drew some inspiration from Billy Wilder's 1951 film Ace in the Hole, in which a man is ensnared in a cave and the news coverage of the incident becomes expedient and manipulative. That movie was rooted in actual events, too. And, sure enough, that one was set in Texas, too. As the motorcade works across hundreds of miles of Lone Star en route to the Sugarland foster home, a sort of companionship develops between the trooper and the husband. The trooper has been on the force less than a year, but he's sensible enough to see that his captors don't want to kill anybody. There are moving moments in which the husband gathers how to speak in police radio terminology, and when the trooper clarifies the modus operandi behind expeditious pursuits.If the film is ultimately minor Spielberg, that's since he gives more consideration to all those police cars and their collisions, and not as much to the behavior of his characters, which distinguishes his subsequent masterpiece Jaws. Here, in that film's predecessor, we become acquainted with its three main people just enough to wish we knew more. A celebration of dolly and zoom, the enjoyment instead comes from Vilmos Zsigmond's innumerable telephoto shots of cop cars. It's visually beautiful and relentlessly kinetic, screen movement being incessantly intermingled with by camera movement. And the movie has its moments, and when the escapees pass through Main Street and are offered help and donations by their recently acquired followers, we understand That's the way fame works in America, no matter why you're famous. "},{"Title":"Maybe not the very best film Spielberg has ever made, but it's not too far below his best","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Steven Spielberg's debut theatrical feature, probably his least well known (4,000 IMDb votes compared to, say, 20,000 for his made-for-TV Duel) and easily his most undervalued picture. Goldie Hawn stars as an ex-con, just recently released from jail. She visits her husband (William Atherton, perhaps best known as the EPA official from Ghostbusters) in a minimum security prison. He has four months to go, but Hawn wants to bust him out so he can help her retrieve their baby, who has been taken by child protective services. The actual escape is easy, but it only takes a short while for the cops to find them. Eventually, they capture one as a hostage (Michael Sacks, who played Billy Pilgrim in George Roy Hill's adaptation of Slaughterhouse Five), and end up driving down the highway with a couple hundred police cars following them. Their poorly conceived plan is to keep a gun on Sacks while they go through it all, hoping that they can nab their son and take him down to Mexico. Thankfully, the guy leading the chase (John Ford regular Ben Johnson) knows they aren't bad people, just misguided. I'm glad Spielberg didn't go after the more cliché route of the redneck sheriff (the story takes place in Texas), and Johnson is particularly fantastic in the film (in fact, all four of the main actors are excellent). This being Spielberg, I was sure the two (anti-)heroes would get out of it somehow. I didn't see much hope in this situation, but I thought he might cleverly find a way out of it. Well, he doesn't. It's very much a '70s flick with its downbeat ending. That, in particular, makes it fairly unique among Spielberg's films. It's perfectly directed. Much like with his work in Duel, Spielberg already shows that he's a natural-born director. The cinematography is among the best in his filmography. It was shot by Vilmos Zsigmond. This was also the first Spielberg film scored by John Williams. "},{"Title":"This massive lie preceded the even huger lie of Jaws","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Scores of fictional Texas police cars trail the pair of gun-wielding criminals who want their child back from his foster parents. Goldie Hawn plays Lou Jean, who insists on a shag with her hubby before she leads him out of jail to seek their child and gets him killed. She is a total menace and should never have got her son back, which she apparently did a few years later. The whole film is an irresponsible lie, making the pair into heroes, their hostage into a sucker, the people of Texas into clowns and the police forces into utter goons. It's a mystery how Goldie Hawn got involved in this frightful Spielberg travesty, which he followed rapidly with his hideous travesty of sharks, Jaws. The picture is utterly formulaic, with developments at every timed plot point. Goldie Hawn's character is incredibly shallow and her partner, played by William Atherton, is a mindless criminal. It's not a pretty story at all, except with Spielberg's icing lavished over it. I never believed those scores of police cars for one minute. "},{"Title":"A Must Watch....","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" 'The Sugarland Express' is a very special film, it stands out. Here's why It's based on a true story and it is the first theatrical feature film directed by Steven Spielberg. Now, 2 ACES, can never disappoint? 'The Sugarland Express', based on a true story is about a husband and wife trying to outrun the law, they want their life back, they want their Baby Langston back. It's a joyride! The incident has been made with ease, the Legendary Filmmaker never disappoints -- as simple as that! Coming right away to the acting department, Goldie Hawn steals the show with a magnificent performance. The Legendary Actress delivers a performance of a lifetime! William Atherton is superb, this is his most mature performance to date. Ben Johnson is, as always, terrific. Michael Sacks emotes the helplessness and support remarkably. Others are satisfactory.On the whole, this Superb Piece Of Cinema cannot be missed by Cinema-Devotees. Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"Excellent story, good acting and ...oh yes - a young Steven Spielberg!","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw The Sugarland Express for the first time about six months ago. I can't believe I've never heard of this movie before then. It had everything you could hope for in a movie. Excellent story, good acting and great directing by Steven Spielberg. The story is about a young woman named Lou Jean (Goldie Hawn), who has lost custody or her baby son because of her criminal record. She decides the only way she can get him back is to get her husband and take her baby son away from his foster parents. Unfortunately, her husband Clovis (William Atherton) still has four months of his own prison sentence left to serve. Lou Jean visits him at the Pre-release Center he is serving his time in and threatens him with divorce if he doesn't leave with her. He reluctantly agrees and escapes. (Actually he just walks out - the place has the worst security). From then on, the two only have bad luck. The older couple they hitch a ride with get stopped by Highway Patrol Officer Slide (Michael Sacks). Lou Jean and Clovis then steal the older couple's car, wreck the car and kidnap Officer Slide and force him to drive them to Sugarland where their son is living. The remainder of the film chronicles what happens to them on their trip. How the media transforms them into a cause célèbre and how the police have to not only deal with the fugitives but with the media and the public which has rallied behind the couple. The movie also deals with the changing relationship between Clovis, Lou Jean and Office Slide. As Lou Jean, Goldie Hawn brings a heartfelt and sympathetic performance to the role of a women who refuses to see the futility of her actions and is blinded by her desire to get her son back at any cost. This is definitely one of her best performances and shows what she can do with a part that demands a range of emotions. It was a real surprise to see William Atherton as a good guy and not as a pompous jerk or villain. (I will always remember him as the idiot inspector in Ghostbusters). Atherton did a good job of letting you see that Clovis did whatever Lou Jean said not because he was weak-willed but because he really loved Lou Jean and didn't want to lose her. Michael Sacks gave dimension to a character which in lesser hands might have come across as your basic by-the-book cop. Over the course of the movie you see the gradual change in Officer Slide as he is torn between his duty as an officer and his desire to help the couple get their son. (It's a mystery to me why I've never seen Michael Sacks in anything I can remember - he was very impressive in this.)Spielberg's direction gives you a real feel for the expansive Texas countryside which contrasts with the fact that for most of the movie these characters are confined in cars. Spielberg uses everything at his disposal to highlight and backdrop his story - the sunsets, the open Texas highway, and local color are all used to optimum effect. Not a surprise he went on to become as successful as he did.Overall - A must see. "},{"Title":"After 1 car purchased by 1 truck, now 1 car purchased by 206 cars ! (cinematheque)","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I began my Spielberg Festival at the Cinematheque by his first movie done the year I was born. It's my first viewing and it's amazing to see how his first feature takes root from his first project (duel), even thought the story is totally different. In fact, you'll see that all his movies can be tied by two, so check my pairing note at the end of my next reviews. It's maybe easy now to predict that Spielberg would become a master but on the other hand, all his future trademark are already there He knows how to tell a story and i can tell the difference with today movies where the plot and edit are unintelligible (transformers, cars,). Next, Spielberg has en eye he knows how to put the camera to have a stunning visual, especially his close-ups. Then, he is excellent with his cast and knows how to built emotions. Even if hundred policemen chased the couple, the audience supports the side of the family and don't view them as criminals. At last, with nearly 40 years behind (thus nearly my age), the movie has a good historic and cultural value. In some ways, it announces the media folklore of the 80's and so on. At least, his screenplay won the Award at Cannes Festival and it's a sure proof that this newcomer would become a name! "},{"Title":"A great debut from a great film-maker.","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Spielberg surprised me with this movie, regardless of whether or not I thought it was going to be good or not. Usually, debuts from film-makers aren't really that good. Very rarely do we have a film-debut that's as good as this. Goldie Hawn was really good as Lou Jean Poplin, who wants her son back from a foster home in Sugerland, Texas. I was surprised to hear that this was based on a true story as well. I had no idea that anything like this happened. The ending was sad as well, but I won't give it away. You'll have to see it yourselves.Over all, this is one of the best debuts that I've seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"Minor Spielberg Effort","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It's a well-made film by Spielberg. But, it features two not-at-all-bright criminals running from the law, putting lots of lives at risk. And, as expected, there are tons of people celebrating these two along the whole way.So, it's very difficult to care for anyone here. Ben Johnson does his always sturdy work, but they basically have Ben Johnson in the film to play his stock Ben Johnson character.Goldie Hawn's character is a screechy, pretty brainless mess who's willing to risk as many lives as possible to get her child back. And, (SPOILER) inexplicably, we find out at the end that the authorities actually let her do that after a slap-on-the-wrist prison sentence. Texas definitely does things beyond belief when it comes to the law! (END SPOILER)Vilmos Zsigmond's cinematography is excellent, as is John Williams' score. But, those two elements are by far the highlights of an otherwise routine film.****** (6 Out of 10 Stars) "},{"Title":"Spielberg's first feature film","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although he began his rise with the now-classic 1971 made-for-TV thriller DUEL, THE SUGARLAND EXPRESS, released in early 1974, is Steven Spielberg's first actual big-screen foray.Loosely based on an actual incident that occurred in Texas in 1969, the film focuses on a fugitive couple (Goldie Hawn, William Atherton) who kidnap a Texas state trooper (Michael Sachs) at gunpoint and force him to drive them to Sugarland to get their infant son back from a foster home.  What ensues, however, is a nearly 30 hour-long chase across southern Texas involving pretty much the entire Texas law enforcement community (and some right-wing gun nuts, too), including a very sympathetic veteran peace officer (Ben Johnson), who realizes that Hawn and Atherton are nothin' but a couple of kids.  The film ends in a flurry of gunfire, with Atherton being killed by a hired sniper at the doorstep of the foster home.Audiences were led to believe, based on the presence of former Laugh-In star Hawn, that THE SUGARLAND EXPRESS would be a comedy.  But the fact that there is gunfire and action within told them otherwise.  There is humor, to be sure, much of it very Southern-fried; but Spielberg ratchets up the dramatic and tragic aspects of the story.  For that reason, SUGARLAND was not much more than a minor box-office hit, more of a prelude to JAWS, which would come out the following year.  But as an unconventional road drama and a story about love and crime taken to an extreme, THE SUGARLAND EXPRESS is masterful.  Hawn got most of the attention, and rightly so; but the really great performance here is from longtime John Ford/Sam Peckinpah veteran Johnson, who is superb as the Texas lawman sympathetic to their cause but sworn to uphold his oath to the state.A must-see early film from master cinemagician Steven Spielberg. "},{"Title":"Very well done.","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I must say, even though this is not one of Steven Spielberg's more popular movies, it should be. This is a film that doesn't depend on action or mayhem but instead on the main characters, mainly Goldie Hawn and William Atherton, who all turn in good and convincing performances. Definately one of Speilberg's better movies! "}{"Title":"A mother's love","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not having seen this film in many years, I was surprised when TCM showed it recently. This film showcases the talent of Steven Spielberg in his early period. It's even more to his credit that he persisted in filming this story, based on a real incident, because he didn't have the recognition back then. Spielberg knew he had a winner in this film and he worked hard in getting a star like  Goldie Hawn to agree to be in the movie and thus convincing the executives to let him go ahead.At heart, this is a story about a mother's love for her son, and to what extent she is willing to go to get him back from the same system that saw her unfit to raise him. Lou Ann might have done things in her past to land her in jail, but her heart is in the right place and if she has to fight in order to get the toddler back, she will do whatever is in her power.The prison escape is hysterical. Clovis can't believe what Lou Ann makes him do. The film become a road picture when the old couple agrees to give them a ride. When they're stopped for going so slow in the highway, Lou Ann decides to take matters into her own hands. Later on she overpowers the patrolman, Slide, and they embark in an adventure of great proportions.The carnival that follows them is created by the media that follows the trio on the road. It's incredible to think of the caravan of police cars that followed them and were unable to do anything to arrest them. Captain Tanner knows his fight against the fugitives will come to nothing because the press has made the couple into popular figures on a quest for justice.Goldie Hawn is the best asset on the film. She doesn't have her usual mannerisms, as she plays a straight Lou Ann. William Atherton is equally excellent as Clovis. Michael Sacks and Ben Johnson contribute to the film tremendously.This is a classic Spielberg. "},{"Title":"Much Ado About Very Little","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on true events. In Texas Lou Jean Poplin (Goldie Hawn) breaks her husband Clovis (William Atherton) out of a pre-release house. It seems their baby was taken from her and she is determined to get him back. They kidnap a police car with its patrolman (Michael Sacks) and order him to drive to the town of Sugarman where their child is. Head of police Captain Tanner (Ben Johnson) wants to settle this without any blood or shooting...but can he? Steven Spielberg's first theatrical film is still largely unknown...and it's easy to see why! The basic story is OK but the film just gets more bizarre as it goes on. At first it was kind of fun but then it got annoying. I mean are we supposed to take seriously the entire force of Texas police following this one car? After a while it just became an endless series of car chases and shootouts. By the end I could have cared less if they got the kid or not. Also Atherton (a wonderful actor) gives a rare bad performance here (but his part WAS difficult to play). There are some good points about the film--Sacks (who has since retired from acting) is good in his role, Goldie was charming in hers and Johnson is just incredible. The stunning wide screen cinematography by Vilmos Zsigmond and great direction by Spielberg help--but they fail to totally cover the fact that this is an overdone car chase film. Also the veering from surreal to reality at the end is jolting (and depressing). Worth a look if you're a fan of Spielberg and Hawn but overall a disappointment. "},{"Title":"He took my gun, but he wasn't gonna use it!","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" What is it about those Texas people. They really went out there in this film based upon a true story. What is significant about the film is not Goldie Hawn's performance as the crazy Ila Fae Dent, who had her child removed from the State, but the fact that it was Steven Spielberg's first theatrical release. It would not be until one year later with Jaws that he would become a household name.The movie is 95% on the highway, as Lou Jean Poplin (Hawn) breaks her husband out of pre-release four months early to head to Sugarland to retrieve the child the State had removed nine months earlier.If you can imagine, there were, at one time 150 police cars following them in a stolen DPS patrol car in the pre-OJ low-speed chase. Towards the end, about 150 more cars joined in as crazy Texans joined the parade. It became a real parade once they got to Sugarland as the High School band joined in and the whole town, including, I imagine the Bug Man, Tom DeLay, turned out.It was silly, funny, and a good road movie. "},{"Title":"Steven Spielberg's Forgotten Gem","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" 25-year old Clovis Michael Poplin (William Atherton) is imprisoned waiting to be released.His 25-year old wife Lou Jean (Goldie Hawn) makes a visit and tells him to escape with her.They should get their child, baby Langston (Harrison Zanuck) back from the foster parents.Things don't go right and they have to kidnap a young Patrolman called Maxwell Slide (Michael Sacks).Soon they have half of the country's police force behind them.The Sugarland Express (1974) is an early film of Steven Spielberg.This one of the greatest directors of all time will turn 60 in a week.He's the man behind many masterpieces but nobody seems to remember this one.I think that's a shame.I couldn't find anything wrong with the picture.William Atherton and Goldie Hawn are brilliant in the lead.Michael Sacks is terrific as the nice policeman.Ben Johnson is marvelous in the role of Captain Harlin Tanner.One thing that makes this movie so special is the fact you start caring about the main characters.This movie is based on true events dating back to 1969.Of course the movie differs from the real events a bit.The movie doesn't have to be like the reality.Those two are very different things. "},{"Title":"Steven Spielberg messes with Texas","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Sugarland Express is the sort of movie at which we have to look in retrospective. It's about Lou Jean Poplin (Goldie Hawn) who gets her husband Clovis (William Atherton) to break out of jail so that they can retake their baby who has been put in a foster home. From there, they lead every law enforcement officer in the Lone Star State on a crazy chase.When this movie came out, Hawn was well known for Laugh-In and had already won an Oscar for Cactus Flower. I think that Atherton was unknown, although he would later become famous as the EPA agent in Ghostbusters. And of course Spielberg made his mark the very next year with Jaws. I guess that this movie is sort of a before-they-were-famous situation. But it is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"OK chase movie","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  She didn't use it that much in this film, but Goldie Hawn has about the sweetest smile in the world. I found the early-70's  Texas scenery interesting. Took me back. Gas prices at 29 cents! A pretty good film overall, if a little unrealistic. Hawn and Atherton's characters were really naive. And Texas cops are not known for having that sort of patience. Trust me. Grade B-  "},{"Title":"He was better at the beginning","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If you have ever heard that Steven Spielberg was a better director at the beginning of his career and you wanted to be sure, this along with Jaws will prove it.A young married couple is about to lose their child to a foster home. He is in jail and she breaks him out. They take a police office hostage and travel across the great state of Texas in the hope of saving their son.Giving a new super small camera Spielberg shows his technical mastery by using it happily within the confines of cars. What makes him a genius is that he is uses technology to aid story and film making while most directors are weighed down by anything technical.This story absolutely blew me away as a young viewer. In later years his directorial style became rather schmaltzy while retaining his technical genius. "},{"Title":"One of Spielberg's Good Films!","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A bomb in '74 (I'm sure; although I was there and should know), this S. Spielberg had heart, humanity, acting and non-toy-Lucas-silliness) to it; just adults trying to get over (apparently based on a true story in Texas or somewhere South of the Mason-Dixon Line). Goldie Hawn is truly majestic (post-Oscar 5 years) as the lead, William Atherton as Clovis (her husband) is as American/authentic/dumb husband good-guy, and Michael Sacks as a highway patrolman (SLAUGHTERHOUSE FIVE) as it gets. Spielberg (like G. Lucas) gave up real directing to become toy manufacturers once they made the bucks. That was their choice. More power to them (I guess)...but this film is a gem.like other early Spielberg and (George) films were in the early '70s. I guess I am showing my age.True-storytelling (on location), throw in Ben Johnson, plenty of extras (who are humans from the planet Earth), and financial woes Texas (I think)style and what do you have? Breakouts, kidnapping, love on the run, plenty of cops with cowboy hats and an unrelenting search for the truth by Lu Ann (G. Hawn) that will bust you wide open. I don't mean to slam Lucas and Spielberg, but they gave up WAY TOO SOON before becoming CULTURAL ICONS and playing to the kids (who deserve Art as well). They know. Check this film out. You may dig it! "},{"Title":"Vastly underrated effort and easily Spielberg's best","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the Steven Spielberg I wish was still working today... a talented storyteller who doesn't pull punches, has a great sense of humour, and doesn't need a lightshow or a deus ex machina plot device.  The ending, which you may or may not see coming, is still a powerful ending.  The film doesn't really stand the test of time that well, but that's besides the point.  Spielberg directs the film with a sure touch and doesn't hit you over the head with emotional overtones, which was to become his trademark in the 80's and 90's with his lesser efforts.  Part of the reason for that is, Universal/ Sid Sheinberg/ Lew Wasserman took a big risk banking on this film with its unknown director, and The Sugarland Express flopped at the box office.  Spielberg was conscripted for Jaws and in effect, became Sheinbergs fair-haired boy.  The rest, as they say, is history. "},{"Title":"Pure Texas Trash...I Can't Get Enough of It!","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  THE SUGARLAND EXPRESS was Steven Spielberg's first feature film as a director about a Texas couple who set out to rescue their child from foster parents while avoiding police.  This one didn't do much justice at the box office, but it deserved much better, for it was praised by critics everywhere.  Goldie Hawn is sweet in the lead role.  William Atherton is great as Hawn's escaped convict husband.  This is one of the best chase movies ever, and quite possibly the best piece of Texas trash I've ever seen, and that's a good thing.4 out of 5 "}{"Title":"a pleasant surprise","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  For some reason, I had never seen this movie before this weekend; I missed the theatrical release, and I can't recall seeing it on TV. But no matter the widescreen laserdisc was on sale, Spielberg is a great director, so I took a chance. What a treat! Humor, drama, good acting, and great directing all in one.Not a blockbuster like some of Spielberg's later work, but definitely a well-crafted movie. Goldie Hawn is wonderful as the willful but lovable wife and William Atherton gives a convincing performance as her gullible husband.  "},{"Title":"Early Spielberg film is funny, touching, and true","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Steven Spielberg's first theatrical feature is the true story of Lou-Jean Poplin, who broke her neer-do-well husband out of a Texas prison, kidnapped a cop and stole his car, and all so they can get their baby son back, who has been living with another family.  There are shades here of Raising Arizona (1987), but Spielberg's story is played with drama and lunacy, and remains touching.Vote 7 "},{"Title":"Spielberg's most underrated gem","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not many people have seen this one, and it doesn't show up on TV very often, but The Sugarland Express is a very good film. It is Spielberg's first major studio picture (after the made-for-TV Duel), and while it certainly isn't as dynaminc as his second film, the flawless Jaws, it IS a very fine movie. Goldie Hawn is actually quite good. This was before she adopted the Private Benjamin approach to all of her performances. She is really acting here and very convincing as the not-too bright Texas girl naively trying to keep her family together. William Atherton is also very good as her husband. If you only know him as the prick from such 80s movies as Ghostbusters, Die Hard, and Real Genius check this out to see his true range.The Sugarland Express is actually quite similar to the Eastwood-directed A Perfect World (another fine underrated film). Spielberg is already adept at filmmaking in his first feature. It has a sharper edge than the stuff he is most well-known for early in his career (E.T., Close Encounters of the Third Kind and such). And it was based on a true story to boot. If you can find a letterboxed copy you're in for a treat. The camera really makes Texas look otherworldly and a poetic backdrop for this sad tale.  "},{"Title":"The backroads of the Great State of Texas are the real star of this fantastic flick!","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the great Texas tradition of Bonnie and Clyde, a young couple in love go on the run (though this time, they're married ex-cons trying to rescue their toddler from a foster home, and they've taken a highway patrolman hostage).  The great film critic Pauleen Kale praised this movie as one of the greatest directorial debuts in cinema history, and I have to agree. It amazes me that Spielberg, who was about 28 at the time, had directed only television before this, although he was already building up a strong buzz because of some really solid TV work he'd done.As the young mother, Goldie Hawn is good; although she plays her typical blonde bimbo to some extent, there is a real truth the the emotion she finds of a scared young mother.  William Atherton is very solid as the feckless, somewhat browbeaten husband she forces to escape out of Pre-Release.Ben Johnson and Michael Sacks both shine as the police captain and the kidnapped young patrolman, respectively.  Johnson is perfect as a simple, good man who has never been in a situation like this and simply doesn't want to see anyone hurt, but knows his responsibility comes before his feelings. Michael Sacks (who retired from films and the public eye WAY too soon) is just wonderful as the talented rookie in the wrong place at the wrong time--he starts out completely in control of the situation, loses that control, bit-by-bit, and gets deeper and deeper into conflict as he finds himself strongly identifying with and caring about the young couple.  It is a great depiction of Stockholm Syndrome.  It may be a difficult condition to understand, but you can totally understand it when you see it acted this way.Spielberg's direction is tight, focused, and with just the right balance of the serious with the action of the thrill of the chase, and also a well-placed and tasteful humor.As a Texan born and raised in the South Texas prairielands, I also appreciate the fact that the State Troopers are portrayed as sensitive, intelligent professionals rather than bumblers (although the Louisiana Highway Patrol seems to be a little reckless in this film--in one truly strange and unnecessary sequence).  Movies about Texas are always best when they stick to the sleepy villages and the backroads, and treat the state with respect.  It is this view of Texas that all Texans recognize and love, but also that all non-Texans can identify with as the Texas legend. Spielberg somehow really captured the feel of those lonely Texas roads and the kindly souls who live along them.So--all in all, a really great film, but especially remarkable as the debut of a truly talented filmmaker. *** and 7/8 "},{"Title":"MCM1071989's Mini Reviews The Sugarland Express 1974 PG ****","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spielberg's first feature film. An excellent film, probably the best independent film. Goldie Hawn and William Atherton play the Poplins a couple who's baby is taken from them. It begins when Hawn helps Atherton escape from jail and they lead the Texas police department on a long chase to Sugarland, Texas. Ben Johnson and Michael Sacks co-star. Great score by John Williams. **** out of **** "},{"Title":"That's Sugar (Two Words) Land!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" PERSONAL NOTE I saw this movie with my parents in The Palms Theater, in Sugar Land Texas, in 1974, a day or so after the movie opened, nationally. Probably one of the only times, that long ago demolished theater was FULL.A decent flick for what it's worth, I'd have to say. I actually enjoyed it less for Goldie Hawn, than for the other actors involved. Michael (Whatever-became-of-him?) Sacks turns in another good performance. I like his part in 'Slaughterhouse Five', much better, however. And I'll watch just about anything Ben Johnson ever did. His role as Capt. Tanner is so perfect 'Texas DPS officer' it's a hoot. 'Dry' would be an understatement in describing his acting style in Sugar Land Express.I grew up in Sugar Land in the 1970's and I remember the brief bit of filming that went on around our area for the movie. I remember being somewhat surprised that the movie makes the chase from the TC Jester Unit to Sugar Land as a huge, long, drawn out affair. You can see the beginnings of what I think of as 'The Spielberg Style'. Meaning that you use every emotion in watching this movie.Seeing this again some nearly 30 years later is a treat, if you lived in that neck of the woods. The small towns, the police officers, and the big Dodge and Plymouth police cruisers. Take a look! "},{"Title":"Great performances by the bit players","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After Duel, Something Evil, Savage which were all made for TV films and before Jaws came The Sugarland Express from Steven Spielberg.  Loosely based on the true story of Bobby and Ila Faye Dent and their kidnapping of Texas State Trooper Kenneth Crone.  While this film is not the actual tale of that incident it nonetheless is an entertaining  picture with both drama and humor mixed in.   It also shows that before Steven Spielberg got on his `FX' kick in his movies he was able to get great performances from his actors.  While Goldie Hawn, William Atherton, Ben Johnson and Michale Sacks make up the bulk of the acting keep a close eye on the performances of the supporting cast to include the couple that give the Poplins their ride off the correction facility,  The  Texas Rangers sharpshooters and Buster Daniels who plays the good ole boy in the back of Patrolman Maxwell Slides Patrol car. "},{"Title":"Are people really this stupid?","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was not a comedy, but I laughed hysterically at times. Goldie and her antics with the Gold Stamps coupled with the two ignorant rednecks in the car lot were way too much. I swear, nobody is this totally DENSE. Don't know who was dumber, the hapless couple or many of the police officers giving chase. A damn fine show was this, with great performances by the entire cast. I know for a fact that I've never seen this many cop cars in one place before.  "},{"Title":"Incredible underrated gem","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've always thought Sugarland Express to be the mother of films like Badlands, The Blues Brothers and Thelma and Louise among others.  The direction and cinematography are way ahead of their time.  So much so that it at times looks like a modern film with amazingly accurate historical set pieces.Apparently it didn't do very well at the box office, despite its critical acclaim, however this film and Duel are probably the most experimental of Spielberg's works and in a lot of ways the most interesting.  The plot is great, the acting is great; it's a thoroughly entertaining piece. "},{"Title":"The best movie I've ever seen!!!!!","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is truly the best film I have ever laid eyes on!!!!! Everything about it is just so perfect! The actors (William Atherton, Goldie Hawn, Michael Sacks and Ben Johnson) are all incredible, the directing is brilliant - you can hardly tell Steven Spielberg was only 26 at the time. The music by John Williams is also very good- especially the use of Harmonicas, which add a special effect to the country stile of the film.The film is based upon a real event, which makes it even more shocking. Although the movie is not completely loyal to reality, it still gives you stuff to thing about!A word or two about the plot Lou-Jean, a young blond... and a bit naive and childish women -persuades her also young and naive husband Clovis to break out of a pre-release center, so they can both reclaim their infant son Langston who has been sent for adoption. Unfortunately for them, things don't go their way - and they end-up ,unwittingly, hijacking a Texas highway-patrolman and his car and being chased by more than 200 patrolcars (led by captain Tanner) while heading to a town called Sugarland to get Langston. A very special relationship is built between the couple and their captive, during which the young cop understands their causes and feels for them, to the point where he is willing to aid them (as far as he legally can) in their debious mission.I'm not saying who is wrong here and who's right and I'm not saying committing a crime is in any case okay, but this beautiful film makes you think should the law be so quick in taring family apart? should all criminals suffer the same faith, regardless to consequences? How far should the long arm of the law reach and when should it back away? I don't know if the film answers those questions, but it sure brings 'em up, and that is not less important.While watching the film, you cry with the heroes, you laugh with them, you share their faith and most of all you understand they are people like you and me.Don't rent this movie, but buy it! It is not enough to watch it only once or twice! this film is amazing! it would be a crime not to watch it!!  "}{"Title":"Spielberg previews his future genius in an important highly underrated film...","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" THE SUGARLAND EXPRESS was the first feature film directed by Stephen Spielberg, based on a true story about a woman with a questionable past who breaks her husband out of jail in order to retrieve their baby who they lost through some muddy legalities and, in the process, kidnap a police officer who they use as leverage to complete their journey to Sugarland, Texas, where the baby is. Spielberg, in this early effort, is already showing is uncanny ability to tell a very human tale on a grand scale, arousing strong emotion and sentiment, giving us larger than life, yet human characters, and sending them and the viewer on a extraordinary journey that the viewer cannot help but get wrapped up in. Goldie Hawn surprised everyone with her surprisingly effective dramatic performance as LuJean, the mother who knows no bounds in attempting to get her son back. William Atherton is impressive as her cuckolded jailbird husband and Ben Johnson is quietly powerful as the police officer trying to stop the pair. Michael Sachs (whatever happened to him?) also gives a very affecting performance as the young officer the Poplins take hostage. This story is riveting from start to finish and is early evidence of the genius that is Spielberg. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A bomb in '74 (I'm sure; although I was there and should know), this S. Spielberg had heart, humanity, acting and non-toy-Lucas-silliness) to it; just adults trying to get over (apparently based on a true story in Texas or somewhere South of the Mason-Dixon Line). Goldie Hawn is truly majestic (post-Oscar 5 years) as the lead, William Atherton as Clovis (her husband) is as American/authentic/dumb husband good-guy, and Michael Sacks as a highway patrolman (SLAUGHTERHOUSE FIVE) as it gets. Spielberg (like G. Lucas) gave up real directing to become toy manufacturers once they made the bucks. That was their choice. More power to them (I guess)...but this film is a gem.like other early Spielberg and (George) films were in the early '70s. I guess I am showing my age.True-storytelling (on location), throw in Ben Johnson, plenty of extras (who are humans from the planet Earth), and financial woes Texas (I think)style and what do you have? Breakouts, kidnapping, love on the run, plenty of cops with cowboy hats and an unrelenting search for the truth by Lu Ann (G. Hawn) that will bust you wide open. I don't mean to slam Lucas and Spielberg, but they gave up WAY TOO SOON before becoming CULTURAL ICONS and playing to the kids (who deserve Art as well). They know. Check this film out. You may dig it! "},{"Title":"I'm From Sugarland","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm from Sugarland and there is something that really bugged me about the movie. I realize locations are chosen for budget, schedule and story purposes, but jumping around geographically to locations that have nothing to do with the area is really distracting. The closest hills near the Jester Prison Unit are 100 miles west on I-10. Sugarland is nowhere near Mexico (it is on the southwest adjacent side of Houston), so when I'm watching a scene that supposedly takes place in Sugarland, and then the next minute, they're on the Texas-Mexico border, it just about ruins the movie for me. I know I'm being too picky but it seems to be a small thing to ask of a movie maker. "},{"Title":"Another Sign Of The Times","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"12 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is yet another good example of a few bad aspects of films made in the '70s. Having new-found free to say and do a lot of things they never could before, Hollywood went overboard on a couple of items mainly sleaze and profanity. Regarding the latter, viewers heard the Lord's name in vain said regularly. By the mid '80s, that had been replaced by the f-word, which has been in vogue in film-land for the past 20 years.This was famous director Steven Spielberg's second film and he apparently fit right into the early '70s era with a seedy story about seedy characters blaspheming all the time. It was a shock for some of us to see the giggling cute girl from Laugh-In, Goldie Hawn, doing this sort of thing. For some reason, Goldie's face looked fat and she wasn't that attractive in here, anyway. Her co-star, Michael Sacks, never amounted to much - in the story or in his acting career. "}]