[{"Title":"I laughed. A lot.","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"26 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  FEMALE TROUBLE, an early offering from the warped mind of John Waters, is one of the few comedy films I can think of that manages to have its cake and eat it. On the surface, it's a thoroughly deranged bad-taste comedy, populated with the most appallingly hilarious cast of screwed-up social misfits and dysfunctional lunatics outside of late-period Monty Python (think Mr and Mrs Git and the Garibaldi family, or Terry Jones using a loaf of bread to remove cat's do from his stinking feet), but on a deeper level it's a scabrous spoof on the idolatory nature of celebrity, the dogged pursuit of fame by talentless and charisma-free no-hopers, and the whole gruesome phenomena of the media slut and the fashion plate that rules pop culture just as much now as it did when this film was made - perhaps moreso, in fact. If I'm honest, however, the film does seem to run out of steam when David Lochary (a very underrated and much-missed cult actor) turns up as the super-precious media guru and proceeds to market Divine as the ultimate example of his twisted crime is beauty ideal, but only because of all the jaw-dropping, shockingly funny stuff that went before - during the course of my average day, just thinking of Divine literally f***ing himself on that grubby mattress (or 'Dawn Pigpork' and the repulsive Gator pouring bile and invective on a silently smouldering Taffy, or Edith Massey getting one of her pudgy paws hacked off, or Divine's awe-inspiring Christmas day tantrum, or the inspired use of the goofy oldie D-I-G means look) makes me giggle like a goon. FEMALE TROUBLE, moreso than PINK FLAMINGOES (which shot itself in the foot by being slightly TOO authentically disgusting for comfort), should be compulsory viewing - or punishment - for any swollen-headed, supersensitive, quasi-intellectual college boy (or girl) who balks at the Carry On films and the Benny Hill Show. Very often, the more outrageous and revolting the subject matter, the more shamefully hysterical the joke is. One of the enduring facts about bad-taste humour is that it SHOULDN'T make you laugh, but it DOES. And escape valves for all that compassion burnout engendered by (insert your favourite 'good cause' here) don't come much stronger than the work of John Waters. "},{"Title":"9/10","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" God bless John Waters. He's made some of the best, crudest feel-good movies, and this is one of his crowning achievements. It's amazing how his film, ugly-looking and full of lipstick-smeared freaks, can feel positive and upbeat; while he's mocking everything in sight, he doesn't stand back and protect himself with irony or winks -- he jumps right in there, and that involvement, that energy, is easy to see and feel. It's amazing that he can feature masturbation with needle-nose pliers, beating a child with a chair, a game of car accident, and Divine literally screwing himself and not have it be off-putting. The very idea that Waters uses a fat transvestite with a beehive hairdo to illustrate his scorn for school shows he's not so interested in subtlety. And Divine is awesome, as always, his prissy, gravely scream -- a freak you want on your side. This is one of Waters' best satirical attempts -- there are digs at hippies and Hare Krishnas, and two scenes in particular are very prophetic the gay encouraging, and the killing for art. Waters even mocks his own shameless exhibitionism in the testimony of the Dashers. 9/10 "},{"Title":"John Waters' masterpiece","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  John Waters fans usually acknowledge Desperate Living as John Waters' true masterpiece of filmmaking. Just one problem with that film no Divine! Sure, Desperate Living is a great film, but Divine is just someone that goes hand-in-hand with Waters (like Joe Dallesandro with Paul Morrissey). Even though Female Trouble is lesser known than Desperate Living or Pink Flamingos, it is better than those two films put together! John Waters' first film with an actual coherent script and plotline, Divine gives the performance of her career as Dawn Davenport, the juvenile delinquent turned full-time criminal. All of the best Waters alumni are here (only missing later star Jean Hill) and are their best David Lochary as Donald Dasher, Mary Vivian Pearce as Donna Dasher, Mink Stole as Taffy, Cookie Mueller and Susan Walsh as Dawn's sleazy cohorts, Susan Lowe as a bitchy secretary, and last but definitely not least, Edith Massey as bizarro Aunt Ida! Anyone even remotely interested in why Waters is world-reknowned as the Prince of Puke should start here; it's not too mainstream for Waters fanatics and not TOO bizarre for the mainstream crowd who love him for Hairspray and Pecker. Female Trouble features Waters' best writing to date (50% of the lines are instant classics), best costume design, best set design, and best gimmick (Divine raping himself!). Even though this is the pinnacle of John Waters' career, it is still pretty hard to find on video. A re-release is in the works for sometime this year to coincide with Waters' new movie Cecil B. Demented, followed by a welcome video release. This new version will include enhanced video and audio quality and plenty of long-lost scenes!!! A European cut is available from Castle Video, featuring much of the lost footage promised for this year's re-release!  "},{"Title":"A film so perfect, it's revolting","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Female Trouble is one of John Water's best movies, probably the best of his pre-respectable (read pre-Hairspray) flicks. Posessing a much more strong (and bizarre) plotline than the also brilliant Pink Flamingos, Female Trouble documents the exploits of Dawn Davenport, a horrible juvenial delinquent turned criminal played by the unbeatable Divine.This was Water's last film to features his entire original ensemble of actors (Divine, David Lochary, Mink Stole, Mary Vivian Pierce, and Edith Massey) and each has a memorable and hilarious role. Stole steals the show as Dawn's retarded 14 year old daughter, but Edith Massey is also great as Aunt Ida, who constantly urges her nephew Gator to turn gay (The world of the heterosexual is a sick and boring life!). The scene where Dawn hits Ida on the head with a fish is worth the whole price of admission. Recommended!!! "},{"Title":"The film that introduced Dawn Davenport to an ungrateful world","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Although John Waters is best known for Pink Flamingos, his two best films are Female Trouble and Desperate Living. Why? Well, as far as Female Trouble is concerned, it is the film that invented Dawn Davenport (Divine), one of the trashiest white schoolgirl tramps ever to strut her stuff in a pair of cha-cha heels. Dawn's amazing life is documented in this film and it's a cracker from beginning to end. You will laugh, you will cry, you will vomit and you will die as you behold the deliciously disgraceful antics of the indefatigable queen of crime and sleaze.All the delightful Waters regulars (the achingly gorgeous Edith Massey, the fantastically filthy David Lochary, the marvellous Mink Stole and the putrid Ms. Mary Vivian Pearce) are paraded about like proud circus exhibits as Waters' weaves a rags to bitches story of one woman's rise from the suburbs of Baltimore to her fall in a city without pity.Certainly this was one of the first films to explore the issue of criminals becoming celebrities. Dawn Davenport's ascent to the ceiling of crime is hilarious and perceptive and Waters clearly knew where all this was going. For mine, Waters lost his zing after Desperate Living when his movies got softer and his characters started turning up on TV shows like Wally George, Jerry Springer and the earlier Oprah eps. What was fresh when Waters started doing it felt redundant when he kept doing it into the eighties and nineties.Divine is, was and always will be a legend, and I consider myself fortunate that I once spent half an hour chatting with the great man and actor. Vincent Peranio's production design is spectacularly obnoxious and Van Smith's costumes, as always, are knitted from the threads of trash heaven.Waters does not put a foot wrong and ends proceedings on a surprisingly emotional note. "},{"Title":"The Most Realized of Waters films.","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Female Trouble marks the last time the Waters' Dreamland crew works together. Divine plays two characters Dawn Davenport and Earl. This has to be Divine's finest hour in acting. Waters' subject matter and themes presented in this film still hold true to this day. This is my favorite John Waters film. He balances the humor and gross out set pieces perfectly. They compliment each other instead of overpowering one another. John Waters obsession with serial killers and their ilk is strongly represented here.Female Trouble was shot on 16mm , in color and has been shown in several different running times.Highly recommended.A+ "},{"Title":"The world of the heterosexual is a sick and boring life.","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I am at a complete loss to understand why this film was not nominated for an Oscar for costuming, makeup and set decoration. It had the most outrageous costuming that I have ever seen. The sets were so hideous that they made me nauseous. The makeup was beyond belief.That was the good things about the film that featured an outrageous star in Divine, a transvestite that played Dawn Davenport. He was so over the top that I couldn't take my eyes off the screen.This is the first John Waters (Hairspray, Pecker) film that I have seen. He is definitely on the cutting edge in outrageous humor, horror, and satire.This film on the outrageous cult of celebrity is no more outrageous than the current obsession in the media with Paris Hilton.If you haven't seen a John Waters film, check out the Sundance Channel for this one. "},{"Title":"John Waters' Masterpiece!","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is my favorite of all time!  All of the great elements of John Waters' films mesh together perfectly in this hilarious romp that operates around the theme of 'crime is beauty.'  All of the classic John Waters' actors are here, and most of them give their best performances. John Waters has said that this film is the 'ultimate Divine vehicle', and he's right.  Her look literally changes every ten minutes as she mutates from a teenage hair hopper with an attitude to an unwed, abusive mother, to crime fashion model to death row inmate.  Divine also has a small male role as the father of her own illegitimate child.  Edith Massey, my personal favorite actress, gives her funniest and best realized performance as Aunt Ida, the bitter, veangful fag hag who lives next door. This is not the most accesible of Waters' films, and truthfully, this probably isn't the one to start with if you're not yet a fan (I would recommend Polyester or Hairspray in that case), but if you want to see an early work thats not quite as gross as the others, check it out!  Waters himself says that this is his favorite of his underground films.   "},{"Title":"Top ten of all time","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Funnily enough, around the time that Divine sits in the crib with the pile of dead fish I started thinking about the words of the Bomb Squad's Hank Shocklee - If they want noise, let's give them NOISE! Yes, friends, Waters is the queer Public Enemy, tying identity to culture, cranking the most alienating elements of same to 11, and losing great chunks of his own demographic in the spectacular, chaotic process. This was made right off the midnight-movie success of Pink Flamingos, and presumably this facilitated a budget, and presumably this led to the extra notch of competence that keeps the movie barreling forward from beginning to end - there's even an original theme song, plus thirty glorious seconds of Nervous Norvus singing H-I-P. In most underground movies a scene featuring the lead actor, in two roles, raping himself for two full minutes - and THEN taking off his pants - would be the climax, not the inciting incident! And Edith Flav Massey yelling NO I don't want any god damn eggs! is an even better inversion than the new Bond's martini line. A triumphant cinematic masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Go Divine, Go","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"       This is John Waters at his zenith.  In ten minutes time this film has more hilarious, outrageous humor than most other underground, drive in films do in their entirety.  Like with PINK FLAMINGOES it deserves accolades for it's sheer tasteless audacity.  It is consistently funny, unrelentingly perverse, obnoxious, and ugly.  Just like you would expect. It also has Waters film trademark of having the actors shout their lines instead of saying them.     This is much more of a solid satire than many may originally presume.  In some ways it was way ahead of it's time.  It keenly shows the cult of celebrity and the desperation some have to obtain it.  How skewered the famous and infamous have become and our over emphasis on beauty.  It also shows how the media exploits the desperate and causes the distorted image.     Above all though this is really Divine's vehicle.  She (he) steals every scene she is in.  Even just watching her do modeling poses or dancing on a bar top is hilarious.  She also writes and performs the opening song and even plays a male character that has sex with her female character (very well edited).  There's also one inglorious moment where you even see the close up of his genitals.       For those with the right mentality this is pure entertainment.  It's also has a perverse brilliance that has lost non of it's edge of potency.8 out of 10 "}{"Title":"I got sumthin fer yer face!!!","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beyond criticism, the films of John Waters are not so much movies as they are experiences. You don't watch them, they happen to you. Nonsensical and impossible to be taken seriously, the early films occupy a unique place in cinema history because they gained an audience solely based on their ability to be deliberately outrageous. Although John Waters continues to make films to this day, there is nothing in his recent work that quite recaptures the lunacy of these early movies.Dawn Davenport is a teenage ne'r-do-well who hates school and eats meatball sandwiches in class. She runs away from home, on Christmas Day no less, when she doesn't get the pair of cha-cha heels she wanted. Dawn gives birth to a baby from a rape/tryst she has with a sloppy blue collar piece of trash named Earl, and she raises little Taffy on her own. Dawn's eventual life of petty crime, aided by Chicklett and Concetta, develops into a more serious situation when she meets up with Donna and Donald Dasher, who run a hair salon where the patrons must audition for service (only the trashiest girls are chosen). Dawn also marries one of the hairdressers named Gator, who just happens to live right next door to Dawn with his Aunt Ida, a senile old woman who dresses in leather and encourages Gator to become gay. The Dashers convince Dawn to become a crime model, where they photograph her committing various crimes, until Dawn's hunger for stardom leads to a climactic stage performance where she causes a deadly riot by firing a gun into the crowd. Although it is not clear exactly how many people Dawn has murdered, she is tried, found guilty, and summarily executed, at which time she goes into a sort of ecstasy at this final act of stardom.Divine was a comic genius that will not be equaled any time soon. He never once drops his pose, or misses a beat, not even when the rest of the film is obviously dragging (did we really need that protracted chase through the woods?). Edith Massey, on the other hand, is in a class by herself. She elicits the same sort of emotions as Divine--repulsion, hilarity, curiosity--but for different reasons. She is so obviously reciting her lines that her performance takes on a bizarre quality that will probably never be repeated in the history of cinema. I doubt anybody will ever show an obese, elderly woman fondling her breasts in front of a mirror again, and just the fact that Waters was so willing to go there is almost as absurd as the fact that Edith Massey agreed to go along with it in the first place.The flaws of the film have a lot to do with the pacing. Although there is some humor in Dawn's interaction with the women in the jail cell at the end of film, the film seems to go on and on, and Dawn has become so gratingly annoying that we are glad to see her fried in the chair. It's also impossible to read any type of message or meaning into any of it. Waters seems to be lambasting the way that criminals are made famous, but he does not give us much evidence of Dawn's supposed notoriety. Dawn's world isn't exactly portrayed as desirable, so it's not like she's speaking for anybody, it's just silliness. The bulk of the film is simply about Dawn's twisted world existence and the seemingly demented people that enable each other to live there.The dialogue is so over-the-top that the film is literally a string of one-liners. But when the one-liners stop coming, the film loses its reason for being.The up side of it all is, what does work in the film is manic genius. The early scenes in the classroom, which pits Dawn and her crowd against the goody-goody, popular girls, is probably the best scene of its type ever filmed, capturing the dramas and unspoken conflicts of high school to a T. Waters's script gives a flawless comic treatment to subjects like child abuse, rape, and mutilation...not your typical comedy fare, but he finds the inherent pathos in all of it. The characters never seem to be in any real sort of danger or threat, but rather they expect what is coming to them and accept it, all the while planning what twisted revenge they will seek when it's over.Even with its flaws, this film is not to be missed by anyone who needs to have the sick side of their sense of humor tweaked by a master. "},{"Title":"Good Entertainment with Bad Taste","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" FEMALE TROUBLE- It's astonishing how such an underground film can achieve, somehow, a level of entertainment that is very memorable. It's funny as hell, dirty as anything I've seen, and it makes you wonder what other gold you've missed from that time period.Female Trouble works on many levels. A reason, I think, I and many many others adore this little film is because we can relate to it. It's definitely, to me, considered a masterpiece. It is a metaphor for the bad places we can go in life and the consequences of our stupid actions.Anyway, Waters brings a great sense of morality to his film. When you watch this movie, you feel as if you can't believe you're watching such filth, but you also say to yourself, I'm actually enjoying this...a lot! It is divine trash indeed. And speaking of Divine, he MAKES this film. Divine is soooo hilarious that it's really indescribable. All the acting is good and refreshing, too.This was the first Waters movie I saw and it sucked me in to see his other cinematography and watch it. Female Trouble remains my absolute favorite and will probably remain that way (I still need to see some of his even earlier films). This is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED for great laughs and a great time.9/10 "},{"Title":"I seen this movie . . .  ?  LOL baby","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I just looked through the reviews and the last one begins with the line I seen this movie. . . . and then goes on to call it the worst movie ever made and asks why, why was it ever made. Uh, friend? This movie was about YOU.Let's face it. There are some unfortunate people in this world. These are the people who are completely befuddled by a line like I'll have two chicken breasts, please. The poor things. We know they'll never get it, there is no hope. If you know somebody who didn't like this movie--for whatever reason--drop them. They're not the kind of people you want to hang with.I was lucky enough to see Female Trouble when it was first released. It's hard to communicate how joyous an occasion it was. Finally, someone was making movies for US. Who was US? All the people in the theater laughing and cheering.There are so many quotable lines. Practically every line in the film--even out of context-- conveys its joy and lunacy. For years a friend and I quoted a line back to each other at appropriate times Yes I did, and I'm proud of it! The line is delivered by Divine at her trial when she is asked if she killed her daughter. Pick any line at random; you'll find it will be appropriate to use SOME time during your life....I personally like this movie best of Waters' work. There is something profound about it, a quality few satires possess. I'm glad IFC is running this film so that younger versions of US can see and appreciate this movie, and know that they are not alone. "},{"Title":"So wholesome","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This afternoon I was watching a rerun of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood on PBS and thinking about watching some of John Waters' film Female Trouble, and it occurred to me that both shows were very wholesome, at least for me, and that I should post an explanation of why I think they are. Of course the two shows are a lot different, but here's my explanation of why they're both so good and wholesome. Mr. Rogers is wholesome because of the support he gives to children. I remember hearing an interview of his widow, who talked about how after his death, she'd heard from a woman who said he probably saved her life when she was a child. She was abused, but every day she'd watch Mr. Rogers on TV, and he'd tell her she was good. That enabled her to move on and not become a hater, drug addict, and such like. So one way to put that is to say that this show enabled children to deal with traumas they had experienced or might be in danger of experiencing. Mr. Rogers was a real friend to children whom he never met because of the gentle way he talked about life and the various things children would see and deal with. For me, Female Trouble's wholesomeness is different. I say for me, because I don't know if it's necessarily wholesome for everybody. Not everybody can profit from every movie. Movies are too diverse for that. But I think it's wholesome for me in a way that's quite different from Mr. Rogers. Of course I'm an adult, and this is a thing that's specifically for adults, as I understand it. We have experienced a lot of pain in our lives by the time we reach adulthood, and Female Trouble provides a sort of relief from it. Maybe especially if we aren't the winners in the world. Not the people who got the girls, were the football stars in high school, and such like. Maybe because on some level, a person who hasn't been a winner identifies with Dawn. She's definitely a loser who thinks of herself as a winner, and we can laugh at that, but it also means laughing at the shams of the world at the same time. At the same time we laugh at her delusions, we laugh at the ridiculousness of anyone trying to get famous. I do think Dawn is the hero of the movie in a odd way, because at least she's always true to her ideals. She always tells the truth, however twisted it may be. And actually, I find the scene in the prison strangely dramatic and sad. Especially at the beginning. You expect it to be silly like most of the rest of the film, but I think Waters wanted to project a real sense of pathos there. It's not just funny. It's true that the scene where Dawn gives her speech on the electric chair is funny, but the one where she's in the cell with the other two inmates has a strangely dramatic quality to it, even while Dawn acts silly. It brings me to tears sometimes. Another reason the movie is a relief from the pain of the real world is that while lots of awful things happen in it, they're so exaggerated, so over the top, that they don't seem real. When Dawn strangles her daughter Taffy, you can laugh at it, because it doesn't seem real. The very idea that she'd be upset because Taffy joined the Hare Krishnas doesn't make a lot of sense, like a number of other things in the film. So the violence in the movie doesn't desensitize you to real violence, because it doesn't seem real. So to summarize my point, Mr. Rogers is wholesome for people who are just beginning to deal with the world, and Female Trouble is wholesome for some of us adults who have lived in it and need relief from its pain. Now, in saying these things, I'm not implying that Waters was trying to make an edifying film when he made Female Trouble. He was trying to make one that is fun. Fortunately, what was fun for him and the actors is also a lot of fun for us, and wholesome in the way I explained. "},{"Title":"I've Got Lots of Problems&#133;","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Devine was certainly no stranger to trash films when John Waters assembled the cast of this Baltimore gem, and it shows.  Devine is gregarious, derisive at times, a stunning fem fatale who nearly steals the show as both Dawn Davenport, and her alter-ego, Earl, who staggers and lurches his way into our hearts.  This film is one of the few times Devine did male drag, and he pulls it off with astonishing effect.  Mink Stole is priceless as Taffy, Dawn's long suffering daughter, and of course who could forget Edith Massey as the torturous Aunt Ida and Dawn's nemesis.  Almost as brilliant are the performances of Mary-Vivian Pearce and David Lochary, the demented couple who, after interviewing her to become a client in their Le' Lipstick beauty salon, befriend Dawn and encourage her into a fetid and ribald modeling career.  Yes, it's shameless, destined for ruin, utterly unbelievable, and I loved every minute of it.  Water's dialog is vehement, abominable, and not to be equaled.  It's a shame that he hasn't been able to find replacement versions of Devine and Massey.  It was the unorthodoxy of his whole approach to film in the 1970s that endeared thousands and made Devine a gay household name.  I hope one day he can return to his roots and get down to building more fine trash.   "},{"Title":"Must See If You Must","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" 1974? Oh, what a foretaste of redneck Devine. I'm surprised the Comedy Channel doesn't play this movie twice a week. I stumbled onto this thang totally blind. I newly have the DVR thing and was checking for possibilities. I looked at the title and thought Why not give this piece a chance, I can always abandon. I didn't abandon but frankly I took three sessions to finish the movie but that's not a slam on the movie. Quite the reverse. Who could eat a whole pie in a single sitting without throwing up? Yet, consumed part at a time the whole experience is Devine. The movie seems to have been played at High Camp all the way. This was at a time when few fully understood High Camp. Writer, cast and crew of this movie got it. While this movie absolutely may not be for everybody, for me it was full of laughs. What more could you ask at the end of another grim day in the grind? "},{"Title":"What else is to say?","Date":"6 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm asking myself why I'm writing a review about this masterpiece of all times. What else can be said about Female trouble? I pride myself on being a Dreamland hard core fan, but I feel dull right now because I cannot express in the right way what I think and feel about this movie. Let's say it was a revelation to me, something that can never wear out. I watched this movie many, many many times and it's always like I'm watching it for the first time. Shall I say it's funny, hilarious, meaningful, what else? It's all that and much more. It's more than a movie, a way of life, something that can change your life for ever. If you are feeling depressed watch it and your life will get a new focus. To cut short on a long story, this picture has became a part of my life, something that it's not likely to happen all the time. "},{"Title":"She had a lot of problems!","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" One of John Waters' very best films from his earlier years is the cult classic, Female Trouble. It stars the hefty transvestite Divine as juvenile delinquent later turned high profile criminal Dawn Davenport. This film has it all and it is guaranteed to offend. Edith Massey puts on a great performance as Aunt Ida delivering such classic lines as I worry that you'll work in an office, have children, celebrate wedding anniversaries...the world of a heterosexual is a sick and boring life!. Some classic scenes from this movie include Dawn toppling the Christmas Tree on top of her mother, the infamous scene where Divine gives birth to baby Taffy (she chews off the umbilical cord and spits it on the wall!) and the even more infamous scene where Divine (in drag) has sex with Divine (out of drag...complete with skid marks in his underwear!)...and this is just scratching the surface of the outrageous scenes in Female Trouble. "},{"Title":"The essential Divine/Waters movie","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Easily my favorite comedy film, I've seen it dozens of times and still laugh myself sick each time I see it.  I remember seeing it the first time, and whilst my friends commented on how disgusting but funny it was, all I could think about was how much I wanted Aunt Ida to live down my street. There's a huge number of gay in jokes that will not all be apparent to straight audiences, but everyone with an at least mildly warped sense of humor should enjoy it.  In my opinion, its Divine's best performance overall (although as individual speeches go, I have a particular liking for the rant she gives in Pink Flamingos after receiving a turd in the post).  The sets and the costumes are amongst the best ever created irrespective of budgets, and are way beyond kitch, but are somehow extremely glamorous ('hard core art' as Donna Dasher would say).  There are so many classic, quotable lines its almost impossible to choose favorites, although the foul mouthed and threatening school girls are particularly funny, and Edith Massey gets some of the best lines throughout the rest of the movie.  My own personal favorite bit is the 'rather insane modeling session' just after she comes out of hospital- this is Mary Vivian Pearce's finest hour- 'give us something twisted, give us something warped' was never said with more passion. Now available on DVD, with missing scenes re-instated- you can once again see Earl Peterson's unwashed member as he tries to seduce his daughter.  Divine's go-go dancing is particularly clear now- you can see every role of fat wobble. How I miss seeing Divine live on stage, there's a few videos around with some of his performances, but none really capture the frenzy of a live appearance by the queen of glamour. Watch this film and learn why he was such a cult figure with adoring fans all over the world.     "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A true comedy masterpiece, from director/writer John Waters (Hairspray, Pink Flamingos), starring the very large Divine, in a tour de force performance. While it has some rather crude, shocking moments, much like Pink Flamingos (along with much of that film's cast), it has 10 times the wit of that film. High levels of camp and gross imagery, combined with a laugh-a-minute script, make this low-budget (shot on 16mm film), underground movie (even today it would repulse most mainstream audiences), one of the funniest films ever made.  Any film that contains lines such as - If you ever get tired of being a Hare Krishna person, you can come live with me and be a lesbian, is okay by me.  Highly Recommended! "}{"Title":"John Waters at his peak...","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Though it's one of John Waters' less notorious films, Female Trouble finds him at his peak. It's funny without being too sick (as in Pink Flamingos) and interesting without being too campy (as in Hairspray).It's a big technical step up from Flamingos, and has much better dialogue. Where Flamingos had long, boring stretches between the shockingly hilarious scenes, Female Trouble is interesting all the way through.Divine is good, as always, but it's Mink Stole who steals the show as her hyper-active daughter Taffy (I was in stitches when she was squirting ketchup all over herself, playing car crash). Edith Massey is also good (well, not good... so bad she's good, I guess I meant) as the bitchy next door neighbour, always dressed in tight, revealing leather clothes. I still want to know where Waters found this woman - she's a hoot!Rating 9/10  "},{"Title":"A Must-See","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Long before John Waters was turning out mainstream-type fair like Cry Baby and Pecker, he was creating underground masterworks such as this and Pink Flamingos and Multiple Maniacs.  Female Trouble, I think, stands out as the best of the cult movies of the '70s (with the exception, perhaps, of the Honeymoon Killers) because it is a fully realized masterwork, not just a series of shocking scenes strung together.  Indisputably Divine's best work, it was light years ahead of its time in exploring how far people will go to achieve fame.  (I'm a thief, a s**tkicker, and I want to be famous.) "},{"Title":"A dark, campy satire","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" John Waters certainly isn't everyone's cup of tea, but those who appreciate his sense of humor and his sense of bathos will love this film, and won't be satisfied (or fully appreciative of it) until they see it multiple times.The fabulous Divine stars as Dawn Davenport, a juvenile delinquent turned stripper/petty thief/hooker/abusive mother turned shrewish wife/model/celebrity turned mass murderer turned death row inmate, and pulls the multiple transitions off flawlessly. (He/she also transitions into the role as the father of Dawn's daughter Taffy, the result of a Christmas day quickie - one of the most disgusting and hilarious sex scenes ever captured on film - at least for public viewing.) While Divine, Mink Stole (as teenage Taffy Davenport), and David Lochary (as Donald Dasher, the beauty salon owner) are the only actors with real ability, the rest of the oddball cast complements perfectly the oddball storyline and dialog.I saw the film as a satire of life in America (or maybe life anywhere) - its obsession with celebrity, scandal, and materialism at the expense of family, faith, and true self-fulfillment, conveyed on film as only John Waters can. "},{"Title":"Classic John Waters! Hilarious!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Female Trouble is another one of my favorite John Water's films. Devine stars as Dawn Davenport, a rebellious teen with a bad attitude. when her parents forget to buy her a pair of Cha-Cha heals for Christmas she flips out, beats them up and runs away. After getting pregnant and having a daughter named Taffy (Mink Stole), she resorts to a life of crime. She lives a dysfunctional life with her abusive husband Skooter. Who can forget crazy his Aunt Ida (Edith Massey), who disfigures Dawn's face with acid. Dawn meets a couple who run a beauty salon. They are interested in photographing her doing crimes. After a time Dawn even resorts to murder. She wants to be a celebrity criminal. She'll do anything for publicity, even if negative. Long before Natural Born Killers and Man Bites Dog, Female Trouble took on the topic of celebrity criminals. Somewhat gross at times, but not nearly disgusting as Pink Flamingos. Female Trouble is colorful, over the top camp at its best. Who can forget a comedy with such politically correct one liners like, Taffy, a doctor examined you when you were young, and you are most definitely retarded. Now that's what I call mother and daughter bonding! "},{"Title":"May make your daughter seem normal","Date":"13 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Two years off of his Pink Flamingos fame, John Waters returns to the screen to prove he is the true filth elder of the seventies. Female Trouble is an exercise in poor taste, perhaps even more wickedly loathsome than the loving events we saw in Flamingos. While that, at times, felt like it was testing the audience's capacity for shock, Female Trouble sticks to a solid story about a troubled teen or later evolves into a trouble adult.The teenager is drag-queen Divine, cementing the fact that he has an unsung talent for overacting and slapstick. He plays Dawn Davenport and is obsessed with getting into trouble in her seemingly never-ending state of rebellion. After she fails to receive the cha-cha heels she wants for Christmas, Dawn runs away, winds up being raped by an odious, disgusting man (also played by Divine, outside of drag), gives birth to a kid, and adapts to a fearless life of crime.Her daughter grows up to be just as outspoken and surly as she herself. The daughter, played by Mink Stole who purposely looks as if she's thirty, is hilarious in every scene she occupies and continues the line of John Waters' secondary characters who overact and are victim to circumstance.Edith Massey makes an appearance has Dawn's lover's Aunt Ida, a morbidly obese woman who always struts her stuff in fishnets and tight costumes. Again, much like Divine, Massey is a natural at slapstick comedy and seems relentless in her ability to find the strangest, most out of place things to say.Like all, or most, of Waters' works, there is a moral or message lodged in here, tight enough to miss if not contemplated thoroughly. Many mistake Waters for being a man desperate in his efforts to shock, when in reality, he's an underrated, hilarious wizard of writing and directing satirical portrayals of families. The message Female Trouble brings us is how we glorify criminals in American. Apparently, Waters paid frequent visits to prison, where he met the Manson family and adopted the phrase crime is beautiful in this film.Also boasting a restoration for the 2000's decade, Female Trouble looks grainy, dirty, and washed out after only being shot on 16mm and then blown up to 32mm. The result is very strange, and Waters' cheaply constructed editing style can be noted in the film, much like Pink Flamingos. Still, it doesn't deteriorate the fun and the message that leaves the viewer much to be endured.This is pure seventies exploitation fun, rolled into a delightfully comedic and satirical package. Waters proves he is willing to write, direct, and fund pretty much any strange idea, he believes, he can make funny and moldable. Female Trouble celebrates its bad, indescribable roots with hysterical characters and a message that is sure to go unseen.Starring Divine, David Lochary, Edith Massey, Mink Stole, and Mary Vivian Pearce. Directed by John Waters. "},{"Title":"If You Watched This Movie, You've Got Lots Of Problems...","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" sinfully hilarious, but ultimately totally revolting. as one critic put it, isn't there a law or something?. i don't think this film actually violated any laws, at least i don't think, most everything was faked here. unlike 'Pink Flamingos'. now i'm sure 'Flamingos' violated some law or another.if you watched this movie you really should face up to the fact that you have a problem. and it's a deviant one. no. ha ha. you probably need help. therapy. i thought this movie was pretty funny too, but it goes way too far in pushing the limits. morbid curiosity isn't everything. didn't curiosity kill a cat or something? at least in this case, turn it's stomach.i like John Waters very much. but he's like Jeckle and Hyde. part sweet, knowing sensitivity, and part demon from the bowels of hell. i think i prefer the sweet side of John better than the other.look. i laughed. God forgive me. but i'm not sure this kind of thing is worth a few laughs. it feels unsanitary. yes there are actually many sophisticated lines of dialog and many real (too real) insights into American society and our troubled times, but still at what cost. this film really does lower the bar in terms of taste. it also makes us too tolerant of deviancy. this movie almost pushes the self righteous, moralizing vigilante in me out to the surface. not a pretty way to feel.i dunno kiddies. trust papa. you're playing with fire here with this stuff. aren't there supposed to be permission slips for this sort of thing? there should be. i don't care what your age.if you want to do this i personally would advise against it, but i doubt i could stop any of you from watching this sort of thing. i guess it's alright. there's worse things out there and it's only a simulated snuff flick. it's alright to do this i suppose if you go to Church, or say a few hail Marys or go seek therapy afterwards. yikes.i didn't know how to number rate this so i just rate it one colossal headache and a pain in the butt. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There are very few films of sublime bad taste.Female Trouble transcends even that.The moment Divine asks Who wants to die for Art?, and after somebody from the audience stands up, says yes, and Divine starts shooting, something really unnerving happens we pass from fierce satire - and as satire goes, the confines of the social - to the realm of the unconditional. We are not back into Breton's old surrealist adage a surreal act is to get out and start shooting people, with its haughty, bourgeois accent, but in a new territory that challenges even that! I still cannot fathom this shifting of gears which exposes our pretensions, if not our infection; John Waters is accustomed in making categories collapse, and oppositions fall into each other, but this is unprecedented and followed by an assault that ends up in picturing Divine as a preposterous conversion of Dreyer's Joan of Arc! I would put this gem in the rare American tradition which starts with Gertrude Stein's Ida, a bizarre writing about the modernistic sainthood of fame and its vicissitudes. John Waters and his Divine saint make that miracle happen again a sublime collusion between fame and shame, saint and quaint, and somehow a cry for affection. "},{"Title":"Dirty Women The History of Female Trouble","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Meet Dawn Davenport. Dawn is your typical, ungrateful, outlandish, hog of a teenager. Dawn hates her teachers, and her parents, and she wants what she wants, when she wants it, and on this day, Dawn has her little heart set on a pair of cha-cha heels. Considering today is Christmas, there will be hell to pay if her loving parents let her down. With Christmas now ruined, a disappointed Dawn curses her parents, destroys all the presents, and immediately runs away from home, with tears in her eyes. In a scene, that has to be seen to be believed, this outlandish hog runs through the neighborhood in a blind rage, eventually meeting up with a familiar stranger. Lust takes over, the new love birds find the nearest mattress, and trash-cinema history is made. With Dawn now pregnant, the familiar stranger wants nothing more to do with her, so like any strong woman in her position, she gives birth, to little Taffy, biting through the umbilical cord, and everything. Now, with two mouths to feed, Dawn takes on just about any job available, robbing houses, go-go dancing, hell, even waitressing. The pressures of motherhood are driving Dawn crazy, this kid actually expects poor Dawn to send her to school, and to feed her, kids can be so ungrateful. Luckily, Dawn gets a job (or something similar) at the Lipstick beauty salon, owned by Donald and Donna Dasher, an exclusive salon for exclusive beauties, and these two want Dawn as there customer (or mascot?). Anyway, Dawn ends up married to a guy named Gator, who works at the salon, and looks an awfully lot like Crackers from Pink Flamingos, but isn't. By this time, Taffy is old enough to be played by Mink Stole (in her best role), and between Gator trying to get into her pants, and just being a lousy husband all together, Dawn is fed up, and divorces him, and has him fired from the salon. With Dawn now divorced, and seemingly, on the verge of murdering her ungrateful daughter, the Dashers feel it's now time to move forward with Operation excitement. Drive poor Dawn insane, get her hooked on heroin, and brainwash her into believing that crime is beauty, and that crime is art. All of this is seemingly put on the shelf after Gators outlandish, aunt Ida throws acid (not the good kind) in Dawns face, scaring her, driving her further into insane. Once out of the hospital, Dawn kidnaps Ida, and cuts her paw off, and finally driven over the edge after Taffy joins the hare Krishna's, so, now seems like a reasonable time to end her ungrateful, little life, so she does, and then kills a few more, during her big debut as a star. With Dawn now on the run, and eventually caught, the Dashers, along with Aunt Ida, of course, testify against her, in court. Poor Dawn was found guilty, and is now dead from the electric chair, but on the up side, Dawn was convinced, that in her line of work, the chair was like an academy award. Dawn knew what she was doing, no moral needed for this mean-spirited story, Dawn won. So, who cares if we fail? Well, probably no one, but they might, if we kill people.After Pink Flamingos, John Waters probably felt that his next project would have a lot to live up to, so, making an impact would be the only option, and, an impact is what he made. Not to say, Female Trouble takes things further, you understand, but, it somehow, manages to be funnier than Pink Flamingos,. In fact, Female trouble is Waters' all-time, funniest film,, not to mention, the most mean-spirited, and my personal favorite. Although. Pink Flamingos is. of course, the masterpiece, this one will keep you interested for as long as it wants. I'd give just about anything for Waters to make just one more like this. These days, Lloyd Kaufman is our only hope for true, independent trash. But once upon a time, Waters was king, and Dreamland reigned supreme. Recommended to mainstream haters with a rebellious sense of humor. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Probably John Waters' funniest film, a true cult classic","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" While Pink Flamingos is much more notorious, I actually prefer Female Trouble. It isn't quite as disgusting (which is what makes Pink Flamingos the quintessential Waters picture), but its much funnier and campier. Also, the pacing is much better, possibly because there's a semblance of a storyline here, not to mention some surprisingly clever satire. Still, I'm far from the barometer of America's sense of humor. If you find the Farrelly Brothers to be even remotely gross, you probably be feeling sick throughout this entire film. However, if you have a strong stomach and a taste for the bizarre and usual, you'll be convulsing with laughter. A good test is reading the plot description to this film. If you find it amusing, you'll probably find the film funny as well. The sheer outrageousness of Waters' films often crosses over into surrealism. To be honest, I never even found the gross-out factor to be my favorite aspect of his work - its his campy and trashy sense of humor.The cast is made up of Waters' early stock company, and they're all in fine form here. Well, none of them are good actors, but they complement Waters' trashy aesthetic perfectly. Divine is over-the-top yet riotous as usual - she / he actually knows how to deliver their lines. The rest of the performers are very awkward but compulsively watchable and hilarious in their own right. And if you ever wanted to see Edith Massey (Edie from Pink Flamingos) naked, here's your chance! To be honest, this begins to wear a tad thin towards the end, but its still full of plenty of laughs and possibly Waters' most enjoyable production. (8/10) "},{"Title":"prime John Waters","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" John Waters made Female Trouble when he still had one foot in the crude (Multiple Maniacs, Pink Flamingos) and the other in the relatively slick (Polyester, Cry Baby, Hairspray, Serial Mom, etc.). Female Trouble is presented in a palette of lavish colors, inspired and off-the-wall set designs, preposterously decadent costuming and generous dollops of grotesquerie.POSSIBLE SPOILER Divine plays Dawn Davenport, who progresses from high school ne'er-do- well in 1959 to hardened career criminal, ending up in the electric chair by 1974. END OF POSSIBLE SPOILER The whole enterprise is clearly meant to be ludicrous and over the top. There are superb camp comic turns by Divine, the unforgettable child-woman Edith Massey as her vindictive neighbor, David Lochary as an ultra narcissistic fashion plate, Mary Vivian Pearce as his snooty wife, Cookie Mueller as a tough-cookie gang member, and last but not least the versatile Mink Stole as Davenport's long-suffering, viper-tongued daughter. These performances are just as effective today as they were more than 30 years ago. Time cannot dilute their on-target expertise; this is as good as camp acting gets.Alas, we also encounter stupidities, inconsistencies and downright narrative sloppiness here and there, but Waters always did have an incurable silly streak. Even though the only obviously dated part of Female Trouble is the litany of now-unfamiliar serial killer references the heroine makes in a monologue toward the end, a look at this director's recent films shows that time has caught up with and surpassed him. Who could have imagined in the 70s (well, I did!) that his aesthetic would become the norm of American popular culture in the 21st century - in a non-ironic way!? Just watch prime-time TV any day of the week or read the latest Hollywood/celebrity gossip, or pick up the Starr Report, or watch a TV news special about methamphetamine labs in Iowa, or go to a Tony Award-winning hit Broadway musical called Hairspray. So unless Waters engineers some kind of unanticipated late-career breakthrough, he will never have anything else to satirize and can collect royalties from continued Broadway musicalizations of his films. Could Female Trouble The Musical be next on the Great White Way? "}{"Title":"A blend of horror and comedy-A true Waters film","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" In 1974, John Waters created his masterpiece entitled, Female Trouble, a film that began to show the deep and very dark Baltimore humour he uses today. The movie's basic message is Crime is beauty, showing the hysteria of at first, a teenage Dawn (played by Drag-queen Dreamlander Divine) to a vicious and violent criminal only to be betrayed by her partners in crime and later, being executed in the electric chair. Gore is included, even a scene of an obese woman getting her hand chopped off as well as a scene of mutilation of Divine's perfect face. A highly recommended film, not as explicit as Pink Flamginos but with much more quality. If you loved Pink Flamingos, you're in for a hilarious and bizarre oddity. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully appalling, bizarre, in bad taste and hilarious!","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's hard to imagine that there can be any middle ground where director Waters' early films are concerned. Either one goes along for the ride in his outrageously, at times mind-blowingly, lunatic stories or simply turns off the TV in disgust or disappointment. Here, in another one of his early classics, Divine plays a fat, selfish high school student who wants nothing more desperately than a pair of cha-cha heels for Christmas. When she doesn't get them, she tears off into the world, experiencing molestation (from a male character also played by Divine!), motherhood and life devoted to crime and slovenliness. When she goes to an exclusive salon to get her mammoth tresses washed and set, she winds up falling into a relationship with the lanky, listless Potter. Then she is spotted by the salon's owners, who exploit her for their own salacious and degenerate purposes. Meanwhile, Divine does battle with Potter's overly-dependent and protective aunt Massey and with her own daughter Stole, a latter day bad seed who hilariously complains about everything in sight. There just isn't any way to fully describe the plot of one of Waters' masterpieces. Characters exist in their own rarefied atmosphere of filth, ignorance, selfishness, primal desire and excess... and it's preposterously funny! Divine (occasionally resembling Kirstie Alley when she was at her heaviest!) invests the role with a heaving dose of personality and humor. It's wonderful to see the dual role at work, especially when Divine is shown sexually assaulting him/herself! other notable Waters' favorites include the truly one-of-a-kind Massey who is just too full of gleeful abandon to allow an audience to despise her or be revolted by her as they would with anyone like her (if anyone COULD be like her!) They just don't make 'em like this anymore! Potter's unintentionally funny non-acting, complete with horrid mid-western-trash accent, is amazing to behold. He seems to have appeared from nowhere just long enough to do this film and then receded back into the world. One longs for a latter-day interview with the man who, while fully nude, took a tool box to bed with Divine, utilizing needle-nose pliers for kicks! One huge asset is the always hysterical Stole who plays a 14 year-old girl when she was 27 at the time! There's nothing socially redeeming in the least about this film (or in a lot of his others), but there's an undeniable shock value and an over-riding sense of calamitous hilarity that can't be denied and which sets them into a class all their own. It was guerrilla film-making on a $2.47 budget and it's almost sad that he eventually had to go mainstream and become palatable to the masses (not that Hairspray and other examples of his newer work aren't fun on their own terms.) As for this one, it does go on a tad too long, with a couple of overindulgent sequences right near the end, but the homages to those old teen rebel flicks and the 50's melodramas that focused on family angst are so entertaining, it still counts as a hit! "},{"Title":"100% trash--but I liked it","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is NOT one of those cute little John Waters films like CRY BABY or SERIAL MOM that you and your family can watch and enjoy together. No, instead, this is one you rent when your kids are away at grandma's or are at a sleepover. No sane parent would ever want their kids to see this sick film--especially with its frontal nudity and very, very adult subject matter. BUT, for adults with a high tolerance for the weird and bawdy, this is definitely a great film. However, others should be forewarned--it is truly an intentionally offensive and gross film.Yes, the film is deliberately trashy and shocking--featuring some of the sickest and funniest moments on film. Some examples? Well, when Divine's character runs away from home, she meets up with a guy (actually Devine but NOT in drag) and there is a bizarre sex scene where she (?) makes love to this guy (herself). And, to top it off for grossness and weirdness, the guy has huge brown skidmarks in his underwear! Also, there is copious amounts of child abuse, an aunt that is angry that her nephew the hairdresser is NOT gay and she sees this as very unnatural and sick, a Christmas scene that is one of the funniest and most irreverent in history, a hand being chopped off in retribution for acid being thrown into Devine's face, etc., etc. There's just so much over-the-top and funny grossness and awful behavior it's hard to keep track of it all!!The film appears to have been filmed on a budget of about $16.93--with over-the-top acting (if you can even call it acting), grainy cinematography and a script that seems, at times, like it was just made up as the film was rolling. And, together, these actually give the film some goofy charm and make it an interesting bit of social criticism--particularly regarding the cult of the celebrity and beauty. Divine is at his/her most outrageous--with the only prison movie performance MORE amateurish and over-the-top than Susan Hayward in I WANT TO LIVE--which, in many ways, this film parodies in the final segment. Violence, mayhem, violation of pretty much all social norms and a stunning electrocution scene--this film's got a little bit of everything! But, if you let your kids see this, they will never be the same again!!! Watch it and then if others ask, deny you ever saw it--and try not to snicker, as it is truly a hilarious film!By the way, if the raunchiness of this film seems a bit daunting, try watching POLYESTER--it's a bit less sleazy and more mainstream but practically as weird. "},{"Title":"The Ravel's Bolero of trash","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A relentlessly building, frame-by-frame crescendo of deliberate offensiveness. It grows increasingly difficult to separate the broad satire against square society from the equally obvious, near-Sadean delight John Waters and his uniquely talented company of offbeat Baltimoreans take in discovering and displaying new combinations of the perverse and outrageous in nearly every scene. But tracing the roots of crowd pleasers like 'Polyester,' 'Serial Mom' and 'Hairspray' here (and even further back to 'Pink Flamingos') is somehow yet more odd. Edie Massey alone remains above it all charmingly oblivious, preternaturally sweet despite her physical unloveliness and, well, human as always, even locked in a cage threatening to gouge out Divine's eyes with her hook. Her best line 'I don't want no G-d d-mn eggs!' "},{"Title":"Go ahead put me in your 'lectric chair!","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Possible minor spoilers.John Waters and Divine hit the big time with the infamous Pink Flamingos (1972). In 1974 came what I believe is truly their best film, together or separately Female Trouble. When I watch it, I can't help but feel slightly regretful that Waters's career eventually took a more mainstream turn; granted, he still has talent, but when you can make a picture as uproarious and unforgettable as Female Trouble with $50,000 and a pack of friends, who needs big budgets and Hollywood stars?After a great credits sequence (with a title tune sung by Divine him/herself), our story begins in 1960. Divine is the massive, bubble-haired Dawn Davenport, a delinquent hairhopper who loathes the prissy regulations of the world and those who enforce them. After a Christmas disappointment (Nice girls don't wear cha-cha heels!), Dawn goes on a tree-toppling, gift-stomping rampage and runs away to the sleazy world of Baltimore's infamous Block. After waitressing and go-go dancing (in a delightful Faster, Pussycat!-inspired bit), she turns to the ideal profession Crime. Enter Donald and Donna Dasher, the flamboyant proprietors of the Lipstick Beauty Salon, who believe that crime and beauty are interrelated and begin helping Dawn become the most beautiful woman in the world.Female Trouble is one of my favorite movies--definitely my favorite comedy. Divine is absolutely glorious as Dawn and has never looked more beautiful...in the first half, at least; Divine also gets to expand his repetoire, ditching the drag as sickening hog Earl Peterson, whose brief tryst with Dawn results in the gory birth of Taffy. As bratty, tormented Taffy, Mink Stole is hilarious, stomping around in hideous frilly frocks and playing car accident in the living room. Ever-lovable Edith Massey is a delight as S&M-clad Aunt Ida, incessantly trying to convince Gator (Michael Potter) to get some boy dates. David Lochary, Mary Vivian Pearce, Cookie Mueller, Susan Walsh, and several other Dreamlanders give terrific supporting turns. The dialogue is eminently quotable, the photography is beautifully saturated and grainy (capturing the eye-popping colors of Vincent Peranio's sets), and the end is both hilarious and profoundly disturbing. A brilliant underground satire of criminal fame, this is a film that everyone should see! See it now! Steal it for the fullest effect! Be beautiful yourself! I'm off to take some liquid eyeliner now! "},{"Title":"John Waters' Best Film","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Don't get me wrong.  Pink Flamingoes is really Waters' breakthrough film. It's fantastic and states the manifesto for his aesthetic, but Female Trouble I feel is a film that says so much more than simply, Hey, I'm gonna gross you out, and guess what, you're gonna love it!  It goes beyond simply pushing the limits of what one can accept as valid cinema.  It lives out on this unbounded frontier and makes a simple statement.  What is that statement?  Well I suggest you watch it yourself, but it boils down to what is the feeling of complete satisfaction of your most base desires?  Where does art become ectasy and what role does horror play in it all?  Watch this film! "},{"Title":"Brutally Exposing, With Amplification, Hideous Reality of U.S. Suburb","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The major reason why John Waters has emerged as one of the most distinctive American filmmakers with his early cheap and trashy flicks in the 70s and why people still watch them as cult classics is that they brutally expose, with amplification, the hideous reality of the U.S. suburb under its beautiful surface. One of his early masterpieces, Female Trouble, presents such suburbia stigmas as dysfunctional family, rape, teenage pregnancy, and domestic violence, in a straightforward and realistic (for Waters) story. Waters photographs and edits by himself; his frequent technique (up to this work) of introducing a scene with a CU of an object then zooming out looks amateurish but works well in the context. The leading actor/actress, miraculous drag queen Divine's trampoline performance before the catastrophe is just unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Divine Trouble.","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Female Trouble (1974) Dir John Waters / Cast Divine, David Lochary, Mary Vivian Pearce, Edith Massey, Mink Stole Amusingly disturbing followup to Pink Flamingos with a theme that takes mental stability to whole new lows. Divine plays Dawn Davenport, a loud obnoxious overweight teenager who ends up hooking up with Donald and Donna Dasher, a flamboyant couple played with questionable fashion by David Lochary and Mary Vivian Pearce. They enlist Dawn to be their poster girl of crime and film her doing all sorts of horrendous antics. John Waters lavishes in the depraved but his filmmaking hardly improves here. He seems to rejoice in inserted penis shots as well as pointless inserts of a boar head on a wall. The sets are flimsy but his cast have the right kind of over-the-top presence to be entertaining. Divine as Dawn demands our attention, applauding even the very notion of going to the electric chair. Lochary and Pearce play the very enemies poising as friends. Edith Massey as a neighbor despises Dawn because she got her nephew fired. For her crime Massey is locked in a big bird cage and has her hand chopped off. Mink Stole plays Dawn's sassy daughter Taffy who resents her mother and plays smash-up derby in the house in one of the funniest moments. While vulgar and often gross Waters seems to attack celebrity and society's wayward desire for self importance. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"John Waters doing what he does best!","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This really isn't a movie for everyone, but over the years I have been introduced to John Waters movies and they re my guilty pleasure! Before John Waters became mainstream, he made a whole series of art-house movies like this using grotesque characters and ridiculous story lines, but somehow they worked. I guess you gotta be a little weird and twisted in the head to enjoy them!!!! He should not be dismissed as a Director who's out to shock you for the sake of it, he's showing you a slice of life that most of us have no real knowledge about. Of course, all the characters are larger than life (in more ways than one!!!). I enjoy his style of movie making - it may be quite amateur in his early days, but you can see that his skill improves with each movie. I'm not ashamed to say that I enjoy a lot of his work!! Mark my words, this movie is certainly NOT for everybody!!! Make sure you know what you are letting yourself in for before you watch it!!!! It's pretty gross in places!! It's so tasteless it's good!!!! "},{"Title":"The world of the heterosexual is a sick and boring life!","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was not my first introduction to John Waters' controversial films. Besides watching his more clean works, I had previously watched Pink Flamingos, after a period of gathering courage to do so. I had the expected reaction to it, I was disgusted and shocked as I watched him and his Dreamlanders succeed in the task of making the filthiest film ever. I actually quite enjoyed some of the humour - I recall especially the scene where Divine and Crackers try to contaminate the Marble residence, by spitting and rubbing onto the furniture. I hated the incident involving the chicken, though, but oh well.I thought Female Trouble was going to go the same way as Pink Flamingos, filth-wise, but it doesn't (almost), and I think this is John Waters' best film featuring Divine & co. It made me appreciate and understand more the purpose behind it all. If one watches Pink Flamingos without any previous knowledge of the type of movie it is, and what it stands for, one will be simply shocked and tend to never want to hear about it again (although it will forever be marked in one's mind's eye). Watching Female Trouble, I was able to come to terms with the nonsense jokes and the visual glorification of the grotesque. To me, it doesn't just serve as a comedic vehicle, it's also a genius way to defy society and whatever it's thought to be morally acceptable - for all we know, cleanliness is next to godliness.And can any film be more subversive and profane in its ideology and ironic portrait of human beings? One of the most iconic quotes is Edith Massey's I worry that you'll work in an office, have children, celebrate wedding anniversaries. The world of the heterosexual is a sick and boring life!. Needless to say Divine is absolutely wonderful in this, the rise and fall of a once typical troubled teenager who ends up getting caught in the twisted desires of others, ending up in a sort of maniac narcissistic frenzy. And questions such as the cult of image, beauty and fame at all costs are all presented to us in a hilarious way.Anyway, I'm glad I got to discover this different kind of filmmaking, which is often dismissed for its graphic content, rather than being taken lightly as an interesting critique of American society and a fine exercise of trashy/nonsense humour. "}{"Title":"No pink flamingos but at least it's funny!!","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I rented pink flamingos and female trouble came with it.Both are john waters movies and i wanted to see pink flamingos first. I've watched pink flamingos 3 times and had to shut it off each time because parts of it made me nervious.But i'am just wasting your time before i tell you about female trouble. If you rented the pink flamingo's Dvd watch the other movie that came with it.This is one of john water's underrated classics. It has some good speical effects for a john water's movie.  it's a little more mainstream than pink flamingos but it's not mainstream enough to watch in front of your mother.I've watched this in front of my father and little brother and we were weak during most of the movie.Some of my favorite parts in the movie was Liquad eyeliner,The theme song And Divine(guy) Raping Divine(girl). That part was interesting because it's the only movie i saw  an actor play both rapist and victim.How can i pick a favorite scene i liked the whole movie And i'am the type of person that can pick a favorite part of a movie with ease.I'll give these words a warning before viewing this movie it may be harmful to viewers who are excessivly serious or who is offended when they see a little bit of nudity.Just like pink flamingos and ping pong club not to viewed by young children or any child of any age for that matter.  "},{"Title":"Crime is Beauty *SPOILERS*","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Dawn Davenport(Divine) is the worst girl in school. She doeshorrible on tests, smokes in the bathroom and eats meatballsandwiches(Yum!) in class. But all Dawn really wants is to get herbeloved cha-cha heels for Christmas but her parents seem tothink otherwise so she attacks them and pins her mother underthe Christmas Tree. She then proceeds to run away from homeand is picked up by a greasy slob called Earl(Also played byDivine) who takes her and has sex with her on the side of the road.Dawn then becomes pergant with the very bitchy Taffy and lives alife of crime with fascist beauty parlour owners the Dashers(MaryVivian Pearce and David Lochary) until eventually being sentencedto death in the electric chair. An amazing finale to an amazing film. I can never really decide if this is John Waters' best movie but itdefinitely is a highlight in his career. The performances by Divine,Edith Massey, Mink Stole and Lochary and Pearce are sensationaland oscar worthy. If only there could be a spin-off made about all ofthem but since most of them are dead, it really isn't in the cards.Divine really steals the Dawn Davenport, but as Earl, the greasyugly slob who picks up Dawn on the street. I would have loved tosee more of Earl in the film especially scenes where Earl andDawn interact. Divine proved in this film that he was capable ofbeing more than a drag queen. He could also play brilliant maleroles as well(He got the chance to play another male role inHairspray shortly before he died). Overall, this was a worthy effortby all involved and the director's cut recently released on DVD let'sus see John Water's original vision of his classic film. "},{"Title":"I'll have two chicken breasts please - Mrs. Donna Dasher","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" You must have a demented sense of humor to enjoy this film. It's the story of Dawn Davenport, from Baltimore, Md. She runs away from home on Christmas morning, after she knocks the tree down on her mother, because she didn't get black cha-cha heels! She hitchhikes & has sex on a dirty old mattress in a lot (Divine plays both roles Dawn & the guy who picks her up with poop-stained underwear) & becomes a single mom to her daughter Taffy. She physically & verbally abuses Taf & descends into a life of crime. favorite scenes Teenage Dawn eating a meatball sandwich in class, Taffy playing car crash with ketchup on Dawn's fine furniture, Taffy walking in on Dawn & Gator in bed, Dawn amputating Aunt Ida's hand after she throws acid in Dawn's face. This is pre-Hairspray & Serial Mom it's twisted, demented, & hilarious. (Divine's mom recently wrote an interesting book called My Son Divine by Frances Milstead). "},{"Title":"Simply Divine","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I recently purchased the double DVD of Pink Flamingos and Female Trouble.  I had seen PF before, and was utterly disgusted, revolted, and pleased all at the same time.  Waters is a true Artistic genius.  He isn't afraid to direct anything on film.  He takes the reality of a totally Fked up world and delivers it with such grace.  The opening song for Female Trouble, sung by the late Divine, is simply the beginning of a simply earth shattering film.  It is still going through my head....I got problems/Female Trouble...  Anyway,  this film movies swiftly, and delivers many fists to the gut...Divine is 100% into this film.  Her/His performance is just marvelous.  Mink Stole is hilarious as Taffy, Dawn's retarded daughter.  And Edith Massey, well, You just have to see her in that black outfit...it almost makes me believe there is no good...what a frightening image to hold on celluloid.Get this movie, it is a true classic from the Waters vault...not as raunchy as Flamingos, but it offers much more, a bizzare story, with bizzare characters, that in many ways, works for the new millenium.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"a suburbanite looks at Female Trouble","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The first time I saw Female Trouble I was a sheltered  suburban white boy and it blew me away. The film begins in white suburbia and we quickly see that Dawn Davenport ( Divine) has just about had it with her lame parents and teachers. She is driven to extremes by the numbing vacuity of her surroundings. I hate this school and all these teachers who don't know one thing.I hate my parents  too.From there Dawn follows her own dim lights to where they will lead her. She's always true to herself and is refreshingly driven by her id. I applauded her audacity and courage as I watched her destiny unfold and lead to it's awful end. But I watched from the numb, vacuous safety of my suburban shelter. One thing I noticed was how close a connection there is between Dawn her friends Chicklet and Concetta  and Edina Monsoon and her friend Patsy Stone of Absolutely Fabulous. Like Dawn, Edina is a willful,  childish, self-centered grown-up with a daughter who is appalled by her mother's immaturity. Both Taffy and Saffy are the voices of maturity while their mothers and their friends are the irresponsible children.    "},{"Title":"OH MY GOD!!!","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is John Waters at his best!  I found this remarkable gem at Blockbuster today, and nearly went insane when I found it there.  This is John Waters' funniest, and most shocking movies, right up there with Pink Flamingos. (In this case, I should say Pink Flamingos is right up there with this.)  This is definitely John Waters best movie.  It is unbelievable that this video is out of print.  Some people must be very ignorant to not print THIS video. Anyways, in the rare case that you see Female Trouble in any store, BUY IT! If you don't like it, you can sell it for tons more than what you paid. Then again, if you don't like it, there's definitely something wrong with you. "},{"Title":"John Waters' greatest film!","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Though it's not as notorious as its predecessor, Pink Flamingos, Female Trouble is head and shoulders above that film.  Like his other early shockers, it has to be seen to be believed.  And, rest assured, when you do see it, if you have an especially twisted sense of humor, you'll laugh yourself hoarse.  Divine gives the performance of a his/her career playing a teen delinquent turned serial killer.  This film treads the same ground as the much tamer and much less funny Serial Mom.  A great introduction to Waters for the uninitiated. "},{"Title":"Crime is Beauty Or, How You Too Can Be Famous","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In his first film after his magnum opus, Pink Flamingos, John Waters bad-girl epic was his most fully conceived at the time. The premise of this one is basically a take-off on the greaser chick flicks of the 50's, in which juvenile delinquents cat-fight and put on too much make-up. But Waters takes the concept to its ridiculous extreme by following Dawn Davenport into adulthood, where a life a crime is complemented by motherhood and a career as a crime model. A stand out performance is turned in by Mink Stole, as Dawn's bratty daughter, one of the few people in the film who pull off what normal folks would call acting. Also, Waters improves on his earlier films by using the disgusting scenes as devices to move the plot forward. For instance, when Edith Massey's character busts into Dawn's apartment to throw acid in her face, her  benefactors utilize her newly hideous appearance to push their crime is beauty philosophy. Dawn's delusional state (caused partially by her mainlining liquid eyeliner) causes her to believe that her ultimate role is that of death row inmate, receiving the electric chair as though it was an Academy Award. Waters again brings up an interesting social point the notion of fame in America is so twisted that we regard criminals and other lowlifes on the same level as movie stars. Does either group really deserve the adulation it receives? Waters' own fascination with serial killers and mass murderers is well-documented; in the end, perhaps they are the more deserving of our attention instead of the blind devotion we spew on Brad Pitt for looking cute, as long as he's not talking. "},{"Title":"John Water's Best","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" While Pink Flamingos is so gross and outrageous its funny, Female Trouble is just a flat out hilarious film. Divine shines as Dawn Davenport, and his performance is hilarious. The laughs are non-stop, and thats because the writing is so good. The characters are so colorful and crazy. Like Aunt Ida, played with overacting brilliance by Edith Massey. And Taffy Davenport, Dawn's daughter, played by Mink Stole, who steals the show. Dawns bosses Donald and Donna Davenport bring twisted beauty to new levels, while Dawns two friends Concetta and Chicklette terrorize Baltimore stealing TV's and mugging people all while looking fabulous. Female Trouble is John Waters' best film. Its his best written, best acted, and best directed. The only reason, I feel, that its rated NC-17 is because of the full frontal male nudity in a few scenes. The rest is just great.This movie also has so many quotable lines! It's unbelievable!See this movie!!! You won't regret it! "},{"Title":"Exploitation bang for your buck","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Fun take on the fascinatingly disgusting Divine as he/she takes a try at the world of high fashion.  Ridiculous satire is, as always, at its best when not TRYING to be funny, and here Waters mostly succeeds.  Featuring virtually the same cast as the more famous Pink Flamingos.  Good exploitation value. "}{"Title":"The King of Bad Taste will keep you in hysterics with his antics.","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I first saw this film without its soundtrack while at a gay bar in a now gone San Francisco bar, the Phoenix, riveted to the film as disco music pumped in the background. As soon as I returned home to Los Angeles, I had to rent the film to see what I hadn't heard, and I was not bored for a minute. To say that Dawn Davenport had a lot of problems is an understatement. I'm sure she was right down the hall from Tracy Turnblad (of Hairspray) as these both took place in Baltimore around the same time, so watch it with that thought in mind.Tracy was sent to detention for a hair don't while Dawn (the over-sized Divine) was expelled after fighting the girl who tattled on her for eating a meatball sandwich in class. Dawn is then furious when on Christmas day, she opens her present to find sensible lady-like shoes while she wanted cha-cha heels. A fight with her father follows and Dawn rushes out into the cold in nothing but a coat and a slinky, too-tight nighty. Then, she is picked up by none other than Divine, in male guise, and ravished by him, leaving her pregnant and alone. You'll be mesmerized as Dawn delivers the baby herself, goes from hash slinger to go-go dancer to a part of a mugging ring.Divine isn't the only gross-out character here; There's the enormous Edith Massey, stuffed into a one-piece leather outfit, as the aunt of the long-haired man Divine becomes lovers with. If the sight of Divine having sex with herself/himself isn't enough to drop your jaw, try Massey fondling herself topless then strutting around in this leather sausage wrapper as she begs her nephew to convert to homosexuality. The world of heterosexuality is a sick and boring life! she protests, even more aghast by Divine's womanly presence in his life. Daughter Taffy grows up into a Rhoda/Bad Seed/Nellie Olsen like brat who rebuffs her daddy then sets off to find her real father, now a disgusting drunk who ends up repulsing her.Their world changes when Massey throws acid in Divine's face, but Divine uses the scars to accentuate what she already feels to be beautiful. I can't really repeat a lot of the dialog here, but even if I could, it would take away the pleasure of hearing some of the most obscene words put together in a reviling type of poetry. The film sort of falls apart when Divine goes on a major crime spree towards the end, but it really is spoofing all of those bad girl 50's and 60's movies, so that's a necessary evil. I can guarantee that while Waters' later films Hairspray and Cry Baby went on to become Broadway musicals, this one will remain where it belongs, as a midnight cult movie where the somewhat tipsy audience members shout out the lines along with the stars. "},{"Title":"A child psychologist told me to beat her mercilessly every time she acted up","Date":"8 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I watched the 97 minute version. This and Pink Flamingos was lent to me by a friend of mine, and they are my first and only exposure to Waters, other than his guest appearance in an episode of The Simpsons and his role in Seed of Chucky. Well, I'm not a fan. I would have to say that this is the better of the two. Instead of being one long excuse to shock and put the nastiest things they could think of onto the screen(this may have the same amount, but in a much lesser range), this has genuine plot and even sort of a point... crime as beauty(seemingly related to Charles Manson and his family), and the pursuit of the latter. Well, yeah, it's *strange*... remember who we're dealing with. The substance does help this considerably(a little absurd stuff is better than absolutely nothing). There are a couple of funny lines(such as the one in my summary), if on the whole, I didn't find this humorous(the don't want eggs bit was amusing), only offensive. Not a lot of it is in the language, it's largely visual and in the occurrences. Divine is yet again wearing excessive make-up, and again there are characters with odd names wearing weird clothes and hair being obnoxious and not necessarily credible. While the dialog is not as repetitive, and doesn't feel as improvised and ok, guys, we only have time for one take so keep going if you flub a line as in the earlier movie, it's not impressive. Performances are decent, same for the FX. This has a little good music. The technical aspects remain underwhelming. There is a moderate measure of sex and full frontal nudity of both genders in this. I recommend this to those who enjoy John's work, or find what I describe here to be appealing. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Trashy follow-up to Pink Flamingos","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Female Trouble is John Waters' follow up to his breakthrough hit Pink Flamingos and anyone that saw that movie will know exactly what to expect. With this film, Waters delivers yet more bad taste and trashiness; although it's slightly higher quality than the earlier film was and the plot has some extra depth. I think a viewer's opinion on John Waters will largely depend on what exactly they want from movies and thus this is not a film for everyone...and it didn't do much for me. The lead character is Dawn Davenport, a spoilt schoolgirl that wants a pair of cha-cha heels from her parents for Christmas. She doesn't get what she wants, so the brat decides to run away from home, ends up having an illegitimate child and gets involved with a couple of photographers that like to photograph women during acts of crime because that, apparently, is sexy. Davenport eventually makes something of a name for herself; but her fame comes at a price and she ends up on the run from the cops.This film does have more depth than Pink Flamingos; but it's still all about style. No matter what you think of the film itself, you have to take your hat off to Waters for the style of the film, which is completely bizarre and unique. The set design and costumes are completely over the top and this compliments the absurd and disgusting humour well. It's obvious that this film was made on a very low budget; and Waters clearly couldn't afford any good actors. The film does benefit from the presence of Divine, however; the trashy transvestite who delivers another unforgettable performance as Waters' leading 'lady'. The film takes a turn for the surreal on several occasions and Waters adds in plenty of social satire; some of which works (but most of which doesn't go anywhere). The film doesn't pull any punches, and although it is less disgusting than the earlier effort; there's still plenty to make the audience vomit. The structure of the film holds it together well until the ending and Waters does at least tell a story. Anyone that enjoys this sort of stuff will no doubt be in heaven with this trash-fest...but I doubt I'll ever see it again. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Female Trouble (1974) ** (out of 4) Divine plays a schoolgirl who runs away from home, gets pregnant and then hits the hard life. Soon she meets a strange couple who talks her into a life a crime so they can capture her true beauty. It's really hard to judge this early Waters' films because they are technically horrid with awful performances yet that's their charm. The charm also comes from Waters trying to be as disgusting as possible and he does that here up to a point. If you are easily offended then you'd be best to skip this film as we see rape, crap stained underwear, a father trying to rape his daughter, child abuse, Edith Massey naked and a lot worse. I'm not sure I'll ever get the image of Massey naked out of my head and frankly, that scares me. I laughed a lot during the film but it eventually ran out of steam towards the end and I grew very tired. Some of the dialogue is very funny especially the stuff with Massey trying to talk her nephew into becoming gay because she feels gay people are better. "},{"Title":"Decent, but not Waters' best.","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Female Trouble has its memorable moments, such as Divine having a baby and cutting the umbilical cord with his/her teeth, and Divine's killing spree at the theater, but it lacks the shock value of Pink Flamingos and Desperate Living, and unfortunately, drags in several scenes. The scene with Divine performing at the theater was waaayy too long, and a completely unnecessary scene where s/he is waiting to receive his/her capital punishment is completely unnecessary, drags on for what seems like an eternity, and should have just been scrapped altogether. That being said, it's still quite amusing in scenes, the story is about as bizarre as anything Waters has come up with, and thus, the film isn't a complete waste. "},{"Title":"Bizarre...","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Well I caught this movie on the Independent Film Channel and within 1 minute of watching it I understood why it was on that station. This movie was actually kind of funny and it made me think that this was the kind of movie I would make if I wanted to make people angry.The plot moved along and never got bogged down but I really could have done without the shots of the male sex organ.******SPOILERS AHEAD*******READ AT YOUR OWN RISK********YOU'VE BEEN WARNED******************SPOILERS AHEAD*****************************I thought the entire night club scene was hilarious. Even though I would never watch this movie again, Davenport's trampoline scene with her cheesy little stunts and then having the audience go wild was just awesome. And then she pulls out that gun and yells Who wants to die for art?What was even funnier was when that guy jumped out of the audience and yelled I do! and then she just flat out shot the guy!!! That's insane but it accurately reflected the attitudes of that time period. I stopped watching after that. "},{"Title":"Makeover","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It was on IFC tonight, funny movie. Divine is just crazy in this movie directed by John Walters the gay guy older in Hollywood. Now lets see,if they did it today it would be x,or nc-17 the four main players would beSheri Moon as Taffy Daenport the original was good,but I think Sheri Moon would play a meaner,nasty,bitch then the original Taffy. Sheri need to play the part like she did in The Devil Rejects.Marlyin Manson as Dawn Davenport, he would probably have a fat suit on,I think he would play the part excellent,Divine was way out there in real/personal life as well as Marylin Manson. He/she (manson) looks like a she-male any ways.John Walters himself could play Donald Dasher,as the flamboyant, picture guy. Walters directed the-first,but he would be old enough to play Donald,He could be gay,and he will just have one groupie that stands beside him all the time.Need to get a up-dated Donna Dasher, Mary Pearce played the part with sa tifaction,very funny sences with her,but need to be more darker/funnier at the same time.Courtney Cox as Donna, she played in Scream she was very convincing as Gail Weathers the TV reporter,she was dark/a little bit comic relief,Ms,Cox as Donna Dasher would spark new life into the old character,more lines also.The film would be directed by a Gay director and John Walters could also directed the film.New soundtrack......Music by Blondie The Cars Marlyin Manson Samatha Fox and Ghost In The Machine....A Tribute to The Great Divine.... "},{"Title":"Not for the faint of heart","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  typical early Waters, as the boy genius thrashed about for recognition.Here Waters displays the same sort of outrage, much of the cast, but less of the wit, of Pink Flamingoes; when in doubt, JW goes for shock or outrage, often involving body fluids; there's a great deal of inside gay humor involving beauty parlors. He's capable of doing better work, but it may all be worthwhile just to watch Divine sashay down a skanky street in Balto, As if Monroe in a fat suit. This guy has a great talent  that finally comes through in Pecker, which deserved much greater success and recognition. I'd like to lock Woody Allen in a room with Waters and see who survives. "},{"Title":"This is officially the worst movie ever made. Period.","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I seen this movie on cable TV and I think I watched it all the way   through just to see how bad it really was. It's kind of like if you see   a sign that says This is the most disgusting thing on Earth!!!, you   are tempted to look despite the fact that it is disgusting. Same thing   with this movie. I was tempted to watch the whole thing, even though I   knew from the first shot of male nudity that this was already going to   be the worst film that I would ever watch in my entire life. The most   offensive thing in this film is the male nudity. There is absolutely no   point in showing it, it is disgusting and it complete trash. I honestly   can not imagine why this film gets such good ratings. Why people???   Why????????? Why on Earth would you rate this piece of garbage anything   higher than one star? I didn't want to give this film any stars, but   some people say great things about a movie on this website and they   don't give it any stars. I rated this movie to let you know that I hate   it more than any other film in existence. Okay, enough about my hatred   of this movie, and on with the plot. A teenage girl runs away from   home, and meets up with her father, who tries to rape her. I am not   kidding. This movie is the sickest, stupidest piece of crap ever made.   It gets worse. Much worse. The girl becomes a woman and has a daughter.   She works with two people who love to take pictures of people while   they commit crimes. Then, to do a crime for these people's picture   collection, the woman murders her own daughter right in front of them,   then, goes onto a television show and kills people in the audience.   This is the movie equivalent of The Jerry Springer Show. Do not, I   repeat, Do not watch this movie. This movie is terrible, horrible,   awful, pitiful. "}]