[{"Title":"It is all in the mirror","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"332 out of 344 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I just finished watching it. It's been several years since I saw it last time. I worried that I may not like it as much as I used to...I should not have worried - I love it even more now if that is at all possible. I've seen it at different times of my life - first, as a college student many years ago in Moscow; I keep returning to it all my life.When Tarkovsky's Zerkalo (The Mirror) was first released, it divided the audience completely. I remember how my friends were passionately discussing it. One girl was complaining that she did not understand anything; the movie was confusing for her, dark, disturbing, the children characters - sad, pale, poorly dressed. I remember her asking, Why did they show a boy in the opening scene that had an awful stutter, and they never showed that boy again? What did it mean when the dying man in bed was setting a bird free? How did he get the bird on the first place? Another friend of mine, a guy, tried to explain the things to her. He suggested that she thought about the times Zerkalo was showing, he tried to explain to her Tarkovsky's symbolism where the bird could be representing life and soul of the main character and the boy with the stutter could mean that it was most difficult for people to communicate and understand each other. I only listened to their argument and did not participate because I had not seen the film yet. When it finally happened, Andrei Arsenievich Tarkovsky was presented at the screening and he talked to the audience before the show. I remember him repeating over and over that there were no tricks, no puzzles, and no tongue-in-cheeks in the film; that every symbol, image, dialog, and sound was there because they belonged there. He asked us if we had questions. Someone from the audience suggested that we saw the film first, and then, asked questions. Tarkovsky replied that from his experience, not many viewers would sit through the film and who ever would, usually leave in silence, not asking anything. And then he told us a story. After Zerkalo was completed, it was first shown to the group of the famous critics. After watching it, critics started to argue about it, trying to find the hidden meaning and make sense of what they just saw. It went on and on until the cleaning lady who came to the screening room and had been waiting for the end of discussion to do her job, asked them for how long they would stay? Someone said to her that they were discussing a very complicated film, and they needed time to understand it. Cleaning lady asked, What is that you do not understand in this film? I saw it also, and I understood everything. Critics were silenced for a moment, and then, one of them asked the woman to share her thoughts on Zerkalo. She answered, It is about a man who had caused too much pain to the ones whom he loved and who loved him. Now he is dying and he is trying to ask them for forgiveness but he does not know how. After the pause Tarkovsky said that he had nothing else to add about his film to what the cleaning lady had to say.I never understood complains that Zerkalo is a very confusing, difficult, and dark film. No, it is clear and deep as a mirror. Tarkovsky said so himself, and I believe him. Every time you look at the mirror, it will show you new depth and reflections. Past, presence, future, memory, love, guilt, forgiveness, beauty, sadness, nostalgia, and sacrifice - the mirror reflects it all -just watch closely. This is the film about his family, his country, and his times. Childhood memory and the memory of the past generations glued together. The film is a look back in time and sad realization that children reflect destiny of fathers, as in a mirror. Destinies reflected one in another. Zerkalo is not just good cinema, it is pure cinema. Like architecture is music in stone, Zerkalo is poetry on screen. My verdict &#x96; The Best Film ever made, the top of my list (tie with Andrei Rublyov). "},{"Title":"See it and die","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"174 out of 196 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" We are talking visual poetry here. For almost the entire film, every square inch of screen is minutely painted. Ordinary criticism doesn't apply, there is no comparison between this and any other film.So many scenes have you holding your breath in awe. The smallest movement of light is choreographed precisely. A shadow across someone's face, the wind in the trees - these are not simply images of those things, but the ungraspable nature of life, regret, beauty, memory. So much more lies beneath the surface, as we are shown a reflection in a mirror that momentarily purports to be reality, but need not necessarily be interpreted as such.The film's magic derives from Tarkovsky's surefooted ability to succeed with a succession of intense, beautiful images. He cannot put a foot wrong. Discontinuity in the narrative give the appearance of complexity, but Tarkovksy would insist that the basic thrust of the narrative is simple. The film is immensely personal, and the disconnections only serve to involve the viewer more &#150; we are allowed to fill in the gaps ourselves.To appreciate all this you need an essential sympathy for nostalgia and memories, for the passing of life, and for regret. You need an appreciation of a silent room and what it previously held, and of nature. You will need a sense of living in a turbulent and dangerous world, where all beauty is transient and sad. You will need to understand how small moments in life can become the most precious.The film is tragic because, like memories, it lingers. It shows us details beneath the surface and how they can affect us. It shows life in the context of death, nature, the times and places we have passed through. The camera ponders and paints all this in beautiful detail.Of course, real life is never so rich nor so intense - only momentarily so. The film wants to distil as much of that precious beauty as possible in a number of disjointed moments, coloured through memory and imagination, from childhood through to the point of death.Apply it to your own life. There is no more than this. "},{"Title":"Rules are there to be broken","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"133 out of 144 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" To many Mirror is possibly Tarkovsky's most inhibitive and uninviting work, be as it may not a story in the traditional sense but rather an assemblage of images, scenes, and thoughts which at first sight seem to have very little in common and just drift back and forth with no obvious literal explanation. It's only after repeated viewings and the realisation of what it actually was that Tarkovsky tried to achieve that it dawns that this is more than just a bunch of random scenes, but a timeless and highly important masterpiece which defies explanation. But I'll try anyway.I personally hold Tarkovsky in very high esteem. There are many directors I would regard as good or very good (for instance Kubrick, Kieslowski, Ozu, or Miyazaki), but there are only two directors I regard as absolute geniuses Akira Kurosawa and, yep, Andrei Tarkovsky. Interestingly this is for two solely different reasons - whereas I admire Kurosawa for the manner in which he managed to perfect the art of cinematic storytelling, Tarkovsky deserves praise for wanting to shake cinema out of its complacent acceptance that films should simply tell a story and little else. Mirror is further proof that Tarkovsky's body of work (which is limited in quantity - a mere eight films - but rich in scope) establishes that the Hollywood mode of narrative is not the only way in which film can create an emotional response from an audience. Of course Tarkovsky is not alone in having done so (Marker and Greenaway immediately spring to mind), but what distinguishes him from other art house directors is that he has managed to take this style of film making and drive it to a stage that can be described as almost perfect.I personally interpret Mirror as a man's life flashing before his eyes before he dies; his relationship with his wife and mother (both played by the same person, in an ingenious move on Tarkovsky's behalf), his children, his friends, the history of his home land, his own childhood. However, Mirror is deliberately structured in such a way that it can, and will, be interpreted differently by different people depending on how they inscribe their own personal thoughts and feelings into the narrative. This is where Tarkovsky's genius comes to fore - to create a film which does not dictate to an audience how to feel by manipulating them via music or mise-en-scene, but to make it the other way around. In the case of Mirror, we, the audience, dictate the emotional response created by the images on screen and, that, ultimately is that makes it such a wonderful work and a true rarity. This is possibly another way the title of the film can be interpreted, in that it illustrates a wholly reflective style of cinema.Those not accustomed to a slightly more disjunctive cinematic style are likely to dismiss Mirror as boring or dull because it may not necessarily correspond to their expectations of film. However, it is still something I would regard as required viewing for everyone since it shows that cinema can be beautiful without necessarily following the rules Hollywood has imposed on the rest of the film making community, and that ultimately rules are there to be broken. A masterpiece, no less. "},{"Title":"Tops","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"111 out of 121 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It's not easy to make such judgments, but this is my favorite film. A personal choice, for sure, but what MIRROR achieves is the height of poetry and literature. Its final moment, if it works for you (and I can imagine it wouldn't for all), is a success of the method of indirection sought by poetry. Its effect is cumulative and devastating.People often stress the difficulty of this film, but my only answer is to allow it to wash over you and allow it to have its effect. The first time I saw it, I was amazed, but a little baffled. The second time I cried. Each time since then I've teared up, if not actually wept. Its presentation, in its last shots, of the totality of the human experience, combined with the Bach's St John Passion, crushes me every time. And I'm not even Russian. Nor am I religious--this is the closest I get to religion. You just have to be human to understand MIRROR. This is the way of all Tarkovsky. "},{"Title":"Is there anything left to say?","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"56 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" If you have experienced Mirror, and by experience I mean much more than just having watched it (the experience may take multiple viewings to achieve) then you will realise the futility of describing or reviewing this film much in the same way as the inadequacy of a second hand account of a mystical experience.Tarkovsky was a mystic although his religious beliefs are well known there is much less acknowledgement of his conception of God. For Tarkovsky God was everywhere and in everything, his (its) presence is felt in the rustling of leaves in the breeze, the burning of wood, the rain falling (and falling, and falling) on damp fields. Humans exist as a sea of melancholy within the infinite beauty and wonder of nature.Mirror is the closest art has ever been to portraying the mystical experience of one spiritually sensitive individual. The second hand experience can never be as profound as that from your own being. But an odd and sad experience comes from watching Mirror, the belief that your own interpretation of the world will never be so deeply poetic or deep as Tarkovsky's, and the world you see on the cinema screen seems more vivid and alive than real life ever will. "},{"Title":"The Incompatibility of Man and Nature","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"46 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Ignoring other prominent thematic fields like family or marital problems and Russian or Soviet history (from Pushkin via Stalin to the current fear of a Chinese threat), two topics can be extracted from the movie which Tarkovsky seems to be very concerned about 1.The confrontation of Man and Nature as two opposing powers, and 2.The continuum of time (the equation of present, future and past).The importance of topic 2 can be made clear by just considering the film's structure The different time levels are intertwined in an often deliberately confusing way so that it actually becomes difficult to identify them. The fact that the same actors are used to portray different characters of different time levels (Maria=Alexei's mother and Natalya=Alexei's wife; Alexei as a child and Ignat=Alexei's son) underlines the idea of deliberateness in addition. But the interconnection of times is also made visible by the recurrent theme of the so called 'déjà-vu-phenomenon' A character perceives a new situation or action as if it has already occurred before. In fact, he or she gets a notion of the predetermination of everything that happens in his or her life - a horrid thought, because then you can't change anything and have to accept willingly whatever an obscure determinating force has planned for you.Let's concentrate on the last sequences in which the significance and the combination of these themes become obvious. First there is the scene where Alexei, who lives in separation from Natalya, lies in agony, overcome by an unknown disease. He just has the energy to make a last statement for posterity (I simply wanted to be happy!), then he retires from the world, asking to be left in peace.But while he is on the brink of death, he still succeeds in wondrously stirring up life. He takes into his hand a moribund bird, which is lying on his bedside table, squeezes it, and then lets it go so that it can fly up into freedom.Is it the same bird that breaks through a window glass in another scene, or that places itself on the head of that orphan boy whose parents have perished in the Leningrad blockade, as if he wanted to protect him?The birds of Zerkalo seem to take up a symbolic function similar to the dogs in other Tarkovsky movies (i.e. Nostalghia, Solyaris) They represent some kind of link between Man and Nature; they are frontier guards at the gates of the unknown.Tarkovsky sees Man and Nature as two opposing, incompatible powers. This becomes evident again and again, for instance when a vigorous wind repeatedly runs through grass and trees or when drumming rain drenches the landscape. Here Man can only watch in amazement, being unable to set something of equal value against the inscrutable elemental forces.In the closing sequence Man appears at first as if he was embedded in the womb of Nature. Maria, the future mother of Alexei, is lying dreamily in the grass when she is asked by her husband whether she prefers a boy or a girl. But instead of answering his question she is gazing into the distance, and suddenly she sees herself as grandmother, walking across woods and meadows having little Alexei (Ignat?) and his sister by the hand. Then a juvenile Maria appears again, and tears are running along her cheek, but she is smiling at the same time. It seems as if the knowledge of the unstoppable progression of human existence into a single direction (towards old age and death) makes her sad and happy at the same time. She feels grief because of the inevitable loss of youth, but she also rejoices in happy relaxation for she has made out the rules of life as such and has accepted them.At the end the camera follows the way of the grandmother and her grandchildren for quite a while. But again and again trees interfere and obstruct the view on the humans like gloomy barricades. Until finally both ways separate irredeemably The humans have disappeared somewhere in the distance whereas the camera shot pans into the dark impenetrability of the forest. "},{"Title":"Reflections Reflections Reflections","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"36 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Spoilers herein.Many films allow one immediate response; you know while watching how effective it is and at the end are geared for talking or writing about what you have just seen.Others, you need to spend time with. This -- I am guessing here -- is because the truly great so lead our imagination that we need to heal or grow after the experience and only then assess what has happened. Surely when you are in this film, you know something special is going on there are some true transcendences of the eye; very dimensional, surprising. Just as you have established the field of vision and registered the one thing you expect to see, the camera moves in an unexpected manner to reveal either a completely extra or contradictory reality.Those moments thrill, but confuse at the same time because in lesser hands, this would be an excuse for noodling about with the 'story' in a superficially artsy-fartsy manner. Only after some time can you evaluate how effectively this might have slipped between the sheets of your minds. It is a matter of some interest to me how this happens when it does. Is it a matter of the artist knowing us better than we do ourselves and slipping into our dreams unawares? Or is a matter of creating an attractive castle that we are drawn to and inhabit?Generally, when an artist is called 'personal,' it is thought to be the latter. But in this case, I think most of what he has done is find that universal manner of overlapping and merging that underlies the visual memory of us all. What confuses is the Soviet environment the intensely uncoordinated industrial environment and the once fine but now dilapidated urban residences. They transport us to a different place the unfamiliar described in a familiar way.Surely this is not what he intended he didn't make this for a comfortable American/European. And if not made just for himself it was for people who shared the same world. So at least as far as the content, we are attracted to an unfamiliar castle. But so far as the 'personal' form, I think he has found something strangely cosmic. This may be the best film (with Rublev) of one of the three most important filmmakers in history.Ted's Evaluation -- 4 of 4 Every visually literate person should experience this. "},{"Title":"Tarkovsky's enigmatic masterwork.","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"33 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I found this film quite difficult to get into since I'm more used to conventional plot driven narratives, a concept that was anathema to Tarkovsky. Certainly the Soviet authorities did their best to limit the venues where this film could be seen, condemning it's personal nature as decadent, self-indulgent and against the formal traditions of Soviet cinema, a cinema which Tarkovsky himself did not have a good word for. Russians who did see it sent many letters to the director saying how much it affected them and mirrored their own childhood experiences. Tarkovsky himself had difficulty in 'finding' his film during production, and originally worried that it would not work. Many critics questioned whether the images were symbolic in some way, but Tarkovsky dismissed symbolism as decadent. He sited Japanese writers of the middle ages rejecting such things. He had no time for surrealism either, pointing out that Dali himself had rejected the concept as facile. And yet the pull of dreams are un-mistakable in this work. Tarkovsky stated that the artist himself does not necessarily know the meaning of an image but is compelled to express his vision.Despite some of the problems in viewing this film there are plenty of moving and mysterious moments, not least the wistful and melancholic look on the face of the mother as she lays in the grass, contemplating her children's future. "},{"Title":"Visual beauty made indelible and significant","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Has there ever been a more visually beautiful film than this one? That's a rhetorical question... one that only viewing it can answer.To try to follow it as an ordinary narrative is to lose its poetic ambience...I let it wash over me like glorious music. We are so accustomed to and then...and then that our minds can follow as logic, that we tend to dismiss the affect that the visual image itself can have on our minds, hearts and souls. Tarkovsky is a poet...and for me this is his richest, most satisfying film of all.  Included are film clips from WW 2, the Spanish Civil War, poetry by the director's father.It does help to know that the same actress (Margarita Terekhova) plays the dying man's wife and his mother...as he allows his memory to shift over his life.The only other director I can think of who understands the visual language of film and its significance as beautifully as Tarkovsky is Terence Malick. Zerkalo is haunting and uplifting even as we know the hero is dying.  Death, after all, is an intrinsic part of life.  "},{"Title":"A delusion as beautiful as Lucifer's smile...","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"32 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Zerkalo is probably my favorite of Tarkovsky's movies-whic says a lot about the quality of the film.  I believe that the Russian word zerkalo-mirror, is one of the most accurate descriptions of Tarkovsky's credo.  The theme of the home and family exists in this movie stronger than in any of the other Tarkovsky's films.  In Ivanovo detstvo, Ivan is ruined the moment his family is killed.  In Andrey Rublev the temple is the house.  In Solaris Kris is guilt-ridenn on account of him being the cause of his wife's death, and in the end, like a prodigal son, he kneels in front of his father.  The same guilt lays on the Stalker in the movie of the same name.  In Nostalghia Gorchakov is dying of home-sickness, he constantly dreams of his home in Russia, and after death is rewarded by being taken to the home, placed inside a decreipt Italian temple in one of the most unforgettable shots in cinema's history.  Finally, in Offret, the hero becomes a sort of father for the whole world.  But in Zerkalo family and home are presented as a foundation of human existence.  Some scenes in this movie are among the most beautiful in cinema.  Simply put, this film is something anyone who thinks and feels must see... "}{"Title":"My Favorite movie of all time.","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" There is a scene in Andrei Tarkovsky's The Mirror where a young child looks through a book of art. The camera is close, showing only the pages of the book and the child's hand as he flips from picture to picture. Occasionally he will stop and linger on a favorite drawing. It is obvious that the book is a treasured possession, whose pictures have yet to lose their magic for the young boy. At one point a leaf, pressed between the pages, comes into view only to be swallowed up again.This seemingly innocuous scene, halfway through the movie, is just one small example of why The Mirror is unquestionably my favorite movie ever. The film is the pure essence of nostalgia and each viewing is a revelation of memories I had long thought lost. I too had certain favorite books that I would turn to over and over again, flipping through their pages and taking comfort in the familiar pictures. I too would often press flowers and leaves between the pages of books with my parents.Watching this movie feels like memories of the past flooding back from some forgotten abyss. The grey rainy skies, the kittens licking up cream, the flickering kerosene lantern, the sledding on the hill, the small junk pile in the forest, the snow covered trees, the wooden floors and furniture, the windswept fields, the log fence, all of these things are important images from my childhood. And yet there is far more to The Mirror than that.Tarkovsky reaches beyond mere concrete memories. Many moments in the film have an almost mystical appeal. The slow static shot of the disappearing hand print on the table mesmerizes the eye until the final trace has gone. The bottle that inexplicably rolls off the table seems to act of its own volition. The man walking away in a great field of grass who turns to the camera just as one mighty gust of wind sweeps across the field towards the viewer and is gone. Scenes such as these are joined seamlessly with the movie and serve to reinforce the almost dreamlike reality we are presented with.The music, selected from Pergolesi, Purcell, and J.S. Bach is, amazingly, equal to the images. Nowhere is this more apparent than in the superlative final scene set to Bach's monumental opening chorus from St. John's Passion. It is the single most moving scene I have ever viewed on film, its central images consisting of little more than a woman biting her lip and a child shouting a great life affirming cry to the skies while Bach's painfully beautiful music builds to an epic climax. The perfect union of film and music found in this scene is staggering in its power.I suspect I am not the only one who considers himself a kindred spirit to The Mirror. Growing up in rural Kansas without a great deal of money surely helps, but the images are more universal than the tone of these passages lets on. Perhaps that is part of The Mirror's appeal to those who identify with it, it seems as though the movie was made only for them.This theory gains a great deal of credence when I think of the parts of The Mirror I don't feel such a strong connection to. I had no lack of a father figure as a child yet that dominant plot point somehow doesn't stand in the way of my identification with the movie. I obviously didn't grow up in the middle of a war and have no connection with Russian politics and history, but again, it makes no difference. Oddly enough, these two central ideas in the movie don't even seem to register when I look back on it.So just what is the mirror about? The Time Out film guide sums it up quite well saying Tarkovsky goes for the great white whale of politicized art &#150; no less than a history of his country in this century seen in terms of the personal &#150; and succeeds. That is a rather broad description and not a particularly exciting one. Of course if that were all that the movie was about, I would not be writing this review.When it comes down to it, The Mirror is an elusive film to classify. I've seen it over and over and still have a hard time getting a firm grip on its structure. Powerful images with their own internal logic flit by, skittering at the edges of our consciousness like the memories of a lost day from our childhood. Complex narratives follow children and adults, past and present. Powerful documentary footage is interspersed along with slow motion dream sequences. The closest description I can come up with is that The Mirror is a collection of images, all related and all central to the human experience.The Mirror is Tarkovsky's finest film, and for certain kindred souls it truly will be a mirror. A mirror to every memory long thought lost, it will show each person who looks a different reflection. "},{"Title":"The world left and found again","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Many directors have tried to make sumptuous visual feasts, where every frame shines. But whereas something like Il Conformista is merely a ball masque where each costume is picked to be the fanciest, with Tarkovsky the pageantry is atavistic, a beauty or sadness that we may recognize from the half-remembered glimpses we have cherished in passing through the world.This is memory, the part of Zerkalo that blurs past and present. In other hands this may have invoked a simple, perhaps intelligent nostalgia. It is then stupendous that from this seemingly disjointed puzzle of images and motions, a life rearranged, Tarkovsky is able to facilitate a meditation through which emerges a single vision whereby consciousness and sensation are unified, contact, feeling, perception, past and present melded into a single narrative, free of the burden and anxiety of time.And it's even more potent that this vision having been received at the doorstep of death, before the great fear, it is filled with reassurance and equanimity, a cessation of hope and fear alike. In this state the reality of the mind, which is what we swim through in the film, though perceived to be lacking in logic and apparent meaning and filled with internal anxieties, has no power to bend us. Now and then shadow plays are enacted on this vast canvas, a divorce, a child, a hayloft barn ablaze, to which we are spectators or characters, but they will come to pass. The only thing that remains then is reality and light, and this emptiness of a grander design instead of distressing the soul, soothes and reassures it so that death's grip upon it is released.A great testament then to the power of Tarkovsky's intuition is this; that out of this fluid world, both inside the film as the surrogate Tarkovsky on his deathbed and out of it as the filmmaker who frames it, the film emerges mindful and lucid. There is no hallucination in this stream of consciousness here, for the mind is at peace.With Antonioni I wanted to see how he meditates on forms, how the facets of consciousness appear or disappear as we go through his cinema. Tarkovsky by contrast meditates on the reflections and shadows these forms cast around us or inside of us. Their difference is that whereas Antonioni wishes first to see how these reflections manifest in the mind, then eventually, having recognized them as barriers to our awareness, seen them to be mere illusions, he transcends them to know the world as is, Tarkovksy believes here that those impressions are all we can know of the world, perhaps what ultimately matters.Yet at one time he was looking into these reflections to see is the face of god to be found somewhere in them, to hear back from the beyond. Here the desire to be in communion with these worlds beyond is finally resigned from, and he accepts what is. That for better or worse, a life was lived. "},{"Title":"Incredible experience","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I watched Zerkalo at my VHS recently. I thought I will never get it on DVD or so. Its images so sensible and tangible that it's just impossible to entrust it to digital media. I was shivering when I watch Zerkalo as if I was 5 years old just like a little Andrey. I was about to cry as if I was as old as Andrey Tarkovski mom. I could not stop watching it even if my home is ruined just like in the film. I will keep on remind it just like main character of Zerkalo reminds his childhood - the only time in his life when he was happy. The only thing I wish now is to obtain a book of Arseny Tarkovski poetry published just before Zerkalo was finished. "},{"Title":"Hauntingly Beautiful","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Mirror is a disconcerting film. There is no plot, at least in the traditional sense of the word, and much of what happens is steeped in heavy symbolism. And yet, Andrei Tarkovsky weaves the hard truths and brutal realities of everyday life into Mirror's surrealist tapestry with an effortlessness that makes the film utterly compelling. Not only do the real and surreal collide; time shifts randomly and the natural world becomes a character in its own right. I hate to think how unbearably pretentious this film could have been in the wrong hands. Tarkovsky, however, walks the fine line between art and facade with supreme skill. Mirror is an experience to be savoured.Few films are as open to interpretation as this one. The beauty of Mirror is that allows the viewer to come to their own conclusions without being intentionally baffling or obtuse. The film is told in a non-linear fashion with events occurring in the present, past and quite possibly the future - depending on your interpretation. Pieces of a central narrative slowly begin to emerge and take shape. Mirror casts light upon the various stages of Alexei's life. However, this film is about more than one man. Alexei is a representation of humanity itself - at least, that is how I interpret the film. Tarkovsky uses Alexei's story as a vehicle for exploring the transcendent nature of human relationships. This may sound heavy going but it's not. Mirror has a dreamlike quality that washes over, rather than overwhelms, the viewer.Tarkovsky was one of cinema's true originals. Many directors have played around with colour changes and time shifts but very few of them did it with Tarkovsky's sense of purpose. Small details in Mirror take on symbolic meanings, which further the story - this is not an exercise in empty symbolism. For example, Tarkovsky uses the natural world to link scenes and depict the passing of time. The startling use of rain and wind also contributes to the film's surreal tone. One of the most impressive aspects of the film is the director's ability to marry the real with the surreal. For every fire burning in the rain, there is the bleak image of a child sleeping in a box. Tarkovsky takes excerpts from one person's life and builds a commentary on humanity itself.Volumes could be and possibly have been written about Mirror's multitude of layers and meanings. This film is so incredibly rich in ideas and artistry that it is almost impossible to process everything in one viewing. However, after the first viewing, you will know if Mirror is for you. The film, if nothing else, is a polarising experience. I expected to hate it given my general aversion to arthouse movies but was overcome by the film's humility. Unlike the majority of his colleagues, I never get the feeling that Tarkovsky is grandstanding or trying to show off his mastery. He films Alexei's story in a straightforward manner with simple angles and long shots. For a film that incorporates documentary footage of atomic explosions, bullfighting and Chinese demonstrations, Mirror remains masterfully subtle.Tarkovsky's striking eye for composition and his ability to combine eclectic elements is without comparison. However, the film offers more than a series of captivating and confounding images. Mirror's greatest achievement is to capture a sense of what it is to be human, in a manner that is neither pompous nor pretentious. This is a hauntingly beautiful film. "},{"Title":"a poem written in light","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Don't watch 'Mirror' if you're in need of beer in front of a screen. 'Mirror' is a poem written in light. There is the melancholy of loss, without bitterness. There is beauty, of life and unforgettable images. No sarcasm, no cynicism, no irony. How far this movie takes us from Holly Horrorwood. Deeply moving... but beware It takes YOU seriously. "},{"Title":"A poetic river of somnambulism","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A reflection on the turmoil and upheavels of the state and the individual, Tarkovsky's The Mirror moves smoothly and effortlessly.  It is, at once, both a look back at the rigors of childhood, and an altogether seamless blend of reality and sleep. Like a looking glass, reflecting both clear and distorted images of the world, the picture plays like a feverish, waking dream; it is a film, as if seen from the eyes of man, slowly fading away, slipping in and out of reality.  What was, and could never be again. "},{"Title":"I congratulate any person who absorbs this on first viewing","Date":"1 August 2012","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" After I watched this for the first time I was left feeling confused, irritated, and a bit angered by what I perceived to be willful obfuscation. I was ready to give it 3/10 for the cinematography and Margarita Terekhova's performance, but then I read some reviews where I saw comments like masterpiece; best film of all time; my favorite film; perfect. I figured that there must be something to this film that I missed, so I thought it was worth a second try. I was helped by some reviewers who pointed out that the scenes occur in one of three time periods in the 1930s prior to WWII, during the war (with footage from the Spanish Civil War), and in the 1960s. There is no story as such, but the memories, dreams, and current real life of Aleksei, a man in his 40s who is dying. Mixed in are documentary footage sequences and poetry readings. Things are complicated by Terekhova's playing two parts Aleksei's wife Maria and Maria's mother. Also Ignat Daniltsev plays two parts the young Aleksei and Aleksei's son. Oh, and at random intervals the film moves between black and white and color.Armed with some background there *was* a reward for watching the second time. For one thing I was not so focused on the subtitles so that I could better appreciate the cinematography--the sensual quality of the wind on the fields and bushes, the lush countryside, the lighting, and the long tracking shots, for example. Even though I appreciated Terekhova's performance on first viewing, I was more impressed with her on second viewing when I was not struggling so hard to make sense out of things. There are some great scenes, like the extended one that has the young Aleksei looking into a mirror in contemplation. The future Aleksei is remembering an incident where his young self is contemplating what his future will be.Some scenes are still mysterious, like the scene with Maria in a charred room with the ceiling falling in. Other scenes struck me as puzzlingly long, like Maria's trek to the printing office where we follow her from her house, into the rain, into the building, and through doors and down a corridor until she finally winds up at her desk. Why such a detailing of her trip to the office?I like the concept of the film in its trying to capture how life is, as lived in our minds in the real world, in dreams, in fantasies, and in memories--all jumbled together. To come across as so authentic, I figure that this film must be autobiographical to a great extent. In concept I would compare this to Fellini's, 8 1/2 and Malick's, The Tree of Life. Both of these latter films were more successful for me, partly since they were easier to follow, but most importantly because they involved me emotionally at a deep level. The Mirror remained at a distance for me emotionally.I have a problem with films that require research to appreciate. Maybe a third viewing would be in order sometime when I have the patience. "},{"Title":"Sort of hermetic container","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have the same problem with this movie as with Scorsese's 'Raging Bull'. Technically both movies are outstanding great acting, camera work, direction and dialogue. Artistically speaking, both are also second to none important themes, original narration (in case of Tarkovsky you can say experimental narration). And both left me with feeling of disappointment, or I should rather say indifference. Of four Tarkovsky's movies that I've seen (Rublev, Solaris, Stalker and this)this one is the only that I didn't find appealing (hell, even Solaris with many of it's flaws seemed great).I had no doubt that in both cases I'd just had seen amazing achievements in the field of cinematography, but what can I do they did not speak to me. At least in case of 'The Mirror' I know what the problem is. The story (well it's not really a story) is too hermetic Tarkovsky provides us with the episodes of his life, and lives of his parents, some light and warm, some tragic and bitter. You cannot relate to them unless you are Tarkovsky, one of his relatives, an artist, or at least Russian or you are nostalgic guy. I loved many parts of this movie, but some of them didn't add anything to the general picture.Watch it for  a) great music  b) young Ignat (or maybe it was Alosha) watching his reflection in the mirror sitting by the fire in silence c) the narrator's mother look into the camera while contemplating the future of her yet unborn child d) the dreams sectionstrong 7/10This movie is often referred to as an 'Ulysses' of cinema. Yet again I didn't like Joyce's novel as well. Maybe I am allergic to the stream of consciousness.  "},{"Title":"Deeply personal, deliberately unconventional film, but a masterpiece nevertheless.","Date":"8 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Зеркало (or Mirror, as it is known in English-speaking countries) is the fourth film by great Russian film-maker Andrei Tarkovsky. Abandoning conventional narrative and technique, Tarkovsky attempts the very difficult task of making his film as a series of thoughts and memories, almost a daydream if you will, which flits between different time periods and story threads with little sense of structure. It's like what an author might describe as stream-of-conscious writing (unconnected ideas put down in haste without being clearly linked or sequenced), transferred over to the medium of film. While almost 2 hours of plot less, narrative-less cinema might sound like the most boring thing imaginable, one shouldn't judge Tarkovsky's film without giving it a look. Somehow, he manages to transcend the need for plot and structure, creating a film that holds the attention purely through a haunting combination of rhythm, sound and beautiful imagery. Зеркало certainly ranks amongst the top-ten most beautiful-looking films ever made.Describing the plot of the film is all but impossible. It flits between 1935, the 1940s war years, and the 1960s, and consists of the discontinuous dreams and memories of a dying man. He reminisces about his mother Maria (Margarita Terekhova), his son Ignat (Ignat Deniltsev), his wife Natalya (Terekhova again); he recalls significant events like the burning of a neighbours' barn, a prank with a grenade, the day his father returned from the battlefront, and so on.Tarkovsky's film is incredibly personal and hard to understand, but it rewards repeat viewings and throws up many interesting ideas. It is a meditative film above all else, not expecting understanding per se on the part of the viewer, but instead encouraging them to step into the recollections of another and experience that person's thoughts and memories taking from them what they will. There are a number of startling images throughout the film (indeed, every single scene unfolds with a painterly eye for detail) and various snippets of the film leave a lasting impression in spite of the deliberate incohesion. For me, for example, I love the scene where Maria rushes to the printing office where she works in a frenzied panic, believing that she has accidentally printed an obscenity in the newspapers and desperate to check it before it goes to press. The scene stands completely in isolation &#x96; it doesn't have any significance outside of itself within the wider film &#x96; but it is a beautifully done moment, shot in a wonderfully evocative black and white. The film dwells on faces regularly, especially the beautiful and expressive face of Terekhova, capturing many subtle shades of emotion. Зеркало is a brilliant film, unconventional and deep to be sure, but somehow captivating in spite of its difficult nature. "},{"Title":"A New Way Of Narrative","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Andrei Tarkovsky did not make accessible films for the casual viewer. Some may call his work long, difficult and boring. These people are missing out on beautiful Cinema. Mirror is a man's dreams, reflections, memories and nightmares. It jumps back and forth in time, and uses the same actors to portray different characters in different time periods. Tarkovsky's father's poetry is read at certain points, and Tarkovsky even weaves people from differing time periods into the same scene, making it all the more confusing during the first viewing. Some films use music, characterisations, stereotypes and dialogue to make the viewer feel what the director wants them to feel. Tarkovsky manages to shatter this train of thought by creating images that the viewer can reflect their own thoughts and feelings towards. Tarkovsky has made one of the most personal films ever It is Tarkovsky's autobiography, and we dictate what to feel via the gloriously beautiful images he gives us. I'm sorry if this comment isn't very clear, because every time I try to justify why this film is so brilliant, so bold, so beautiful and so unique, I fear that I cannot explain my reasoning in a manner that Tarkovsky would be proud of. But I feel that my comment is written in vain The film is a mirror itself, your experience, what you get out of it will be different to what I, or anyone else got out of it. Because we are all different, yet Tarkovsky managed to create a film so difficult, yet so personal to himself and everyone else that lays their eyes upon it, at the same time. An incredible achievement. "}{"Title":"sculpting in time","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is Tarkovsky' masterpiece. Based on Tarkovsky's own screenplay, it contains events of his life-time. Some press interviews and writings of Tarkovsky leave no doubt that all of these events are true recollections concerning his family, his life as he has lived it and felt it. All the episodes are really part of his family history, except for one, and he undertook to literally replicate what was fixed in his memory. Consider for example his childhood home, which is seen in the film. At the time the film was in production, not even the foundations remained, only a hole in the ground. The house was reconstructed from photographs in precisely the same spot where it had once stood many years before. This was extremely important to Tarkovsky because his whole personal attitude toward the film's content depended upon it. It would have been a personal drama for me if the house had looked different. Of course the trees have grown a lot at this place, everything overgrew, we had to cut down a lot. But when I brought my Mum there, who appears in several sequences, she was so moved by this sight that I understood immediately it created the right impression. The only fictional episode is the illness of the narrator, which is intended to convey the author's spiritual crisis. As such, this fictional contrivance is a foundation for all of the others, utterly true remembrances. The pace of the film is slow. As in most of Tarkovsky's other films, we see long shots, which lead to lengthy contemplations on the viewer's part, requiring the absorption of a considerable amount of fine visual details. This in turn leads the viewer into an emotional involvement with the characters. By using long shots and few cuts in his films, Tarkovsky gives the viewers a sense of time passing, and the relationship of one moment to another, as opposed to the speedy jump-cut, Hollywood style. Tarkovsky developed a theory of cinema that he called sculpting in time, which was, using the unique characteristic of cinema as a medium, to take one's experience of time and alter it. This film is the best example of the application of his theory. Not only does Tarkovsky sculpt in time by manipulating events in an apparent random-time fashion, he also manipulates time within an event by using mirrors, which reflects different times, past or future, which are not of the particular event. There are many such examples throughout the film. The beauty and lyricism of the images are due to Tarkovsky's unmistakable poetic style. The childhood memories, hypnotic in their intensity, are the most visually stunning film-making imaginable. These dream-like sequences are also the most enigmatic moments of the film, which most likely accounts for the film's alleged impenetrability. Mirror is about the lives of the most important figures in Tarkovsky's life his mother and his wife (interestingly, played by the same actress). From Tarkovsky's own admission, his father had no inner influence on him. His mother was the most important person in his life so much so that, for Tarkovsky, there was no question that she had to appear in person in several scenes. These scenes happen to be the most puzzling ones of the film, and are at times unexplainable, even for the author. For example, in a scene where Ignat is sitting and the doorbell rings, he opens the door and an old woman says, Oh, I think I've got the wrong place. She is Aleksei's mother, Ignat's grandmother, and yet they do not recognize each other. In another instance, in the film's epilogue, we see Natalya as an old woman walking hand in hand with her two young children, while the young Natalya is briefly seen in the background. This can only be interpreted as a lyrical dream sequence. Although Tarkovsky never made an explicitly political film, the relationship of the individual to history was central to his world view. In terms of a person's spiritual experience, what happened to that person yesterday may be as significant as what happened to humanity a hundred years ago. From that point of view, the film is about the nature of Russia as a mediator between the East and the West, as portrayed in the scene where Ignat reads Pushkin's letter to Chaadayev (October 19, 1836), and a little later in the film, in the footage of Russian soldiers holding back a demonstration of Chinese Maoists. Mirror is also about the Stalinist purges of the mid-to-late 1930s and World War II. Tarkovsky shows us archive footage of contemporary events with complete detachment in contrast with the extreme intimacy of the memories. It is expressed, for example, by the apparently strange inclusion of the documentary footage of the Soviet army crossing the Sivash marshes. The poem by his father, Arseni Tarkovsky (1907-1989), which accompanies the Sivash crossing, is particularly telling ... I will call up any century, Go into it and build myself a house.That is why your children are beside me And your wives, all seated at one table, One table for great-grandfather and grandson.... Except for Margarita Terekhova, whose portrayals are magnificent, there is very little acting required from the other cast members. Although silent, one should note the compelling presence throughout the film of Filipp Yankovsky, as Aleksei at age 5. The film undoubtedly benefited from the immense talent of cinematographer Georgii Rerberg. Upon his graduation in 1960 from the operator's faculty at the Cinematography Institute, Rerberg became the director of photography at Mosfilm Studios. Eduard Artemiev was responsible for the original music. Artemiev is a prolific film music writer (thirty-eight scores), (Solaris/1972, Stalker/1979). He was the first in the history of cinema to have used electronic music. Other music is by J.S. Bach, Pergolesi, and Purcell. "},{"Title":"Reflections in a broken television set.","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Not many films have the ability to bury themselves so completely in our subconscious that the images permeate our dreams... but this one does. Tarkovsky's cinema is one of emotion above story and character, which is why, for me at least, his adaptation of Solaris didn't work; he was tied too rigidly to the story and the limited narrative possibilities to develop any kind of lasting emotion. He needs room to move, to examine and document what is internal to both the characters and himself. That is what this film is about.It isn't surprising that the film is called Mirror, after all it does begin with characters reflected in a broken television set, whilst every action that follows this scene becomes a personal reflection on the part of the filmmaker... be it a reflection of love, death, war, work, childhood, old age, or cinema in general. It is easy then to label the film semi-autobiographical from Tarkovsky's point of view, but to do so would require the film to have a stronger narrative coherence and less emotional spontaneity. Here we see ideas of narrative and storytelling replaced by a collage of images jumbled together, switching from place to place and person to person whenever the director feels emotionally pulled in that direction.To some, this will seem alienating or incoherent, though to others it will strike an immediate emotional connection that will linger for years after viewing. Many have already noted the poetic nature of the film - the dreamlike floating between scenes, the curious relationship between camera and architecture, the shifts in time and place that should break our concentration, but only help entrap us - drawing us deeper into the filmmaker's web. All of these points are valid, with the film taking on the middle ground between poetry and literature, cinema and art, and I'm glad that others appreciate the bold moves that Tarkovsky is able to make. For me, Tarkovsky is one of the giants of film-making, and this is his strongest piece. Occasionally, his films require a great deal of work on the part of the audience, but this one works entirely from our own subjective emotions.This is cinema in its purest form and I urge anyone with a love of real film-making to experience it as soon as possible. Here, we will find some of the most beautiful images in film history - others have described them, I simply advise you to experience them - images that seem to burn themselves into you're subconscious in the same way that poetic lyrics (or even song lyrics!) and impressionist paintings seem to. If you approach this with an open mind and an open heart the film will reward. That's the ultimate reflection as alluded to from the title; making it a case of, the more of ourselves that we put into the film, the more we get back as the credits role... this is simply amazing. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" It seems counterproductive to say anything about this movie. I think the story, the imagery, the tones and moods all speak for themselves, and will leave a different impression on everyone who sees it. I often point to this as my favorite movie of all time, but if someone were to ask me why it's my favorite, I'd have a hard time explaining it. I've shown this movie to various people, and mostly they've been unimpressed (my wife fell asleep). It's not the kind of movie you can watch casually, waiting for the explosions or shocking plot twists to jar your consciousness. Yet, I've never felt this to be a movie you have to work your way through, like some of Tarkovsky's other classics. More than anything, it's an emotional ride, and I guess you have to open yourself up to a certain extent in order to appreciate it. Most of the times I watch this movie I end up alternating between sweating and crying, yet rarely do I understand what exactly is evoking those emotions. I can't think of a more complete movie than this, rich, colorful, and filled with bits and pieces to be picked up on successive viewings. To me, it's perfect. "},{"Title":"A comment","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" One of the most beautifully shot movies ever. Recently I saw it again. I took completely my breath. I don't really see it as poetry, but this almost indefinite flow of movies is astonishing. I looked at it a number of times. The flow is almost impeccable. Great. It is difficult to compare it to other films, but it is absolutely wonderful to look at the constantly changing motion of the picture. I've seen quite a bit of other films, but I've seen nothing similar. A must see for the film lover. There is an German cinematographic guy who has done some similar work, but the characters in his film look real. This is a kind of flow that boils like water. "},{"Title":"Ironically one of the less hermetic Tarkovskij films to me","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" When I saw the mirror and heard in an interview Nolan claiming that he took as inspirational that film for certain aspects of Interstellar, I asked myself what the hell was he thinking. The mirror is definitely a really personal movie to Tarkovskij, he even had his own mother do the main character's mother.What is very good in this movie is the cut. Even though the film seems to make no sense at times, actually every scene naturally flows one into other. I heard somewhere that it took a lot of time for Tarkovskij to achieve a cut he liked of the film.Then, the idea of having multiple characters acted by the same actress to get the reflection's concept, the way certain dreams where depicted, the fact that you never actually see the main character, everything just works perfectly for you to like this film nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Hypnotic, great first Tarkovsky film!","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Tarkovskii's Mirror is profoundly episodic in that it consists almost exclusively of dredged up memories, real or imagined, from the life of the central figure, Alexei. The structure is nonlinear, but the viewer never seems to get caught up on the slight confusion created by this. The only aspect that truly hinders understanding is the decision to have Terekhova play not only Alexie's wife but also his mother; one is always a little unsure of which time sequence the film is in. This uncertainty can only be intentional as it enhances the overall theme of the fallibility of human memory. The viewer, however, is oftentimes too distracted by Tarkovskii's beautiful sequences to mind having to untangle the nonlinear plot. The camera follows characters like an unseen eye, although occasionally veers off to focus on a seemingly-unrelated poetic image, like a vase that slowly falls off the edge of a table. The color cinematography saturates the world in a dreamlike palette, such as the early scene in which Alexei's mother sits on a fence in the Moscow countryside. When Tarkovskii switches abruptly to sepia and black and white tones, it's hardly noticeable, and is remarkably well done. Surrealist elements are interspersed, such as the scene in which Maria washes her hair as plaster falls all around her and water floods the house. These instances, combined with the occasional poem narrations, make the disjointed remembrances even more dreamlike. At the end of the film, it is still unclear what exactly the viewer has seen, and another viewing is necessary. The memorable scenes stick in one's head just as much as casual pans of the camera. Tarkovskii's Mirror is full of something, and it's just not clear yet what that something is. "},{"Title":"The Mirror (1974) d. Tarkovskii","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Ignat turns on the television and steps back, the camera panning behind his head placing the spectator into his mind (or into his consciousness). We watch what he watches &#x96; a doctor helping a teenager overcome a speech impediment. The two shots that precede the pre-title sequence are a curious opener for a film, but could not be a more appropriate way to begin The Mirror (1974), Tarkovskii's introspective study into memory. The televised examination of the stutterer is one of those rare, inexplicable moments that stand out when reflecting on one's childhood we cannot control the distinctive images or brief flashes that stick, but for some odd reason they do.The Mirror is a tremendously personal film, with Tarkovskii's father Arsenii reading his own poetry, and (I assume) many of the past sequences and dreams lifted from the filmmaker's own life (we even see a poster for the director's second endeavor Andrei Roublev (1966) during a pan in the phone conversation). Tarkovskii turns the abstract, the metaphysical and the spiritual into something concrete in his images. The film is loosely structured playing as if a recollection of memories with each scene a strong impression from the past. The rich greens, the moment with the fence breaking and doctor laughing, the gust of wind as he walks away and the burning barn all seem as though Tarkovskii is reconstructing vivid incidents from his youth and transcribing them to celluloid. Tarkovskii often employs his trademark meditative long takes; each shot an investigation into motion as the filmmaker dwells on subtle textures such as the dripping of water, the river stream and the strength of the wind. The title The Mirror evokes a reflection, possibly the way we reflect upon and dream about our own past experiences. Our nostalgic and imaginative visions from the past maintain a realness that objective history lacks. In the final moments of our life, all we have are our learned experiences and flashes from our memories as Tarkovskii gives us a bird leaping from the hands of the dying man cutting to the sun setting in the open field, the childhood house and the mother laying in the grass. "},{"Title":"Very atmospheric and encompassing","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The Mirror is a poetry of images and motion. It's the kind of film that probably needs to be seen several times to understand, but its enjoyable even the first time thanks to the imagery and atmosphere it can create. Instead of a traditional plot, this movie speaks through symbols, again much like a poem. Rather than following any linear story, the scenes are taken from various places in time featuring a handful of characters, and other scenes taken from documentaries spliced in between.One of the most interesting elements is the camera. It moves like a ghost throughout the movie- gently gliding across extended single shot scenes, and sliding across characters and their reflections. Interestingly it maintains this effect when its shown from the first person, and other characters are addressing the character whose point of view were looking from. This is why I said the camera is like a ghost, because most of the movie is filmed like this it's as if this character behind the camera is always there, which is even made possible because the camera is capable of walking across dream-like sequences as readily as real ones.One of the earliest scenes in the movie is of this time, and summarizes why this movie is so engrossing. After the scene of a house burning down in the rain, there is one of a woman washing her hair, which is ordinary on the surface but a very eerie atmosphere is created because of her very slow movements and the hair covering her face. The tension is brought up dramatically from the surroundings walls scarred by flames but dripping with moisture. A connection is made to the burned down house from earlier, and later scenes in the movie take place in buildings with similar walls. Links such as these between disparate scenes of the movie create this impression of a poem, where all these separate elements where put in place to create a single meaning, but what that is is largely up to the audience to discover.There are many more examples throughout, but that is just a glimpse of the atmosphere that makes this movie so interesting to watch even the first time. "},{"Title":"Does not have to be understood to be enjoyed","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The Mirror is said to be a film that is not easy to understand. I say that it does not have to be understood to be enjoyed. This is a very beautiful, cerebral, and emotive film. As with other Tarkovksy films, there is both the natural and the supernatural, but the natural is by far the dominant. The supernatural is like this overflowing of natural spirit (very much like in the STALKER film). The film is highly elemental watery, fiery, windy, and earthy at different times, and the elements give off energy, and the world feels like this plastic material which one makes art out of. This is very different from the staged feeling of many films. In the Mirror, even the manmade structures feel natural, man feels natural as an expression of life. Even if you are aware it is a film, how can it feel artificial when it flows from a natural source? Aside from the vibe, the Mirror is a great film to look at. The lead actress is quite beautiful, though not in a conventional way, expressive and spirited. The camera-work is really great, gives a great sense of a taking place, love the movement in each scene. If you are the type of person that feels spiritual or meditative at times, or loves to just look at art or watch nature (or people), then the Mirror will be an excellent choice for you. "},{"Title":"The Mirror is a Collection of Points of Reflections","Date":"25 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The Mirror is a set of reflections from the past of a bedridden dying man. The collection of memories, beautifully woven together, is an intense journey through his childhood, adolescence, married life, fatherhood and in the end solitude in no particular order. Trying to find the hidden meaning of this movie would not only be meaningless but also a crime. Every scene of it is a story in itself, tells more about human nature, emotions, love, relations, gratitude, forgiveness, helplessness and the complex nature of human mind than any single movie can.A brilliantly portrayed movie, one of its kind, that doesn't weave any stories, hide anything conspicuous or try to drop subtle hints for the audience. As Tarkovsky himself pointed out, it was indeed a movie of what was there, nothing hidden, nothing exaggerated. Filming, according to me, has been extremely creative. Each scene has been very involving and intense.As my first Russian language/Tarkovsky movie, this masterpiece has made me watch it twice already. Terekhova's acting has been exceptional. It is not a movie for a casual watch, it demands one's complete attention, and quite certainly it holds the attention for a long time after the movie is over. "}{"Title":"The Mirror-An exceptionally brilliant film about childhood,memories and war directed by Andrei Tarkovski.","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Apart from its focus on childhood memories as well as war,Russian director Andrei Tarkovski's film Mirror is a good mix of past as well as present times.Both time segments are given equal importance.They have been filmed in such a meticulous manner that one can observe how clearly past is separated from the present.The Mirror/Zerkalo is the autobiographical tale of an ill filmmaker who is about to die. This imminent news gives him a fresh chance to assess his relationship with other people. One is able to hear only his melancholic voice. It can be surmised that the filmmaker is not shown as it would help to make viewers appreciate Tarkovski's cinema in a much more sincere manner. As there is a recurring image of a mother, Tarkovski shows a feminine world where women have outnumbered men who have all gone to tackle enemies at the front. The Mirror is not a feature film per se. It is more of a cinematographic essay through which an author is trying to come to terms with issues which have been weighing high on his mind. Should this information be borne in mind before viewers start to watch this film,it would do immense good to those viewers who are not serious. Lastly, although The Mirror was not banned by Soviet authorities, it was retained by them in Russia and managed to get an extremely limited release outside of Soviet Union. This did not deter the film to be classified as a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Tarkovsky's Mirror","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Ardrei Tarkovsky's The Mirror is a uniquely filmic autobiography; he conveys his thoughts not by retroactively interpreting the events of his life, but by mirroring (boom!) his perception of them. Much of Tarkovsky's genius is in his ability to create a world in every shot his signature long takes capture the ontology of image and duration in his subjects, while his offscreen world is always living and present--this, especially as combined with his metaphysical dream/memory content, speaks to the very nature of what makes film unique and exciting to me. Full disclosure this film will be off-putting to some as it has no traditional plot and no discernible message--and yet perhaps that is its message? Just as we scrutinize art for meaning, so does Tarkovsky offer up an image of life for such scrutiny. The Mirror is a beautiful work of film, and once you've seen and loved Solaris and Stalker, it's essential viewing for any budding Tarkovskiphiles like myself. "},{"Title":"Is our life really chronological?","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" We are born, we live, and then we die. There's a clear beginning and end of our physical being but throughout our lives our memories, thoughts, and perceptions often live simultaneous in the past, present, and future. There is no time except what we perceive as human beings. This is the heart of The Mirror.The film is an abstraction of the mind. Most importantly it is an autobiographical window into Tarkovsky's soul. Tarkovsky always had a fascination with haikus and the significance of time, space, and dreams. He has noted in interviews that a haiku seemed to capture a disparate thought or feeling that only exists within itself but was entirely significant in its own reality. The Mirror is just a meditation in all these concepts.If there is one flaw it is that the film itself is a bit philosophically and emotionally invested in Tarkovsky's own view of life. This is a film that could seem too abstract without knowing quite a bit about Tarkovsky beforehand. This film is still well worth seeing for the surreal and metaphysical dream like nature of the cinematography even if this is your first Tarkovsky film. "},{"Title":"Primal Scene in Self-Portraiture","Date":"6 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" In Chris Marker's documentary on Tarkovsky, he mentions that in the Mirror there is a house, and in that house one can imagine any door opening up and a character from one of Tarkovsky's movies stepping through. Considering that there's a poster of Andrei Rublev in that house, that's not too far from the truth. Andrei Tarkovksy's Mirror is described as a self-portrait, an enigmatic maze, a poetic expression, but it functions mostly as an intersection of many of his various conceits elemental and weather effects, philosophy, long internalized dialogs, introspective (and both color and B&W) cinematography, history, and memory. Here he pulls the dispersive nature of many people's personal histories and memories and dreams and turns them into another deeply brooding look into Russian character (possibly the single most intense country in the world in terms of how involved with their own history they are). But what actually pulls all of these various different conceits together, in the end, is Primal Scene. Tarkovsky in this movie seems obsessed with his own conception, and by removing most male figures from the screen and putting even some scenes into a first-person perspective of a man who speaks but you never see; by quoting his own father and referring to his father's own leaving and by casting the same woman as his mother and his girlfriend; and by extending the narrative to even before his own birth and ending the movie with the mother's pregnancy as she looks back (or forward?) into all of the memories the space of the country home (is going to?) portend(s), Tarkovsky involves himself in the process of his own conception, extending the idea of self-portrait to literal self-creation.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Reflections and Refractions","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is probably Tarkovsky's most difficult film. In comparison to his other works, Zerkalo is not based on a literary model, nor on a constructively developing story. Instead it's a mix of different reminiscences, jumps within time levels and it does not follow a certain flow.The film associatively tells a strongly autobiographical story which begins in the 1930s and ends in the late 70s. The protagonist is a man in his forties who makes up the balance of his life so far. He tries to understand, what of it was and is worthwhile, and recollects his childhood with the experiences of his mother and his father during wartime.Then the film gives chronicles of historical events, which are seen from very personal angles. We see pictures from varying time levels in which Tarkovsky combines private memories, fantasies and dreams with clips from the Spanish civil war, the German capitulation in 1945 and the Chinese communist revolution to a general view, and tries to capture the structure of retrospection and time itself. We see soldiers of the World War II. in a winterly landscape, wading through water, mud and snow, carrying heavy equipment and weapons. In another scene, we see thousands of Chinese people, who lift the bible of Mao and shout slogans, surrounded by Soviet troops. Present and past, individuality and crowds of people, documentations and feature films, as well as poesy and reality meld together. Over and over again, single words, images, tracking shots or editings become to the means of expression of the protagonists' thoughts. Tarkovsky follows an interlaced structure of a consciousness and replaces linear logic of narration with poetic reflection and refraction. In this sense, Zerkalo resembles closely a complex system of mutual commenting mirror images, artistically joined into one another. This, in particular, shows brilliantly the complexity of thoughts, the encoding of dreams, and the nesting of the human soul.Once more we owe a lot to the director. That after repeated viewings, the film's perfection, captured in an enigmatic-dreamlike imagery, gets more and more revealed with a confusing, melancholic, dark journey through a man's consciousness. "},{"Title":"More than a reflection","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  There are several intelligent and learned opinions above with which I am mostly in agreement. My recommendation for the viewer is to surrender to the film, to allow the imagery to carry you and slowly define the relationships, the characters, the point, if any (yes, for me it has a point). View it several times. It pays off exponentially. Even if at first viewing much remains ambiguous (and some ambiguity and obscurity will remain), the imagery will stir the soul, move the heart, and haunt the imagination. You will want to return. The dvd is fabulous. The subtle coloring was never captured in vhs. The sub-titles seem reworked, certainly from what I remember them in the theatre (Tarkovsky retrospective at Film Forum, New York, c. 1990? 1989?).  "},{"Title":"Russian memories are made of this","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Tarkovsky's one of a kind stream of consciousness picture, his unique masterclass in visual and poetic film-making, The Mirror, is a mesmerizing and entrancing mixture of dreams, images and memories. The latter are personal and collective ones and guide us deep into the soul of the auteur as well as of his motherland Russia. Mirror contains reflections from and back to events in the dying protagonist's life, reflections, whose presence are still strong and are actively occupying his mind, fragmentary as they might be, labyrinthine as their paths may be connected. The seemingly disjointed journey nevertheless is rife with deep emotions, has visionary, dreamy, sometimes even nightmarish qualities of a strange beauty rarely put on celluloid. Tarkovsky establishes links between people of multiple generations and of people with objects and landscapes in order to transcend it all towards something that cannot be easily labeled. In essence Mirror is all about the wealth that lies in a life lived and how the past bleeds through into the present and the other way round, forming and re-forming existences that live and once lived. Tarkovsky himself described the art of directing as sculpting in time and realizes the idea in this masterpiece formally and content-wise There's no story and clear cut scenario as such at first glance, the film's focus is constantly blurring, actors play multiple roles over various generations, and no morale is being preached and served to be taken home. And yet it's all there if you not only want to look at things, but to see.Mirror invites to be immersed in the pure beauty of the imagery, enhanced by expressive lyrics by Arseniy Tarkovsky and the subtle but effective soundtrack, all tied together to form an essay about life itself, to simply marvel at it, suffer and rejoice. You might let the film wash over you or analyze it to bits, reconstructing a person out of its fragments, it's the viewer's choice. Understanding and connecting references becomes easier at repeated viewings however, and revisiting The Mirror definitely is a must to fully appreciate it, whether you want to see it as an emotional journey or as a sophisticated puzzle, or both - the film at any rate will open up a new horizon of perception. The picture feels like the boy it all starts off with, who is plagued by a stammering condition. In order to help him to articulate himself a healer hypnotizes him and finally succeeds in making her subject talk. Tarkovsky directs in the same vein one might say - by means of hypnosis. And just like the stuttering boy who is observed only via TV by someone else, the narrator and the path he takes are observed by the viewer of the film. There's more however the picture requires than piecing together fragments in order to understand an unseen person on screen, after all a person is more than the sum of its parts. Something to remember when looking into a Mirror. "},{"Title":"Almost every scene like a painting","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" In 1986 or 87 there was a Festival of Soviet Films in the most east corner of the GDR where I used to live, with films that showed the actual artistry of film in the land of Breshnew, Andropow, Tschernenko and finally Gorbachev. I remember Proschanie by Klimov, Dead man's letters by Lopushansky - and one of the add-on-program Zerkalo by Tarkowski.I was sitting there slowly understanding that the Soviet Union had not killed or banned all of her inconvenient masters of art and science, and I became addicted to Tarkowskis movies. No - they were essential nutriment.New hope was rising Will we hear the truth about Chernobyl?Robert Palmer's Addicted to love was out and Tina Turner's Private Dancer... and I had noticed that there was a man living nearby called Vaclav Havel, who was a friend of Frank Zappa.I was 25, had two sons and a new born daughter, and wondered how important the children in Tarkowskis films are. The Pushkin-letter read by a boy and the woman from the photograph without frame behind him looking into my eyes through the camera... and I remembered the first time I saw a house on fire (in the village where my grand parents lived, we stood there and I was looking at my grandfather... he said noone can help here). I was 6.And I remembered Ivan's childhood, which I had seen when I was 16 - I suddenly saw the soldier girl under the birches and asked the projectionist in the cinema Is this from the same director? - Yes!Zerkalo showed me that cinema can be art. I was sitting there taking photos of the screen in my mind more than a hundred times, and when I left the cinema I said beauty depends on how you look at the world.That this is how the only mirror works I recognized later, but I had seen this, a great gift to my life. Zerkalo opened a door on which is written simply watch, be aware and let it in. Time is not linear, and nobody will understand the life of another human being, but understanding this makes us able to understand each other.Sometimes I think this is The Best Movie Of All Times. But then I remember that there is no need to rank it.Tarkowski gives hints - deliberately or not - that this is only his movie at the beginning we can see the shadow of the microphone on the wall, at at the end we see the rail of the dolly between the trees. Why not standing still and watch them go? Yes, how to move a camera is one of the most telling skills in this movie - just like in his others.Zerkalo is like In a silent way composed with camera and light... "},{"Title":"Highly captivating","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Zerkalo is rather difficult to follow, especially if you don't speak Russian. Much of the time one must fix the eyes to the subtitles in order not to miss anything of what is being said, and even then it's sometimes hard to grasp the meaning of it all, mostly due to the highly symbolic and poetic nature of the words.This is all the more unfortunate as the images too are filled with substance and are exceedingly captivating. The camera work, colouring and marvelous manipulative use of nature's elements create a bewildering aesthetic masterpiece. Repeated viewing will be necessary to gain a full understanding of the movie's narrative. However, having seen the surface, I heartily recommend this movie to any one who cares for complex psychological subtexts, outstanding photography and cinema as high class art. "},{"Title":"Not an entertainment but the divine intervention","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I NEED to watch Zerkalo from time to time- I can not explain why, but it is so personal to me that I do not want anyone to be around while I immerse myself in it.I have tears in my eyes even thinking about it.This movie is not for everyone and it is certainly not an entertainment.I would watch it alone.Listen to Bach's Johannes-Passion- Herr, unser Herrscher... preferably by Munich Bach' Choir. Do not be in a rush. Do not expect a story. Do not try to analyze and figure it out for the first time watching- just let yourself go as if you are in a dream. Turn on your emotions on high volume. You do not have to be an intellectual to get it or educated enough to solve the symbolism,if any- you admire it, intrigued or mystified by it or you do not care for it, no shame in either case. The movie speaks to you or it does not- like in case of any other Art.I have loved Purcell's music and Bach's before I have ever seen this movie. I bet Tarkovsky loved it too. I love Old Masters paintings, Rembrandt's Light And Darkness in his portraits,composition,etc. I bet Tarkovsky appreciated them as well every shot in Zerkalo(and most of his films) could be made into a painting and placed on display from the Louvre to the Metropolitan with the greatest success. I feel kinship with Tarkovsky in this aspect and tenderly love the movie. It might help to be Russian- then you would remember the smell and the caress of the wind, the rain drops and the meadows- they are different from place to place-it would make this film the feast for more senses, but it is not absolutely necessary- one can make it his/her own. The language of beauty is international.The stunning imagery is almost painful to watch as you try to hold on onto each moment a little bit longer while being overwhelmed by the tide of your own memories, senses and emotions Hope you can enjoy it, it brings a cleansing effect as a divine intervention. P.S. Just saw The Wild Strawberries by Bergman for the first time- beautiful black and white cinematography definitely Bergman started the wind of/and the childhood memories and eternal questions first-in 1957;but even if Tarkovsky has seen it and borrowed Bergman's ideas, he had masterfully enriched and built upon them and became an original of the stunning visual beauty and a vulnerable humanity himself as he generously passed it on to us. "}{"Title":"The Cycle of Life","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Zerkalo or The Mirror is the fourth feature by the master of world cinema Andrei Tarkovsky. He had already risen to fame with Ivan's Childhood, Andrei Rublev and Solaris. He only made a few films but his work is incredibly versatile historic epics, philosophical studies and futuristic visions. The Mirror is both a historical and personal film. It is a film without a plot, it consists of different episodes which don't have a direct connection with each other. It's a film about destruction and our inability to get in touch with nature. But in the end the viewer who had patience, open mind and a lot of heart will be touched.The Mirror might just be one of the most challenging films one will see. Many have tried to figure out the riddle of it but won't succeed because there never was a riddle. Tarkovsky said that many asked him why the bird lands on the boy's head. But each time he tried to offer answers he found that the scene lost its meaning and became something he never intended. The pictures we see and associate cannot be explained, there is no symbolism for us to solve; the viewer just has to look at the film and read it with his/her heart.Andrei Tarkovsky said that the shock the divorce of his parents occurred was one of his inspirations for The Mirror. But it is just one of the many themes of the film - the riddle can't be solved through this. The film is basically a story of Tarkovsky's mother's life so in a way also about Tarkovsky's own life - adolescence. He combines poetry, historical footage and flashbacks to create a luminously beautiful masterpiece. It is also a film about time - generations come and go, there will always be a new generation after the death of another.The film portrays a journey of the protagonist but to find a certain question the character would be searching an answer for is insignificant; the viewer will find oneself in an endless maze. Even that the unforgettable images broken glass, bird landing on the boy's head and an owl flying through a window can't be connected with each other; they have to be read with heart and associated with one's own life. Still in the end the one who opens one's heart will be incredibly touched. We have experienced something profound during the journey with the protagonist. We have found peace in the middle of suffering, chaos and destruction. "},{"Title":"wandering in a frame, a peace of music, a poem","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I saw that film for the first time when I was an adolescent. I was then struck by the beauty of every single moment. I felt I was wandering in a poem that would have become real. Like in a dream. The fact that I did not understand the story the first time I saw that film was not a problem, because it was so beautiful. I could feel the deepness and the honesty of this work of art. The first scene, filmed in black and white, in video (already in 1975) where a Young disabled man is able to talk normally for the first time in his live, is striking. I have seen The mirror in DVD last week, and the magic is still there. It's an experience to do, to slip in that film, like you slip in a dream. Some films are beautifully made but empty, this one is filled with poetry, sensibility, art. This is still my favorite Tarkovsky film, may be with The sacrifice. My favorite Russian film, with some of Alexei Guerman movies. "},{"Title":"Keep in mind that the VHS I watched was in awful quality","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'd like to suggest that this is Tarkovsky's least successful film that I've seen (the others are Andrei Rublev, Solaris, and Stalker). It is a masterpiece in a lot of ways, especially visually, but, where you can hook onto a mood in the other three films of his that I've seen, I found Mirror impersonal, or, at least, introspective and abstruse. Compared to those other three, this one is short, yet I had a lot of trouble keeping my mind on the film. And I only finished it on the third attempt.Now, after I have not only finished it but read up on it, also (basically you have to do so; maybe if you watched it several dozen times), I feel that the themes are still difficult to understand well.But you still have to see it, if you are a Tarkovsky fan. I will remember it for several reasons1) the wind blowing through the field 2) the barn burning in the rain 3) a man prepares to die as he jumps on a grenadeI give it, for now, an 8/10. Perhaps the poor quality of my video, which didn't translate, it seemed, more than 3/4 of the lines, has hindered what would be my passion for this film. If I ever see a better version, I hope I like it a lot more. "},{"Title":"The perfect movie","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Is there a movie that's practically flame-proof? This is probably the biggest flame-bait among Tarkovsky's works. Convoluted? Disorienting? Pretentious? Art-house crap? Poseur? What does this say about the movie, or by extension, what does this say about the people who like this movie? Perhaps writing at length about this movie can be too easily seen as inflating one's ego and self-image. Sadly, proclaiming about the movies one love seems to be too easily seen by other people as focusing on beefing up one's street cred rather than one's love for the movie.No matter what, to save any other criticisms or any kind about myself or the movie due to this post, I shall not lavish any saliva on it. Safe to say the movie can speak for itself. It perhaps speak a language that, in similar respects to my post about this movie, sparks criticism as boosting the director's art-house ego, rather than love for the craft itself. It is sad that art-house has been delegated to such a status.Criticisms nonetheless, I will say without any pretensions that right after I saw this movie, I wound it up to the beginning and saw it again, immediately. My strong connection to the movie is inexplicable, as is the movie itself.If there is one movie that I would choose to represent art-house cinema, this would be the one. Yet, this would be the one movie that I would never recommend to anyone for my selfish desire to keep it pure and personal, safe from the risk of anybody degrading it or humiliating it. The movie shows to me a strong ego-less love, the very reason why art was created, the very reason why art-house cinema exists. And at the same time, the very reason why art-house cinema is reviled, and seen as pretentious crap.From the first scene, from inarticulation to articulation, from its articulation to my inarticulation at the end, this process that repeats itself every time I see it again is a very personal, and inarticulate affair. This film is a miracle to me. "},{"Title":"An implacably personal cinematic memoir","Date":"3 March 2009","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" As Mirror progresses it becomes more difficult. It presents scenes of intrigue and surreality - but doesn't go on to explain them. It reveals itself increasingly, like a memory becoming clearer - but then that memory holds no more account than when it was out of focus.Tarkovsky's film is unapologetically subjective, making conventional promises in its wonderful (post-title) opening scene. Notably this sequence - the well-matched beauty of countryside and young mother stirred by an anonymous passing man - is crowned with the film's key motif, a sudden tide of wind. This is not Tarkovsky offering content - clues or players. This is simply a key selection of the manner in which he will go on to present a very personal reflection on a Russian life, such as his might have been. The wind is like a the tidal penumbra of memory, threatening to wash away each freshly precipitated thought. As such, the film continues in honest scenes and sequences where the transitions, tracking shots, longeurs and peripheral figures are as much content as the drifting narrative and characters. Within 20 minutes I'd made the decision to watch the film a second time without subtitles which are only intrusive. I'm not even convinced by Arseny Tarkovsky's poetic voice-over or some of the music (the choral Bach, mainly).It is unquestionably cinematographic balm, with a focused central performance from Margarita Terekhova. I do get the impression that a little knowledge of 20th century Russian history is of benefit though to give one some sort of parametric grounding. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A poet must stir the soul, not nurture idolators.","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Seldom does poetry make strict literal sense, nor does it intend to. Rather, through a combination of careful word choice and syllabic cadence, a poet can evoke emotions and convey a message just as powerful as any traditional narrative. Andrei Tarkovsky is often referred to as a visual poet, and Mirror is a film that doesn't just exemplify this style, but sees it realized to its fullest potential. Tarkovsky's images and compositions are the words of this poem, and the manner in which these images are stitched together through the organic movements of his camera is its cadence. The narrative content of the film essentially involves a narrator reflecting over his childhood, adolescence, and adult life, particularly focusing on his complex relationships with his mother, wife, and son. Instead of telling a linear story, Tarkovsky seamlessly blends the present with the past and dreams with reality. The film continuously and unpredictably pirouettes along the narrator's timeline, highlighting key moments and slowly revealing his current state of mind and outlook on life.It would be impossible to overstate the visual prowess of this film. Tarkovsky is a true master of visual art, and there is an abundance of searing, unforgettable images in this film that will instantly burn themselves into your brain. The shot composition, lighting, and use of color is immaculate and the way the camera flows freely within the spaces on screen creates an ethereal, other-worldly quality. Given that the vast majority of the film is populated by memories of the narrator, this style works extremely well. The camera seems to act as the mind's eye of the narrator as he journeys through his recollections. At times it hovers over his mother, wife or son, at others it slowly turns away and lingers on the environment as the characters speak off-screen. We as the audience feel like we are directly inside his mind, exploring these memories with him.And despite the lack of strict narrative structure, plenty of messages and themes bubble to the surface as the film progresses. Having only seen the film once at the time of writing this review, I'm definitely at a disadvantage as this is the kind of movie that needs to be seen many times to fully absorb its story and themes. From what I was able to gather on the first journey through, a big theme of the film is the cyclical nature of life and the ways in which past experiences and traumas impact the present. In an interesting and decidedly brilliant casting decision, Tarkovsky uses the same actors to play multiple key parts in the film. The same young boy plays both the narrator as a child in his distant memories, and his son in his more recent adult memories. He also uses the same actress to play his mother in his childhood memories, and his wife in his adult memories. This choice emphasizes the similarities between these characters despite their separation in time. There's a great narrated monologue about midway through the film in which the narrator (and Tarkovsky) muse over the immortality of life Everything's immortal... One table serves both granddad and grandchild... The future is being made right now. These words conjure an image of a continuous thread of life that permeates beyond the individual and through the generations. And further, as I mentioned previously, Tarkovsky seems to suggest these generations are also cyclical in nature, with individuals that mirror and reflect one another as the title of the film implies. As a boy, our narrator struggles in the absence of his father who is fighting in WW II. He lives with his mother, grandmother, and sister in a remote wooden cottage after fleeing Moscow which had been bombed. Our narrator's mother is not much comfort to him and seems detached, even unhinged as much of the imagery suggests. A telling scene shows the division between mother and son, as the narrator attempts to unsuccessfully open a door and walks away, only to have the door swing open for us to reveal his mother behind it.In the later memories, these themes recur. The settings have changed, but the characters (and again, the actors themselves) have remained the same. The narrator's son is also isolated and estranged from his distant and troubled mother. The narrator himself seems to fill the role of absent father like his father before, trying to push the boy to live with his mother or suggesting that they enroll him in a military academy. It's interesting as well that the narrator chose to marry a woman so similar to his own mother, as if he is still trying to become close to her even in adulthood. The implication seems to be that the experiences (positive and negative) of the narrator in his childhood have impacted and shaped his adult life, as they do with us all. The film, then, is essentially the narrator's visualized realization of this as he journeys through his memories. Mirror is a deeply philosophical and visually stunning work that challenges and rewards the engaged viewer. If you love movies, don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"Tarkovsky","Date":"30 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A dying man in his forties remembers his past. His childhood, his mother, the war, personal moments and things that tell of the recent history of all the Russian nation.Tarkovsky is probably the greatest Soviet / Russian director of his generation. Indeed, who else even comes close? If you were to list the top Russian directors of all time, Tarkovsky would be right near the top, perhaps only beaten by Eisenstein.He has a science fiction and fantasy way to look at the world, and even in more realistic films like this one, that sense of wonder comes through. Few other directors would paint their scenes like this, out of order and in different colors (or lack of color). He is someone who ought to be studied, and surely is. "},{"Title":"Unwatchable art","Date":"12 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A little boy turns on a television, and watches the flickering static lines. A psychiatrist uses hypnosis and laying on of hands to treat a bigger boy with a speech impediment, while the shadow of the filmmakers' boom microphone is clearly seen on the wall. A voice-over by a man explains where you should get off the road towards their house. A man does get off the road and initiates a conversation with a woman who is not the woman the little boy watches washing her hair. The ceiling comes crashing down. Another house (?) burns to the ground in the pouring rain. Later, newsreel footage follows. Bombs fall on Spain and a rooster is slaughtered. And so it goes, on an on.It's artsy and all, and with a little imagination you can figure out what the 'mirror' in the title refers to. A man, who lost his father early and had all sorts of problems both with his mother and his wife, reflects on his troubled past, putting together his fragmented memories (the shards of a broken mirror) in a stream-of-consciousness kind of way. Or, possibly, the man is a symbol for Soviet Russia itself, though I wouldn't go that far. The problem is that there is no story you could follow, no characters you could identify with, no well-defined spatial or temporal frame of reference for the tediously drawn-out, obscure and disjointed scenes, and due to this lack of basic accessibility there is no message to take home.Mirror is a respectable attempt at a unique form of filmmaking, but it requires such an effort on the viewer's part (with no reward whatsoever) that it is hard to imagine why anyone would not fall asleep or walk out of the theatre after a couple of minutes. If you love films like Derek Jarman's The Last of England, you should certainly give it a try, but for my part, I'll stay with Tarkovsky's Solaris or Andrei Rublev. "},{"Title":"One of Tarkovsky's finest achievements.","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Andrei Tarkovsky's The Mirror is an absolute audiovisual treat and beyond that, it's on a wise spiritual level that I'm yet to truly understand, but the ethereal experience of the film hints at how that feels. The structure is incredibly complex if just for the lack of exposition (I had to follow along the plot scene by scene on Wikipedia). The only real prior knowledge required to understand the concept behind the film to figure out the story is that the protagonist in the present day state is intended to be offscreen and his wife and mother are played by the same actress, as well as his child and his child-self, perhaps implicating at the cyclical nature of life. Regardless of how the scenes work together for a poetic collage, it works as entrancing vignettes, the most tense being a scene in which a rifle trainer dives over a grenade in front of the protagonist and the most profound being a scene in which the protagonist argues with his wife about each other and their son. Each scene encapsulates the essence of story, transcending the need for developed character and reason.The finest part of The Mirror is the use of natural visuals, as well as the easier pace this film has to Tarkovsky's other films. Clearly using natural light, it's often set in time between daylight and night, or vice versa, and captures the extraordinarily beautiful atmosphere. Many of its scene seem incidental, giving the camera a more observant feel, the director in control of the editing room rather than behind the camera, showing the natural elements of the Earth, particularly wind, and sometimes fire. It gives the film an indispensable celestial mood that truly brings out the poetry of the image rather than being contrived by the filmmaker. The sounds enhance this effect as well, with the haunting score and amplified sounds. This is true art, and elaborates and embodies the true intentions behind art as well. It's a dream-like film, and a dream film. The one most filmmakers with art in their eyes dream of making, capturing those small personal things that are rarely used in narrative but we see everyday and then making them work.To adequately define the film, I must quote a quote from Tarkovsky himself, when critics bickered about what the film means, the cleaning lady at the screening said; It is about a man who had caused too much pain to the ones whom he loved and who loved him. Now he is dying and he is trying to ask them for forgiveness but he does not know how.9/10 "},{"Title":"Zerkalo","Date":"7 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is the kind of film that alters all the notions of the classic model of representation and the notion that cinema was made to tell tales. Cinema is free, some do genres or anti-genres, others imitate them (it happens everywhere), a few others try to liberate images of modes of representation taken from other arts or crafts... People who believe in character development, archs, plot points, motivations and other rules blessed by dogma defenders, go crazy with this movie, they cannot explain what it is all about. The Mirror contains one of the most beautiful, simple and pure representation of the trace of a ghost visitation that I can remember, in the conclusion of the sequence when the young boy is left alone and he reads to his dead grandmother. Then someone knocks on his door, he answers, and when he returns to the room where he was with his grandmother, she is gone but left... magic! Magic in the most simple way. Not even achieved by a mile by fantasy cinema. A great film. "}{"Title":"Film as Art","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Fine, moving film...spiritual without theological trappings. Tarkofsky out Bergmans Bergman in the ability to edit in such a way that the viewer moves from dream to film and back to dream. We are never sure if we are dreaming or if the film is dreaming. One of a very few films that suggest that film making can be an intensely serious art form. "},{"Title":"A Heavily Intimate Portrait From A Very Unique Director.","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" There are statements that say The Mirror (1975) began its conception way back in 1964. Numerous screenplay variants, original titles labelled Confession and constant approvals and disapproval's had Tarkovsky wait several years before he could finally bring his work to fruition. Extremely non-linear but very engrossing from beginning to end, the film (Somewhat) deals with the nature of thoughts and feelings placed throughout the life of a dying poet (Modeled after Tarkovsky's father) and the many other lives he reminisces.What is particularly impressive with this narrative is that there lies several hints of the harsh realities Russian people had faced in the recent decades, but also an extremely engaging tale woven for those unfamiliar with Tarkovsky's upbringing. Therefore I must state that I was somewhat aware of what influenced these embellished surreal decisions, be it research or words from the man's mouth in many engaging documentaries. But I would think that those unfamiliar with the actual director's history will also find something within this movies dreamlike consistencies and unpredictability. As always his movies drift into seamless tracking shots, colours and even newsreel footage this time around. The gaps between history remembered never falter as we are taken far into the Russian woods, then the close knit corridors of the city. Large grey slabs of concrete walls are pitted against traditional log cabins, and why is it always that the grass has never looked greener than in a Tarkovsky picture? What remains to say is that the acting is as fine as ever, but the time changing nature of the picture allows the locations to speak more this time around given that we are ever switching to characters old and new at any given point.Final Verdict All of the subject matter in this movie leads to a meditative, self reflection piece that remains just as powerful and unique as ever. Tarkovsky's incorporation of old familiar traits as well as new makes The Mirror one of the most important pictures he ever made. 8/10. "},{"Title":"The most personal Tarkovsky film?","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" To this viewer, it definitely was. Mirror is a divisive film and one that not everybody is going to like or fully understand on first viewing, but it does come over as one of those films that should be seen more than once. Regarding myself, it was instant love on first viewing. Mirror looks amazing, which is not surprising as Tarkovsky's films are some of the most visually beautiful I've seen, the cinematography was so dream-like that it's enough to leave one in a trance of wonder. The scenery is striking as well and the whole film is atmospherically lit. Mirror also has a good amount of symbolism(which were relatively straightforward), but once again they were ones that bewitched rather than bewildered, the burning barn and the final scene were very telling scenes. Describing Tarkovsky's direction here, superb is not strong enough a word, Tarkovsky was a remarkably consistent director and a master of visuals and mood. While it may perplex some, I had little if any problem following the story, sure it's unconventional and not as linear as say Ivan's Childhood but it wasn't that hard to work out what it was about. As said before, Mirror is a personal film, very reflective and poetic and this all comes across in a way that's both poignant and uplifting. Pacing also wasn't a problem personally, Tarkovsky's films are known for their deliberate pacing that can be a turn off point but Mirror caught my attention throughout, almost in a trance actually watching it. Mirror's thoughtfully written, hauntingly scored(Bach has never been more effectively used on film) and beautifully acted, especially by Margarita Terekhova whose understated and moving performance is one of the best of any Tarkovsky film. In conclusion, Tarkovsky's most personal film is also another masterwork, visual poetry on film couldn't be a more perfect description. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"a living poem","Date":"28 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A movie that can move your soul. There is no beginning or and end, whereas at the same time there is everything. It is a dream. The whole movie is nothing but a beautiful dream. It was like reading novel by a 18th century Russian writer, a pure Russian novel. The Mirror, is in fact a mirror to your soul. That beginning scene where winds sweeps like a living being across the field is just a glimpse of what you are going to live for another heavenly 100 min . The time swinging in this movie makes it difficult to grasp the meaning. The movie depicts the Russian characters to its very depth. Keep on looking for clues, and gradually everything will fall into pieces. Its a riddle, a wonderful riddleIts really hard to write something about this masterpiece (the word masterpiece falls short for this movie), i have tried and that's all i can do to pour out my emotion after watching The Mirror "},{"Title":"Entrancing impressionist beauty","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" An undoubtable technical and artistic achievement. The Mirror's beauty transcends description; its visuals won't dazzle or inspire awe, its sound and score will rarely evoke or hair-raise, but their marriage holds an artistic vision that would be diminished through words if described. It is in Andrei Tarkovsky's direction that the film excels, featuring impressive camera work, and impressionist storytelling, The Mirror is one of the few true examples of pure artistic vision in cinema. Accessible is a word I would never use to describe The Mirror, I won't pretend to know what was going on half the time, but entrancing I would certainly use. "},{"Title":"The future is happening now.","Date":"15 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The future is happening now, so it says in the book, Instant Light, which includes quotes and Polaroid photos of Tarkovsky. Never have I thought of something so much during a movie, what happens now, what happens then, what is now, then what is? Is this movie happening now? Or is this film the future? I'm stuck in a vicious circle, an evil thought pattern, but fortunately, I'am struck away by a shock wave so hard that I keep myself in the seat edge and stare at my ugly computer monitor, I just stare, I will not blink, I can not breathe - I dare not, I'm afraid, afraid to miss something, afraid to not see anything. For what if I in a wink, as much as miss a frame, or I for one breath would upset the future, thus what is happening now.Right now, I sit and look at my hands, I'm studying my palm, I wonder why my life-line is so short, I look more closely, looking at all so lines I have in it - I think that every little line has been precisely because I bend and cupping my hand in a certain way. Now the future happened again, but was it the future that had just happened and now is the past?... He wanted to give three elderly Muslims a photograph he had taken of them. The eldest, after casting a brief glance at the image, gave it back to him, saying Why stop time? We were left gaping in speechless wonder at this extraordinary refusal., So it also says in the Instant Light. For why should we stop the time? Why should we stop the future and do it in the past? But if a Polaroid is a stop in time, then what is a movie? I do not know, I do not know what anything is right now. What is life, oh it was a mediocre question, I skip it. I do not know what is going on inside of me right now, I can hardly remember what I just watched, but at the same time I know that I will never forget one single detail of what I just saw or will I? Will I have to feed it into my brain once again to somehow remember it again? I check myself in the mirror and see a vague reflection of something, what is it? I do not know. Right now I notice that it played music in the headphones that I have not dared to take them out since the ending scene in The Mirror rolled by. But how did the music got in the headphones? Can I have sat on it? I do not know, I do not remember? Have I suffered a sudden loss of memory, or what is happening?On the set of the The Mirror, Andrey Takovsky included himself in one scene, lying in a hospital bed and holding a tiny bird on his right hand. And this is what happened to him at the end of his life in his hospital room in Paris, the room where he died, a little bird would fly every morning through the open window and come to light on him. There I will leave it, I think. I dare not to say more, I'm afraid. But wow, I saw just a movie? I do not know, maybe?Not that I rate the The past, but I can rate the future, because I know I will see The Mirror again. Never has anything seemed so obvious Is there even any other rating than 10/10, for this film? Silly question, of course not. "},{"Title":"Lingering and picturesque...","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Soviet-Russian screenwriter, film editor, poet, film theorist and director Andrei Tarkovsky's fourth feature film which he co-wrote with Alexandr Misharin, was narrated by Soviet actor Innokenty Smoktunovsky (1925-1994) and Soviet-Russian poet and translator Arseny Tarkovsky (1907-1989), the father of Andrei Tarkovsky (1932-1986). It is a Soviet Union production which was shot at Mosfilm Studio and Tutshkovo, Moscow in former Soviet Union and produced by Erik Waisberg. It tells the story about Alexei, a dying man who reminiscences his childhood growing up on a countryside farm before the war in Soviet, with his mother Maria, his absent father and his younger sister.Distinctly and acutely directed by visionary filmmaker Andrei Tarkovsky, this somewhat autobiographical tale which is set against the backdrop of Soviet Union in the 1960s before the war, during the war and after the war, draws a personal, affective and reflective portrayal of a middle-aged man's relationship to his mother, his father, his younger sister, his divorced wife, his children, his childhood and his native country. While notable for it's versatile milieu depictions, exceptional production design by French-born Russian production designer and painter Nikolai Dvigubsky (1936-2008), cinematography by Russian cinematographer Georgi Rerberg (1937-1999), the fine editing by film editor Lyudmila Feiginova, use of sound and use of colors, this poignantly atmospheric, historic, existentialistic and intimate story depicts a humane and introspective study of character and contains a great score by Russian composer Eduard Artemyev.This rhythmic, dialog-driven and internal journey into a human being's thoughts, memories and emotions which is narrated through monologues, from multiple viewpoints, newsreel footage and with a fragmented narrative structure, contains some fine acting performances by Soviet-Russian actress Margarita Terekhova, Soviet-Russian actor Anatoli Solonitsyn (1934-1982) and Soviet-Russian actress Alla Demidova. A lingering and picturesque piece of cinematic poetry. "},{"Title":"Have you ever dreamed that your dream is a dream in your dream?","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Have you ever dreamed that your dream is a dream in your dream? For this, just check this film out which is a masterpiece.. This is what a movie must be and ART. He successfully combines the inner self with harsh, wild outer world which is full of wars like in Spain. I will always remember its slow pacing which i never wanted to end. Heart-breaking, dreamy scenes are gorgeously planned and acted. A must-see. Lots of scenes are like a photographic work of art from the eye of Tarkovsky. It explains why Tarkovsky affected many directors in their works. Only the details used by the director makes the movie worth to see. "},{"Title":"Much more than a film in the traditional sense","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Through fragments of his life rather than a traditional storyline we are served to memories of a mans life, memories as strong as dreams can be, without even a hint of the surreal or symbolism. Tarkovski manage to evoke strong feelings through imagery like no other can. The visual poetry, the nostalgia, the horror is at once personal for the director and the viewer.This is a must see for any lover of cinema. It can not be compared to anything else that I have seen, including 'Solaris', 'Sacrificia' and 'Stalker' (though I admit I will have to see them again to really grasp what they are about). "},{"Title":"Images keep on wandering...","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Saw this movie for the third time yesterday and was (again) completely blown away. If you didn't see it yet, go and watch it if you crave for movies that both intellectually and emotionally satisfy. Pick a nice little theatre and make sure to be fit...  "}{"Title":"A riverboat journey down a quicksilver lake of memories","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a film sewn together with outstanding, beautiful images that speak subconscious volumes; at least that's what it feels like.  The narrative although unconventional is more intuitive and importantly, unselfconscious. As with many Russian films there's commentary on their country's past and future but it plays out under a man recalling and falling back through his life in a world of mirrors reflecting his past. Satisfaction and fulfillment come from the experience of witnessing this film, not watching a character overcome obstacles.  Although a background in Russian history would help the viewer uncover more layers it is not necessary to enjoy the film on a multitude of other levels.    "},{"Title":"It might have worked better if it were 3 hours long","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw Zerkalo only once and was completely confused by it. I got the general gist that it was about the life of a Russian artist (a fictionalised Tarkovsky) but the scenes seem choppy. I know it's a deeply personal film, but it has a hermetic visual language that is (for the most part) indecipherable to me. It looked like Tarkovsky had made one of his usual 3 hour masterpieces, then it was cut down by Soviet censors. However, I recommend the film as a lesser Tarkovsky picture, so rent it after seeing Solaris, Stalker, or Andrei Roublev. "},{"Title":"Very Slow BUT Highly Rewarding","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Sometimes when I was a child growing up in the Illinois countryside, and once in a very great while as an adult, I would be struck by a particularly serene moment. The light would be perfect; a gentle breeze would be blowing; time would slow; and a moment of true peace would occur. I always thought this is a moment that can never be repeated. A film junkie even as a child, I would think about how much I would like to experience such a moment in a movie. It never happens for obvious reasons. Life we experience with five senses and movies with only two. In life we play a part; with movies we are only spectators.Last week I re-watched Andrei Tarkovsky's Mirror for the third time (once in 1999, once in 2005, and now in 2012). What struck me this viewing was how Tarkovsky as a child must have felt what I felt on those rare, perfect days in the country. What Tarkovsky has done in Mirror is re-create them for the viewer. The overgrown foliage is lush and the background objects so vivid that they contain a weight missing from any 3-D effect that I have seen.Mirror has almost no plot, mainly consisting of images in a life strung together. The end result is a sort of Tree of Life from 1975 Russia, but what images! One watches many films that have no life in them. Mirror feels like a film alive. Andrei Tarkovsky is one of the few poets of the screen (in real life he was the son of a poet). Sadly, I did not appreciate Tarkovsky's accomplishment on first viewing. Way back in 1999, I wrote in my film journal This is an obtuse art film with historical war footage, poetry over the soundtrack, lots of nature images, and people who appear and disappear without rhyme and reason. I gave it two stars and, when the notebook was full, ranked it below many of the other films I watched around the same time, including The Devil's Advocate, Conspiracy Theory, and The Last Seduction 2. This ranking was insane.Mirror is long (although not by Tarkovsky standards) and difficult, but scenes have stayed with me a barn burning in the rain, a mother floating in air, taunting an instructor with a fake grenade, a discussion of religion between a boy and a ghost, and an old woman's return to the remains of her country home. Mirror is a personal film and perhaps not for everyone. It was not for me in 1999, but it is now in 2012. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The film, although it received mixed critical reviews, was obviously thought of highly enough by Soviet authorities because, after initially not wanting to release it, they did, but refused its entry into film festivals like Venice of Cannes, for fear that it would win, and thus draw more attention to Tarkovsky's non-agitprop works. The biggest critical boner about the film, however, seems to be the idea that the lead character, Alexei, dies in the film, or that the film is about his death, in either memory or toto. Yet, this simply is not a sustainable claim because, as mentioned earlier, the scene in which Alexei supposedly 'dies,' is done in a blackly comic sort of way- with two old babushkas kvetching about Alexei possibly dying, even though he may only have strep throat. Yet, by virtue of the images of his memory we have seen to that point, Alexei clearly embellishes to a point of heightened reality, in the least, and melodrama, at most. Therefore, if he is the source of the claim of impending death, it is suspect. Clearly the two babushkas are not credible sources since they seem puzzled by the claim. The so-called doctor in the scene seems not too concerned, either. Likely, Alexei is hypochondriacal. The other pillar for the claim of death is when we see Alexei grip and release a small bird upward in the air. First, the image is so trite, and obviously so, that Tarkovsky, if this was his intent, made an error in judgment that is very bad, for it thuds the film flat. Instead, given the absurdity of the scene, this is likelier Alexei's own melodramatic tendencies coming to the fore again, and him trying to paint an end to the scene, not his life, for Alexei does, at times in the film, seem to break the fourth wall in his recall. Also, the bird does not fly free from Alexei's dead hand. His hand heaves up and releases the bird. It's a toss- a thing that would not occur in a last gesture. Given these visual certainties, the far likelier scenario is that, perhaps, this may be the present state of the film, with Alexei 's memory the rest of the film to that point. The end, with his mother's learning of her pregnancy with him, is just Andrei's exclamation point after the melodrama with the bird. Or, as I stated earlier, the whole film may be a flashforth with a return to the present of his mother at the 'start' of his life.On the flip side, there are several good scenes that stand out narratively and have other import. The best is the dig at Stalinism and censorship when we see Alexei's mom freaking out over a possible typographical error at her job. She clearly fears staining her record, and the consequences that may bring. That this worry is compounded by the overt aggression of her co-worker makes for a scene where personal and professional ills collide convincingly, and the scene ends in a shower, where she relieves her stress by laughing. During the dummy grenade scene, when the drill instructor pounces on the grenade, we see his fear reflected in the pulses of his forehead where skull has clearly been removed- likely in a shrapnel explosion. It is eerie, realistic, and memorable. There is a scene where we see spilt milk and the odd coalescence of milk on a floor, or in the scene where Ignat reads Pushkin's letter aloud, then returns after opening the door, to find her gone. It seems a dream, except we see a moist condensation stain that evaporates on the wooden table, suggesting it was 'real.' This scene prefigures similar scenes of ghosts in Stanley Kubrick's The Shining, just five years later.But, then, in a sense, Alexei may or may not be a ghost- a possible person, or a past person. Certainly he embodies his nation, and the film is not wholly from his point of view. There are scenes, such as parts of the dummy grenade scene or when his mother frets over a possible typo, that simply cannot have been known by Alexei, unless he is more than just a human character- perhaps an amalgam of persons and idea(l)s absorbed by his surroundings. After all, early on the doctor tells his mother that some believe that plants have senses of perception. Similarly, some of the newsreels used in the film make no sense, as they are, nor in the context of the film, until one considers that not all memories make sense. Things rarely make sense in a fugue, anyway, and that's what The Mirror is- a visual fugue on thought and memory, and a great one. Compare it to any of David Lynch's similarly posited films, and Tarkovsky's film's superiority is manifest, for Lynch's films are piffle, in contrast. From literary references (Chekhov's Ward No. 6) to historical context to self-referentiality (a scene where a film poster of Tarkovsky's own Andrei Rublev hangs) to visual sleight of hand to characterization by accumulation, The Mirror succeeds as a great film by simultaneously being as large as everything while focusing on the trivia of life that one rarely recalls. Yet, the film never bores, it invites rewatch to re-trigger memories of it and one's own. Rare is the trigger that is also a bullet. Bang! "},{"Title":"An entrancing representation of life, death and regret","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" In The Mirror, Andrei Tarkovsky takes his intimate personal experiences and blends them into a mixer. Out comes his semi autobiographical work which blends times and dreams to create a film filled with moments as one man looks back on his life with regret and almost always with his mother in mind. The film has no plot to speak of and it would take several viewing to even come up with a personal meaning. This is not a film like Inception, in which one tries to figure out what went on during it. Anyone doing this is missing the point. The point is how the individual reacts to it. It brings together human experience in its simplest form devoid of time or place but is made deeply personal. Add to all of this archival footage of important world events to connect the deeply personal to the universal and you have one complicated work. People not used to art-house films of this nature are likely to not get much from this. Opening up to it though is a rewarding experience. The beautiful black and white imagery in addition to the powerful presence of Margarita Terakhova adds up to a hypnotic experience that will take several viewing to truly get a handle on.www.cinemaenthusiast.com "},{"Title":"Excellent film, despite a few complaints","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is the first time I've felt that Tarkovsky's critics may have a valid point. Without the yoke of narrative, his penchant for situating manmade artifacts&#x97;here, newsreel footage of WWII and an art history book with Leonardo Da Vinci's portrait prominently facing up&#x97;precariously within nature's cradle courts indulgence, less meticulously constructed worldview than straining-for-meaning affectation. The recited poetry undoubtedly contributes to this impression, as the dream sequences, which speak for themselves, are completely weighed down by florid platitudes better expressed through Tarkovsky's typically mesmeric compositions. It hasn't escaped me that the inclusion of such distracting verbosity may be in support of the point expressed by the doctor&#x97;roughly paraphrased People hurry around stating platitudes while plants take root and slowly grow&#x85;Nobody takes the time to stop and think&#x85;&#x97;whose last line succinctly states the value of Tarkovsky's art, or a projection of the stuttering boy's newfound oratory powers, as heralded by the female healer. The former seems too much a self-sabotage&#x97;undermining pictorial beauty to assert its value?&#x97;even as it's more compelling than the logical second possibility; ultimately, I'm not prepared to take such a leap of faith in the film's favor, so I'll chalk it up as a disappointing aspect.Yet, for all of my complaints, this is still an excellent film, nearly a great one. The temporal structure is beautifully worked out, with memories, dreams, and reality commingling in fecund ways, and it was an inspired choice to cast the same actress as the roughly present-day wife and past mother. Tarkovsky's always-central use of the four elements (earth, water, wind, fire) is redoubtable, such as the slow-motion shots of a burning barn containing his wet-haired mother, or a simple, serene gust of wind coursing through a field of grass; it's his unique vigilance to the eternal conflict between self-sustaining nature and the human desire to create within it that gives his visions such poetic grandeur. Above all, though, this is a paean to mothers, the greatest of all mortal creators, and Tarkovsky saves his greatest tribute for last the off-screen narrator's mother at the moment of choosing conception and his final dream of the same, now-elderly woman guiding her two sons through the woods behind his childhood home. This might not be the most iconic flash-forward in film history, but it's certainly one of the most loving. "},{"Title":"mirror image of stream of consciousness","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Andrei Tarkovsky loosely based Zerkalo (The Mirror) on his own childhood. In that sense, the title could imply his own reflection on his life. To be certain, much of the movie is stream of consciousness without a solidly defined plot, other than its focus on a man and his memories of childhood contrasted with adulthood. Equally contrasted are urban and rural life, complete with poems by the director's father. The final shot seems to represent the complete break from the innocence of childhood.The stream of consciousness factor brings up the issue of how this would come out if focusing on someone who grew up in later years. Thanks to the Internet - and thus immediate access to any topic - it's much easier for the mind to drift from one thing to the next. Of course, that would no doubt significantly cut down on the film's main story (to the extent that one can be determined).The film got only a limited release in the Soviet Union, due to its initial rejection by Goskino. As I understand it, Tarkovsky frequently ran into conflicts with the authorities, to the point that he eventually moved abroad to make movies before dying in France in 1986. In the end, Tarkovsky seems to have gotten the last laugh, with his reputation as one of the greatest directors of all time. I'd say that I recommend The Mirror. "},{"Title":"Beautiful but hard to connect with","Date":"1 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Andre Tarkovsky's The Mirror is at once a personal recollection of a lifetime of sorrows and a remembrance of wartime emotions perhaps long forgotten by most. The filmmaker's autobiographical cinematic expedition is without form, which is both captivating and frustrating. Pleasing large audiences with a non-linear narrative is a more taunting task in the current day than it was in 1975 when the film was first released. The hyperactive visual style of most films aims to satisfy increasingly short attention spans; narratives are given predictable deliverances and little is left to the imagination. None of these qualities speak on behalf of contemporary films in comparison to abstract, subjective works however it is apparent that such films are less likely to 'succeed' today.Tarkovsky's film is a stream of consciousness display of memories ranging from moments in Russian history to the most precise personal anecdotes. Some are conveyed through archival footage shot during World War II while others are simply retold as they are remembered; others still are so highly subjective that their context can only be assumed. The viewer must infer so much that any hope of interpreting a single strand of the film's interwoven story is next to impossible. The film's framework is structured around the divorce of a young boy's parents, a subplot that invokes a sense of emptiness and lost direction; these emotions are rampant in each of the film's stories within a story and yet the connection is often lost between narratives. Since the same actors carry over into various other microcosms of the film is it sometimes difficult to forge a division between numerous story lines. Regardless, whether or not their meaning is clear, the images on screen are marked by a sense of haunting beauty that evokes within the viewer an almost visceral reaction.One scene lingers long after the film ends for it leaves a truly ghostly chill in its wake. As the boy is being carted from one parent to the other he finds himself alone in an unfamiliar apartment. He is told to await his father's return from work and yet when he enters a sparse room he finds a woman sitting at a desk. She asks the boy to answer the door and when he returns she is gone. At first the sequence of events appears to be simple transition between two memories happening in the same place. But instead of switching over to a new narrative, the scene takes a haunting turn on the glass table where the woman sipped her tea remains a ring of condensation in the shape and size of her cup. As the boy approaches the table, seemingly aware of the sudden change, the ring of steam slowly evaporates, indicating that what had once existed is now gone. This image is reminiscent of the film's thematic undertone since it is can be read as a metaphor for memories something that once was real that leaves only an imprint of itself before slowly fading out of sight and eventually mind. While this moment is effectively eerie it sets a standard that the rest of the film fails to live up to in its disoriented retelling of memories too subjective to be of much importance to anyone beside the filmmaker himself. "},{"Title":"Sure it's poetry -- for those who don't actually read poetry","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Zerkalo is, if it were poetry as most non-reading reviewers and critics seem to call it (I suppose that watching and talking about films doesn't draw the same intelligence that reading and writing poetry requires, so we're not working with the cream of the crop) -- very beautifully written poetry, but shallow. A ton of rhetoric -- the fire, the water, the mirrors, the bird, the burning house, the soft green/pink childhood scenes...) -- but it ultimately doesn't lead anywhere reflective. Tarkovsky tricks his audience into believing they have seen the memories of a man's life, and that something profound about their own conception of memory might come out of it. This is not the case, and what we get instead are well- composed scenes and maudlin snips of acting that amount to a pseudo-emotional scam.It is hailed for being personal, but it is simply far too personal. It is a short film of 20 minutes extended almost half a dozen its natural length. It would function beautifully were it completely cut to its memorable scenes -- but as it stands, it is a dramatic failure that rests upon an excuse of being Proustian. The difference is that Proust was a fantastic writer, and Tarkovsky only a good photographer by this point in his career. The film is an excuse to bring the memorable scenes to life. Tarkovsky could have cared less about the rest -- which is filler narrative.It might prove useful to myself and others interested in the visual art of film composition, but as an experience, it is scruffy around the edges and drunk. "},{"Title":"It seems to make me return to the place, poignantly dear to my heart.","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A dying man in his forties remembers his past. His childhood, his mother, the war, personal moments and things that tell of the recent history of the entire Russian nation. Tarkovsky mixes flash-backs, historical footage and original poetry to illustrate the reminiscences of a dying man about his childhood during World War II, adolescence, and a painful divorce in his family. The story interweaves reflections about Russian history and society. The Mirror is essentially about family and home that are presented as a foundation of human existence. Some scenes in this movie are among the most beautiful in cinema. Simply put, this film is something anyone who thinks and feels must see. "}{"Title":"A poetic work","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A good movie but not exactly my favourite kind of movie therefore I rated it 7/10 which I consider a compromise rate. A poetic movie both in terms of words and images. Inclusive some poems of Arseny Tarkovsky (the director's father) are told now and then in a voice off. This movie gives us after all images of the childhood of Ignat, the chief character and it's somewhat autobiographic of its director Andrei Tarkovsly according to the critics. It develops itself in a succession of image contrasts colour / black and white, flashbacks / flashforwards, fair weather / stormy weather, interiors / exteriors with beautiful landscapes, action scenes / still and motionless scenes exploring facial expressions very meaningful in poetic terms. It gives us also some images of life in USSR around WWII times And last but not least it has a soundtrack very rich with pieces by Bach and Purcell totally adequate. We don't have here a coherent story through a conducting thread in terms of space and time but only a succession of scenes portraying reminiscences of the main character. It draws our attention and is sometimes almost moving but has no properly coherent plot. This is not a criticism just only a perception. "},{"Title":"A Cinematographic Masterpiece A Logical Nightmare","Date":"14 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Watching Andrei Tarkovsky's 1975 Mirror was like reading something from the stream of consciousness style of literature&#x97;it seemed like a journey into the memories and considerations of a Soviet narrator, perhaps Tarkovsky himself. As such, plot, in the way both modern and contemporary think of it, was entirely absent. The random, often anti- chronological leaps to and from memories of pre-war, war, and post-war eras made fluent understanding nothing short of impossible. In this way, the film was quite disenchanting, if not downright bad. The best way I can describe it is attempting to piece together the thoughts that a person thinks right before he falls asleep&#x97;the random, loosely connected ideas or memories that only make ideal sense for the one who is producing them.That said, there is merit to be given for the filmography. The intercutting black and white scenes, although not exactly depicting a jump in time, went along well with slow motion, and emphasized dramatic moments, like Masha running away from the criticism of a colleague when she overacted about a misprint in the newspaper. On the flipside, color scenes, although not particularly faster in pace, featured less tense dialogue, and more emphasis on how everything is so hurried, tense, etc. The color scenes, like that of the doctor meeting Masha and talking about the serenity of nature produced this effect of a needing to slow down. The use of doors as portals to different people and different times was also an effective move. The disappearance of a strange woman talking to Ignat made her message (in the form of Pushkin's letter) regarding the history of Russia being uninteresting much more dramatic and believable. Overall however, the exemplary camera tricks, despite effectively detaching me from my seat and placing me into a pool of somebody else's thoughts, did not make up for the fact that I am simply unable to swim in this pool. I took no message from this film, either than the fact that I simply need to think or slow down or understand something that is not really there for me to understand. In my mind, Tarkovsky has produced a cinematographic masterpiece but a logical nightmare. "},{"Title":"Mirror","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I think it was a good idea that I wrote a review for this film sooner rather than later, as it was quite confusing and I forget bits of it, but that's a Russian experimental film for you. Basically, there is no real storyline, pretty much none at all in fact, it is simply a series of images and sounds assembled together to create a poetical and biographical drama. It takes place in three distinct time periods, Pre-World War II (the 1930's), during this war, and post war (the 1960's), all seen mixing the different mediums together. These include filmed scenes with actors, some playing numerous roles, archive footage from the periods, interior and exterior shots in day and night, and quite a few random filmed moments, including looking in the Mirror of the title. Starring Margarita Terekhova as The Mother Natalya / Maroussia, Ignat Daniltsev as twelve-year-old Ignat / Aleksei, Larisa Tarkovskaya as Mother Nadezha aged twelve or old (whichever), Alla Demidova as Lisa, Filipp Yankovsky as five-year-old Aleksei, Oleg Yankovskiy as The Father, Nikolai Grinko as Printery Director, Yuriy Nazarov as Military trainer, Anatoli Solonitsyn as Forensic Doctor and Innokenti Smoktunovsky as Aleksei, the Narrator. I can certainly see some reasons why this features in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, it isn't one I'm going to remember well, but it is certainly worth viewing. Very good! "},{"Title":"Intense, personal movie by Tarkovsky is not perfect but is well worth watching for film lovers","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" According to many, The Mirror is Soviet filmmaker Andrei Tarkovsky's best film. Certainly it is his most personal. It might look at first sight like a rambling series of confusing scenes, but the movie actually has a plot of sorts. The movie is reportedly based on Tarkovsky's own life. Basically we have a collection of vignettes (though in the film they are not shown chronologically). We have the protagonist as a boy (he is presumably based on Tarkovsky) living in a house with his mother (Margarita Terekhova in an intense performance) in the countryside before World War II, we see him later as a teenager training shooting with a rifle (with a stern instructor) presumably during the war, we see the absent father returning after World War II in soldier's uniform, we see the mother having a bad day in her job as proofreader in a printing house (that was actually Tarkovsky's mother real job), we see after the war how the boy has become a man (though he is never shown as an adult) and how he argues with his former wife (played also by Terekhova) about how to raise their troubled son called Ignat, we see a female doctor use hypnosis to try to cure Ignat's stuttering. Intercalated with these vignettes, we have documentary footage of the Spanish Civil War, of World War II, China's Cultural Revolution, the Chinese-Soviet border clashes during the late 1960. We also have surreal scenes of the mother levitating in the house, we have the child walking in the wintry countryside in a recreation of Brueghel's painting The Hunters in the Snow, we have the boy slowly perusing an art book. All to the music of Bach and Purcell and to poetry recitation by Tarkovksy's father Arseni. Many people have liked this film a lot, and I'm not denying Tarkovsky's seriousness or artistry, but I really wished that I would have like this movie more. This is very personal stuff to him, but maybe his reminiscences are too personal to be able to move me much. "},{"Title":"Unretable and really difficult to watch","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Well, this is perhaps one of the most artsy films ever made. I mean it it doesn't have almost any narrative at all. It is a plot less marvel of a film. This film would be analog to an abstract painting while usual films are photorealistic paintings, depicting something, here we have the depiction of the human mind as conceived by the director. I would also add that I found this film to be infinitely superior to The Tree of Life, which I though was only an exercise of pretension without any actual artistic merit. This one is much better. I would also rate this way beyond anything made by Bergman. Maybe 8 1/2 would be a comparable film, though this one is much more abstract!My rating? Well, if I would need to vote, maybe I would give 10/10 for its unequaled qualities. Indeed, anything one watches after seeing this appears bland and too conventional. This is the third Tarkovsky film I have watched after Andrei Rublev and Solaris, and in some ways it is superior to both of these films in terms of visual achievement, but these two previous films would be more accessible and entertaining. "},{"Title":"forever new","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie teaches producers what uncensored feelings mean. The action is reduced to significant moments, the picture shows pure feelings, unlike Hollywood productions, which try to tell a story. Take a bunch of noble, ideal thoughts, use poetry as images and there you have it Zerkalo. Women should be more into this movie, since they are natural psychologists, while men should find their sensitivity awaken by the narrator. What struck me was the never ending row of details in the picture, made me scan the screen in search of more hidden meanings, in search of more butterflies I had been deprived from, by watching American productions. Well done Russia! Not a film for anyone, but one for initiated art seekers. "},{"Title":"Can you smell a carrot?","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" It is hard to pin-point the film Mirror. Perhaps it is best described as a dream or a psychedelic experience, because it outshines other films due to its mysterious narrative. To be fair, I am not sure if I understand the plot. Joke (to make this review more appealing) my favorite drink is a cocktail of carrot juice and whiskey. I'm always drunk, but I can see for miles. Evidently Mirror is a Russian story. Apparently a middle-aged man looks back on his past. He is born in the countryside, on a farm near the woods, in the decade before the outbreak of the Second Word War. He is fascinated by the primitive life of the peasants, by the mystery of the natural environment, and by the solitude. It turns him into an introvert person - which reminds me of these two snowmen in the field. One says Can you smell a carrot? In his early youth his father leaves the family, and as he results he develops a strong bond with his mother. After the war she works in a printing-office. He marries a woman, who resembles his mother. Although they get a son, the marriage is not a success. By the way, if Dolly Parton married Salvador Dali, she would be Dolly Dali. Isn't that silly? Anyway, it seems that he can no longer cope with life. But perhaps my interpretation is totally wrong. Halfway, the film contains some real recordings of the war, the atomic bombs, and the Russian conflict with China, in black and white. Indeed the Russian history is filled with misery and tragedy. As a whole, I find Mirror dissatisfying. Due to the virtual absence of a story-line, the film is essentially void. You are waiting for the events to unfold, but they don't. It can be said, that the film actually is a mirror, but the points of contact are too random to stimulate or guide the fantasy of the observer. But perhaps at the time the Russians were simply pleased to watch a loaf of bread, a sausage and a bottle of wine (joke). Personally I prefer films with a more realistic plot, and therefore I can not recommend Mirror. If you are impressed by the atmosphere of the Russian wilderness, you may appreciate Sibiriade. It is in my list of reviews, together with many other films of Russia and Eastern Europe. Don't hesitate to leave a comment. I love it. "},{"Title":"You know you're in trouble when the narrator refuses to talk to you, but spits bad poetry left and right&#133; Tarkovsky's pretentious sloth.","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"18 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Totally inferior to Solaris and Stalker. Laziness sometimes hides behind the veil of deep, hard-to-decipher symbolism.Predictably, this messy non-story received rave reviews on this site. It's the old I'll pretend I understood it so as not to appear dumb movie-viewing phenomenon (coupled with the I'll gain respect from my peers by showing appreciation for 'deep' movies inferiority complex). Just how deeply ingrained this fear - this disease - is in the human mind is best illustrated by this Tarkovsky himself once said that most people leave the theater in silence after they'd finished watching Zerkalo. Tarkovsky must have said this with a touch of pride, hoping Zerkalo affected people deeply, emotionally, on a subconscious level, leaving them speechless and immersed in intellectual musing. However, the reality, as so often, is quite different from wishful thinking. Why did these people leave the theater in silence? Because they didn't DARE complain. Because they were utterly confused. Nearly everyone is afraid of not having understood the symbolism. Always keep in mind the vast majority of humanoids have a powerful FEAR of being exposed as morons or cowards in society. One of the many ways this can occur is by saying you didn't understand a movie. If you failed to understand Bambi, then you truly are a moron. On the other hand, by not admitting you were confused by pretentious European cinema you may think you have succeeded in hiding your supposed lack of intelligence, but all you've achieved is to show that you're a coward - unable to tear apart a movie like this with the frankness that it frankly deserves.I'm told this film is about a dying man, recouping his life, childhood, divorce... I've never even noticed that the narrator was dying! Where was this mentioned? (Perhaps I just dozed off&#133;) Unfortunately, the narration here is done through poetry, i.e. basic info is convoluted through riddles and other garbage, which basically means that Zerkalo becomes a puzzle to solve - like so many dumb European films - instead of a story to enjoy. Who says a movie has to be riddled with puzzles and symbolism in order to be artistically valid? Just exactly where is this written? I am not saying a film should spell everything out, i.e. require no amount of thought, but going to the other extreme can be just as stupid/pointless. Zerkalo means almost nothing. The thin premise of a dying man and his reminiscing not only does not constitute a story, but is very DULL as well. I did not care about his life because his life was not nearly eventful and interesting enough to validate its being put on the big screen.So what does one get when poetry (i.e. rhythmic/semantic puzzles) is layered on top of a bunch of meaningless, often unrelated scenes? You get a wonderful stew of nonsense, leaving the viewer free to interpret it IN ANY WAY he chooses. Whatever meaning you find in this malarkey is totally individual, and can be easily supported by a plethora of invented arguments. It's like a Picasso painting abstract enough crap to elicit any kind of meaning. Picasso and Tarkovsky's Zerkalo have that one thing in common both are feared greatly by people who lack the guts to admit to others (and sometimes even to themselves!) that they do not understand it. (Besides, what's there to understand?) Whenever a movie requires a road map, you know it has failed - at least in the story department. What does all that documentary footage mean? Tarkovsky pretentiously shoves various newsreels into Ogledalo, most probably because he likes the way they look. Maybe HE saw a meaning, i.e. a link between those scenes and the story, but I believe that movies can be approached as food in restaurants the customer is always right. Or at least the director ISN'T always right. Tarkovsky can talk about how all the scenes here have a purpose until he's blue in the face, and I still won't take him seriously. It isn't difficult to link the unlinkable all you need is some imagination and an even healthier amount of self-delusion. What Tarkovsky and Zerkalo's fans see in this film will only make sense in their confused, deluded, hallucinatory little minds. On the other hand, Ogledalce has some very good photography, especially the scenes in colour. The documentary footage, if nothing, is a welcome refreshment amidst all the confusing nonsense, some of which is quite dull, as well.Symbolism? A man holding a bird in his hand, while the narrator emits incomprehensible poetry at the poor viewer? Yeah, the bird symbolizes life, whatever. The stuttering boy from the first scene probably symbolizes the difficulty of communication in society. Whatever. There is a problem with communication amongst humans?? Really??? Why, thank you, Mr.Tarkovsky, for letting us in on that great secret! I never, EVER, would have realized this were it not for Zerkalo. The point I'm making is that below all these clouds of verbal and visual riddles, there often hides a message (IF there is one) that is banal, anything but deep. Sometimes the message in such movies is merely life is hard. How veeeery deep&#133;Going back to the stuttering boy scene the great irony, of course, is that movies such as these don't exactly help in the area of communication, do they? The viewer leaves the theater silent, wondering what the hell he just spend 100 minutes of his life on. Tarkovsky failed to communicate his oh-so deep thoughts even worse than the stutterer...The Mirror is like a magic trick (without the use of mirrors) you're fooled (if you're gullible enough) into believing that what you've just witnessed was something deeply profound. It's a scam.E-mail me if you want my totally altered subtitles for awful Bergman movies. "},{"Title":"Very special film","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Mirror of Andrei Tarkovsky is a very different movie from what we are used to see, because the story is a bit difficult to understand if you don't read the synopsis before watch the movie.Except the lack of understanding i had when watching this movie, some scenes are pretty beautiful and the poems whose are read by the narrator are admirable. The music is composed by a compositor as i discovered on the soundtrack of Solaris, directed also by Tarkovsky.However, the movie contain some boring scenes, and be a bit lost when watching it wasn't a good point for me. I think i need to watch it a second time for understand it and appreciate it. "},{"Title":"one of the best films ever","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The film is a spectacular one. This film is a lifelong gift for those who think a film hardly needs dialogue; it has its own language. In recent years, it is getting difficult to find the examples of such kind. Zerkalo is a perfect example though. Well, zerkalo is also a perfect performance of obsessions with the things just around you and it plays sophisticatedly with them by offering a moving perspective and details. The obsessions do not only operate with the actual things around but also with the ideas as well. As a characteristic of Tarkovski's cinema, there are some miraculous events that you have to pay really great attention in order to realize. In respect to telling his biography Tarkovski chooses a pattern of interstices in order to rupture conventional way of telling personal histories and memories. It is full of allusions of times and spaces that just makes audiences feel displacement within those times and spaces. That is why this film is a lifelong gift for the people who think each moment of this film is not only part of Tarkovski's life but his or her own. One of the best films ever imho. "}{"Title":"A masterpiece!!!","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  An involving piece of cinematic history that reaches out to it's viewers in it's own personal way. `The Mirror' is an ageing landmark in film making from Russian director Andrei Tarkovsky and those who have been privileged enough to witness it are either temporarily or permanently changed in there own unique way.  The film follows the life story of a man during every aspect of stressful times that shape him out to be the human being that we are all left thinking about. From growing up with parental divorce to dealing with the complications he has with the mother of his child.  The audience follows the protagonist's views on everything that's happened to him with a touching dip into the lives of those he is emotionally attached too. We see our character grow up from a child to a father based on everyone else's character development, without ever actually getting to see our protagonist with our own eyes. The effect is an explosive journey into the mind of our character and his thoughts that our poured into sound through his poetry and interaction with those dear to him in his life. What made the films spirit so dramatic and touching was the director's ability to create our main characters world for us so clearly that we feel we could almost touch everything that was caught on camera. During which we get a very beautifully constructed authentic image of the time frame flowing throughout Russian history. This creating the atmosphere that much more interesting without changing our own personal ideas of the characters, but in fact enhancing there images on screen along with the lives they are all living. The mystical poetry dialogue that flows through out the film from time to time is one of the most important pieces that label this film as an individual growing art that we all see for what we are, and not so much for what the director wanted us to see. Most films nowadays are made to entertain the audience with nothing but cinematic elements to keep us happy.  This film is more of a piece of art with a cinematic touch that I feel was made to satisfy the creator himself more, and the audience just being the lucky ones along for the journey. Excluding the strong Russian history that almost embodies the story, this film gives of the strong impression of being labeled as the soul conflict between human life and nature. Human life being something that flows with almost every distortion until it's day of corruption, and nature moving on without cause and with every beauty human life has to offer.`The Mirror' is a haunting piece that grows with age. Letting all those who feel this film know that only the reflection changes when time goes by, but not the mirror itself.     "},{"Title":"Ponderous Tarkovsky","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" After viewing the opening long take (with the barn-fire, which I found astonishing) from this previously, I was expecting a meditative movie, but more than half way through this when I still was not drawn in enough to consider deciphering its themes, I had grown tired of it. There are of course those movies where multiple viewing can warm you up to them. Perhaps this is one. But with its bleakness, solitude, bombast, Russian boilerplate imagery (sniper training, crowds suffering, war, misery, the suffering of mothers) I really don't have the Soviet codex to receive it as it was intended. I can only gage it against some sort of generic humanity which is displeased to see characters suffer, and say something generic and bland about it. About 6 of my favorite movies would have charges of boredom leveled at them, so it's not the slowness or deliberation that loses me. I found my way to Tarkovsky via Zentropa by Lars von Trier. Mirrors merits seem to be as a) an atypical product to offer the soviet masses for consumption, and b) conspicuously arty like a film student would make. "},{"Title":"A film about you ...","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Andrei Tarkovsky's MIRROR has to be the most personal film I have ever seen. Never before have I seen a movie refer to man's important place within the stream of time. Within Tarkovsky's films I have tried to form my own opinion while taking into consideration the director's beliefs and history. I see MIRROR as being about how each and every individual has a profound effect on the lives and histories of individuals and nations. The surface of the movie is about an man reviewing past experiences before he dies. Since we all review events in a non-linear fashion the result in the film may seem fragmented and difficult to understand. Nevertheless, the context of the movie seems to necessitate this. The first time I saw this film I thought it was very difficult to understand. The more I saw it, the more I acknowledged the important theme presented in this film. As the director once said in his book (SCULPTING IN TIME), this is a film about you. "},{"Title":"taking a walk through the portals of Tarkovsky's mind poetic and dreamlike, with the flow of thought as opposed to narrative","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I can't say for certain how The Mirror had the impact it did, but it just worked like a kind of pure cinematic experience, minus the usual traditional narrative. There is something of a flow to the proceedings, but it's in pieces, fragments, the memory of (as late in the film we learn) a dying man. One person said in these comments on IMDb that there's something about the Mirror that deals with time, profoundly, and I think that's one of the keys to the picture. Among the few that are read, there is a poem narrated over documentary footage of soldiers walking along, and the poem talks of death as being only temporary, of someone dying at seven or seventy, but that there's a constant reality that continues even after one dies. There's something poignant being said there, almost out of reach, but plain as day. What can one do with a lifetime? There's childhood, adolescence, adulthood, marriage, divorce, and eventually the end.So The Mirror is, at the end of it all, a reflection (no pun intended) on life spent in a society, in this case Russia which the film very much is rooted in, the history of it, and how one spends with those he or she loves or tries to care for, not to mention work and (occassionally) play. We see scenes of a woman named Natalya, who is also the 'mother' figure (most likely meant to symbolize Tarkovsky's own maternal figure), and in crucial scenes like her at her job as a proofreader, or socializing with a Spanish bullfighter, or when she breaks up with her husband to marry a writer (is he Dostoyevsky? he asks sarcastically), and even in dreams where she washes her hair, in slow motion, and walls and the ceiling crumbling around her. But after a while, the two blend together, with maybe only some little differences in how we view the women, played by a very great and deeply emotional Margarita Terekhova, who in viewed through the prism of The Mirror is left to the audience to decide when is which and how.It should be a pretentious effort, and once in a while it does feel that way (a scene where the boy and his mother go to a neighbor's house, and the boy sits alone looking at the title object reminded me of Mirror, Father, mirror from Ghost World). But rarely from a European filmmaker have I been rattled with the challenge Tarkovsky presents. For one like myself who loves great poetry that enriches the mind, loves great technique with a visionary who knows few bounds with the camera careening and moving fearlessly in some scenes (particularly around the locations outside the house of the family in the country-side), loves things in style like lighting and perfect mix of B&W and color and little editing tricks that jar the senses like being witness to a fire-bomb thrown at the conventions of the usual in storytelling, and basically like a challenge to ones senses, The Mirror is fantastic. Few films combine themes of war, of social decimation, of familial crises, of the memories of things and objects (i.e. art book), and mortality like the Mirror, so even when it seems to distance the viewer with its approach to revealing it's not something to discard very easily on the whole.I'd be careful who I'd recommend it to- it's the kind of film that would draw enough comments going either way (love or totally hate or confused by) as to be close to polarizing- but for those who want to take a chance, it's one of the director's best, a unique triumph of personal film-making. To see it on the big screen, I might add, is a significant plus. "},{"Title":"Slow, tedious, very little pay off.","Date":"17 April 2012","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Okay, so a lot of old Russian movies seem to want you to experience the poetry blowing through the trees of the Siberian countryside or drag along a good bit to permit you to get in touch with this spirit of the Russian countryside or some various other patriotic connections with the essence of Russianism and such, but this movie is no Siberiade or Russian Ark even. If I personally had grown up in the Russian countryside and if this movie's reputed dreamy, poetic, non-linear recollections were those of my own grandfather, I'm afraid I still would have found this movie to be on the slow, boring and underwhelming side of things. I'm really confused as to how it has scored such a high rating, seriously. If this movie is an 8, then Siberiade, and Come and See, should be about a 16, and even Dr. Zhivago would have to be about a 14. I don't usually post negative comments, and probably wouldn't have bothered if this movie's IMDb average rating was a 6 or maybe even a 7, but as it was an 8 when I decided to watch this movie, well, I just can't figure how that is possible, unless there is some committee appointed by the Russian communist party politburo that is charged with just logging onto IMDb and voting for this movie. I just don't see how it possibly ever got a rating so high. I'll give it a 4, just because there were a few spliced in documentary clips that were interesting, but there were no extraordinary scenes of the countryside, the narrative poetry was not overwhelmingly great, no particular plot, no drama, wow, nothing really, but a slow, tedious movie without any real payoff, unless you can really just thrive on music, Purcell and such, that occasionally breaks the monotony, but then again, hopefully your refrigerator will make some entertaining noises while you are slogging through this movie. "},{"Title":"For Repeat Viewing, But A Real Masterpiece","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The only reason I'm putting an 8 instead of a 9 or 10 is that this is a film that requires concerted effort to appreciate, if not a second viewing to better contextualize all that is being conveyed. It's much like hearing a symphony for the first time--the first exposure cannot rate much more than a 5 or 6 unless one has an idea of what themes to follow. And perhaps the analogy to music is an apt way to describe Tarkovsky's technique, especially given his use of Bach to bookend the film, because of the ephemeral nature of the motifs explored in the film. If you've studied up ahead of time or are just that clever, then give this movie a 10 right from the start.Beyond that, there's not much else for me to say. I could say that The Mirror is a reminiscence of childhood in wartime Soviet Russia, but really that's reducing it too much. Nor can words cannot approximate the imagery of the film, either. It's simply something to be savored several times, if not more. "},{"Title":"Nice visual elements, unclear storytelling generally little artsy feeling","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" When I started watching this film, I had little presuppositions. I knew that it might be a little not-so-straightforward in terms of the plot or the storytelling. Also, I knew that this is generally considered as an art film meaning it is not intended for mass appeal. At this point I want to state that I do like many so-called art films including for example Three Colors trilogy or Aki Kaurismäki films. So back to the film I was astonished by visual beauty and good filming. There are also nice portrayal of the times from the USSR. However, it soon become clear to me that I should have had a notebook to follow the plot with all flashbacks and dream-like sections. Additionally, there are clearly so many metaphors and symbols in the film that it further complicates following of the plot. In consequence the watching experience was mostly to just look at nice visual elements and follow dialog that made no sense for great part. There is no bad word to say about acting per se.Someone wrote in the message boards that the film started to make sense only after watching 2 to 3 times. I can agree with that. However, as this was my first and probably the only time to watch, I can't give very high rating since two important elements of any film were absolutely too unclear the plot and the storytelling. I can easily understand that this film is a great subject for film student or art historian and as such can be rated high. For me, as a relatively casual film watcher and as the first time to watch, this was just 5/10. "},{"Title":"Amazing imagery...","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Tarkovsky may not be the most accessible filmmaker to us westerners, but he does create some of the most striking images ever put on film.  This film is no exception.  Even if you don't understand the plot or, in my case, can't read the majority of the poorly done subtitles, you can still bask in the amazing imagery.  After all, cinema is the art of moving pictures and this story is best told and appreciated by focusing on the images. This is a very enjoyable and memorable film.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful images, excruciating movie.","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" My first Tarkovsky and likely my last. Yes the images are beautiful, mysterious, hypnotic. Any sample 30 seconds would make me want to see the movie. But put them all together, in a story fragmented to the point of disintegration, and my question became, Will this ever end? I've recently seen two other movies where each shot was beautiful but the story was washed out, schematic and abstract Maborosi and Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter and Spring. These pictures are like photography exhibits. They think they're deep, but as far as I can see the depth amounts to portentous platitudes with no narrative flesh on the bones. Someone should tell them that storytelling is art--difficult art. Then they might try it. But they would fail. I think they do this kind of movie because they can't tell stories or create characters. I love Rohmer, whose movies many find slow and storyless. But it isn't true. With Tarkovsky, it is. There's no good reason for this degree of unintelligibility. The characters have human moments, interesting moments. But the cryptological impulse drains them of context and therefore of real feeling. "},{"Title":"Mirror mirror on the wall, is this the most boring movie of them all?","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Consistency, it would seem, isn't one of Andrei Tarkovsky's fortes. Between 1959 and 1980, on the strength of his breakthrough Ubiytsy and remake of Solyaris, the Soviet director found himself ensconced as a charter member of the splat pack alongside such horror notables as Zhenya Fedchenko, Vyacheslav Borisov, Aleksandr Vitoslavsky, Eli Adzhubei, Andrey Konchalovskiy, Lenny Vysotskaya, and Zhenya Fedchenko. However whereas many of his contemporaries have continued to mature and refine their talent, Tarkovsky had found himself stuck in neutral, serving as screenwriter for the merely passable Sour Grape, and now missing the mark completely with The Mirror, a film on which he doubled up as writer and director.Based on the 1933 Tamil film Into the Mirror, Innokenti Smoktunovsky stars as Aleksei, a former St. Petersburg police detective whose history of alcoholism and wrongful shooting of an innocent during a previous investigation has him struggling to put his life back together. Aleksei's inner demons, coupled with his landing a job as a night watchman in a burned out department store whose mirrors appear to play tricks on the mind, hint at a promising tale designed to blur the line between reality and psychosis. Instead, Tarkovsky and screen writing partner Aleksandr Misharin completely drop the ball. Early on they establish Aleksei's dependence on powerful prescription medication to curb his desire to drink. They also show him stumbling upon a bottle of whiskey during his first night in his watchman's cabin, yet they fail to use these plot points as anything more than red herrings, instead opting to spin a story about a malevolent supernatural force trapped in the store's mirrors and bent on escape. Sure it might be faithful to the Tamil original, but clearly there was room for improvement that was passed over.I'm starting to wonder if the lure of large Soviet budgets and marquee value stars has conspired to make this talented director grow lazy. Even his penchant for eye catching visuals is spoiled here as the interior sets appear to be a blatant re-hash of those used in 1946's See No Evil. And don't get me started about his reliance on pigeons fluttering for cheap scares - a tactic resorted to so many times I lost count.The end result is a tepid tale that's largely devoid of chills as it aspires to be yet another shoddy Exorcist variant, all of which is too bad given the possibilities of what could have been. "}{"Title":"Difficult thoughts","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a difficult movie to evaluate for its complexity. It's not that interesting or particularly good, even though it has its moments. This Russian film has no apparent plot. It appears to focus on a strange mix of contemporary scenes with childhood memories, newsreel footage and poetry. It also switches between 3 different generations of war.Just like films such as Disney's Fantasia and Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey seem to have images transforming into music, this movie's images seem to transform themselves into poetry.'The Mirror' (or, in Russian, 'Zerkalo') even makes use of scenes in black and white colored in a sepia tone, like in 'The Wizard of Oz' and the later 'Bröderna Lejonhjärta'. The scenes where that technique is used are uniquely filmed and very well made.Overall, a very difficult film to judge and rate, although it's far from being great. That and the fact that there is a scene with a rooster being slaughtered (even if not directly shown) prevented me from ever watching this again. I am very sensitive to animal cruelty, I can't stand it. "},{"Title":"This movie is so bad I ate my thumb","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"32 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Yes. I was sitting through this excruciating experience, and finally I just opened my mouth and ate my thumb. Why did I do it? No reason. It was a totally senseless, meaningless, stupid act. Much like this entire movie, much like Tarkovsky's entire career.Cinematic impressionists (people who can find deep meaning in a Wendy's commercial) have hailed this as a masterpiece. But it's not for me. I prefer the more intellectual, lucid works of Bergman, Kurosawa, Truffaut, Kieslowsky, Kubrick and Welles. I don't buy into this sort of rubbish where the director sets up a camera, records a bunch of weird images with no continuity and expects us to connect the dots. Furthermore, I don't buy into Tarkovsky's history of animal torture & killing for his films. Any punk can film a bird getting its neck wrung, play it back in reverse and call it art. But is it? Evidently some people think it is. "},{"Title":"Probably worth a second viewing","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"8 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie,knowing that Tarkovski isn't an amusing filmmaker.Still I thought that it would be necessary to see it,since Zerkalo is highly regarded as a cinematic masterpiece.Maybe it was because this was my first Tarkovski experience,but it bored me quite a bit.It's not that I don't appreciate quality or better film (I really adore the movies of Satyajit Ray,Ken Loach,Paul Auster,Federico Fellini,Luis Bunuel and Woody Allen for instance),on the contrary I really like the better film. Still,this one didn't satisfy me.OK,it has got some fine cinematic touches to it and,it has to be said,the film is quite unique since Tarkovski's own father and mother have important parts in the movie (the father as narrator of his own poems! and his mother plays the role of his own mother in the movie) and since the movie is pretty much an autobiographical piece.I'm not completely anti-Tarkovski now,I really want to see other movies of him but it wasn't up to my expectations.To me Tarkovski was a little bit too much of a Bergman-imitation.(there are some people who say that he is just that but I can't concur with that since I haven't seen his other work.)What I will do is,maybe in a couple of years,to see Zerkalo once again knowing what kind of movie it is.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Painful, and with a shocking disregard to its audience, the heaving abyss of banality that is The Mirror barely makes it out of the traps.","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Puzzling and alienating; impenetrable and indecipherable; punishing and rather worrying, Andrey Tarkovskiy's The Mirror is filmic illegibility in its purest, rawest and most unabashed, most unashamed of forms. We enjoy heading into all of the films that each of us see ready for the challenge; ready for the experience &#x96; ready to try and grapple with themes; notions and ideas that the craftsman that is the director readies themselves to throw at us it's us vs. them, and the cinematic battleground is that screen of however large or small there in front of you. Alas, we then realise that we occupy a world in which there is The Mirror; a mumbling, scattered, incoherent, droll torture session of a film &#x96; cinematic schizophrenia in an unbearable form; a film that wraps the proverbial rope around the rings on our noses and then takes glee in the leading of us off down all sorts of different routes of content it knows has the absolute power to agitate us, content that we begin as rather confused and perturbed by, before becoming a little frigidity by, before just getting plum angry at. An hour in, the head has become heavy; the mind has wondered and the body has slouched in its seat &#x96; not everything has made absolutely no sense whatsoever with zero resonance, but boy, has Andrey Tarkovskiy done his utmost.The film begins with a speech therapist curing that of a patient whose skills in talking were less than efficient, Tarkovskiy's film itself ironically enough later becoming a muttering; bumbling; inept; incoherent mess of jabberings and whatnot for which the only cure is the standby button on one's remote. The next scene sees a woman smoking on a wooden fence, a chance encounter with a travelling businessman seeing him muse to her on philosophical issues and whatnot and we wonder why it is a man, whom look as if he belongs in a Moscow high-rise on the telephone speaking of bearer bonds, is out in the middle of rural nowhere talking of the afterlife on a windy day. The woman works at a printing office, the thought of an error in a print sending chills down her spine as she rushes to the print room through corridors lit by some impressionistic lighting inferring, via film form, the horror of the situation; the whole thing a neat parallel for the disaster that is The Mirror going to print-come-production.As The Mirror rolled on, the subtitles on my screen might have read anything; they might have read the most nonsensical, bleary eyed piece of stoner scripted garbage one may have ever had heard, and it still would not have made a difference. At numerous point, Tarkovskiy peppers his film with these poems that it's stated in the opening credits either he or one of his family wrote - whatever, it's a film and not a recital and it's worth noting that a film's poetry needs to be in its imagery; a film's lyrical qualities require it to be put across as such through its images so as to induce a poetic experience, so placing everything on pause for sixty seconds, as something deemed artistically or thematically significant is read out, is not the way to go. Another of Tarkovskiy's tics here sees him place a person, whom does not speak, in a scene by themselves before having all forms of dialogue put across via the voice of somebody not even there; an aggravating idea that would be more bothersome had it not been for the instances in which Tarkovskiy inserts war newsreel footage amidst his own, a troublesome happening seeing him attempt to feed off of whatever emotional response audiences may have out of it the moment the man holds up both hands, realises the hole he's dug his way into and observes his imagery but this point does not stir anything. Long before the film has finished, we have used up all our energy in begging for a compelling narrative; an engaging character framework of some sort - anything at all. A consensus amongst most, label them with as anything you like, sees a reoccurring sentiment born out of the masses' inability to watch anything not in their original language that isn't a dubbed eighty minute long Manga cartoon or that cheap, nudey flick from Scandanavia which isn't dubbed but promises some full-on examples of skin. Such films are seen as alienating, complicated or positively cryptic; such people are deemed to stay as far away from them as possible despite missing out on what are more often than not wholesome and resonating pieces that instill and inspire.The Mirror, and those like it, are these films; these few films making up a small percentage of foreign language pictures more inclined towards confusing and disorientating &#x96; call them avant garde pieces; instillations; outsider art experiments or whatever you like, films such as The Mirror, in all their banality, are the reasons the generality of the sorts of levels of ignorance apparent as we know it both now and before, exists. It may very well be that the consensus agrees that such a sentiment could exist for the likes of Ingmar Bergman nonsense, and if there is then those people that refuse to watch one of the man's work for the above reasons is a fool - Bergman being a director of whom went through a period in the 1950s whose work then consisted of these gloriously accessible; devilishly involving; humble and really rather brilliant pictures, mostly about young people wishing to rebel and fall in love and whatnot, telling stories generations can relate to and come across as much more than mere experimental vanity projects. Yes, it is mostly Tarkovskiy's fault. "},{"Title":"Maybe actually a brilliant movie - but terribly boring","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  If I watched the movie in its original version I wouldn't have understood less, could have enjoyed the pictures and worked out my own story. I found it so incredibly boring, that I got me a beer and watched directly afterwards Sergio Leone's great C'era una volta il West (had to see a real movie) - now my back is hurting because of the most uncomfortable seats in our cinema. "}]