[{"Title":"My Favorite Childhood Film Experience","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  In 1975, I was 11 years old. Escape To Witch Mountain played to a packed house at a now-defunct old theatre called, Miracle. People were sitting on the floor because they sold more tickets than they had seats. I'd never seen anything like that before.My dad and step mom took me to the movie and we got the last of the few remaining seats. They probably only took me because it was a Disney flick. Had to be harmless, right? Hardly. Afterward, they were puzzled by the seemingly surprising UFO angle. I remember being absolutely transfixed. I'm still fascinated with mysterious stuff like UFOs and ghosts. I wasn't supposed to like that stuff but this film made it impossible for me not to.And I identified with the kid heroes on a deeper level as well. I, myself, was kind of a ragamuffin misfit kid from a broken home who spent weekends with my dad's new blended family. I felt the siblings' pain at being torn from their home. Tia broke my heart. She was as fragile as me, but far stronger when it really counted. Tony was just hot! Older and very cute at 13. And those powers they had? How cool was that? By the time the credits rolled, I knew I'd seen the best movie ever!I was lucky enough to have an older cousin who loved movies and hanging out with me and she bought the Disney movie record for me. I don't know if any of you remember these; Disney used to release LPs of the audio track of some of their movies, usually truncated and featuring narration. In the case of Escape, it was narrated by Eddie Albert. This thing enabled me to memorize every line of Tony and Tia's dialog and much of that of the other characters, too. I still have it, though the sleeve is long lost. It's tough for me to watch the movie without speaking along with the characters (especially Tia), at least in my head.My cousin also bought me Alexander Key's book. Boy, Disney sure took liberties, didn't they? Key's book is far more serious and developed and meaningful. I tried to take the best parts from the book and the movie and incorporate them together into the Tony and Tia of my imagination. It deepened them. Too bad there was no fanatic outlet back in those days! It was pretty egolesss of Alexander Key for coming together with Disney on the eventual novelization of Return. Without Key's kind participation, it would of been an empty exercise. I was especially impressed with how he incorporated the issue of Tia needing to learn to speak.Through the years, I never Escape and I saw it as often as I could. For instance, when Return was released, Disney sent the movies out as a double feature. I loved Return, silly as it was, even though there were things in it that really bugged me. Like the sibs being split apart for most of the movie. I loved them together! I think most of the fans of the first film were most affected by their chemistry. I think we wanted to see more of that. Even so, I really liked the Earthquakes, all of them. And it was fun to see Kim and Ike a bit older and even cuter than before. I also remember seeing Escape on an odd revival double-bill with Bambi at some point in my teen years. I think I would've followed Kim and Ike anywhere. Heck, I even followed them to Devil Dog, The Hound Of Hell. You have to see the comments page here at IMDb if you haven't already.I would've seen Tuff Turf even if Kim wasn't in it, but that's a convoluted story for another thread. Suffice to say I have seen TT far too many times and many of them were for Kim. Also, I can honestly say I enjoy the TV edit of Star Trek II far more than the theatrical cut because it has more Ike. I even had a good time watching Blair Witch Mountain... when it hit the web. I have to agree that it might be fun to revisit Tony and Tia with the original actors today. Hey, last year, the new Twilight Zone brought Anthony (Billy Mumy) back and introduced us to his similarly gifted, but far less scary (real life) daughter (Liliana Mumy). And all those people came back from the cornfield. Why not Tony & Tia?I could rhapsodize for paragraphs about both With Mountain films, and I may still do so when I get my special edition DVDs. In the meantime, here's hoping that a whole new generation of kids will discover Witch Mountain for themselves.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful Film","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I was thrilled to see one of my favourite films, as a child, released on to DVD.  I can now share some of my childhood with my own kids.  No big surprise, but my older daughter (7) loves it.  My younger daughter (2) thought some parts were scary daddy; the broom/jail scene was well done! Highly recommend it as a family film for folks that want a nice movie to watch with their kids. "},{"Title":"Pretty good then, and still good now","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A long time ago, I was into books.  This isn't a light phrase, I took out multitudes of them from the library.  Alexander Key wrote a neat novel called Escape to Witch Mountain about a priest named Father O'Day who helps two siblings return to their people.  It was a very good book, and I knew when I bought the book from the Book Fair that it was a reprint to endorse the movie.  However, at that time, my movie-experiences were minimal.  It took several years for me to actually be able to see the movie (when Disney first brought out the Disney Channel, iirc) and I was a bit surprised at the liberties that were taken with Key's book.  The priest became the widower, and the beat up car became the RV.  Bolt was not in the book, but he was an interesting main-villian, and I enjoyed the movie.  My son, who is now 6 (Tues this week) enjoys watching it on VHS as much as I do!  Return was not as good--it was a let's make money by doing a sequel but it was cool too.  As that 5th grader, I knew what it was to be outside the norm, and I wanted to have the same powers that Tia did, so I guess that's saying something!I too place this movie with Parent Trap, Candleshoe, and Freaky Friday.  Good movies that I don't have to worry about my child catching wrong words from!  **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Falls apart near the finish, but until then an excellent family film","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Alexander Key's popular pre-teen novel concerns two orphaned siblings with supernatural powers taken in by a nefarious millionaire (named Aristotle Bolt!) who wants to exploit their magical abilities for personal gain. Top-notch Walt Disney adventure for families has natural, non-precocious performances from young Ike Eisenmann and Kim Richards as the gifted kids, and their friendship with good-hearted traveler Eddie Albert is sweet but not sticky. The eerie flashbacks to the youngsters' early beginnings are well-captured by director John Hough, who is otherwise forced (perhaps for budgetary reasons) to skimp on genuine atmosphere in place of an elongated chase. Too bad the finale replaces emotion with effects, as these characters are quite remarkable. Followed by a fairly wan sequel, 1978's Return From Witch Mountain, in which the special effects became the whole show. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Away to witch mountain we go!","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The 1970's was not a good time for the Disney Studios. Much of the stuff that came from Disney at this time were corny and fluff. This movie however is a rare exception, esp. for it's time.This film is about a bother and sister, Tony & Tia (Ike Eisenmann and Kim Richards)who have powers(ESP, Levitation and the like)but they don't know how or where these powers come from. Tia is being bothered by memories of an accident that she can't piece together. However, as the film progresses-the pieces come together like a puzzle and they figure out the answer to the question Where are we from?I must say that the chemistry between Eisenmann & Richards worked so well, people actually believe that they are brother & sister. It's really remarkable how well they worked together-no wonder it looked so real. This is remarkable acting talent on the part of these two and no one could have done it better. This is why I think these two actors are underrated.I'm not going to go into detail of the rest of the film. Read the other reviews for that. One thing I need to mention is that the special effects were great for it's time. Maybe They were a little Cheesy, but the essence of the story is not the powers these kids have, but they are searching for their home and looking for answers about where they come from. To me, this is the real story-not the special effects.I just got my DVD copies of both films This and Return From witch mountain They done a good job remastering the soundtrack in THX, 5.1 Dolby surround sound. It sounds as good as it does in the theater if you have a home theater system. "},{"Title":"One of this memorial films","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I'm from Spain so excuse my English. I'm not really an expert, but i have seen this film between 10 - 20 times when I was less than a teenager. I think if I could watch it now, I got sleep before second act starts. But, a kid can find so much interesting dreams to have in the future. YOU'RE SPECIAL!! That was exactly I thought each time i watch it. A Kid always want to be heard & considered by his parents  & society. The power of the imagination, the can do what i want & the not possible identification with other powered heroes (too old, too far, too big or too dangerous) makes this film indispensable for kids.Maybe this film was a FIASCO for Disney, but in Spain (and in other countries, i guess), many people considered it like a Bible of entertainment and easy cinema. Only in Hollywood! And with the inducement to see one of the later monkees component doing the levitation that never obtain with his music.A classic. "},{"Title":"Another great memory of childhood","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" It always puzzles me how adults can review movies that were meant for a young audience and review it negatively (through adult eyes), completely forgetting about a child's unique and innocent perspective on the film. Shame on them all!!As a young kid in the 70's, Disney, cartoons and sports were all weekly staples- so many good memories!! Escape to Witch Mountain was one of the first movies I saw in the theater, and was both entertaining and fun. A good adult cast; Donald Pleasence, Ray Milland and the underrated Eddie Albert, all provide good support for our two hero kids who use their powers to not only try to find home again but thwart the evil intentions of those trying to use their powers for their own benefit. The movie is well paced and has the usual hi jinks one expects in a chase film. I enjoyed it then and liked it just as much after a recent viewing on cable.This movie also illustrates how one doesn't need bad language or crude behavior/jokes to appeal to kids. What some people regard as corny others find a refreshing change from today's standards of acceptable programming. "},{"Title":"A Close Encounter For Eddie Albert","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" One of the Magic Kingdom's most charming fantasies occurs as a two children from outer space try to return home in Escape To Witch Mountain. The place mentioned in the title is a rendezvous point where they have to reach.Ike Eisenman and Kim Richards are two lower grade school kids who've been placed in an orphanage because their foster parents have died. Those parents are the only ones they've ever known. Richards has memories of being rescued from a body of water though. These two have remarkable powers that they have to be careful about showing off. But some precognition has them warning Donald Pleasance about not getting in a car that shortly has an accident. Pleasance works for tycoon Ray Milland who wants those children and will stop at nothing to see he gets possession of them.The kids get wise to Milland and Pleasance and run off, but Milland gets the law on his side and in pursuit of them. Their biggest stroke of luck is gaining the trust and confidence of Eddie Albert. He's a lonely and crusty old man, but those kids are charming and weave some magic that has nothing to do with their being aliens.Escape To Witch Mountain provides Eddie Albert with one of his best later career roles. Albert works well with Eisenman and Richards and doesn't let the kids steal any scenes from him.Some plot elements that would find themselves in the later and more acclaimed Cocoon are found in Escape To Witch Mountain. The special effects are before computer graphics took over, yet they are quite good. Two other performances to look out for are Walter Barnes as a greedy sheriff and Reta Shaw who runs the orphanage where the kids are first taken.Escape To Witch Mountain is one of Disney Studios best products post the death of the founder Walt Disney. It should be seen in conjunction with the sequel Return From Witch Mountain. "},{"Title":"Hollywood should remake this one....again.","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" 1995 saw a remake of Escape to Witch Mountain as a Disney Sunday Night Movie. It was horrible. Its biggest mistake was to try to bring New Age Mysticism to the table and it should never have been ordered.1975's Escape to Witch Mountain is a really cool movie. It's has a lot of neat ideas in it. I loved it at age 5 and still loved it upon a repeat viewing at at 36. Hollywood clearly has lost originality and a source of genuine new ideas and has been remaking a lot of films lately. I think they should pick this one and use the male version of the Olsen Twins, Cole and Dylan Sprouse. Yes, I know, Tia would have to become Tim, but it's a different spin on the story and if Starbuck can become a woman in Sci-Fi's Battlestar Galactica, why not make Tia a boy? Just don't make it a comedy! And this time bring it to the big screen, not the TV.At any rate, 1975's Escape to Witch Mountain was in my opinion way ahead of its time, both in story and special effects. Alexandar Key (the author) outdid himself. In the right hands today, it could be a huge success.*EDIT* Asked and delivered! Remake coming in 2009 (Race to Witch Mountain.) OK OK, maybe the Cole and Dylan Sprouse idea wasn't the best -- but at least they are remaking it! ) "},{"Title":"Alexander Key's Magic Mountain","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" After their foster parents die, telepathic Kim Richards (as Tia Malone) and telekinetic Ike Eisenmann (as Tony Malone) must return to living in an orphanage. On an outing with ever-delightful Reta Shaw (in her last film role), the siblings' otherworldly powers are discovered, by Donald Pleasence (as Lucas Deranian), the devious driver for dastardly millionaire Ray Milland (as Aristotle Bolt). With help from heart-warmed Eddie Albert (as Jason O'Day), the children must escape from Mr. Milland, who has nefarious plans&#x85; The usual Disney clichés - cute kids, lovable animals, old pros - but significantly better than what had, by the time this film was originally released, become the norm at the studio mediocre to poor kid fare. Children deserve quality. Escape to Witch Mountain is more imaginative than insulting; and, as you'll see, it could arguably be called ahead of its time. The players and animals are nicely corralled by director John Hough; Winkie is the cat's meow, and the instrumental puppet dance is quite memorable.******* Escape to Witch Mountain (3/21/75) John Hough ~ Ike Eisenmann, Kim Richards, Eddie Albert, Ray Milland "}{"Title":"Everything the new version is not","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Having seen the new version of this film recently (Race to Witch Mountain), I cannot tell you how much of a pleasant surprise Escape to Witch Mountain was to me. The new version, in my opinion, lacks any kind of character development and is full of annoying characters that do nothing to help the movie. Essentially, the new version basically did away with the first 45 minutes or so of this film, which helped set up the story, develop the characters, and give us a better sense of why the kids are running away. Also, Dwayne Johnson is incredibly lacking in emotion and character compared to Eddie Albert in this movie. While I admit that most of the special effects in this film may seem cheesy by today's standards, they actually make the film even more fun to laugh at. This film came out of a couple of decades when Disney was at its height of live action movies, when even film of this type they turned out was at least worthwhile. This is an enjoyable movie, with good jobs of acting done by basically all of the characters. Appropriate for anyone in the family, exciting, funny, and likable.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Incredibly stupid movie, but loved it when I was a kid.","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The fairly newly released DVD is cool because it has audio commentary by the director, Ike Eisenmann and Kim Richards. After all these years, Kim Richards' voice sounds exactly the same. Kim and Ike comment how wonderful Eddie Albert and some of the other actors were to work with -- very professional and treated them with respect. It is quite a fun audio commentary. Kim and Ike explain how some of the special effects worked.Movie itself has very COOL special effects -- the best part being when the coat and hat came alive to terrorize the sheriff of that redneck town. Nobody felt bad for the sheriff because he was so creepy.Any movie that has interaction with kids and animals will be enjoyable for kids and this one features horses, dogs, a cat and a bear. What kid cannot relate to this? That aspect does make it appealing to kids.Unfortunately, a really bad script makes this movie plodding and not as interesting as it could be. I almost like the sequel better because Bette Davis is so over the top and Christopher Lee is such a fun guest star. "},{"Title":"Like father, like son&#x85; a family favorite!","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Honestly, very few things in life fill me with more joy and happiness than re-watching the favorite movies of my childhood during lazy Sunday afternoons, now more or less 20 to 25 years after I last saw them. During the past couple of years, I discovered that I still love them all just as much as back when I was a geeky 9- year-old with an unhealthy interest in macabre kids' films! I'm talking about titles like Dark Crystal, The Watcher in the Woods, Return to Oz, Island at the Top of the World and Something Wicked this Way Comes. Escape to Witch Mountain was also on my list of childhood favorites, and re-watching this particular one also became another emotional milestone for me, since I watched it together with my 6-year-old son! We live in Belgium, so he doesn't speak English and he can't properly read subtitles yet, so I pretty much narrated the entire movie to him. But that was a big pleasure since he was clearly just as impressed and intrigued as I was 25 years ago and he truly loved all the legendary scenes, like with the flying RV, the trained bear and the upside down helicopter! Now, nearly a week after having seen the film he still talks about it and he particularly feels proud about having watched a more mature movie whereas his friends at school are still just watching the animated Disney movies! But anyways, even my more objective opinion states that Escape to Witch Mountain is a recommendable film for all types of audiences. It has an engaging plot, good pacing, plenty of versatile action and &#x96; most of all &#x96; wonderful acting performances. Back when I was 9, I obviously didn't know who Donald Pleasance or Ray Milland were, but over the years I became a horror fanatic and now they are both ranked among my favorite actors of all time. It's good to see that even in Disney movies they remain loyal to their reputations and depict villainous characters that are equally menacing and loathsome as in regular hardcore horror movies! The story introduces two cherubic but orphaned siblings, Tia and Tony, with sensational supernatural powers. The girl Tia can foretell things before they occur and talk to animals, while the boy has telekinetic capacities. Nobody knows where they come from, although Tia has vague recollections of a shipwreck, and they are placed in a boarding school where they clearly don't fit in with the other children. When the girl saves the life of a certain Mr. Deranian (Donald Pleasance) by warning him about an accident about to happen, he is immediately intrigued by her powers and informs his employer Aristotle Bolt (Ray Milland). Their intentions obviously aren't peaceful and even though they offer Tia and Tony a giant room full of toys, the girl senses they are in danger and they flee from the estate. With the - initially reluctant &#x96; help of lone tourist Jason O'Day (Eddie Albert), they set out on a dangerous journey in search for their true personalities. Escape to Witch Mountain is still a great and adventurous kids' movie, accomplished with a lot more heart and passion than nowadays. I hope to quickly track down the sequel Return to Witch Mountain as well, as it has an equally impressive cast featuring Christopher Lee and Bette Davis. "},{"Title":"Timeless classic","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Disney's Escape To Witch Mountain is in my opinion one of the finest of their live action outings. I grew up with it, it was one of the first films I ever saw, and will always hold a special place in my heart. It has such a buoyant sense of light hearted adventure and well staged scenes of intrigue, you can't not be transported to its world. I find myself hazily recalling it all the time, similar to the way the two intrepid young protagonists dreamily experience flashbacks to their mysterious past. Tony (Ike Eisenmann) and Tia (Kim Richards) Malone are two very different kids. Left in an orphanage with no past or parents, they don't fit in with the others. They have certain abilities premonition, foresight, levitation, clairvoyance and more. Pretty soon greedy, selfish billionaire Aristotle Bolt (a hammy, terrifying Ray Milland) hears rumors about the two, and dispatches his main operative Mr. Deranian (Donald Pleasence) to forge adoption papers and obtain them, as well as their powers. Pleasence, an old pro, slyly plays the role to slick perfection. Tony and Tia escape from Bolt's clutches and go on the run, aided by a cranky, motor home driving old timer, played excellently by Eddie Albert. The three attempt to elude Bolt's extensive reach and find out where Tony and Tia come from (Stony Creek, Misty Valley POWER) and unlock the secret of their extraordinary powers. The heart of the movie rests with the two youngsters, giving genuine performances beyond their years, and using their active imagination to make us feel the reality of both their powers, and their plight. The special effects, although dated by today's standards, are still delightful to watch. Just do yourself a favour and steer well clear of the sequel, and the remake with Dwayne the cock Johnson, they're both just awful. The vibe of the film is pure fun, and at times gets a bit mysterious and moody, never loses that rollicking adventurous tone that trademarks Disney efforts. A gem. "},{"Title":"Derivative Work?","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is an excellent movie, but I've often thought it was a derivative work of The People series by Zenna Henderson. If you like this movie or the book, you will likely enjoy Henderson's stories. Her stories involve the experiences of a variety of psychically endowed survivors from a planetary disaster who find themselves 'castaways' on Earth (sound familiar?). Most are unfamiliar with their PSI powers and are often taken for witches or demons and run out of town or worse. Many are children or young adults. Gradually, as the series matures, enclaves of those who know the whole story group together in backwoods hill country or other places where their powers are not visible. They enlist helpful earth people (like doctors) to find others of their kind and bring them 'home'. Edie Albert alludes to doing this in the movie. The bulk of Henderson's stories were written from 1952-1980 and brought together in a compilation called Ingathering in 1995. All of the stories are extremely well written although they are not always 'happy' during the story, they always end happy and and make you wish that was the way that people really were. Regardless of whether or not the script writer or book author was influenced by Henderson's work, the movie (and Henderson's stories) are an excellent introductions to the genre of Science Fiction for children and adults alike (the movie for kids, the stories for adults). "},{"Title":"Unique","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The overall feel of the movie is rather unique and different. Many of the special effects and things were probably pretty good for their time, but are very outdated and simple compared to today's movies. Still they are fairly impressive when you consider that they were done without computers.Note that the title Escape to Witch Mountain is somewhat misleading because the movie has virtually nothing to do with witches. It's about two kids who have special powers, but thankfully these powers are not portrayed as being witchcraft. Some people in the movie start to think that they're witches, but they're actually just kids from another planet where people have abilities that earth people don't have, things like communicating telepathically, talking to animals, and controlling objects with their minds. Some of it is a bit spooky, but it's a very unique concept, and I like that it's not portrayed as being witchcraft.It's a rather fun adventure that some people may like and others may find boring. For the most part I like it. Something about the ending seems a bit incomplete, but I don't really know what else they could've done it. "},{"Title":"A little piece of my childhood","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Wonderful Disney film about a pair of orphans (Kim Richards, Ike Eisenmann) with special powers being pursued by a greedy millionaire (Ray Milland), who wants to use their powers to his advantage. With help from a grouchy old man (Eddie Albert) in a Winnebago, the kids try to reach a place called Witch Mountain they feel drawn to.This is one of Disney's best films from the '70s and a personal favorite from my childhood. The cast is excellent. Kim Richards is best known today for being a reality TV personality, but before all that embarrassing nonsense she actually had a fairly successful career as a child actor. Eisenmann also had a lot of work as a kid before moving on to other things. Both hold their own well with solid veteran actors Ray Milland, Eddie Albert, Donald Pleasence, and Denver Pyle. The vets are all terrific. It's a sci-fi family film with healthy doses of Disney cuteness. Whether or not that cuteness will be your cup of tea I can't say. The special effects are dated now, sure, but they're not bad for their time. Besides, the datedness actually adds to the charm I think.Sometimes we like movies from our youth solely because of nostalgia or because they are tied to a special memory. While that is no doubt the case for many of us with Escape to Witch Mountain, I really do think it holds up well today on its own merits. If you grew up with this, you don't need me to tell you how much fun it is. To everyone else, particularly the younger viewers weaned on CGI, Ritalin pacing, and music video cinematography, open yourself up to this movie and I'm sure you'll like it. It's a magical adventure with heart, humor, and an emphasis more on story and characters than glitz and hollow special effects. "},{"Title":"May be dated, but it holds a certain nostalgic value","Date":"1 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" While not perfect, this Disney sci-fi drama is one of their better films of the 70s. Some of the special effects may be dated by today's standards, but some weren't that bad, and the film does meander towards the end. But essentially this film is really quite charming, with a nice story, lovely music and a well written narrative. The direction is also good, and the cinematography is on the most part beautiful. But it is the performances that make Escape to Witch Mountain worth watching. Kim Richards and Ike Eisenmann are surprisingly good as Tia and Tony, while Donald Pleasance is a very good Lucas Deranian. It is Ray Milland who steals the show though, in a deliciously evil performance as Aristotle Bolt. Aside from the performances, this movie does have a lot of nostalgic value that holds up on repeated viewings. Followed by a follow-up movie Return from Witch Mountain and an inferior but average 1995 remake this is a very nice film that has enough thrills to delight kids and adults. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"An experience to remember--","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Escape to Witch Mountain.An experience to remember--in the era when we are steeped in pseudo-intellectual pursuits of self-professions by not only watching Goddard but discussing as well as pretending to comprehend him, when the likes of Bunty Aur Babli is given the dubious honor of being termed a film,the likes of this Disney feature is like a sneak-peek of Paradise--entertainment of the pure, unmitigated kind, untouched by the innate vulgarity of this sterile, perverse era.It is a movie which is a must-see for those who wish to enjoy, and not a la mode modern--people who like to sit back inside a movie theater and intentionally forget their projects, bank balances and incipient love life---a film that may transport you into the magic world of Hook,  Batteries Not Included,What Dreams May Come and Mr.Holland's Opus. A must-see for a movie aesthete, a must-not see for the critic and pseudo-critic! "},{"Title":"I was an extra in this movie","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Kind of a funny story, on my way to a friends house one day, my cut thru was a funky elementary school, called Penisula School, in Menlo Park, now this was not your ordinary school, the school house was an old mansion, over 100 years old. The school was a hippie private school Jerry Garcia used to play there to raise money along with sonny and cher, saw them both for a dollar back in the 70's! You could could go barefoot as my neighboor did... anyway ..on this day, the place was FILLED with Disney trucks... turns out they were using it for the opening scence... and filled the baseball scene on the grounds... I hung arouund and got asked to be in the movie as the Pitcher for the game. I appeared in a few other scence, the really tall kid with the long blonde hair.. OK, here's the funny part..I was a bit of a stoner in those days...just out of High school and we went and saw the film in the theater..theater by the way in the movie was in palo alto..they later showed the film. I thought all these years that I was not in it! I must have been to high at the movie theatre and Forgot I was actually in the film, I always thought I ended up on the cutting room floor! . fast forward 25 years, I had always told my kids..I was cut out of the film but rented it anyway...to show the kids... while playing the VCR I said..yes, there's the school..and here is the scene that I SHOULD have been in.. in fact..I looked kinda like that kid..my son says...dad freeze the frame...that IS you ... you were never cut out,,,you just must have been stoned when you saw the film and forget you were in it..so all these years, I never new...until a few years ago..my kids were walking among a Disney extra *lol* .... I know proudly own the DVD... "}{"Title":"A nostalgic pleasure that is badly dated but also refreshingly free of ill-will or menace","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Tia and Tony are brother/sister and also orphans &#150; but neither have any memory of where home was or what happened to their parents. Nor do they have any idea why they both have varying degrees of power over objects and people using only their minds. One person who does have an interest in them is Lucas Deranian, who witnesses their powers first hand, and his employer, the powerful Aristotle Bolt. Faking documents to prove he is their uncle, Deranian removes them from the orphanage and sets them up in their luxury new home with all mod cons, including hidden cameras to observe them. Obviously catching onto this scheme, Tia and Tony flee their new guardians and run away, with only a secret map a clue as to their home and destination.Ahead of a remake next year, I watched this old-school Disney film recently, interested to see what I would make of it without having the memories of seeing it as a child (nostalgia being a common thread among those reviews that seem to love the film). What I found was a film that stays so focused on the principles of Disney live-action films of the time that it manages to summon up nostalgia even in those who did not specifically see this film. This is evident across the film as we have children more able than the adults around them, who have powers/gifts/knowledge that adults do not, love animals and get into wonderful adventures which involve danger but never a serious threat. The specifics are not that important but the plot is quite good as it allows the characters to have mini-episodes across the film.Being over 30 years old, it is no surprise that the film is dated in terms of looks, presentation, effects and content but those with a nostalgia for a period when kids films didn't have to come preloaded with cynicism and sassy kids will easily forgive this. For the majority of us though it will still feel limited by how dated it is, while at the same time providing a sort of cheesy entertainment value that comes from old-school pleasures. That said, it still a pretty wooden affair, with the child actors not having a mean bone in their body but plenty of acting and clunky explanatory dialogue to work with. I understand why Eisenmann and Richards are sort of cult figures off the back of this but they are pretty wooden and without a lot of character to speak of. They do the job but their basic turns are part of dating the film. I was a bit disappointed by Pleasance as I was looking for more in the way of menace from him, although Milland got the mix of comedy bumbling and being a baddie just right for this type of vehicle. Albert is good and works well with the two kids.The effects are also dated &#150; but in terms of what was possible but also (sort of connected) what was thought up to be done and how quite innocent it all was. So we get spinning coats, a friendly bear, flying flour bags, dancing puppets etc, all of which are of course quite cheap in terms of modern effects but at the same time are refreshingly free of menace or ill-will. Essentially the same can be said about the whole film because, despite feeling dated and a bit basic, it is good natured and nostalgic fun. The downside of this is that modern children will probably be roundly unimpressed by it in the face of the CGI-generated, self-aware and smart films that they have been served over the last decade or so. A nostalgic pleasure despite this though. "},{"Title":"A Beloved Rollicker for the Younger Set","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This beloved Disney live action film, now being handed down by American Gen Xers to their elementary-aged children, is simply a well-crafted G-rated action and sci-fantasy adventure. It is also a project that blazed a number of pop-cinema trails for which it receives little credit.The joys of this movie begin with the main title sequence, a spooky orchestral shadow and drawing animation sequence to rival the intros for the James Bond franchise. The direction is, by and large, letter perfect. Children, even those of 2015 who expect Transformers-level effects to hold their attention, are raptly drawn to the film's modest storytelling as soon as it commences, with a clever rolling shot of an orphanage van. The leads, playing the orphaned siblings Tia and Tony Malone, were both popular child actors in the 1970s, and they are immensely likable.Donald Pleaseance, who did a stint as the arch-villain Blofeld in a James Bond film or two, is excellent all-around as the heavy's conflicted major domo, Mr. Derainian. Eddie Albert co-stars as the children's' happenstance ally. His chemistry with Tia and Tony is grandfatherly, avuncular, serendipitous, and altogether believable. The flying car in Harry Potter? Invented in this film 30 years prior (and by author Alexander Key, in the original conception, it must be said). Self-writing, mid-air pens? Not birthed in J.K. Rowling's imagination; this film pioneered those too. Wizardly youths who can speak to animals? Sorry Slytherins. It was this witchy set who came up with that. This movie was made in 1975. First-time viewers who enjoy speculating about the influence of earlier wide-audience films over latter day blockbusters should screen ETWM a couple of times as an exercise. Enjoying it anew with my family, and watching with this eye, I found probable routes of influence spilling over into films as diverse as Star Wars, The Goonies, Rowling's Potter franchise, and Annie.By no means a perfect film, the ending is universally acknowledged as being too abrupt, and too whimsical. But remember that it is made for kids, and while watching, marvel at the cinematic sophistication--as a kids film-- of so many of the other sequences, and you'll let the creators off easy over the matter of the ending. "},{"Title":"Officially made for children but will keep adults entertained as well","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" At the centre of this movie are two orphans, brother and sister Tony and Tia Malone. The surname Malone is that of their deceased adoptive parents; they know nothing of their real parents, although Tia has vague memories of her early childhood, including an accident at sea and of an uncle whom she believes drowned white trying to rescue them. The children also have strange psychic powers, including telekinetic abilities, powers of telepathic communication with one another and with animals, and the power to foretell future events. Tia and Tony are placed in an orphanage, where they come to the attention of a millionaire named Aristotle Bolt. Bolt persuades his employee Lucas Deranian to poses as the children's uncle and, with the aid of forged documents, he is able to adopt them from the orphanage. Bolt then offers the supposed family a home in his luxurious mansion. His interest in the children, however, is not philanthropic; he is simply hoping to exploit their abilities for business purposes. Realising that Deranian is not really their uncle and that Bolt is not to be trusted, the children use their powers to escape. Bolt initiates a manhunt to recapture them, but they are sheltered by an eccentric elderly man named Jason O'Day who is touring the country in a motor home.Although this is a children's film, it is one that I tend to remember more for the adults than for its rather anonymous child stars Kim Richards and Ike Eisenmann than for its adult actors; the most memorable child is probably the oddly-named Truck, the bully who makes the siblings' life a misery in the orphanage. Eddie Albert is in great form as Jason, a crusty, embittered yet strangely sympathetic widower, and there are two outstanding villains in the shape of Donald Pleasence as the smoothly plausible Deranian and Ray Milland as the ruthless and sinister Bolt, a man who can seem threatening even when he is ostensibly being beneficent. The Witch Mountain of the title is the place to which the children make their way after their escape from Bolt's mansion and where they eventually discover the reason for their powers. Without giving too much away I can say that the explanation introduces a science-fiction element at a time when Hollywood was just starting to rediscover sci-fi. The genre had temporarily become unpopular after some dreadful examples in the fifties, but by the mid-seventies was starting to recover. The film came out in 1975, the same year as Close Encounters of the Third Kind and two years before the great sci-fi explosion caused by the success of Star Wars. Escape to Witch Mountain is not a grand spectacular along the lines of Star Wars, but it is a well-made and engaging movie, officially made for children but the sort of thing that will keep adults entertained as well. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Psychic Siblings","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" John Hough directed this Disney science fiction adventure yarn that stars Ike Eisemann & Kim Richards as Tony & Tia Malone, two orphaned siblings with patchy memories of their past who are reclaimed by their uncle Lucas(played by Donald Pleasance) who really works for evil millionaire Aristotle Blot(played by Ray Milland) who wants to exploit their psychic powers for his own financial gain, so they escape and are aided by a widowed man (played by Eddie Albert) who hides them in his camping vehicle, while they try to make it to Witch mountain, where they feel their real uncle(played by Denver Pyle) will be waiting. Bright film with a good cast and direction, and enjoyable plot. "},{"Title":"Where It All Began&#x85;","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Officially, or unofficially, this is my 1,000th review. I chose Escape to Witch Mountain because it was the very first movie I'd ever seen. And I will never forget that experience for the remainder of my days.Picture it Rochester, New York, probably 1978 or 1979ish, when I was either 4-5 years old. My parents worked for the town's bread and butter Kodak. They had a Family Day at the plant; more specifically, in the company's gym &#x96; a rather large basketball court. There were activities abound, but the highlight, to me, at least, was the giant screen that showed Escape to Witch Mountain.I was captivated, enthralled. Even if I wasn't the exact age of the boy, Tony (Ike Eisenmann) in the story, in my mind, I was him. It was a story of two orphaned and special children &#x96; a brother and a sister and their eventual journey from foster care to a filthy-rich household.(Even though I was never orphaned, I did relate to them more than just being around the boy's age in the movie. I, too, only have one sibling, a sister, whom I was very close to, like in the movie.)After exploring all the neat and super-expensive stuff given to them by their new guardians in their spacious living quarters, they quickly learn that nothing's for free. These men, their money and dogs, want more out of the two children, who have special powers, than just a family. (I wouldn't know back then, their powers were telekinesis, but basically, it was that plus a few more physic powers.)Eventually, they're hunted down, on the run and with the help of a grumpy old man, they head towards all they know, at least in broken memories Witch Mountain.To my recollection, this is only the second time I've ever seen this movie, roughly 34-35 years later and yet, I remember this movie (and initial viewing) like I'd seen this yesterday. I remember everything the score, the scenes, the adventure, the comedy, the heart and most definitely, the message. I believe this, as my very first movie experience, really helped mold me to what I am today.I believe it always made me skeptical of people who offer free stuff for nothing. I think it created a fantasy within myself of being free as an orphan, with only your sibling in tow, and adventures it can lead to. And I trust it partially gave me the heart that these kids had.Now, I will say, the movie's not perfect, aside from the laughable and obvious special effects &#x96; you can see the wires multiples of time, as well as the driving green screens. But, dang, it's well near perfection. The score, the cinematography, the acting, the character depth, the originality and adventure of storytelling still, incredibly, holds up today. Despite this being released in 1975, four(ish) years prior to me seeing it, it's an extremely fun quest of two wonderful children and the great guy who didn't know he had a heart.Oh and there's a winking cat to aid in their journey. Who couldn't love that?I was actually thinking, for the first time in my 1,000(+) reviewing history of giving this a pass because it was the movie that began my love of cinema. But, as I watched it, this time as an adult and three decades later, I do believe it is an excellent film regardless of being marketed as a G-Rated family movie. I truly marveled in the storytelling and laughed a lot &#x96; never unintentionally.Now, I have seen the sort-of remake, but never seen the sequel, Return from Witch Mountain. Perhaps I will venture into the direct sequel and reboot again now that I revisited the original.In any case, this is a great movie, even to this day. If you haven't seen it, see what I saw. As a child or as an adult.And here's to another 1,000 reviews. Oh, vey! "},{"Title":"Rather iconic children's film that pleased many kids in its day.","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A nostalgic favorite for many viewers who were pre-teens in the '70s, this fantasy film inspired a sequel and two remakes! Eisenmann and Richards play a pair of orphans who wind up at Shaw's boarding school and, before long, begin to display various powers that indicate that they are not average youngsters. Eisenmann came make objects move without touching them and Richards is a telepath and can predict events before happen (as well as communicate with animals.) She can also undo locks making her, for some reason, a tad more gifted than her brother. When she saves Pleasance from an imminent accident, he realizes that his wealthy and exacting employer Milland would be most grateful to have the kids in his possession so that he can continue to make money via their gifts. Posing as their long-lost uncle, he brings them to Milland's well-appointed mansion, but, before long, the children realize that they are to be exploited and they run away, destined for the area shown on a map that Richards has hidden in her ever-present star case, hence the title of the film. The young stars of the film give so-so performances, with Eisenmann perhaps doing a bit better, though they are thankfully free of the attitude and sarcasm that would be present in a modern day film. The duo reunited in the sequel and also worked together as brother and sister in the hysterically-titled Devil Dog The Hound of Hell. (Both have cameos in the forthcoming remake as well.) To a generation of young filmgoers, these two were an idealized rendition of brother & sister siblings. Milland gives the type of performance for which he was then being typecast, that of a wealthy, controlling and demanding old coot. Pleasance plays it all very straight and, as a result, his role lacks certain degrees of texture, though, again, it is welcome to see the villains of the piece provide a straightforward threat versus the hammy and over the top scenery-chewing that is the staple of today's kiddie flicks. Top-billed Albert doesn't clock in until nearly halftime, but adds a lot to the film. He plays a crusty, embittered camper whose heart is eventually warmed by the irrepressible pair of runaways. Pyle appears at the end as, quite possibly, the least expected representation of an alien imaginable! A product of its time, it is, like so many movies, riddled with contrivance and illogic, but it's also a very pleasant and endearing sort of movie. Certain things become a little trying, such as Richards repeated flashbacks, Eisenmann's harmonica playing and the extended chase sequences. However, this is made up for by the creative use of the children's powers and by the general feel of goodwill inherent in the film. The special effects range from excellent to barely adequate, but this is much preferred over the delirious and instantly unreal CGI work that proliferates now. It probably depends on the attention span of the child as to whether this would still be deemed entertaining today, though the use of puppets and animals (including a cat named Winky) in the film may aid in that endeavor. The sequel, released three years later, featured Bette Davis and Christopher Lee as the bad guys. "},{"Title":"Very sweet movie with a deeper message","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This was one of my favorite movies growing up, and I have to say that I still love it. Escape to Witch Mountain is the story of Tia and Tony Malone, twin orphans. After being adopted by an extremely wealthy and powerful man, Aristotle Bolt, the twins learn about their psychic powers - they're telekinetic as well as telepathic. My favorite thing about this movie is that it sends a message of tolerance and open-mindedness. The twins are different and strange, and they have psychic powers, but they're sweet and innocent. Still, everyone is afraid of them - and they're shown as cruel and evil for that fear. I think this is a great message for children, and one that isn't taught nearly enough. This movie is also very entertaining and fun, with lovable characters and an exciting storyline. I still find it enjoyable as an adult. "},{"Title":"two young Orphans with psychic abilities try to find out where they come from","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" this is the story of Toni and Tia Malone,(Ike Eisenman,Kim Richards)2 young orphans with special psychic abilities who are trying to find out where they come from.eventually they realize the mystery of where they came from can be revealed at a place called Witch Mountain,so this is where they must go.Along the way,a devious,rich man finds out about their abilities kidnaps kidnaps them with the intent of exploiting their abilities for his own personal gain.this is a Diney Movie from 1975,and is very family friendly.there are some comical moments in the movie as well as some action and suspense.The acting by by Eisenmann and Richards is very good.they come across as endearing and likable,and a bit naive.this is a very charming movie that adults should enjoy as much as their children.it just proves that family friendly doesn't always mean boring and saccharine.i really enjoyed Escape to Witch Mountain.it spawned a sequel a few years later,which is also good.Escape to Witch Mountain gets a solid 8/10 "},{"Title":"This was the Matrix when the Wachowski Bros were still in diapers","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was everything The Matrix tried to be and so much more.The delicate directing strokes of John Hough in this seventies Disney masterpiece are the mark of an artist who knows what the youth of the world expect in their entertainment.In casting that is enough to put most DNA strands to shame, Ike Eisenmann and Kim Richards look like real life brother and sister.  The two of them give Oscar-worthy performances.Do you have kids?  Do they fight?  Well the bond in the brother and sister team in this film will put the end to any sibling rivalry.  Let your children bond in front of the tube while this work of genius plays out on the screen.I will not be satisfied with present day cinema until I see Kim Richards in more starring roles. "},{"Title":"A mighty fun adventure and a  GOOD movie for kids.","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this when I was just a child. I loved it then and I would wholeheartedly recommend this over many of the kid flicks today, this had such a sense of fun, magic and adventure that was just unforgettable. People of any age can enjoy this one.Witch Mountain reminds me of chronicles of Narnia, it has that same adventurous feel. I hope someone who hasn't seen this, stumbles across this review and rents it. In addition to being exciting, adventurous and fun, it's a great movie for the family. I think it's even better then 'Harry Potter or a lot of whats out today. Even though I'm all grown up, I'd watch Witch Mountain again in a minute. "}{"Title":"Great for family viewing","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has got to be my favorite movie.  There is just something about this movie that appeals to my fantasy nature I remember the first time I went to see it. It was at a drive-in and I was Tia's age. All I could remember was the dogs chasing them but as I got older I caught it on TV and eventually buying the tape. In my opinion this is one of the best films Disney put out for family viewing with lots of action. The special effects were great for their day (this is a 70's film)  The two young stars Ike Eisenmann and Kim Richards who plays Tony and Tia do an excellent job of making you believe they are the brother and sister with the gifts of sight, telepathy and levitation who are on the run from the rich and powerful Aristotle Bolt (Ray Milland) who wants to exploit them.Eddie Albert plays Jason O'Day A crusty old man who finds the kids hiding in his camper and decides to help them find their way home to Witch MountainI have enjoyed this movie over and over again. Thank you Mr. Disney  "},{"Title":"Amazing chilren's movie!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  When I was in kindergarten, every single time I sleep over at my friend's house we watched this movie!! I have not seen it since, so it's been about 8 years. But I can still remember the plot so well. About Tony and Tia. Tony could talk without moving his lips and Tia could make things fly across the room. That was especially cool to a kindergarten. And it was so daring, to escape from all these bad men. Kids, my age(then), doing all this amazing stuff!! "},{"Title":"This is perhaps the best childrens movie ever made!","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw Escape to Witch Mountain when it came out in 1975.  Even though I was 22 at that time, I still remember the warm feelings that were in my heart when the movie was over.  It made me feel like a little boy again! Over the years, I must have seen this movie at least 50 times, and I still get heart-warming feelings every time I view it.  I have three children, (girls), and made sure that they saw it.  They loved it!  I originally went to see this movie because I was a fan of Donald Pleasence and Eddie Albert. It was'nt long before I became a fan of Ike and Kim as well.  It would be terrific if Disney would do a sequel, (with Ike & Kim).     "},{"Title":"Another of Walt Disney's great movies","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I watched this movie when it was first produced. I was about 13 at the time, and liked it very much. It is about 2 orphaned children who find out they have extraordinary powers. They wonder for a long time why they are different from others, and finally find out what they wanted to know. They are finally back home, but return again in 'Return From Witch Mountain', another very nice movie. As you can tell by my name, Kim Richards is my favorite movie star.  "},{"Title":"Fun Disney Film with Nice Cast","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Escape to Witch Mountain (1975) *** (out of 4) Brother and sister psychics (Kim Richards, Ike Eisenmann) are pretty much kidnapped by an old man (Ray Milland) and his assistant (Donald Pleasence) who plan on using their special talents. The kids eventually run away and with the help of an elderly man (Eddie Albert) they try to find out who they really are as well as escape those chasing them. This Disney film has became a rather big cult item over the past couple decades and it's easy to see why as the story is fun enough to where kids can enjoy it and adults will also have a good time since none of the story is dumbed down and even better is the fact that we get some veterans who add to the fun. There's certainly nothing ground-breaking or terrific here but it's pleasant enough of an entertaining. The main highlight of the film are the terrific special effects, which rang from various items floating through the air as well as a couple nice tricks with cars flying. These special effects look very good for the time they were made but I was really impressed in how good they look even by today's standards. The cast are all very good in their parts with Richards and Eisenmann really standing out as the kids. A lot of the movie deals with these kid's intelligence so it really helps that you can believe these actors are smart enough and this helps make the film more plausible. The supporting players are all terrific as well with Milland doing his typical bad guy performance as he screams, shouts and carries on like only he can. Pleasence is a lot of fun but Albert really steals the show as the elderly man who has a few dark secrets of his own. Albert works very well with the two kids and the three together really make this a fun adventure. The film really doesn't have any menace and that's certainly not a bad thing because it's rather refreshing seeing something so simple and pure yet at the same time smart and not just trying to be laughs out of dumbness. "},{"Title":"A reminder that Disney used to be good","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" In a film that will no doubt engender feelings of nostalgia in those who saw it as children, 'Escape to Witch Mountain' is a reminder that Disney used to be good for fairly decent live-action films instead of churning out cheap teeny-booper soaps and 'comedies' (I use this term in the loosest sense of the word) brimming with brats who have the acting prowess of a plank of wood.Based on the 1968 novel by Alexander Key, the film centres around orphaned brother and sister, Tony and Tia Malone, who possess paranormal abilities. They have scant memories from early childhood of being ship-wrecked and protected by a mysterious uncle, and discover a strange map to Witch Mountain in the 'star case' Tia carries. When a rich and ruthless businessmen Aristotle Bolt plans to harness the twins' powers for his own selfish purposes, Tony and Tia flee to find out what is hidden in Witch Mountain. On their way, they are aided by a prickly but good-hearted old man Jason O'Day and his cat Winkie.This is an enjoyable, easy-going family film where Ike Eisenmann (who seems to have an affinity with sci-fi roles) and Kim Richards, as the guileless Tony and Tia, give good performances and are able to depict the strong sibling bond between their characters well. While some scenes, in typical Disney fashion, are a tad cheesy and the special effects don't stand up to films made in the Nineties and Noughties, it is still as enjoyable now as it was when I saw it as a child and I imagine it can still thrill today's young children (especially those weary of the tat that passes for children's TV and films these days). 'Escape to Witch Mountain' is an endearing family film, which might not have the best special-effects, but which has a story which will stand the test of time.This film is nicely complimented by the sequel 'Beyond Witch Mountain', where Eisenmann and Richards reprise their roles as the now adolescent twins who return for holiday only to find themselves pursued by cruel people wanting to use their abilities. What viewers should avoid like the plague is the atrocious 1995 re-make of 'Escape to Witch Mountain' that has an odd and messy plot. "},{"Title":"Locations?","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I've just watched this movie for the first time, and enjoyed it. Sure, a bit wooden and pared down, but the story is basically sound and the feel of the film is both inviting and mysterious. Good grown-up actors - the great Donald Pleasance in particular, of course - and the two kids in the leading parts are likable and convincing. A short question, though Could any Californian help me with some specifics regarding the film's locations? Especially the rocky coastal landscape seen in the middle part of the film. Exactly where were those scenes shot? Is that area all uninhabited? National/State park? Any small towns overlooking the ocean? Just curious -) "},{"Title":"Loved this film as a kid","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" and still love it now saw this when it first came out.It was filmed in and around the area I lived in.I just loved the characters and the actors that played them.I first saw Kim in the Nanny and the Professerand had seen Ike before in another film so these kids were not new comers to me.I loved it when the children had that big fun looking bedroom/playroom of theirs.What kid would not love to have an Ice cream fountain in their room.And the marionette's!!! I also loved the fact that they could go horse back riding on the grounds of the house.But of coarse I did not like the bad the people who owned the place. I had seen this movies many times since then , and just got done watching it tonight with my mother who saw it with me when it first came out.We both loved again.I am glad they put this out on DVD.It's a great film for parents to let their children watch.Good clean fun for everyone "},{"Title":"Good Disney Film","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Decided to watch this vintage 1975 Disney film starring some veteran actors like Eddie Albert,(Jason O'Day),Green Acres TV Series, Ray Milland, (Aristotle Bolt)The Lost Weekend,'45 and Donald Pleasence,(Lucas Deranean),Halloween4. The story involves a boy named Tony Malone,(Ike Isenmann), Cross Creek,'83 and his sister Tia Malone,Escape,'90, who are orphans and are looking for their real parents. Tia & Tony have some very powerful abilities that a normal person would not be able to perform; because of these talents, Aristotle Bolt decides he wants to find these children and Lucas Deranean assists him in trying to capture and get them under his control. Jason O'Day comes to Tia & Tony aid, but many things happen and the story just does not end quite so easy. The picture has a very unusual ending and could very well be quite true if you believe in such THINGS! "},{"Title":"One of the better Disney films of the '70's","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The '70's was a decade when Disney studios was woefully out of touch with the changing tastes of the average filmgoer and continued to make silly, fluffy family films that thrilled kids and put their parents to sleep.  Every once in a while, however, they managed to present a decent, competent family film that everyone could enjoy.  One of their most successful movies of the time was Escape to Witch Mountain, which told the story of two children--brother and sister Tony and Tia Malone (Ike Eisenmann and Kim Richards)--with amazing powers of telepathy and levitation.  We first meet them as they are being placed in an orphanage after the deaths of their foster parents.  When on a school outing, they use their powers to save a stranger from certain death and are seen by Deranian (Donald Pleasance), assistant to evil billionaire Aristotle Bolt (Ray Milland).  Bolt, who is looking for ways to increase his fortune and sees the pair ripe for exploitation, convinces the orphanage that he is their grandfather and takes them home to live with him.  All is well until the pair discovers his plan and runs away, stowing away in a Winnebago driven by crusty widower Jason O'Day (Eddie Albert, who looks much more at ease here than he did sparring with John Wayne in McQ.).  O'Day, of course, is annoyed upon finding them, but warms to the pair and ultimately agrees to help them find their way home if they can ever decypher the meaning of Tia's recurring nightmares which are obvious clues to their mysterious past.  This leads to the chase between them and Bolt that consumes the rest of the film.I know, some people will find this film extremely cloying and manipulative, but there is something to be said about non-pretentious, straightforward storytelling like this.  The special effects at times look great (remember, there was no digital technology at this time) and other times pretty cheesy--the climax with the Winnebago for instance--and the ending is probably a little too predictable, but the film is earnestly acted (especially by Albert, who seems to be having a wonderful time) and ultimately quite touching.  I especially like Albert's last scene with the kids, which is played with refreshing restraint for a Disney film. I would place this in the top five of '70's Disney films (of which there were very few gems) along with Candleshoe, North Avenue Irregulars, Freaky Friday and The Rescuers.  It's one of the few that deserves Disney's DVD special vault classics designation.  *** (out of *****) "}{"Title":"I Remember Escape To Witch Mountain.","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  When I was six years old, I saw this movie. I was very awestruck about two orphans with supernatural powers who were trying to get to their rightful home on Witch Mountain. They fought the evil grown-ups who wanted to exploit them, they also had a faithful black cat named Winkie, and that they found a kindhearted grown-up and some friendly animals who helped them get reunited with their Uncle Bene. As the 25th Anniversary of this Disney Classic is coming next year, I have a feeling that Disney might do a final Witch Mountain movie, in which we get to see Tia and Tony all grown-up and helping others of their kind return to the Witch Mountain Community.  "},{"Title":"Fun for the Kids, Less for the Adults","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" It seems that many people really liked this movie when they were children. I have to admit that I liked the special powers aspect of this movie and it was fun to watch when I was a child. I also suspect these same people still love this movie as an adult more out of nostalgia than because of the properties of the movie itself.As an adult, I find the movie less enchanting. One of the reasons it works for me has to do with the more competent adult actors in it. The child actors are typical child actors--not really all that convincing or interesting to watch.Some of the movie is pretty cheesy and there are occasional Dr. Who style special effects and sound effects (meaning they aren't always very convincing or appropriate).I actually liked many of the animated Disney features much better than the (often) contrived and manipulative live action movies such as this or Candleshoe. I liked Bedknobs and Broomsticks, Robin Hood (animated), The Jungle Book (animated), The Shaggy Dog, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, etc. I don't know if some of these were from the 60s rather than the mid to late 70s when Disney admittedly had some problems making interesting movies.I don't like this movie enough to watch it without children present, but children will probably still enjoy it. I think there are many Disney movies better than this one (made between the 1930s until now), but if the children have seen all of the Disney classics already, the adults may want to show Escape to Witch Mountain to keep the kids entertained for a while. "},{"Title":"Sadly Seems Dated","Date":"12 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Two mysterious orphan children have extraordinary powers and are chased by a scheming millionaire. But where do these kids really call home?Maybe I was expecting too much from a 1970s Disney kids film, but I was bored through most of this one and felt the plot was just too forced at times. I had no connection to the kids, and actually felt most sympathy for Donald Pleasence's character. (It was great seeing him, by the way, alongside veteran actor Ray Millad, who looked a bit rough in his old age.) Director John Hough is a legend in his own right, having made Legend of Hell House and Dirty Mary, Crazy Larry. He also made this film's sequel. I figure he must have been constrained by Disney and the film's G rating, because this seems lacking in some way... the same film made for adults might have been incredible. "},{"Title":"Dated kiddie fare, but it undoubtedly has it's magical type moments.","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I wouldn't call this a classic by any stretch of the imagination, but it's above average for a kid's movie. Personally I prefer The Rock's version to this one, but their is still fun to be had here. Ike Eisenmann and Kim Richards are pretty good as the kids They are wooden sometimes, but they had a certain appeal about them that I liked. As dated as some of them looked, I will admit some of the special effects were still really neat to see. My favorite scene has to be when Jason O'Day's character|Eddie Albert| finds the cat and the two kids in his trailer. My main complaint about this movie, has to be that I didn't find Ray Milland or Donald Pleseance to be menacing enough, and I admire both of these actors.Performances. Ike Eisenmann and Kim Richards aren't anything outstanding, but they had a certain memorable charm about them. Eddie Albert is wonderful as O'day. Grunpy, but with a hearty of gold. Ray Milland is decent, but not as menacing as he should have been, same goes for Donald Pleseance.Bottom line. I don't think I'd ever watch it again, but it was an alright time-waster. Classic it is not, but it's a decent movie. Worth a look.6/10 "},{"Title":"Very good story telling.","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Solid direction and performances make watching this film a pleasure. I've not seen child acting like this since A Christmas Story which has some excellent emoting by young child stars. But the film has shown its age in terms of process shots to get the more supernatural elements of the tale aloft (literally).When George Lucas decided to do his special edition updates for his original Star Wars' films I shrugged and gave them a go, but wasn't too impressed. Ted Turners colorization efforts of classic B&W films also makes me chagrin. In short, art ought to be left alone once completed, or not released.But, there are exceptions. Witch Mountain has an excellent story for all ages, but suffers moderately from Disney's SFX department who, even in their hey-day, didn't crank out the most dazzling of effects' shots. Having said that Disney was one of the few studios who could produce the shots necessary for Witch Mountain. Even so the visuals, even by early 1970's standards, are rather sub par.So it is that I think some salient parts of this film could use a touch up to make it more palatable with today's more visually discerning youth. Yet the film, by the very nature of the year in which it was made, would probably still come across as being dated. Even so it would be interesting to see this film remastered with new process shots; ones that would fit the film's grain and overall general feel.The film tells a tale of a remarkable brother and sister with extraordinary gifts, and the trials they face attempting to get back home. An unforgettable cast deliver performances children can understand, which has always been Disney's forte. Intelligent and logical dialog make both good guys and villains seem very believable.Youth weened on Star Wars films (and akin SFX extravaganzas) might give a jaundiced eye to some of the effects shots, but a solid story should keep younger viewers glued to the screen. Give it a whirl on the old DVD player if you're so inclined -) "},{"Title":"My Thoughts","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  My Thoughts, of this movie, was a great movie and it was an excellent movie and I think it is time to make a remake for this movie, and I know the best 2 charcter who can play Tony & Tia and there names are Eddie Alderson & Kristen Alderson. They are both on the soap show called One life to live. They will do a great job. I really like this movie and it is good for the whole family to see this movie. It is very funny and I like it very much. I gave this movie a thumb up and feel free to respond soon and talk to you soon everyone!!! "},{"Title":"*Spellbound*","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  What a cute little Disney film. Two kids, both with powers, go to battle against the bad guys while on a quest. There talents include, ESP, levitation, & exciting things like that! I can't really say much about the movie except that it's classic Disney... & it is one of the better ones. (7) "},{"Title":"This movie is awesomelaliscious to the Nth degree!","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I love this movie!Escape to Witch Mountain,with it's cute little alien heroes,pointless acts of levitation,super-intelligent cat ally,and EVIL WHITE BUSINESSMAN!AHHHH!,nearly tops the list of my favorite movies.If Return From Witch mountain hadn't been that much better,this movie would be the perfect movie.As it stands it's a 9.9,which would still be quite respectable,if only it wasn't a no-name loser like me reviewing it. "},{"Title":"Good adventure film for kids","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  In fact, I thought it was a good film for adults. It was a typical Disney effort, the plot was obvious and the ending was more so, but still a film worth watching. The kids were cute, brave, smart, etc.; the villains were nasty, evil, money hungry, etc. A lovely ending was had, and everybody lived happily ever after. Kids will love this one. "},{"Title":"Good for the kids","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I missed this as a kid but seeing it now as an adult (38), I was disappointed.  It's great for kids, but boring for adults.  The special effects are so-so (especially one at the end), the adults don't act or talk like adults, and everybody is so NICE...even the villains seem nice!  The two kids aren't that good...But Richards did grow up into a very good (and attractive) actress.  So, I didn't like it, but it was made for kids! "}{"Title":"The Witch Mountain legacy lives eternal.","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Escape to Witch Mountain was followed by a theatrical sequel (Return to Witch Mountain  same director, same kid actors, no Eddie Albert but it did have Bette Davis and Christopher Lee), a pilot for a Disney series (Beyond Witch Mountain with Eddie Albert but different kid actors), and a re-made for TV Disney movie (Escape to Witch Mountain  different cast, some nifty plots twists from the original.)  Grown-up Kim Richards then starred in an adult homage to Witch Mountain and Watcher in the Woods called Escape. Disney is now remaking the original for theatrical release.  All are great and will be great.  Kim Richards was a princess and now she is a goddess. Walt Disney rules.  Witch Mountain beats Witch Project any day, anywhere.  "},{"Title":"Disney in a sci-fi mood about kids with extraordinary powers...","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" ESCAPE TO WITCH MOUNTAIN succeeds on several levels and fails on a few others. It's a mixed bag of delights and disappointments. The delights include a scene where a coat-rack and hat descend upon a sheriff who is cornered by it while the kids make their escape from jail. Another is the scene where the puppets in the kids' playroom put themselves through their paces in a charming dance sequence reminiscent of something out of Disney's own Pinocchio. More sequences like this would have enhanced the whole story about an out of this world pair of kids sought by RAY MILLAND (as Mr. Bolt) and his helper DONALD PLEASANCE, who want the kids to tell them about their extra-sensory powers that border on witchcraft but are really due to something quite different. It's here that the sci-fi elements of the story don't seem to ring true, particularly with regard to the spaceship ending.The special effects for the time are quite an achievement, only occasionally making the viewer aware of the film's age when today's CGI can do so much better. The scenes with the clever black cat are enjoyable too, as is the performance of EDDIE ALBERT as a crusty old man whose resistance to the kids gradually melts in time for a happy ending. RAY MILLAND, on the other hand, seems to have forgotten he's in a comedy and plays the villain in a heavy-handed way.Summing up Abounds in the Disney touch, although the director could have gotten better performances from both children. "},{"Title":"Wow wouldn't this be a great sequel to a new Witch Mountain","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Well its been a long night for me I had was home sick most of the day and had fallen a sleep early when I awoke to a pretty cool dream. The dream was that Tom Cruise and (2) kids (orpaned) had been give a huge estate by a butler (who worked for the kids parents) later finding that the parents had powers just like the kids. Then I realized it really sounded like Witch Mountain which I had forgotten the name of this movie it wasn't until I search Google to find it. I have to say that when I was a young this movie felt realistic, I mean to see kids use there mind to lift a vechile or read someone's mind is so cool. The story was so good that it felt like you were there. Why hasn't anyone come up with a similar sequel. I could see maybe not Tom and perhaps a order Gentlemen with the kids like the original Witch Mountain. "},{"Title":"Escape to Witch Mountain","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" When I was a kid, I used to love this magical film from Walt Disney Pictures. This was the story of two children that came from a mysterious mountain (although they didn't know at first) and they try to find their way there. Twins Tony (Ike Eisenmann) and Tia (Kim Richards) believe themselves to be orphans and they are taken by Lucas Deranian (Donald Pleasence) to Mr. Aristotle Bolt (Dial M for Murder's Ray Milland) to live. In this luxury house they stay for a little while before they decide to run away towards the mountain. They get into a Jason O'Day's (Eddie Albert) van and when he finds them he first doesn't like them too much. He gets used to them eventually and discovers their powers. These two kids are more than they look, they are witches from Witch Mountain. A sequel, Return from Witch Mountain followed three years later. Good! "},{"Title":"Escape to Witch Mountain-*1/2 Poor Disney Fanfare","Date":"5 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Disappointing Disney film where 2 children search aimlessly for their family. They had mystical powers and girl keeps seeing images of a disaster. The images she sees appear to be a boat capsizing. By the end of this film, this is not the case. The children turn out to be from outer space, just like this film.After a distinguished career, Ray Milland must have been pretty hard up to do this junk. At least, his character should have been made to be meaner. Donald Pleasence plays his lackey, and while he usually embodies evil, there is very little shown here.The always hilarious Reta Shaw, who could be as nasty as can be, is relegated to the head of the orphanage. At least, if she had terrorized the children! In other words, the evil characters here are rather benign. The children are enjoyable in their roles, but they're still not Mary Poppins, as they float around.Eddie Albert, who the children meet looks like he is ready to go back to Green Acres again. He is lovable.The ending is almost a concoction of The Wizard of Oz, and E.T. Guess who was totally unimpressed with this one? "},{"Title":"Karo Syrup on Toast","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" If an innocuous story of appealing little youngsters with magical powers being abducted by a bad industrialist (have you ever seen any good industrialists coming out of Hollywood?) is your plate of Karo Syrup on white bread (or in this case, with just enough suspense, make it toast), then Escape to Witch Mountain is your dietary supplement.Sure, it's dull and pedestrian and utterly Disney, but I enjoyed it for two reasons It was made in 1975, when movies were pushing ever harder at the limits of the ratings board, and it could have easily received an approval stamp from the old production code of yesteryear. EWM also is a perfect entertainment for 10 year olds with their parents along for the ride.Being a cynical old fart, myself, I sat through the movie enjoying seeing lots of old actors and actresses who have either passed on or moved on and my wife and daughter thought the movie was (I'm not kidding here) scary.I taped the movie off Hallmark and we all made a date to watch the sequel in a week or so.Oh, boy. "},{"Title":"Escape to Cornsville.","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't be fooled by the sci-fi elements, or the fact that this film was directed by someone who's tried his hand even at horror movies; it's only for kids under 13. Dumb story, variable special effects, and a quite obnoxious little boy (Eisenmann). Thank god Ray Milland and Donald Pleasence (with his uniquely creepy voice) are around to lend some class to this corny piece of Disney fluff.   (**) "}]