[{"Title":"EVERYTHING comes wonderfully to life in this dead-on Mel Brooks horror spoof &#150; non-stop laughs from beginning to end!","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"91 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mel Brooks' parodies are like your favorite, worn-out couch.  You know it's not the greatest in style, taste and quality, but it just feels so damn comfortable.  Of late, most of Mel's spoofs have been off the mark, his work mellowing into predictability.  In fact, you really have to go all the way back to 1974 to see Brooks at his sharpest.  In that year we were awarded Blazing Saddles AND Young Frankenstein.Perhaps Young Frankenstein is not definitive Mel Brooks, although he directed it.  Gene Wilder, who not only stars but co-wrote it with Mel, was the inspiration to make this movie.  And it's his influence, I think, that brings the best out in Mel.  When spoofing a historical era, movie genre or legendary tale, Brooks' satirical bag of tricks always included a hodgepodge of crude sight gags, burlesque schtick and stale Jewish jokes done at rapid-fire pace.  The plot became an after-thought, working around the barrage of unsubtle humor.  In targeting the classic &#145;Frankenstein' series, however, Brooks worked in reverse, wisely focusing on plot, tone and atmosphere, then complementing them with clever, carefully constructed bits.A rich staple of comedy pros from Brooks' fun factory (Mel graciously did not cast himself here) were employed to wring out the most laughs possible out of the fresh, inventive material.  Gene Wilder plays the frizzy-haired, eruptive college professor Frederick Frankenstein (pronounced FRONK-en-STEEN), grandson of the infamous scientist, who gives in to the maniacal tendencies of his mad ancestor after inheriting the late Baron's Teutonic castle.  His simmer-to-boil antics have seldom been put to better use, while only pop-eyed Marty Feldman, who gets to break the fourth wall as Igor (prounouced EYE-gor), the dim, oddball assistant, could milk a hump for all its worth.  Kenneth Mars too gets a lot of mileage out of his one-armed, slush-mouthed inspector.  In the film's most difficult role, Peter Boyle's appearance as the Monster is jarring at first, looking like a cross between Herman Munster and Uncle Fester.  But he increasingly wins you over, earning even a little empathy along the way.  His character is the most crucial for this parody to work right and he succeeds, figuring in a high percentage of the comedy highlights.Representing the distaff side, Madeline Kahn is one cool cucumber, stealing focus whenever she's on camera as the placid, meticulous, hopelessly stuck-up fiancee Elizabeth; Cloris Leachman sinks her teeth into the role of the grotesque Frau Blücher, whose mere mention of her name sends horses into panic; and Teri Garr is delightful as a dinghy Deutschlander who assists Frankenstein in his wild experiments and other things.An amalgamation of Universal's earliest and best &#145;Frankenstein' movies (Frankenstein, Bride of Frankenstein and Son of Frankenstein, this spoof relies on close imitation and Brooks took painstaking methods to recreate the look and feel of James Whale's original sets, black-and-white photography and musical score.  It pays off in spades.Nearly 30 years later, this movie still leaves me in stitches.  Wilder and Garr's revolving secret door bit is still priceless, as is Cloris Leachman's &#145;ovaltine' routine and the Wilder/Boyle Puttin' On the Ritz tie-and-tail duet.  Boyle and the unbilled Gene Hackman in the Blind Hermit scene ripped off from Bride of Frankenstein are uproarious, easily winning the award for sustained hilarity in a single sketch.  Add Feldman's hump and Mars' troublesome mechanical arm and what you have is rib-tickling entertainment from start to finish.  Madeline Kahn's post-coital, cigarette-smoking scene with &#145;ol zipperneck' who leaves her in a sexual snit must go down in Hollywood annals as the funniest scene ever caught on camera.  Certainly Jeanette MacDonald's puristic rendition of Ah, Sweet Mystery of Life will never have quite the same meaning again after you've heard Madeline's spin on it. Blazing Saddles indeed has its insane moments but when it comes to toasting Mel Brooks in the years to come, Young Frankenstein should certainly stand front and center when representing this clown prince of comedy. "},{"Title":"Comedic Genius","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"77 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks' tribute to the Frankenstein movies of the 40s is done with such love, such skill, and such side-splitting, fall-on-the-floor hilarity, that it has rightfully become a comedy classic. I first saw it in a movie theater I had no idea what it was, had very little knowledge of Mel Brooks at the time, and expected to be bored. Instead, I found myself shrieking aloud with laughter that became so intense, I missed many of the major lines. Hence the video.What can I say? From the wild-eyed Igor, the hunchbacked Transylvanian servant whose hump keeps changing from side to side, to the modern-day descendant of Baron von Frankenstein, determined not to follow in his great-grandfather's nefarious footsteps, to the nurse, a naif with enormous...er...chestal appendages, to the fearsome Frau Bleucher, whose mere mention causes horses in the castle's faraway stables to neigh in fear...to the scene of the monster and his creator singing and dancing in black tie to putting on the Ritz, this movie should come with a warning Danger--Uncontrollable Laughter May Become Chronic.The cast is beyond superb. The late, wonderful British comedian Marty Feldman (Igor), who turned his congenital wandering eyes into comedic foils, never misses a beat as second banana to Gene Wilder, who plays the distraught Dr. Frankenstein to the hilt and beyond. Cloris Leachman, who looks like a cross between a witch and a warlock, plays the feared housekeeper Frau Bleucher (neighhh!!!), and a very young, beautiful, and buxom Teri Garr plays the nurse-assistant to the good doctor. Then there is the marvelous Madeline Kahn, who gave a bravura performance as the doctor's fiancee. The late comedienne's burst into operatic ecstasy during her rape by the monster is simply inspired, and is one of the comedic high points of the entire film. All of Kahn's considerable talents came into play during this movie; she was taken from us too soon. "},{"Title":"Possibly Mel Brooks' Best Film","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"53 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Over 30 years later this film still provides a ton of laughs to audiences.It's always good to see the late Marty Feldman, whose face was hysterical and perfect for this film. In fact, he, along with the camera-work, really make this film one to watch and enjoy multiple times. Teri Garr was at her best and never looked as pretty as did in here. Add in the great talents of Gene Wilder, Madeline Kahn, Gene Hackman, Peter Boyle, Cloris Leachman, etc., and you have a memorable movie with a lot of memorable scenes.Looking at the Frankenstien monster in a tuxedo or sitting up in bed with a cigar reading The Wall Street Journal are just a few of the outlandish scenes, along Wilder entering the mansion commenting on the nice knockers.Kudos, also, for Mel Brooks having the good sense to film this in black-and- white. It may have been his best film, although Blazing Saddles would give it a run for its money. My only complaint was Wilder's constant yelling, which becomes abrasive and can give you a headache after awhile! Still, this has to be considered one of the best comedy classics ever. "},{"Title":"Young Frankenstein","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"52 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Zany spoof of the Frankenstein films with a superb script from Brooks and off the wall performances from Wilder, Boyle, Leachman and Kahn. Still, the funniest scene in the film belongs to Hackman, in an impressive cameo as the blind man (Bride of Frankenstein) who befriends Boyle's creature by offering him a cigar and...well, you can imagine the results. This was Brooks' best year; he had this and his other classic Blazing Saddles, rolling together in the motion theatres. Audiences were definately rolling in the aisles and they still do.  "},{"Title":"A Track of Laughs.","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"35 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mel Brooks' hilarious Young Frankenstein is one of those strange films that is so outlandish and makes fun of itself so much that it sucks the viewer into its twisted world and does not let up until the final credits roll. The titled character (Gene Wilder) decides to go to Transylvania and continue the research of a late relative. What follows is a comic joy-ride that involves the assistant (Marty Feldman), the love interest (Teri Garr), the stuck-up girlfriend (Madeline Kahn), the weird house-keeper (Cloris Leachman), the odd detective (Kenneth Mars) and naturally the monster himself (Peter Boyle in a priceless performance). Gene Hackman's whacked cameo as a the blind man who encounters the monster is one of the best sequences during the history of the cinema. A brilliant screenplay and beautiful black-and-white cinematography assist Young Frankenstein in being the total success that it is. 4.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Probably the best comedy I've ever seen","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"43 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you love comedies, but haven't seen Young Frankenstein, you're in for a delicious treat.After three decades, it still makes people laugh to death, and it's a must-see for every spoof lover in the world.Actually, it's not a parody, but a homage by Mel Brooks to James Whale's classic,shot in black and white on the same location and with the same props.The hero is Dr.Frederick Frankenstein(Gene Wilder), who, after a long period in which he hated it, decides to repeat his grandfather's experiment.The result is the Transylvanians want to kill him, despite the fact that the monster is the most harmless creature in the world.This sort of sequel to the original Frankenstein is hilarious from start to finish, mostly because of two actorsPeter Boyle and Martin Feldman.The former is great as the mute creature(he'll compensate that by talking too much in Everybody Loves Raymond), particularly in the scene with Gene Hackman's Blind Man.But it's Feldman's Igor that makes this film unmissable.No wonder, given he's got the best lines(Wait Master.It might be dangerous...you go first).With no doubt Mel Brooks' masterpiece.The Scary Movie franchise wishes it was this good. "},{"Title":"It's pronounced EYE-gor","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"39 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dialog from Young Frankenstein became part of cultural banter in a good many corners of the country immediately after this movie showed up in theaters. We loved every minute of it, Give me a hand with the bags, Igor, hitting high singing notes while relating how your last date went, Put the candle back! Nothing, dear, just a rat....filthy, slimy RAT! Roll Roll Roll In The Hay! plus the immortal ..an ENORMOUS schwanstucker!. And what testosterone-filled 19-year-old buck didn't give serious thought to surprising his buddies with the hilarious trick of jamming a scalpel into this thigh? A very successful movie, and a slap in the face to those stuffy, elite- types who say Mel Brooks is not a humorist. Well, dammit, he makes UNPRETENTIOUS people laugh, so perhaps the man knows funny when he sees it. Of course, as Blazing Saddles ruined most 1950's and 60's westerns for me for awhile, Young Frankenstein makes it very hard to take Karloff and all that bunch from the 1930's seriously any longer. Oddly, Mel can even make us laugh at resurrected, REALLY OLD gags; such as Walk this way! (The 3 Stooges). I'll never stop laughing at Young Frankenstein. "},{"Title":"That's Fronk-en-steen!","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"37 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Much of the words I used to describe Mel Brooks' work in Blazing Saddles applies here as well.To have not one,but two masterpieces of comedy in the same year is incredible.I'm amazed at the way Brooks is able to capture the cinematography of a genre such as 30's horror films,and use it in a spoof of the genre.Sheer genius! As for casting,Marty Feldman is hysterical as Igor.Classic routines,excellent casting,and again,the cinematography make this film one of the all time great comedies. "},{"Title":"An incredibly funny and affectionate send-up of the horror film in general and Frankenstein films in particular","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There really isn't much I can say that doubtless someone else hasn't said.  Brooks used the same location and sets that were used for the lab scenes in the original 1931 James Whale version.  Anyone who doesn't laugh at either the scene with Gene Hackman as a blind hermit or the scene where Marty Feldman and Gene Wilder are discussing the brain that Feldman brought for transplant has absolutely no pulse whatsoever.  Gloriously funny from start to finish.  Kenneth Mars is a hoot and Liam Dunn is a scream in one of the most painful-looking funny scenes in cinematic history!  Most Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks' valentine to the classic Universal horror films; his best too!","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"26 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN (1974) **** Gene Wilder, Peter Boyle, Madeline Kahn, Marty Feldman, Cloris Leachman, Kenneth Mars, Teri Garr, Gene Hackman. Mel Brooks' masterpiece horror comic spoof of all those Universal Frankenstein flicks of the Thirties expertly capturing the set design (actually from the 1931 classic!) and overall look of those timeless films. Wilder is the manic grandson of Baron von Frankenstein (that's pronounced Frahnkensteen!) who goes back to merry ole Transylvania and follows in his family's footsteps (vootshteps! vootshteps!) and creates a comic creation with Boyle as the chrome-domed, zippernecked monster who can do a mean song and dance of Puttin' On The Ritz! Hilarious sight gags and puns aplenty. Marty as the perpetually hump-shifting hunchback Igor (that's Eye-gore!) is a scream with his oneliners and bugged eyes. Best line the good doctor and Igor gravedigging with the summation Could be worse, could be raining! and then downpours. Best bit Foolishness with the Blind Hermit (Hackman) in one hysterical moment. "}{"Title":"What's so funny?","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I really don't know what sense of humor you need to have in order to find this movie hilarious. For all I know, I didn't catch myself laughing more than twice throughout the whole movie. Most of the jokes where simple slapstick, like Gene Hackman as the blind man pouring wine and soup accidentally all over the monster. And what with the German accent. As far as I know, Transylvania is not and never was a part of Germany, so why the thick German accent. No, honestly, for a whizkid like me there weren't any sophisticated jokes and hardly a scene managed to crack me up. Mel Brooks success is and will remain a mystery to me and I don't know how more movies of him I have to see in order to find out what's so great about him. I worked in a cabaret once and I found out that a lot of people just laughed because the guy on stage was a comedian, not because he was funny. And one particular comedian (German Helge Schneider) could do anything he wanted (ordinary things like pick up a cup of coffee) he had the whole crowd cheering. I guess this is what you call the Pygmalion effect. Hahaha! "},{"Title":"Give it the credit it deserves","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have never written a review before and I am afraid this is not much of one, but I just had to comment on the other appalling wright up this got. This film is a classic and make no mistake about that. And that is why it is in the top 250 films of all time. I watched this with my 16 year old son last night. It was his first time and I have watched it many times before. He laughed a lot and gave it a ten out of ten. The other night I watched 'Date Movie' but it could have been any of the rubbish comedy's that are produced in abundance today. Young Frankenstein beats them all hands down. It is brilliant and so is Gene Wilder. "},{"Title":"Not Sure Why This Gets the Raving Appreciation It Does","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Victor Frankenstein's grandson has inherited his castle and everything in it. Although at first hesitant of embracing his controversial work, he soon changes his mind when he realizes what this would do for his career and science. But, some problems arise when trying to revive the creature...Young Frankenstein is hugely popular, scoring 8 out of 10 on IMDb and considered by many to be Mel Brooks' best and one of the funniest comedies of all time. Is it good? Yes. Is it worth seeing? Yes. But I neither think it's the funniest of Mel Brooks' work (History of the World, The Producers and maybe even Silent Movie are funnier) or one of the greatest comedies. Maybe it's not aging well or I just don't get it, but I just don't get it.The bulk of the jokes are vaudeville and slapstick takes on the classic Universal Studios version of Frankenstein, even going so far as to use many of the same props. And while some of the scenes stand out as funny (the Puttin' on the Ritz scene, for one) the bulk of the plot is very nearly the same as the classic film. I respect the homage, even the use of the black and white film, but it does not deviate enough to be unique in my mind.In contrast, consider Brooks' Spaceballs. Yes, it is a parody of Star Wars. But it does not follow the plot too closely, deviates in almost every way, incorporates other plots and science fiction references... and has a whole variety of humor styles mixed in. While maybe not the best of Brooks' work, this film is a much more solid comedy and stands up better for a variety of audiences. (IMDB rates it lower, but I cannot agree on that.) Marty Feldman (Igor) is often overshadowed by his co-stars and Brooks, but he makes a strong Igor, and his eye condition could not have been better utilized. This character is the one clear improvement from the original film, and should not be overlooked.Gene Wilder (and Gene Hackman) were both great, of course. Many consider this to be Wilder's best role. I simply cannot accept that Frankenstein, as great a character as he is, somehow trumps Willy Wonka. As made clear when Johnny Depp -- a brilliant actor -- tried to be Wonka, there is no replacing Wilder, even by the best stars of our day.Don't get me wrong. The film is great, the directing and cinematography are excellent. The cast is amazing, particularly some of the supporting cast (like Teri Garr as Inga). But to say this is Mel Brooks' best film, one of the best comedies of all time or Gene Wilder's best role is just not correct, in my opinion. A second viewing might change my mind, but for now I would like to be convinced that this film is more than above average. "},{"Title":"fading in time","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I watched this with a classroom of Spanish students learning English. Due to some of the archaic slang some of this film passed them by--- and not for bad reasons. This film is getting old. Yes it is a classic and I still find it funny--- only so funny. The jokes are lined up and knocked down and there is a constant energy from Gene Wilder. Marty Feldman gets the full cake after all these years. His portrayal of Igor is still one of the best. He fulfills the need of the clumsy comedian that gets you through some of the dull times in the other Frankenstien flicks--- but in this case Igor walks away with most of the show. There is a dancing sequence which still holds up after all this time and reveals Gene Wilder's talents a bit better. The Spanish students generally liked the film and it got me out of teaching (speaking) for 106 minutes---- they also wrote some nice movie reviews in English. I wish I still had them--- one student really slammed the film as being generally 'unwatchable'--- I applauded her freedom to say what she thought and it got her to use some more complex English....and i'll leave it at that. "},{"Title":"This is one of Mel Brooks/Gene Wilder's best  ; plenty of humor , entertainment and amusement","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dr. Frankenstein's (Gene Wilder has stated that this is his favorite of all the films he's made) grandson, after years of living down the family reputation, inherits granddad's castle and repeats the experiments carried out many years ago . He says goodbye his pretty girlfriend Elizabeth (Madeline Kahn) and travels Transylvania . In the castle he finds a funny hunchback called Igor (Marty Feldman), a gorgeous lab assistant (Teri Garr) named Inga and the old housekeeper, Frau Blucher (Cloris Leachman) . Later on , he successfully reanimates a body (Peter Boyle) which soon flees and creates wreak havoc . Hilarious Mel Brooks/Gene Wilder comedy filled with horror satire , amusing events , nice settings and lots of laughters . This spoof of the old Universal terror movies is fun from start to finish . The original cut of the movie was almost twice as long as the final cut, and it was considered by all involved to be an abysmal failure , it was only after a marathon cutting session that they produced the final cut of the film, which both Gene Wilder and Mel Brooks considered to be far superior to the original product ; at one point they noted that for every joke that worked, there were three that fell flat , so they went in and trimmed all the jokes that didn't work. Enjoyable support cast such as Madeline Kahn as Elizabeth , Cloris Leachman as Frau Blücher , Kenneth Mars as Inspector Kemp and brief acting by John Carradine , Leon Askin played a lawyer but was cut out , final film of Oscar Beregi Jr and of Richard Haydn , but most of his role was deleted from the final print . And uncredited Gene Hackman as the Blind Man, in fact parting line I was gonna make espresso was not in the script, but was ad-libbed by the same Gene Hackman during shooting . When Mel Brooks found that Ken Strickfaden, who had made the elaborate electrical machinery for the lab sequences in the Universal Frankenstein films, was still alive in the Los Angeles area. He visited Strickfaden and found that Strickfaden had saved all the equipment and had it stored in his garage. Brooks made a deal to rent the equipment for his film and gave Strickfaden the screen credit he'd deserved, but hadn't gotten, for the original films. Evocative as well as luxurious cinematography in white and black by magnificent director of photography Gerald Hirschfeld . Lively and agreeable musical score by John Morris , Mel Brooks's usual . Excellent makeup by artist Ed Butterworth, being helped by the classic William Tuttle as makeup creator , as just like in the original Frankenstein (1931), greenish face makeup was used on the monster to make his features more prominent . Perfect sets and impressive production design , in fact he electrical apparatus used in the movie was basically the same as the equipment used Frankenstein (1931) , including many of the same props and lab equipment . The motion picture was stunningly directed by Mel Brooks ((Blazing saddles , High anxiety , Twelve chairs , The producers , Spaceballs , History of the world). It was voted this movie as one of The 50 Greatest Comedies Of All Time in 2006 and at the 1975 Golden Globe Awards, Cloris Leachman was nominated for Best Lead Actress in a Comedy/Musical, while Madeline Kahn was nominated for Best Supporting Actress for their work in this movie. "},{"Title":"Mel Brook's most stylish and consistently funny film","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For my marathon of Non-Dracula Transylvania-based films I recently experienced(that's the only real way to describe it)Polanski's 'The Fearless Vampire Killers'. A great film to be sure, but not a very successful one in the comedy department, which is a shame since it's a huge problem in an otherwise fine film.It may count as cheating since I've been a fan of *this* film since adolescence, but even after all these years, I knew I would encounter no such problem in this Mel Brooks classic.'Young Frankenstein' has the distinction of being one of those few comedies which can be just as funny for those who have never seen the source material that's being spoofed(No problem for me as I was a fan of the Universal horrors since I was even younger and had read the book even earlier), and that still offers plenty of insight for those who have. And as unpromising as it sounds to make a comedic send up of Universal's horrors, which had displayed their ability to laugh at themselves as early as 1932; it ironically emerges as the very model of how to do a successful parody, and even more amazingly, it also offers some surprising insight into the themes of the Frankenstein legend itself, or at least; much more than Kenneth Branagh's overrated 'faithful' adaption ever did.The plot is basically a comedic remake of Rowland V. Lee's 'Son of Frankenstein'(1939). The set-up is virtually the same A descendant of the original Doctor(Gene Wilder)returns to his family castle where he is ostracized by suspicious villagers led by a one-armed inspector(Kenneth Mars) and is coerced into taking up his ancestor's mantle by an unhinged former associate. The difference is that the protagonist is the grandson of the original monster-maker, the Ygor character(Marty Feldman, whose character actually is more closely patterned after Dwight Frye as Fritz & Karl than he is Bela Lugosi as Ygor) is benevolent and rather it is a sinister housekeeper(Cloris Leachman) who influences the protagonist, it also involves the creation of a new monster(Peter Boyle, giving a comedic take on the monster that is worlds beyond Clancy Brown's in 'The Bride') rather than the reviving of the original one. This doesn't stop Brooks from managing to work in references to the original from 1931 and the 1935 sequel. In less skilled hands this could have been disastrous, but thankfully Brooks was hip to the fact that 1935's 'Bride of Frankenstein' was already a horror-comedy, and he wisely didn't attempt to poke fun at things already meant to be funny. Instead he does his best to IMPROVE them. It's this approach that shows that Brooks is smarter than your average satirical filmmaker, and it's what separates him(well, besides actually being talented) from the myriad of other 'satirists' who would have either attempted to point out 'flaws' the original filmmakers were clearly aware of(Mst3k), lifted scenes verbatim(Wayans Bros.)or made up random unfunny jokes that had nothing to do with what was being spoofed(Friedberg & Seltzer).What's also remarkable is that, if one overlooks some small continuity issues(which the original Universals were JAM-PACKED with)such as names and locations(It's because this film takes place in 'Transylvania' that I am reviewing it for this marathon), as well as the comedic tone; this could actually be seen as a follow-up to the first 3 Universal Frankenstein films. Just imagine Gene Wilder's character as an adult version of Donny Dunagan from 'Son of Frankenstein' with a changed name(He mentions being embarrassed by his lineage and this leads to a running gag where he insists his name is pronounced 'Fronkensteen', making him not a self-hating Jew, but a self-hating mad scientist...who's also a Jew)to escape publicity and it works. They even have the same curly hair and Americanized personality. This suggest Brooks was aiming not at a mean-spirited comedic attack on decades old films, but at a loving homage/sequel to them instead. I can respect that.I could ramble on all day at how well it does justice to the original films and even the novel(For example; lots of people mention how when the Monster says 'You are my creator but I am your master' to Victor in the book how the Monster is in some ways a twisted reflection of Victor in that he exceeds him in all levels, proving more cunning, more sympathetic, more powerful and even has longer 'lustrous black hair' and how he actually succeeds in 'nailing' Elizabeth' by killing her long before Victor ever has sex with her; suggesting that the Monster, through a symbolic rape, is even better in bed than his creator! In 'Young Frankenstein' this subtext becomes overt Here, the Monster DOES 'rape' Elizabeth, and she falls in love with him because of his 'Enormous schwanstucker' and deserts the doctor, leaving him to marry a busty servant girl(Terri Garr) he was sleeping with anyway)but, I think I'll rap up by saying that this film is as perfect as a parody can get, good atmospheric music, great production values and Oscar-worthy performances by all.Still, as much as I like experiencing 'local color' in foreign countries, and as much as I enjoyed Kenneth Mars's character, I hope that the Romanian police don't have accents THAT thick when I visit.~ "},{"Title":"Funny but it's reputation flatters it as a film","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When Baron Von Frankenstein passes on he leaves his home and his work to his grandson Victor Von Frankenstein.  Despite Victor's distaste for his Grandfather's work he soon realises how possible it is and gets drawn into the work, with the help of Igor.  However with the creation of another monster Victor seems fated to make the same mistakes.Made in the same year as Blazing Saddles this is not as funny because it is funny in a different way.  Where Blazing Saddles was outrageous, crude and bawdy this is more subtle and low key (if a Mel Brooks comedy can be described as subtle).  The outcome of this is that it isn't as funny despite having several good moments.  Most of the comedy is clumsy with much of it relying on a few jokes &#150; whereas Blazing Saddles had so many jokes that even if one missed the next one was already coming.Much of it works well however.  Where the film pays homage to the original the best laughs are found &#150; the monster with the little girl, the scene with the blind man etc.  There are laughs in the rest simply because Feldman and Wilder are both good comedians.  However it isn't a laugh a minute &#150; rather an occasional tickle.  Boyle is also good as the monster despite being trapped behind makeup and no lines.  Hackman is the best in support and Kahn is as good as she always was back then.Overall this is good but it isn't as good as Brook's best.  Certainly the reputation it has is not as fully deserved as it appears.  This is funny and is a reasonable homage but much is either broad humour or isn't funny at all. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Mel Brooks send-up of the classic horror story","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hilarious Mel Brooks send-up of the classic horror story.The grandson of the infamous Dr Frankenstein travels to his grandfather's castle and works on creating life...One of Mel Brooks' better movies, and that says a lot. On this occasion, instead of his usual laugh-a-minute delivery, Brooks opts for quality over quantity. The jokes are few and further between, but are hilarious. Brooks is aided and abetted by Gene Wilder who not only starred in the lead role, but co-wrote the screenplay. Wilder is great as Dr Frankenstein. Good support from Marty Feldman, Teri Garr and Madeline Kahn. "},{"Title":"Is the cable out and your family, ages 5 to 85, can't agree on a film that EVERYONE will enjoy? This is it!","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" With 308 reviews on this Mel Brooks classic, I am NOT going to waste your time with another. Leave it to say that I can think of NO other film (I really tried) that movie buffs, ages 5-85, can ALL watch and be entertained (ok, not through out the entire film, she's a 5 year old...). Yes, a knowledge of the original Frankenstein movie does make it more enjoyable and, yes the ending is way over the head of 5 year old but, this movie fills the narrow gap of something for everyone in a way that no other movie does.Read the other highly touted reviews (some are really good) but, if the day ever comes that you are stuck with your large, multi-aged family in your house during a snow storm with the cable out, do yourself a favor, have this film on hand. I guarantee it will save the day! "},{"Title":"Top shelf Brooks","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein, now you're talking about one of the great spoof movies. And the key to this is its affectionate handling thereof. There's always the inescapable feeling that something goofy is lurking just around the corner. And the payoff is never cheap, even if it's silly as all hell.Well, that's part of it. The other half is the glorious cast; not just foxy Teri Garr, but also Marty Feldman and Peter Boyle, who school us all on comic acting with little more than funny facial expressions and spartan dialogue. But either way, this movie's a certifiable classic and goes a long way in evoking that ole movie feel.Awesome stuff.8/10 "}{"Title":"Great Homage","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein is a great parody of classic horror films, particularly Frankenstein. The greatest thing about this Mel Brook's comedy classic is that you can really tell it was made with so much affection for both Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein. I think most of the humor in the movie is hit or miss, but in my case it was mostly hit. There were some parts in the movie that tried to be funny but I didn't quite get it, mostly because it feels at times very immature and juvenile, but most at the time, the movie is actually very mature and it understands the type of movie that it is. Most of the time this is actually a very smart film, not everyone could achieve this affectionate parody, but Mel Brooks did it and that is praise-worthy. The movie features an amazing performance from Gene Wilder as Frankenstein, he was cast perfectly for the role. The cinematography really resembles that of the original Frankenstein films, which I loved.Young Frankenstein is a great comedy, a movie that understands what it is doing most of the time and, although childish at times, I think fans of the original Frankenstein films and horror classics in general will enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Side Comment How popular is this film?  Years later....","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Made in 1974, it is now a rightly regarded classic and I have little to add to the praise given YF over the many years. In Georgia a few weeks ago, my spouse was undergoing some physical therapy work and I made a comment in the waiting room wishing her well in Frankenstin's laboratory. With that, another women looked up and said  It is pronounced Fronkenstein. Wonderful, the film has had that MUCH impact after so much time.The famous scene when Marty Feldman kept getting bits of fur in his mouth from Kahn's fox piece is still a wonderful evocation of old slapstick and Marx Brothers comedy. Look for homage to everything in this film too, not just Frankenstein. It's all there. "},{"Title":"A classic spoof by the original master of the style","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Been wanting to see this comedy classic for years now & with recently being sick at home, i finally had that chance&#x85; and boy it was a lotta fun! delivered by the originator of spoofs Mel Brooks with a film that's up there with his classic Blazing Saddles (1974) and in fact released the same year which is quite amazing considering both are so great! starring Gene Wilder as a teacher / scientist & grandson of the Dr. Frankenstein who first reanimated a corpse back into real life, Marty Feldman as the hilarious English spoken hunchback who is also the grandson of the famous hunchback who worked alongside the original Dr. Frankenstein, Teri Garr as the sexy assistant & Peter Boyle as the monster with a soft heart&#x85; the young Franenstein doesn't want to follow in his grandfather's footsteps but with news of a will from his grandfather, he ends up traveling to Transylvania and what eventuates is classic Mel Brooks, with so many golden moments & an awesome spoof on the horror genre&#x85;http//samuellbronko.tumblr.com/post/118188941547/young- frankenstein-1974-mel-brooks-8-10-been "},{"Title":"Comedy at it's Best","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is another movie that is quoted so many times. Sad part is many people haven't seen it and still quote it. Gene Wilder is at his best. I have to pause while typing because I start to laugh just thinking about it. The mixture of a nice visual humor, sarcasm, and dry humor that is as dry as the Sahara Desert. The cast is outstanding. It is so good that my kids enjoy the film as well. It is hard to believe that this movie has been around as long as it has. This movie could be released to the theaters this weekend and pack the house for great laughs. This is a must see film if you like comedy and want to see some of the masters at their best. "},{"Title":"Started off good but went downhill.","Date":"6 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've been told to watch this since I was in high school, so I had some really high expectations for it. They weren't met. Gene Wilder spent half of the movie screaming for no reason, and two thirds of the female cast were only sexual objectives. One of the jokes was about the size of the monster's schlong, and how he can go eight times. Not even Mel Brooks can get away with calling that humor.But there were several funny quirks in the movie. The horses braying, the couple talking on the train, and everything Kenneth Mars does. While it fell short in many many ways, it's not that bad of a movie. And Marty Feldman made the movie. I wouldn't've bothered with it had he not been in it. "},{"Title":"AH, SWEET Mystery Of Life At Last I Found YOU","Date":"2 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks set his comic genius to satirizing the horror film genre by taking one of the classic Universal horror characters, the monster created by Baron Von Frankenstein. Young Frankenstein brings the saga of the monster saga into the first half of the 20th Century. After several generations of experimentation with the origin of life, do you think that in Young Frankenstein the current scientist has finally got it right?Well to find out you'll have to see Young Frankenstein and Gene Wilder's take on the mad scientist, the current 20th century version of that most misunderstood family of geniuses. Fascinating though that some of the same mistakes were made in bringing the monster played by Peter Boyle to life. Didn't they watch any of the old films?However when physical science fails, psychology takes over as Wilder just thinks it might be a problem of soothing his fevered brain. The monster is also given a sex life in Young Frankenstein as Cloris Leachman finds certain attributes most attractive. In the end though an operation on that electrically charged table seems to solve both Boyle's and Wilder's problems.Funniest scene in the film is when Wilder decides to take his show on the road after teaching him a few human type tricks. Puttin' On The Ritz was never done better on screen than that song and dance duo of Wilder and Boyle. It all comes to no good though when Mel Brooks borrows from King Kong to turn the event into a disaster.Kenneth Mars does a marvelous imitation of the maimed Lionel Atwill from Son Of Frankenstein, borrowing a little from his Nazi playwright from The Producers. Listen closely and some of the best lines are thrown away by Marty Feldman as the hunchbacked assistant Ygor, pronounced EyeGor in this film. Teri Garr has some good moments as Wilder's Valley Girl type assistant Inga and Gene Hackman in his one scene as The Blind Man is hilarious.Fans of the zany humor of Mel Brooks should not let Young Frankenstein get by. "},{"Title":"Young Frankenstein is absurd fun.","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While over thirty years old, Young Frankenstein is typical Mel Brooks. It's silly, absurd, has some clever sight gags and cringeworthy puns, and while it may not contain the self-referential, breaking-the-fourth-wall humour which made Spaceballs a classic, it's still fun. Based, obviously, on Mary Shelley's original creation, and filmed in black-and-white, Young Frankenstein's plot is simple enough for a comedy of this nature. Gene Wilder plays Dr. Frederick Frankenstein (pronounced Fronkonstein), a medical lecturer, who one day, receives the will of his grandfather, Victor von Frankenstein, creator of the eponymous monster, learning he's inherited Victor's old Transylvanian castle. Upon arriving in Transylvania, leaving behind his girlfriend Elizabeth (Madeline Khan), he meets Igor (pronounced I-gor; played by Marty Feldman), and his assistant Inga (Teri Garr, playing the stereotypical blonde love interest). After discovering his grandfather's downstairs laboratory, he begins pouring over Victor's old medical notes pertaining to the Frankenstein project, and after initially trying to live down his heritage, become immersed in attempting to create another Frankenstein, despite some resistance from current tenant Frau Blaucher (Cloris Leachman). Frau's appearance ignites the film's most sustained running gag; whenever her name is uttered; horses start neighing in terror. Upon successfully digging up a large enough body, Frederick's plans go awry, when I-gor, instead of picking out the right brain, takes an abnormal brain (or in his words, the brain from Abby Normal). After eventually waking up, the mono-syllabic Frankenstein monster escapes and, while he appears threatening, he simply wants to be loved. One scene involves him walking into the house of a lonely blind man (Gene Hackman), where he invites the monster in for tea. Unfortunately, the meal goes awry, when, in attempting to light a cigar, the blind man sets Frankenstein's thumb on fire.Realising the monster's needs, and under pressure from Inspector Kemp (a German officer with one mechanical arm, which he constantly has to set into position) Frederick sets out to court public sympathy for him, which culminates in a hilarious performance of Puttin' on the Ritz between the two of them, before Frankenstein's fear of fire causes the performance to end abruptly. With Frederick and Inga's love blossoming, Elizabeth arrives in Transylvania, where she is taken by Frankenstein, and, impressed by one particular part of his body, becomes The Bride of Frankenstein. In the end, in order to save the monster from a lifetime of fear and misunderstanding, Frederick's realises he must make a personal sacrifice.While the movie takes a little while to get going, once the groundwork has been laid, it gets funnier, especially with the arrival of Marty Feldman. It parodies the films of the genre well, the most notable touch being the crackles of lightning at just the right moment. Well worth a look, especially for Brooks fans. "},{"Title":"QFC - Young Frankenstein","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Oh, yes, this is the mother of all spoofs. Makes you wonder what happened to them. If you watch this, you realize just what you have missed with the likes of 'Scary Movies' and the rest, which might be funny, but stupid. This is funny, but you can't call it stupid.Gene Wilder is incredible and Mel Brooks is a genius. The film is interesting from beginning to the end, Marty Feldman is a gem. Brooks really took a gamble in making the movie in black and white but it's what makes the film all the more interesting.They took the idea from a masterpiece and made a masterpiece of their own. It's a must watch for film lovers.WATCH THE MOMENT WHEN - The bookshelf, that uncovers the entrance to a secret passageway. Only Olga and Dr.Frankenstein have a little trouble with the candles and the mechanism. "},{"Title":"Rude Desires","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks is in touch with out deepest desires, no doubt about it. Fear, greed, lust, self aggrandizement, jealousy -- everything we enjoy denying that we have.This is illustrated in the opening scene, under the credits. A coffin is opened. There is a rotting skeleton holding a book. A pair of hands reaches in and tries to remove the book, but the skeletal digits seems to snatch it back. The human hands pull away, then tentatively reach again for the book, but this time they're trembling.None of Brooks' humor is elegant, revolving as it does around these primitive motives and human weaknesses such as farts. This isn't Woody Allan. Nobody is going to pull Marshall McLuhan out of a crowd and ask him to explain his theories. Nobody in Brooks' movie has ever HEARD of Marshall McLuhan.And yet when Brooks connects, he pops it out of the park. How can anyone watch the scene in which Peter Boyle's monster visits the blind Gene Hackman without laughing? The lonely Hackman, trying to please his guest, spills boiling hot soup into his lap -- twice. He smashes the monster's Bierstein and sets his thumb on fire. Where you going'? whines Hackman after the monster smashes out through the door. I was gonna make espresso. If the jokes fail, as they do about three times out of four, it's still interesting to watch the actors. They seem to be having a lot of fun. Terri Garr looks like a luscious blond yummy from the Midwest. Maybe she has no glabella but she has a sly bosom that makes up for it. Madeleine Kahn has a small but funny part. She's a good singer too. Why do people die young? We saw this at a theater in the Tanforan Shopping Center in South San Francisco. You should see it too, especially if you are in some kind of Edgar Allan Poe-ish funk. "},{"Title":"A thinking man's parody","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I found this to be a thinking man's parody. It has many amusing lines and scenes, but I think only once did I laugh out loud. (Gene Hackman's blind man soup scene, lampooning a scene from, I think, Bride of Frankenstein. Not Mel Brooks' best work. Some correspondents have put down History of the World, Part I which is the best Brooks film I have seen. Marty Feldman's Igor was the best part of this movie. And also, Teri Garr was so beautiful. "}{"Title":"Mel Brooks & Gene Wilder presents...","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In times where good comedies are hard to find, and especially parodies, we can all turn to past and genius work of Mel Brooks. Few days ago I watched his Blazing Saddles and today I caught Young Frankenstein on TV. I must say that Young Frankenstein is my favorite and I don't remember when was the last time I laughed as hard as today to a comedy. I'm not going to re-tell the scenes cause words can't describe that but I am going to mention brilliant acting crew lead by great Gene Wilder. Peter Boyle is also great as The Monster, just like Marty Feldman as Igor. Three ladies, Teri Garr, Madeline Kahn & Cloris Leachman are brilliant and there is small role of Gene Hackman that I didn't notice, to tell you the truth, wile I watched the movie. There is no Mel Brooks as actor in this one but his presence as director and writer (with Wilder) can be easily recognized. That's his style and Young Frankenstein is movie made by group of comedy geniuses. It's not overrated nor overacted but it is bright and funny. So if you want to laugh... "},{"Title":"The Exception Proves The Rule","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There're dozens of movies whose point is to make fun of previous Hollywood hits, and thre're three men which have dedicated the biggest part of their careers to manufacture that kind of devices Jim Abrahams with his partner David Zucker, and Mel Brooks. Abrahams & Zucker directed Airplane!, Naked Gun series, Top Secret, Hot Shots... and Mr. Brooks made Spaceballs, Robin Hood, Dracula and, of course, this Young Frankenstein.All those movies use to be second-rate because they depend so much on gags, and it is almost impossible to fill a whole movie with good gags every 2 or 3 minutes. But for me Airplane! is an exception, and Young Frankenstein it is too (for me YF is the best spoof-movie ever). Every single scene's got a good gag, and there're a lot of hilarious sequences. It's got a nice rhythm, and all the actors play their roles as good as they're supposed to Gene Wilder (Mr. Fronkonstin!) gives us his best performance ever; Marty Feldman (aIgor) looks like a real freak (with that face you don't even need to be a real actor); and Peter Boyle (the Monster) proves that he's as good in comedy as he's in drama (you may remember him from Scorsese's Taxi Driver or Hardcore -Paul Schrader 70's-). There's no doubt that this is Mel Brooks' more remarkable and memorable movie (though I prefer Life Stinks, one of his few pictures that are not based on a previous one). Anyway, it does not matter is Brooks' filmography ain't that brilliant; because Young Frankenstein will remain as the exception that proves the rule that says spoof-movies are Retarded-Rated. (Ok, It does not exist such rule, I've just made it; but I think that movies like Hot Shots or Robin Hood Men In Tights are not to be watched by intelligent people).  My rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"'Pardon me boy, is this the Transylvania station?' 'Ya, ya. Track twenty-nine. Can I give you a shine?'","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gene Wilder plays Frederick Frankenstein, grandson of infamous monster-maker Victor, a brilliant neurosurgeon living in America and who is so ashamed of his ancestor's work he pronounces his name Fronkensteen. A mysterious visitor (delicately and delightfully underplayed by the great Richard (THE LOST WORLD) Haydn) arrives on the scene and informs Frederick that he has inherited his grandfather's estate in Transylvania.On arriving in Transylvania to claim his inheritance he encounters the hunchback Igor (Feldman), the voluptuous Inga (a never more alluring Teri Garr) and Castle Frankenstein's Mrs. Danvers-type housekeeper Frau Blücher (Leachman). Exploring the castle Frederick discovers his grandfather's old laboratory and secret library, which handily contains a book entitled 'How I Did It', and pretty soon the old Frankenstein family trait rears its ugly head, this time in the shape of Peter Boyle as the monster.Needless to say, being a Brooks/Wilder movie this isn't a straightforward Frankenstein monster romp, though it pays loving homage to the Universal Karloff movies of the 30s. Shot impeccably in black and white and borrowing its plot from 1939's SON OF FRANKENSTEIN, it becomes a case of 'spot the film reference'. Much of the laboratory's electrical equipment is that designed by Kenneth Strickfaden for the original 1931 FRANKENSTEIN; the monster stumbles across the shelter of a blind hermit (at the time a surprising appearance by ordinarily tough-guy Hackman) in an hilarious parody of the same scenario in BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN; Kenneth Mars (THE PRODUCERS) recreates Lionel Atwill's role of the local Police Chief from SON OF complete with artificial arm into which he sticks his darts during a game with the young Frankenstein (as did Atwill), and who is concerned that this new Frankenstein may be 'vallawink in his grandvadder's vootshtaps &#150; you know; Vootshtaps! Vootshtaps! '; Madeline Kahn's hair, after she is ravished by the monster takes on the same appearance as Elsa Lanchester's in BRIDE OF and there's even a scene with a little girl throwing petals into a well. When she runs out of petals she innocently asks the monster 'What shall we throw in next?' at which point Boyle's monster turns Oliver Hardy-like to the camera and smiles knowingly. Add to all this of course the Brooks/Wilder trademark gags Igor's hump, which he denies having, keeps swapping shoulders; when his train arrives in Transylvania Frederick ask a passing shoeshine boy 'Pardon me boy, is this the Transylvania station?' 'Ya, ya, track twenty-nine' replies the boy, 'Can I give you a shine?'; to demonstrate his brilliance to the scientific community Frederick has his monster join him in a rendition of 'Puttin' on the Ritz' complete with cane, top hat and tails; a brain stored in a jar with the label 'Warning - Do Not Use This Brain' (which of course they do); horses whinny whenever Frau Blücher's name is mentioned, and Wilder's Frederick Frankenstein, with his pencil thin moustache and mop of frizzy hair, appears just as if SON OF's Basil Rathbone had stuck his fingers in a light socket.It's obvious from every scene that Mel Brooks has great affection for those old monster movies which results in this being the best thing he's ever done and, if I had one, it would certainly be amongst my all time top ten &#150; just above BLAZING SADDLES. He also grants himself one of the best credit lines Mel Brooks - Werewolf/Cat Hit by Dart. "},{"Title":"Not The Greatest Comedy But Still Amusing","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I first saw YOUNG FRAKENSTIEN 20 years ago I rolled around the living room in fits of hysterical laughter , something that hasn't happened very often . In fact I would probably that throughout my life this has just got to be the funniest film I have ever seen in my life so when it was broadcast on BBC 2 over the Christmas period I went out of my way to watch it Hmmm . I have to amend my opinion chaps . Not only is it no longer the funniest film I have seen in my entire life I wouldn't even consider it the funniest film from Mel Brooks ( Which will remain now and forever BLAZING SADDLES ) which is a great shame . The problem is that much of the early part of the story seems to drag along with a fairly unfunny broad performance by Gene Wilder and he's not helped by Marty Feldman as Igor , though perhaps the screenplay is to blame since both characters have a running gag of getting their names wrong -  Fronkonsteen  and  Eyegore  . Some of the other failings might be down to the fact that my views of the original Universal horror movies that YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN parody have changed over the years . When I was a teenager I used to love these movies had very fond memories but after seeing them all again over the years I found them lacking and were nowhere as good as I remembered them That said where this film is at its funniest is when they directly spoof scenes from the original movie . The scenes with Inspector Kemp , especially when he is first introduced still make laugh as does the scenes culled from THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTIEN featuring Gene Hackman . It's just a pity the laughs are a long time coming and somewhat inconsistent and it's one of those movies that will have the audience remembering all the good bits while forgetting the more numerous unfunny bits "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece Parody.","Date":"19 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein (1974) Dir Mel Brooks / Cast Gene Wilder, Peter Boyle, Marty Feldman, Teri Garr, Madeline Kahn Comic masterpiece bringing the timeless Frankenstein lore to new generations. This is an impressive translation by Mel Brooks who scored with Blazing Saddles the same year. He wisely opted for black and white filming to add to the classic film effect. Gene Wilder delivers one of his greatest performances as Frederick Frankenstein, a skilled professor who accepts his grandfather's will and travels to Transylvania much to his fiancé's disappointment. Peter Boyle plays the monster whom he brings to life only to discover that Igor had submitted the wrong brain. Dr. Frankenstein will attempt to civilize him, which leads to hilarious situations and encounters including a song and dance number. What really comes across is the willingness to sacrifice, which also has a funny payoff. Marty Feldman is hilarious even when he isn't the focus. He plays Igor who makes the mistake of grabbing the wrong brain at the lab. Teri Garr is a hoot as assistant Inga whose bubble-headed disposition brings many great lines. The invaluable Madeline Kahn is ravishing as the uptight fiancé to Dr. Frankenstein who has a hilarious monstrous encounter. This is Mel Brooks at his absolute best as he successfully translates the Frankenstein story to a new audience and with a greater impact than those before it. Score 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movie of all time","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is very funny. The mean characters are the grand son of Doctor Frankenstein The grand son of Ygor and a monster that they created. This movie is a satire of the Frankenstein movies from the 30's and 40's. I am a big fan off these movies. And I fine this movie to be very funny. One the funniest movies I have ever seen. It got an 8 but is such a great movie that 8 is underrating it. I do not like a lot of comedy movies. And I have to say this is one of the better ones. Mel Brooks is a great director. Most film directors do not know what funny is. But he does know. Gene Wilder is great actor and writer. Mel Brooks is also and great writer. This movie is a most. If you want to laugh see this movie. "},{"Title":"You take the blonde and I'll take the one in the turban!","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a hilarious spoof of the Frankenstein films, with a fun cast and a delightful script. Marty Feldman as Eye-gor is sidesplittingly funny, Peter Boyle is perfect as the monster (zippers & all), Cloris Leachman is a delight as Frau Blucher (horses beware!) and Madeline Kahn is wonderfully wacky (and drop-dead gorgeous) as Frankenstein's (Gene Wilder's) intended. The film is not only very funny, but in a way it also pays homage to the original Universal films. The original laboratory equipment was used and, like those films, it is filmed in wonderful black-and-white. Come to think of it, The Bride of Frankenstein (1935) was so wonderfully over-the-top that it was funny in its own way. The scene in this film where Boyle as the monster meets the blind hermit, played by an originally unbilled Gene Hackman, is a comic highlight (Where are you going - I was just going to make some espresso!). Feldman practically walks away with the film, however. All I have to do is look at him with those wonderfully skewed eyes (Wilder - Damn your Eyes! Felman - Too late!) and his marvelous expressions and I just loose it. Just check out his antics in front of the circuit board during the transference operation - goofy and hilarious! According to Mel Brooks, they had to film take-after-take of the scene in the castle courtyard where Feldman meets Kahn for the first time because of his slapstick (biting Kahn's fox fur, etc.), which put Wilder in hysterics each time. In this scene that finally made it into the film, check out Wilder - he's practically biting his lip to keep from laughing! This film may not quite be in the same league as The Producers or Blazing Saddles, but it comes awfully close. It was funny when I saw it at the theater as a teenager in 1974 and it still cracks me up! "},{"Title":"Classic Mel Brooks","Date":"11 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Even at has worst Mel Brooks is one of the funniest writer/directors ever to exist and Young Frankenstein is far from his worst. A hilarious comedy of errors and misadventures it keeps the viewer in stitches from start to finish. Almost endlessly re-watchable and it never ceases to be totally hilarious. A beautifully balanced cast of actors lead by the venerable and talented Gene Wilder keeps the classic comedy moving along perfectly from start to finish. Worth every penny this movie simply must be in any collection worth having, because what's movie night without a little Mel Brooks in the mix. "},{"Title":"40 years on, still hysterical","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hard to believe that forty years have gone by.Mel Brooks' masterpiece still works perfectly, even after countless viewings. We all know each gag by heart, yet still laugh ourselves stupid.Usually I am not a great fan of dubbed versions, preferring the original for humour, interpretation, pathos etc. But this is a notable exception most agree that the Italian-dubbed version is even more comical than the original. The Where wolves - Werewolves gag is even more demented in the Italian Lupu ululà - castellu ululì, and in general the translator has made such a superb work, that (being bilingual) I can hardly make my mind which version I prefer. "},{"Title":"My Name Is FRANKENSTEIN!","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gene Wilder, Peter Boyle, Teri Garr, Marty Feldman, Cloris Leachman and Madeline Kahn star in Mel Brooks' 1974 comedy. This is a horror spoof of Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein that tells of young scientist, Frederick Frankenstein aka Fronk-en-Steen (Wilder) who lives with his family's unfortunate reputation. Soon, he inherits his late, grandfather's castle in Transylvania and discovers his work of re-animation which forces him to continue where he left off. The late, Boyle (Everybody Loves Raymond) plays Frederick's monster creation that's not only afraid of fire, but seeks love, Garr (Mr. Mom) plays Frederick's lab assistant, Inga, the late, Feldman plays hunchback, Igor who also helps him, Leachman (The Beverly Hillbillies) plays Frau, the housekeeper, the late, Kahn (Blazing Saddles) plays Elizabeth, Frederick's fiancée and Gene Hackman (Superman) also appears briefly as blind man, Harold. Wilder also wrote this with Brooks and slightly imitated a scene in Haunted Honeymoon. This is definitely Brooks' best film with a great cast & score I highly recommend. "}{"Title":"Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder's best!","Date":"7 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My third Mel Brooks' comedy, after HISTORY OF THE WORLD PART I (1981, 6/10) and HIGH ANXIETY (1977, 6/10), and I daresay it is his best! It is a monochrome homage to Frankenstein's monster franchise and magnificently crafted as a whole new parody with a sterling cast. Unfortunately I haven't watched any of Universal's classical horror series, so it is nonviable for me to discern how the homage aspect proceeds, nevertheless, it doesn't hamper my appreciation of this film. Wilder is Dr. Frederick Frankenstein (the self-claimed pronunciation is Fronkensien), a medical professor in America, whose grandfather is the notorious mad scientist Victor Frankenstein, is lured back to inherit his family estate in Transylvania, but as a scientist himself, Frederick is strongly repellent towards his grandfather's doings. After meeting his bulging-eyed hunchback servant Igor (pronounced eyegore here), who is played by a pronounced Feldman, the desirable personal assistant Inga (Garr with a ludicrous German accent) and the frosty housekeeper Frau Blücher (the haughty and drolly Leachman), he finds out the private journals left by Victor about the reanimation of dead tissues, cannot resist the temptation, he carries out a plan to reanimate his creature (Boyle), only later he is aware that the brain he uses in the transplantation is an abnormal one. Then, the storyline flickeringly stretches over the creature's encounters with a little girl and a blind hermit (a genuinely side-splitting episode with an uncredited Hackman) after his escape, then Wilder and Brooks' script takes a drastic turn to introduce Frederick and the creature's live-performance of Irving Berlin's musical number Puttin' On The Ritz, which ends badly and the creature is captured, but it is pure fun. Frederick's fiancée Elizabeth (Kahn) arrives uninvited, and her consistent refusal any physical intimacy with Frederick in the name of keeping her chastity before wedding night, is comically disintegrated by sheer phallic-ism in front of the creature. And she bells out a riotous Sweet mystery of Life during the intercourse, with some splendid vocal inflections. Brooks opts for a merry finale for both Frederick and his creature, they both exchange some part of their advantages to each other and eventually, they can go out for a pleasant double date.Gene Wilder is priceless, superbly casts his deadpan humor with visceral gags, sometimes he is even affective. The sparkling chemistry between him and the scene-stealing Feldman using wisecracks and slap-sticks can effectively crack viewers up (from the walk this way spoof and on). Boyle's monster, although the make-up team is substandard, you can literally see the paddings and fake stitches in his head, is never ferocious or deliberately harmful, he is a slow-witted newborn has the primal fear of fire and fond of the euphony of violin, the caricature never transcends into scare-fest. Kahn and Leachman are two staunch comediennes, each clings to the stereotyped characterizations and builds on their own zest and zingers, so is Garr, but in a less vivid role as the bimbo and Kenneth Mars' Inspector Kemp, who is extensively lampooned for one stiff limb and inarticulate elocution. The cinematography and production design are sublime thanks to its retro polishing, the film holds extremely well for a first viewing 40 years later, it is a favorable comedy can be thoroughly enjoyed without any abashment in hindsight which prevalently resides in most of our present-day low-taste offerings, just go and watch the scariest comedy of all time! "},{"Title":"Monster bash","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks' loving tribute to old-time Hollywood horror. Of course no Brooks make-over could be complete without a stock number of jokes older than Frankenstein's castle, a smattering of smut and appearances by pretty much his repertory company (Gene Wilder, Marty Feldman, Madeleine Khan and that's only in the lead roles), although it was soon after this movie that Mel started writing parts for himself.The titles, for a start are lovingly laid out diagonally, in best MGM style, the cinematography is excellently composed in monochrome and the sets, too, are quite superb. The plot bowdlerises every monster flick you've ever seen and a lot of the gags you can see coming with bells on, (does the walk this way routine appear in every Brooks' film?), but with the wonderful Gene Wilder at its centre, hair and eyebrows everywhere, ably assisted by made-for-this-kind-of-thing actors like Feldman, Khan et al, you can forgive even the worst puns. I did think, however, that both female leads, Khan and Teri Garr, could have been used a little more.Best gags for me were Wilder's lecture to his students (loved the aside, Give him an extra buck to the old stooge dragged out for experimental purposes) and the monster's consummation with the previously frigid Khan (Oh sweet mystery of life) but the humour is spread around everyone to humorous effect.It made me feel a bit like a kid watching a pantomime and while the cinematography would have you think otherwise there are no pretensions of high art here. It's your belly laughs he's after and he gets them here, in spades. "},{"Title":"To quote Homer Simpson, Scared the hell out of me!","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein is one of Mel Brooks's most fondly remembered films. It is an affectionate parody of the Universal 'Frankenstein' movies of the 1930's, which were based on Mary Shelley's classic novel. In this case, Gene Wilder portrays a descendant of the infamous Frankenstein who ends up resuming his grandfather's work with hilarious results.One of the most appealing things about this film is the look, which closely imitates the original films. The film is shot in black and white and many of the editing transitions and directorial choices recall an earlier style. Also enforcing the 1930's atmosphere is the score by John Morris.Bringing the story to life is an enviable cast of comedic talents. Gene Wilder does a fine job in the lead role and is given strong support from the likes of Cloris Leachman, Marty Feldman and Madeline Kahn.The script's sense of humour is mostly understated though there are moments of unbridled hilarity. There are a few jokes that don't quite connect with me but they are far outnumbered by the ones that do. If you haven't seen any of the old Universal movies, don't worry since the humour doesn't hinge on an extensive knowledge of the source material.In my opinion, this film ranks alongside Blazing Saddles & The Producers as some of Brooks's best work, not to mention some of the best comedies in American film. I recommend it regardless of whether or not you've seen any of the original Frankenstein films. "},{"Title":"classic humor","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i happily admit that this is my favorite film of all time - while a good deal of brooks humor is over the top, getting much of its laugh from shock value, this film is much more gentle, treating the original films, and the audience with respectmany of my favorite bits are the more subtle nuances, a glance, a pause to allow the humor to sink in - and some of the humor only became clear to me when i watched the film with a friend who was fluent in Germanit takes a special team to create a film that is intriguing, warm, and flat out funnyeach member of my family can quote most of the movie i first saw this film in the theater when i was in junior high school - now, many, many years later, it is still my favorite, and our DVD is well loved "},{"Title":"That's 'FRON-ken-STEEN'...","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After skewering the classic western and race relations in one politically incorrect and perfectly hysterical package, what would the director of BLAZING SADDLES do for an encore? Why, turn his twisted gaze to classic horror, of course...and the masterpiece written by Mary Shelley would never be the same!YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN took the original novel and the seminal James Whale vision of it produced by Universal, and made it do cartwheels, headstands and chorus-line kicks, literally. Not only does Brooks lovingly recreate nearly every set and every scene so accurately that film buffs can relate, but he and his able ensemble of nutcases give the whole affair that Brooksian spin that's part-Borscht Belt, part-Marx Brothers and all sublimely silly...even now, over THIRTY YEARS later!!! Besides SADDLES, it's the only other Brooks film that delivers consistent laughs every time...and in the same places!The Zucker-Abrams-Zucker team would take cues from his work about ten years later, and watching AIRPLANE! now, I can see where they got most of their inspiration.Gene Wilder is in the best form of his career as Dr. Victor FRON-ken-steen, the later-day descendant of the original monster-baiter himself. Serving up fantastic comic support are Marty Feldman as EYE-gor, his 'hump-y' lab assistant; the dearly-missed Madeline Kahn as his flighty floozy of a fiancée, Elizabeth and Teri Garr as the amply-endowed Inga, (What knockers! Why, thank you, doctor!) Rounding out the cast are Kenneth Mars as an Inspector only Clouseau would love, Gene Hackman in an uncredited appearance, who shows why he was the most logical choice to play Lex Luthor for laughs in the SUPERMAN franchise, and the unforgettable Cloris Leachman as the repressed-but-lascivious (and possibly bestiality-inclined) Frau Blucher.And for EVERYBODY LOVES RAYMOND fans who know nothing about Peter Boyle beyond that show, his Monster will prove to be a true revelation. A man who was usually cast as tough guys and worse? Who knew he had so much 'funny' in him? For someone who gets very few lines (until the classic ending), Boyle's comic timing and physicality are as important to the entire movie as Wilder's, if not more so.There isn't a lot of gore or nudity, but this is one horror comedy that really can be fun for the whole family. And if it isn't already a permanent part of your movie library, shame on you! "},{"Title":"Mel brooks+Frankenstein=Sheer entertainment","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is such a great flick.It is so smart and sophisticated,yet has gags like walk this way,and Damn your eyes!too lateThis is one of Mel brooks' finest videos(We were given two excellent films Blazing saddles AND This)Essentialy The grandson of Dr Frankenstein receives his grandfathers castle and has to go to Transylvania to See it(Pardon me boy.Is this the Transylvania station.Yah yah track twenty nine,you want a shine lol) When he arrives He is awoken by the curvaceous Inga as he is having A bad dream.And a beautiful haunting melody leads him to his grandfathers lab. And mayhem and creation ensue.This movie is so great on many levels and gets better with each viewing.I watched this movie 6 nights in a row and loved it. Oh and to those who say the new generation doesn't have taste in movies,you're looking at a thirteen year old who adores old school Mel brooks. Even the most hardcore Horror fans will get a kick out of this movie.This is in my Frankengroovy collection(along with rocky horror picture show) the one thing i wish they hadn't done was use Jesus' name in vain. But even that is used in a funny context. You will laugh your butt off at Marty feldman,snicker at Frau Blucher(Neighh)and have your heartstrings tugged by peter boyle. If you haven't seen this movie you must.It is such a great film that won't be easily forgotten. Even now I can't see the name Igor without pronouncing it EYE-gor. so i give this 40 out of ten stars. it is that good. "},{"Title":"My name is Frankenstein! - One of the funniest films ever made","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In 1974, Mel Brooks achieved one of the greatest feats in cinematic history he gave the world two comic masterpieces in Blazing Saddles and Young Frankenstein. Both are two of my favorite comedies of all time, but I would put Young Frankenstein slightly ahead, if not just for the fact that you can watch it fifty times and not tire of it. I have seen it a dozen times, and I laugh harder each time I see it; I used to laugh at the jokes, but now I laugh even harder at the anticipation of each line. Gene Wilder is perfect as the wild-eyed, half-crazed Dr. Frankenstein (that's Fronkenshteen) and Marty Feldman is hilarious as his sidekick Igor (that's Eye-gor). Each scene is a little gem unto itself, including a heartfelt goodbye at a train station, an exploration into Dr. Frankenstein's library (in which we see the hilariously simple title of Frankenstein's book), the monster's encounter with a blind man (a hysterical Gene Hackman), and a classic song and dance number with Dr. Frankenstein and his monster. Young Frankenstein is filmed in beautiful black and white and the jokes will have you laughing nonstop. Check this and Blazing Saddles out to see why Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder are considered two of the funniest men on the planet. A perfect 10/10! "},{"Title":"Hey, I think I knew Abbie Normal!","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Yes, this is of course a spoof of old horror movies, to be more specific Frankenstein movies of course. This is also a very funny spoof on Frankenstein movies as Mel Brooks was top notch in this film as he did nearly no wrong in casting and the story was to die for. The only complaint I have is not really all that big, but I just find this movie is most funny during the beginning and middle while the ending, while not weak, is not as strong. Gene Wilder plays the son of the notorious Dr. Frankenstein great, at times playing his role in a straight and serious manner, then he goes off on a demented rant the next. Other characters and cast are good as well, but for my money Marty Feldman stole the show as Igor (prounced eye-gor here of course). From his scene in the basement posing as one of the heads on display to his bad choice in brains, he was the highlight in this movie for me along with the brief, but also very memorable performance of Gene Hackman as a blind man who asks god for just someone to stop by and visit him. The story is very basic Frankenstein with the strange Mel Brooks flair added in for fun. Many funny scenes are to be found within as this comedy still holds up and stands the test of time. "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks's finest hour!","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The first Mel Brooks film I've seen was 'Space Balls' which I pretty much enjoyed, but I had no idea he was capable of creating such comic brilliance.The first time I saw this film was when I was living in my apartment in downtown Toronto a couple of years ago. It was a Saturday night and I had no plans and this was before I had gotten a roommate. So I went over to the nearest Blockbusters and looked for a couple of classics. I ended up renting 'Five Easy Pieces' and 'Young Frankenstein' and it ended up being a pretty good night since I had three important ingredients, pizza, beer and a barrel of laughs.I love the way Mel Brooks tackled the original James Whale classics (Frankenstein from 1931 & Bride of Frankenstein from 1935) which are in my opinion the greatest monster classics ever to be put on screen.This film looks so authentic that it actually feels like a 1930's monster film, except of course for all the comedy. It has everything it needs to make a perfect classic comedy work A terrific performance (Gene Wilder), a hot babe (Teri Garr), the creature himself (Peter Boyle) and one of the funniest characters in motion picture history, Igor which unlike in the original is pronounced Eye-Gor (Martin Pidman).The story begins when Fredrick Fronkensteen (Gene Wilder) gets a visit from a strange old man who brings him the will of his great grandfather, 'Baron Bofort von Frankenstein'. He then of course goes to his great grandfather's old castle which actually looks exactly like the castle in the original picture from 1931 because in fact it is a picture of the castle from the original film.He there meets the care taker of the castle named Frau Blücher (Cloris Leachman) in which she is so creepy that every time her name is said, the horses begin to whinny. Now that is very funny. At first he doesn't want to face the facts of his grandfather's work but when he finds his grandfather's secret library and starts to read his books he figures it out It&#133; could&#133; work!So of course he walks in the foot steps of his grandfather and sets out to create the creature. As told by his grandfather's books, the creature must be of gigantic stature, everything must be increased in size and of course then, he would have an enormous schwanstugel in which I-Gor replies, he's gonna be very popular! But of course the creature doesn't set out to be as smart as they anticipated and this obviously leads to bigger laughs, like when he visits the blind man played brilliantly by Gene Hackman.I watched this film again last night with a good friend of mine and who happened to be a fan of Mel Brooks. I guaranteed him a great time and believe me he wasn't disappointed. It was just as great for me as it was the time I saw it, if not better, It's one of the best American comedies of our time. "},{"Title":"I Am What You Make Me. I Am a Creature with an Abnormal Brain","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks' Young Frankenstein, sorry it is actually Fronkensteen, obviously is a homage/parody to the film produced by Universal in 1931 and based upon the novel of Mary Shelley. It was shot in black and white and also has the opening credits sequence with the style of the old films. Anyway, the plot is about Victor Frankenstein's grandson, the Dr. Frederick Frankenstein (Gene Wilder) who travels to the property of his family, that he has inherited, in Transylvania. There he meets his servant Igor (Marty Feldman), Frau Blücher (Cloris Leachman) and his assistant Inga (Teri Garr). Soon Frederick will find the old infamous laboratory of his grandfather and the secrets of how he created life from dead bodies.The are many hilarious situations in this film but the way that Mel Brooks paid homage to the Universal classic makes that this film has not an hilarious thing every minute and, for example, the beginning is a little slow just with Igor causing many laughs and with the hilarious situation of the different pronunciations. Later the film is pure story, which is good, with the lead character becoming just like Victor Frankenstein and when finally the creature (Peter Boyle) is alive is when my favourite part of the film begins. For me the most hilarious sequences in the entire film are when the creature meets the young girl, the blind man (Gen Hackman) and when Frederic presents him to the community. That scene with the blind man is definitely one of my favourites scenes of a Mel Brooks film and one of those when I couldn't stop laughing and that I repeated many times. The end is also hilarious with an intelligent creature and with the doctor and his enormous schwanzstucker that makes women sings, both finding the love.The cast is great; Gene Wilder is just funny but Marty Feldman's performance is my favourite and definitely the most funny, with his crazy eyes. The support cast is also good with the beauty of Teri Garr and the hilarious cameo of the great Gene Hackman. Conclusion This is a good parody/tribute that you can show to anyone. But I have only one question is really deserved its thirteenth place on the AFI's 100 funniest American film where The Gold Rush ranks at the place 25? Well for me one thing is for sure, this Hollywoodian lists are just another opinion that can't change mine. It is funny to check them just for curiosity but I really hate when people base their own thoughts in this type of lists claiming that, for example, Annie Hall is funnier than Modern Times when actually they never watch before a film of Charles Chaplin. Anyway, I recommend Young Frankenstein for an entertaining and funny time. 8.5 out of 10Region 4 DVD opposite of the last DVD that I bought of a Mel Brooks film (Spaceballs) this single-disc edition of Young Frankenstein is really great. Contains commentaries by Brooks and company, trailers and TV spots, deleted scenes, a documentary and some errors during the filming. But the most interesting thing that I found was a couple of interviews with Marty Feldman, Gene Wilder and Cloris Leahcman, made for a Mexican show! These interviews are really bizarre and extremely funny. "}{"Title":"Young Frankenstein","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What do you think of when you hear the name Frankenstein? Do you think of a big scary ugly man? One who everyone is afraid of? Well if that is true then I would have to say you would be somewhat right, but at the same time wrong because Frankenstein was not the monster's name. The inventors name was Frankenstein. It's funny that a lot of people get that mixed up, simply because every movie of Frankenstein was about a huge ugly monster that everyone hated, but in reality it was more about the scientist brings dead tissue back to life. At which he succeeded. This brings me to the movie Young Frankenstein. Young Frankenstein was directed by Mel Brooks who was famous for many funny as well as great films. This film was made to be a great film to add along with the other great Frankenstein films but unlike the others this one is not just about a dark and gloomy world where everyone is set out to kill the beast. Although this one is very similar it was made to make people laugh more than cry. Young Frankenstein starts out with the grandson of Frankenstein, Victor Frankenstein trying to live down his grandfather's name. He doesn't speak of his grandpa or anything. He would just like to forget. Because he thinks he is nothing like him. Well turns out he has to return to Transylvania to his grandfather's castle. He gets there and is met by his grandfather's most humble houseboy Igor and his sexy assistant Inga. As well as his mysterious housekeeper Frau Blucher. Victor had always thought his grandpa's experiments to be impossible but he instantly changes his mind when he finds a book of all his grandpa's notes and experiments. He slowly begins to try to reinvent his grandfathers experiments he follows each step in chronological order. All it really took was a trip to the lab and a trip to the cemetery to get it all started again. Mel brooks did a fantastic job with this movie because it made us laugh when we would usually be offended and it was still more then just funny, it captured all the different genres of the movie as well as making it funny to watch and entertaining to see. A lot of the credit for that goes to the performances of Gene Wilder, as young Frankenstein, and Peter Boyle as the monster. They act broadly when it's required, but they also contribute tremendous subtlety and control. Boyle somehow manages to be hilarious and pathetic at the same time. Mel would do things in the film just to do them, for example, there were a couple of bloopers that were found in the movie but noticing them in the movie kind of in a way fit to Mel's style in directing. All in all I would say this movie deserves a 10. I say this because the acting was tremendous and the scenery matched exactly as it should for a movie taking place when it did. It was touching, hilarious, scary, and fun all at once!!! I think that almost all the movies by Mel Brooks deserve a 10 just because he makes every film into a masterpiece whether or not it's a parody of another film he still knows how to make it wonderful! "},{"Title":"Think you know Young Frankenstein?","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Take the quiz and prove it! Coming off the rousing success of Blazing Saddles, Mel Brooks wasn't sure he could ever top himself. Then frequent collaborator Gene Wilder told Brooks about an idea he'd had an homage-slash-parody of the classic Universal horror films of the '30s. From such humble beginnings was born the classic comedy about great knockers, zipper-necks and the sweet mystery of life. Sure, you've seen the black-and-white comic masterpiece numerous times, but just how well do you know Young Frankenstein?We have graded the difficulty on thisLevel 2 Relax and act natural, you should do fine.http//www.boxofficeprophets.com/hwdyk/index.cfm?howwellID=8 "},{"Title":"Good, but falls apart by the end...","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...Young Frankenstein is Mel Brooks' spoof on the Frankenstein movies of the past.  Set in modern times, we have Gene Wilder's Frederic Frankenstein (Victor's grandson) arriving in Transylvania at his long deceased grandfather's castle.  There he meets assistants Igor (Marty Feldman) and Inga (Terri Garr) and is soon trying to redo his grandfather's infamous experiments.  He creates his own monster (Peter Boyle), but it is soon let lose on the citizens of Transylvania.  Frederic, with Inga and Igor's help, must stop the creature and convince it that it's loved.Acting-wise the movie is great.  Gene Wilder is terrific in one of his best performances.  Garr and especially Feldman make great support, Boyle is fine as the creature (but nothing special) and the rest of the cast, including Madeline Kahn and Gene Hackman, do well too.  I was also greatly pleased that Brooks didn't appear in the film himself.The script is funny.  It's funny.  It has some really hilarious parts.  It's not brilliant or anything, it just makes for good entertainment.  If there is anything negative I will say though, it's the German humor.  Inga is German.  The citizens at Transylvania are German.  The one-armed police inspector (Kenneth Mars) is German.  Mel Brooks just loves poking fun at these guys, but after The Producers (where it worked) I think I'm all German'd out.  The direction is wonderful though, Brooks best directing job is done here.  He achieves just the right feel, the right equality of creepiness and stupidity.For the first hour and twenty minutes the movie is great.  It's funny, it's creepy, an effective parody.  But by the ending it starts getting really old, and drags on and on.  Some scenes obviously should've been cut, the film is ten minutes too long, and the ending almost ruins the entire film.  It's very choppy and unorganized.  Of course, Brooks has never been very good at endings anyway.Young Frankenstein is a fun, entertaining, though slightly overrated parody, 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Hilarious? Really?","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I dunno, maybe I'm jaded. When I think of material apt for laughs and parody, a modern day spoof on the Frankenstein fable doesn't leap to mind. It must have for Mel Brooks. Sure why not. Frankenstein movies have been around for ages and although their popularity has severely dropped, maybe there's some untapped comedy to be found within. Under Mel Brooks, you'd think it would be a gold mine. Not really so, at least, not for me. I'll admit I laughed or smiled a couple of times, but unfortunately, I can count those all on one hand. To use a tried and true saying, the movie has its moments, but they're too far and in between. In my mind, a really good comedy has to have at least one gut-bust no matter the type of comedy on displayed. If a movie can make me laugh that hard it's a step closer to getting a favorable word. I never gut-busted once during Young Frankenstein and I have a hard time imagining anyone doing so unless they are under the influence or laugh very easily at the simplest of things.I think it's just the material itself. It's just rather limiting is all. Where can you go with Frankenstein? Its dated and you have to try and be funny without getting stupid all the while staying within the scope of the material you're defacto lampooning. They hit the usual targets and some that are not, but most of the jokes are direct and served right in front of your face. You can see them coming and the payoff more times than not will be no more than a smile. The idea that these people are playing characters within a movie, straight laced all but once or twice - almost a movie within a movie if you will - helps set and maintain the atmosphere, its just I found little going on from a funny perspective one moment to another.I fully agree with anyone who says this film fully grabs the mood of it's intended source material, especially the choice decision of filming in B&W, but that doesn't produce laughs in itself. Young Frankenstein is worth watching once, sure, but in the archives of really funny movies, it doesn't make any 'best-of' list for me. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest comedies of all time","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm going to keep this short because it can be summed up as one of the greatest comedies of all time. My sides were hurting (literally) from laughing so much. The comedic timing was dead on perfect. This is a film any new comedian should watch to get an idea of how old school comedians work the timing, the camera, and each other to create a masterpiece. Let's start with the main players. Wilder, Boyle, Feldman, Kahn, Leachman, and Garr....What a fantastic troop of actors/comedians who worked so well together. But it didn't end there - the minor roles weren't spared as far as talent. Mars, Haydn, and the rest added that those extra zings that made the movie what it is - pure genius. Brooks was able to put this all together to make a movie you can't miss. If you were to look up in the dictionary old school comedies this is what you would see. "},{"Title":"Be ready to split your sides","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think this is Mel Brooks' greatest achievement. He captures the spirit of the 1930s and 1940s black-and-white horror films, adds a great many laughs, and yet it remains almost as much a tribute as a spoof. Young Frankenstein (the character) is grandson of the notorious Baron Victor von Frankenstein. A serious doctor, he refutes his grandfather's work as the mad dreamings of a doodoo. Yet he is drawn inexorably in to the family heritage with hilarious results. Gene Wilder, who co-wrote the script, is excellent in the title role with excellent support from all the main cast. The result somehow manages to be both almost believable and also ridiculous. In my opinion 40 years after its original release, it remains one of the funniest films ever made and is definitely not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Grew up with it, and I still laugh my ass off!","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This has to be my favorite comedy movie ever! I've been watching this movie since before I could talk. Gene Wilder, Terri Garr, Marty Feldman(R.I.P.), Peter Boyle(R.I.P.) and Madeline Kahn(R.I.P.) are all hilarious in this film. Bleucha! is a running joke in my family so is practically every quote in this film.I can't get enough of this film. Gene Hackman has a small cameo in a ten minute scene where he plays a blind man who takes in the monster at one point. Even though he's uncredited, it is possibly one of his most memorable roles. It's impossible to not laugh in that scene.I grew up with this movie. I will keep watching it, and show it to my kids when they're able to watch it.10/10 stars. Now, when ever someone says Walk this way! You'll know what to do! "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the most perfect film","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" From the opening homage to the Universal classic monster films to the final frame as we pull away from the castle Frankenstein with Igor sitting high up on his windowsill playing his horn you can't help but be enthralled by this film. With Young Frankenstein, Mel Brooks managed to combine, in perfect symbiosis, the romance and intrigue of the classic black & white Universal monster movies of the 1930's and 1940's with the shtick comedy that made Brooks famous.With the script, Gene Wilder managed to write something not only witty and amusing but rife with the old-world nostalgia that made the original Universal monster films so appealing. The film itself is ageless - shot beautifully in black & white, and similar to holiday classic A Christmas Story, it is difficult to pinpoint an exact date that the film takes place thus allowing the film to lend itself to several time-periods.The comedy, although a bit campy at times, is effective in it's execution and works very well with the dark, Victorian setting of the film. Gene Wilder is superb as Frederick Von Fron-ken-steen the brilliant neuro-surgeon and grandson of Victor Von Frankenstein. His charm, sharp-tongued wit and comedic timing really is a study on the craft of acting in itself. The supporting cast of actors are wonderfully cast and compliment each other perfectly, with the late Marty Feldman stealing the show as Dr. Frankenstein's loyal but slightly defiant assistant Igor.Although Young Frankenstein hasn't managed to find itself on the top of many top ten film lists, it is no doubt one of the greatest films ever produced and a joy to watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein has been sitting on my shelf for some time now and I just got around to watching it for the first time last night. I was impressed but also a little let down considering what a big following this movie has received in the years since its release. That doesn't mean I thought it was a bad film by any means. It's one of the funniest films I've seen in my life.Gene Wilder is perfect for the role of Frankenstein and there is also hilarious acting from Peter Boyle, Cloris Leachman, Kenneth Mars, and especially Marty Feldman and Igor. It is clearly a parody of the Frankenstein films but it also has a unique story of its own that I was very pleased with. Fans of Frankenstein need to see this film as soon as possible. I waited too long.See this movie with a bunch of friends, some popcorn and you'll probably be quoting it for a long time after. "},{"Title":"Mel & Gene,Successfully  Walking Hollywood Tightrope in this YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN, Universal Horror Movie Spoof project.","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks was riding the crest of success in the 1970's.The all around Funnyman (Writer, Actor, Stand Up, etc.,)had quite a string of successes in screen comedies' writing. Starting as a writer with the Sid Ceasar -Imogene Coca TV Super series, YOUR SHOW of SHOWS (1950), Mel found steady work and progressively more success with many projects, leading up to GET SMART (1965).The Big Screened Medium then beckoned and we were treated to such cinematic treats as THE PRODUCERS (1968), THE 12 CHAIRS (1970) and in 1974 both Western Spoof Extrodinaire, BLAZING SADDLES and YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN.Being a parody of the Universal Horror Films of the 1930's and '40's, there was plenty to spoof. But a parody (or a satire or lampoon or even a burlesque, if you will)has to be carefully handled less the take-off would be so powerful as to do a number on the spoofed subject. This would likely be a desired effect in a political commercial, but not so in a film parody/comedy/farce.Collaborative writer/star, Gene Wilder and Writer/Director Mel Brooks are charged with having to carefully choose the gags and situations so as to bring the greatest number of genuine laughs, and at the same time maintain a respect and reverence for the old Horror Genre. Judging by the final product, Messers Brooks and Wilder must have been big fans of the Universal Pictures' films of that period. The delicate balance between fun and ridicule is maintained , all to the good.The Cast of Gene Wilder, Terri Garr, Marty Feldman, Peter Boyle, Madeline Kahn , Cloris Leachman and Blind Hermit, Gene Hackman all are up to the occasion of the day. Veteran actors Rolfe Sedan, Liam Dunn and Oscar Beregi all do yeoman's jobs in supporting, pivotal roles.The big surprise of the film and perhaps giving the greatest comic performance of his career is Mr. Kenneth Mars. His characterization of Police Inspector Kemp is the scene stealer of the whole film. He provides an actor who is up to the high level of the comic writing.* The sets for the film were all in keeping with the old Universal Pictures' practice of filming the 'scary' movies in both a Medieval Castle Set and in some realistic looking European Village digs.** In some respect, the scenery appeared uncannily the same.YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN also boasted of Original, Old Frankenstein Laboratory Equipment.***Its presence cannot be given enough credit for giving the finished Film the 'just perfect' touch.Lastly, we read recently that the 20th Century-Fox suits wanted and even insisted on filming in 'Living Color'. Both Brooks and Wilder were insistent, even obstinate, on using glorious Black & White. (the Fox people may have also just presumed that it would be a color film, because, hey, nobody made B & W movies then!) Mr. Brooks and Mr. Wilder reasoned that the B & W film was the right way to go, because that was the predominant medium used the '30's and '40's. Luckily, for sake of the production, and, we the people who make up the movie going public. So, the film story starts out with scene and gag, ever moving along at a finely timed, yet mad pace. There is no wasted time, no 'padded' or extending of a scene its optimum length.For a Film Comedy (or Farce, if you will) it is near perfection. And as for its being a spoof, ditto and 4 Stars for YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN.* We know that film success is a collaborative effort of Writer, Director and Actor. In the final analysis, a poor performance by any Actor can and will render the part failed.** Universal had a really great Medieval Castle set , which got plenty of use in their Horror Genere films, featured in FRANKENSTEIN & sequels, Dracula & Sequels and THE WOLFMAN. The great German Village set, constructed for ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT (1930), was used frequently and shot from every different conceivable angle, in just about every classic Horror film of theirs.*** A Special Thank You was included in the credits for providing original, old Frankenstein Lab Equipment of his, which dated to the 1930's. "}{"Title":"My favorite movie ever","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is far and away my favorite movie ever! I consistently quote this movie - so many good lines (e.g., It could be worse . . . Sank you doktor! and I suggest you put on a tie!). It combines the classic black and white melodrama of the early days with a satirical treatment and not-so-subtle humor that is capable of amusing many future generations,even if the younger generations don't fully understand the historical references. Fabulous cast including what I consider Gene Hackman's best role (first-timers, see if you can spot him). There's not a single actor in this movie that doesn't produce an Oscar worthy performance. Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder were always most brilliant when collaborating - The Producers has experienced far more commercial success in recent years with the Broadway musical and remade musical feature film. This movie is an overlooked gem - although The Producers is a close tie! "},{"Title":"One of Mel Brooks' best  work","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein ranks right up there with Abbott and Costello meet Frankenstein as the best horror/comedy film ever. Must be something with the name! Gene Wilder is superb as Dr.Frankenstein and Marty Feldman as Igor is just as good. Peter Boyle, Cloris Leachman, Madeline Kahn, Terri Garr, Kenneth Mars and an uncredited Gene Hackman are as zany as Mel Brooks needs them to be! What a great cast. The original props and sets from the original Frankenstein(1931) are used. The film has so many great parts(no pun intended) that there isn't enough time to list them. Good direction by Brooks, great acting by the cast and having the film in black and white adds a classy touch. If you remove all the comedy elements, you would swear you were watching a Universal Studios horror movie from the 1930s or 40s. This movie is so much fun to watch it's sure to put anyone in a good mood. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Unbelievable pacing","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I first saw this movie in 1976 during a Friday eve college film series and have seen it more often than just about anything except The Wizard of Oz. Am watching it tonight in 2006 on cable after having not seen it in years. Right now, the most amazing thing is the pacing&#151;neither too fast to comprehend nor too slow to savor. It allows the essence of Shelley's basic Frankenstein story line and Brooks' humor (both collective and a series of incomparable one-liners) to sink in. The talent is consummate. I've rated this film an 8 simply based on its farcical nature; however, it truly is the most wonderfully enjoyable cult film that I've ever seen. One can practically memorize the script's entirety. I highly recommend it and am overjoyed that YF still appeals to today's teenagers. Its powers are both curative and inspirational. Please watch it! "},{"Title":"great funny movie","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Dr. Frankenstein was a funny movie that you think might not be very funny but turns out to be okay after all. It is black and white and full of inside jokes that keep you laughing thru out the whole movie. Gene Wilder is very funny and lovable, he and the rest of the cast are great. The movie is set in old times. You think you are in a scary castle and in the middle of Dr. Frankensteins' laboratory. His supporting cast is a group of very talented and seasoned comedians. I liked the movie because it was funny and memorable at the same time. If you have not seen it, I strongly suggest you rent this and other Mel Brooks spoofs!!! "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I crowned this my favorite movie ever when I first saw it, on its original release, at age 10. Now I'm nearly 42, I've seen it about 100 times, and it still ranks among my all-time favorites.Everything about this film is just about perfect, from the wonderful castle interiors, to the music, to the performances of very minor cast members. But its brilliance lies in its script, star actors, and Mel Brooks' best direction ever.Gene Wilder, who co-wrote the screenplay with Brooks, is ideal in the title role, using his manic energy and slightly crazed look to optimum effect. And what an amazing cast of supporting characters Peter Boyle as the monster, wildly funny (and touching!) with almost no dialogue; Marty Feldman as Igor&#133;was anyone ever more perfectly cast in a comic role?; Cloris Leachman, brilliantly over-the-top; Madeline Kahn, capping her run of great comic roles (What's Up, Doc?, Paper Moon, Blazing Saddles) with what I consider her best. Plus good work from Kenneth Mars, a young Teri Garr&#133;and let us not forget the best star cameo ever put on film &#150; Gene Hackman's uproarious turn as the blind man.Can you imagine a comedy this good being released today? I can't. They'd probably show it to a test audience that would bitch about the (wonderful) black-and-white cinematography and insist that the monster have hard-drinkin' sidekicks.So many wonderful moments, it's almost impossible to pick a favorite. But what the heck &#133; mine is Igor recounting what his dad used to say at times like these.Don't miss this classic comedy! "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie Ever","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The first time I went to see Young Frankenstein I wasn't expecting much. Maybe that was part of the reason I was so pleasantly surprised. The cast of characters was fantastic. Who could beat Gene Wilder, Marty Feldman, Madeline Kahn, Peter Boyle, Cloris Leachman, etc. as an ensemble. Hardly a moment went by when I didn't laugh out loud, or should I say scream with laughter. The scenes got funnier and funnier as the movie progressed. Gene Wilder's expressions were worth the price of admission alone and his interaction with Madeline Kahn was priceless. The scenes which were comedically based on the original ones from the Frankenstein series of movies were the best, my favorite being the one with the monster going to visit the blind man in the woods (cameo by Gene Hackman) and the other with the wonderful Madeline Kahn singing Oh, Sweet Mystery of Life. The entire audience was rolling.Of course, Kenneth Mars and Terri Garr also did great jobs, adding to the film immensely. I had to go back the next week and see it again with another friend who I knew shared my crazy sense of humor. She sat there laughing so hard that tears rolled down her cheeks and she kept saying I can't believe this over and over. To this day, my friends and I quote lines from this film which has become a cult classic. I know every line in the film and when a group of friends and I get together every so often to view it, we all start laughing before the funny parts even happen because we know what's coming.In my estimation there never was nor will there ever be a film anywhere near as funny as Young Frankenstein. It's in a class by itself, even compared to other Mel Brooks films. If you haven't seen it, you have to rent it today. "},{"Title":"Unforgettably funny","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Very funny movie, Mel Brooks at his best and a great cast, with a fantastic music score by John Morris which is just right, this movie is a feast for movie lovers.Favorite scene for me is the vaudeville scene with Frankenstein's rendition of Puttin' On The Ritz. If that fails to make you laugh you're probably in need of some uppers.The movie is just filled with funny scenes and dialogues, too many to mention; Frau Blucher and the horse, the police captain with the fake arm and the darts game, the cardboard castle shots with lightning and dramatic music.Wonderful humor for the sake of humor, but artistically done. In a class of its own. "},{"Title":"There. Now I've Touched It...","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I was nine, I loved Mel Brooks. Nothing could be finer than Spaceballs or Blazing Saddles, though, truth be told, I didn't find much to laugh about in Young Frankenstein. I'm older now and find it difficult to sit through the former two films; I love Young Frankenstein. It's a riotous send-up of those 1930s Universal monster movies (Frankenstein, Dracula, The Wolf Man, etc.), following one Frederick Frankenstein as he returns to his family's native land and begins following in his grandfather's god-playing footsteps. Those familiar with the Frankenstein films will know the story; heck, everyone's probably familiar with the story. It's also an extremely affectionate film. It mocks those often self-serious horror movies, but it loves them too, recreating the mood they evoked through glorious cinematography and stylized acting. Young Frankenstein isn't, then, a mean-spirited satire. It's more like when you're sitting next to a friend and nudge them in the side, recalling you remember that time you _fill in the blank_. Man that was funny.Why is Young Frankenstein funny? It's good joke to dud ratio is amazingly high; Brooks was, as they say in sports, in the zone. Every gag (nice knockers, roll in the hay, it's FRONKenstein, etc.) hits its mark, it seems, and there are wonderful set pieces too (the blind man in the woods and putting on the ritz numbers come to mind). The movie also looks like it was made with some attention to detail. You typically don't come away from a Mel Brooks movie remembering the framing and photography; with Young Frankenstein, you do. It's a credit to Brooks for taking more time and concerning himself with cinematic matters and not just the humor. Unfortunately, the quality of Mel Brooks's films deteriorated quickly after Young Frankenstein. High Anxiety and History of the World had their moments, but after that Brooks became, it seemed, a caricature of himself. Spaceballs was, really, 10 years too late to be an effective farce; Men in Tights was similarly misguided; and do not ask me about Dracula Dead and Loving It. I have actually not seen Silent Movie, which, I have heard, is quite good. It's really too bad. Mel Brooks showed with Young Frankenstein that he could make a great movie; looking at the film in the continuum of his films now, though, it seems more like a fluke than an artistic maturation. "},{"Title":"Better than any of the Scary Movie take offs out there","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you have seen Frankenstein, Son of Frankenstein or The Bride of Frankenstein, then you will enjoy this movie. Shot with many of the same props and locations, it is one of the best satire movies I have seen. The comedic talents of Gene Wilder, Marty Feldman, Teri Garr, Madeline Kahn and Cloris Leachman have never been showcased better. And the running gags are hilarious. It is probably my all-time favorite movie. While serving in the desert, I watched all the old time Frankenstein movies, and then watched this again. An excellent way to spend time. My wife complained that it was in black & white, but I explained that it wouldn't have been as funny in color.Watch it sometime "},{"Title":"I absolutely adore this movie!","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is incredibly entertaining. Mel Brooks & Gene Wilder created a truly magnificent film! I think it's great that the creature became smart & nice in the end. The original Frankenstein was sad. Elizabeth was such a snob! Madeline Kahn was a fabulous actress! If you've ever seen Blazing Saddles, another Mel Brooks film, then you've seen her act as a woman directly opposite of that, & you truly know just how good she was. There are times when Gene seems to be overacting a bit, but it seems that way in all the films he does. This really suited Froderick Fronkensteen's character. Marty Feldman was extremely entertaining in the role of Igor. He's a comedic genius. This was an amusing, & wonderful film, which is why I give it 10 stars. "}{"Title":"It's Franc in steen!","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Of course it is. I was so disarmed by this movie, which was so well made from beginning to end. My wife and I had taken some friends of ours with us to see the movie, and I think they think they liked it more than we did, which is not possible! Favorite lines (too many to list) Cloris Leachman Yes! He was...my...boyfriend! Madeline Kahn Taffeta, Darling, Taffeta! (my wife is a window treatment designer and she still hears people recite that in fabric shops-HA!) Marty Feldman Abby ... something...? Gene Wilder Put..the candle..back!Favorite scenes Marty Feldman swaying the lantern as they zigzag through the grave yard. The Inspector's simulated throwing while cheating at darts. Gene Hackman pouring soup into Franky's lap.Ah, that up shot of Marty Feldman playing the violin toward the... Well, just in case you haven't seen it. Wouldn't want to spoil it for you.Even Mel Brooks never thought he could be THIS GOOD! "},{"Title":"excellent comedy","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was great, the black and white made it even better the jokes were solid and their were a lot of them, never bored with it, recommend it to anyone who enjoy monster movies, enjoys comedy and who likes to laugh. Gene wilder was an excellent guy for the part of young Frankenstein, its not Igor its EYE-gore i greatly enjoyed this movie, and all my friends say it is a superior, fun, fast based comedy movie. My favorite scene would be when the inspector goes to play darts with young Frankenstein, and he pegs the car with something like twenty darts. Second favorite scene is when the inspector finds young Frankenstein robbing the grave "},{"Title":"very funny","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love Mel Brooks and this movie is one of his best. For me it ranks right up there with Blazing Saddles and Robin Hood Men in tights. The characters in this movie are some of the best comedic performances I have ever seen. My favorites would have to be the monster or a very young Gene Hackman as the blind monk, I laughed so hard at the monk and the monsters scene I nearly woke up my infant son. I recommend this move to anyone looking for one of those movies that will hurt your sides and make juice fly out of your nose.p's. I would buy it now that I rented it, I suggest you all do the same cheers "},{"Title":"A classic comedy!","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein is one of the best comedy films I have ever seen. It is a really funny film, with many classic moments as well as jokes and gags. It can also be considered one of the earliest Spoof films (like Airplane!), since it spoofs the older Frankenstein films.One of the things that I loved about this movie is the way all the scenes were made. Many scenes are funny in an old-fashioned way, such as the scene where Inga (Teri Garr) is rolling in a wagon full of hay while singing roll, roll, roll in the hay! Other scenes can be a bit frightening, like the scene where the Monster is attacking the policemen in a stage-theater full of screaming people. Some scenes are extremely hilarious, such as the scene where the Monster burns his thumb and screams with his mouth open! Another thing I really loved about the movie is the actors & actresses' perfect associations with their character. All the stars were fit to play their roles in the movie, especially Marty Feldman as the creepy-looking-but-humorous Igor. Also, Teri Garr was gorgeous as the lovely blonde Inga. Kenneth Mars was pretty good as Inspector Kemp, too.The reason why many people have never seen Young Frankenstein is probably because they weren't too fond of seeing a movie without color, since the film was purposely made in black & white (even though the film was released in 1974, when Hollywood used color in movies). The film-makers made the film in black & white because they wanted the film to have a more classic feel to it. Plus, using black & white actually spoofs the older Frankenstein movies more. Also, I myself liked it in black & white.To sum up, Young Frankenstein is truly one of the best comedy (and possibly spoof) films of all time. It's a golden classic that will be remembered for years to come. If you haven't seen Young Frankenstein yet, I highly recommend it. P.S Look out for a cameo by Gene Hackman as the old blind man who invites the Monster into his house. "},{"Title":"Simply wonderful","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is an absolutely delightful movie that's as fresh and funny today as it was when it was released more than 30 years ago. It's ostensibly a parody of the 1931 classic Frankenstein movie and its many sequels, but even someone who is only vaguely familiar with the Frankenstein story can thoroughly enjoy this movie.The film features talented performers at their absolute best. Gene Wilder and Mel Brooks wrote a script filled with funny lines and situations. Wilder also plays the title character and delivers a performance full of manic energy. Marty Feldman (Igor) provides a delightful insouciance as the world's happiest hunchback. Special mention needs to be made of Peter Boyle, who was cast as the monster. Playing a mute creature in a bulky costume, Boyle must do much of his acting with only his eyes, and he effectively conveys an endearing bewilderment in the powerful monster. The scene where the monster visits a lonely blind man (played by Gene Hackman) is as funny as anything I've seen in a movie.Young Frankenstein isn't quite perfect. Wilder and Brooks have said in interviews that they weren't sure how to end the movie, and in fact the characters stray far from their established personalities to fit in some gags. That violates a rule of comedy, that the gags must fit the characters and not the other way around, but by the time this happens, the movie has built up so much goodwill, it is easily forgivable. I loved this movie, and anyone who doesn't love it is no friend of mine. "},{"Title":"It's good to be the monster...","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There is something about movies shot in black and white that adds flavor to a movie, something that takes the audience back to the golden age of movies in the 1950s. Mel Brooks' classic, Young Frankenstein, is in black and white and looks like it could have been the sequel to the Frankenstein movies of the 1930s, and that's a complement. The black and white, the use of the original sets from the famous movies all add up to a visual delight. This movie would not have worked if it were in color. The lighting is too dark for successful color, so the decision to shoot in black in white was perfect and gives the movie a wonderful visual style. The story isn't bad either. Gene Wilder plays the grandson of the infamous Dr. Frankenstein (Wilder also wrote the movie) who finds out the secret that brought the monster to life to begin with. With help from his assistants Igor (a very funny Marty Feldman) and Inga (Teri Garr), Frankenstein is able to bring Peter Boyle, he plays the monster, back to life. There are other funny performances, Cloris Leachman is the Frankenstein house sitter who may or may not have had a relationship with horses, Gene Hackman as the blind man in the woods (directly out of The Bride of Frankenstein in the movie's best parody), Kenny Mars as the town detective who had a wooden arm, and a Brooks' favorite, Madeline Kahn as Dr. Frankenstein's lover, who may have found love in an unexpected place at the end of the movie. Not as consistently funny as Blazing Saddles, which came out earlier in 1974, or as socially biting as The Producers, Young Frankenstein is still a wonderful homage to the monster movies of the 1930s and 40s, with a great black and white look that reminds us of what movies used to be. "},{"Title":"My favourite comedy of all time.","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is probably the only film I have ever seen where a collection of one-liners over 70 minutes actually works!  From Frunk en steen, through walk this way, Where wolf?, Frau Blucher(sic), it is a continual stream of one-liners that works. Whereas Blazing Saddles is witty but crass, YF is just funny. I still laugh where I hear the music that attracts the monster. If you don't enjoy this film, you don't have a sense of humour!!! "},{"Title":"Brook's best comedy!","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For sure Mel Brook's best work.  I think Madelyn Kahn stole every scene she was in.  I would think that she should have received a best supporting actress nomination, or win at best.  The cinamatography was wonderful. Was that really Feldman playing that horn-like contraption? "},{"Title":"A Hilarious Homage to the Old Universal Pictures","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm a sucker for comedies. It's with no embarrassment that I admit that comedy is my favorite movie genre and most of my favorite movies are comedies. What's more, when evaluating how good a comedy is, I give more weight to how funny it really is, rather than how well-acted or well-directed or even (much of the time) original it is. If it makes you laugh, then I feel it's done its job, and that's what matters.I'm simply saying all this because Young Frankenstein is not simply one of my favorite comedies ever; it is one of my favorite movies ever. I wrote a comment about Blazing Saddles where I mentioned the fact that it came out the same year as Young Frankenstein, and both movies had the same director (the GREAT Mel Brooks) and the same star (the INCOMPARABLE Gene Wilder, also co-writer). They also happen to both be among the funniest movies of all time, which is an incredible achievement.Between the two, I give the edge to Young Frankenstein; it's my favorite among Brooks's movies, and second only to Airplane! (by those other founding fathers of the spoof, Zucker Abrahams and Zucker) on my list of greatest comedies of all time. And this movie IS well-acted, well-directed, and (in its way) original. In fact, there's much to love about this movie besides how funny it is. But it also happens to be side-splittingly hilarious, and that's what gives it the edge over other comedies.The cast is led by Gene Wilder, who plays Dr. Frederick Frankenstein (pronounced FRONK-en-steen, so as to differentiate himself from his infamous grandfather). Frankenstein is a serious scientist who never went for his grandfather's kooky theories about reanimating the dead and resents the connection people make upon hearing his name. But when he finds out that his grandfather's castle has been left to him in his will, he is forced to take a trip out to Transylvania. In Transylvania he is met by Igor (who prefers to go by the pronunciation Eye-gor, but obviously only to mock his boss). Igor is the descendant of the original Dr. Frankenstein's servant, and comes to serve Frederick while he's in Transylvania. Played by Marty Feldman, he's the only character who seems fully aware of the goofiness all around him; he is comic relief in a movie that is already a comedy. And with those unbelievable eyes, all he had to do was look at the camera and he could get a laugh. RIP, Marty Feldman.Frederick also meets hot-blooded Inga (Teri Garr putting on a ridiculous German accent; hands down the best thing she's ever done PERIOD) upon his arrival, and they head to the castle where they meet Frau Blucher, the caretaker. Frau Blucher is played by Cloris Leachman, who of course is always funny. This sets up one of the best running gags in the movie; every time someone says her name, the horses whinny.At first, Frederick resists his grandfather's research. But after Inga wakes him up from a nightmare, they hear violin music, and find a secret passageway that leads to the original Frankenstein's laboratory. On the way down they also run into Igor, but don't find out who was playing the violin (which they do find, unattended and still warm, along with a smoldering cigar). They do, however, find Frederick's grandfather's notes (including a book titled How I Did It). Reading these notes, Frederick decides that bringing life to the dead could work after all, and sets to work digging up corpses and sending Igor for a brain (he breaks the one he was supposed to get and picks up an abnormal one instead). And so Frederick, Igor, and Inga set to work on their grand experiment.At first, it doesn't seem to work. But when the creature does finally come to life, it's a crazy monster. It escapes, the townspeople (led by Kenneth Mars as Inspector Kemp, and he is hilarious as usual) want to kill it, and they have to get it back.As I'm writing this, it is three days past Peter Boyle's death, and this is a pity. The world will be a bit less funny without him. He was pitch-perfect as the monster, making it every bit as much his own as Boris Karloff did in the original. He commented once that this was his favorite part of his. His ability getting laughs with just some exaggerated movements, subtle facial expressions and groans was without peer, and the bit where he and Frederick are on stage singing Puttin on the Ritz is among the funniest scenes in movie history.The cast is rounded out by Madeline Khan as Frederick's virginal fiancé Elizabeth. Madeline Khan was an extremely funny woman and although she doesn't have much screen time in this movie, she makes her time count. RIP, Madeline Khan.And Gene Hackman must be mentioned as well. I've always been a huge fan of Hackman's, and although his cameo as the blind man isn't his best part ever, it is his funniest, and makes for some of the funniest bits in the movie (Come back! I was going to make espresso! he yells out as the monster runs screaming from his house).What makes this movie work so well is that it almost seems to take itself seriously. It has an original plot that pays homage to the original Universal pictures with nearly every scene. It's shot in black-and-white, and everything, including the haunting score, Gothic cinematography, and set-pieces, many of which came from the original pictures, is meant to evoke Frankenstein movies of old. It's this hushed level of reverence to the originals juxtaposed with the hilariousness of the script and over-the-top performances of the actors that really sets this movie apart. It is a work of genius in every way.RIP, Peter Boyle, Oct 18 1935 - Dec 12 2006. "},{"Title":"Very very very funny film!","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Boy, I had forgotten how great this film is. I also had forgotten how truly funny it is and it is seldom for comedies that can make me laughing after one viewing.I'll admit that I haven't seen original Frankenstein or even Bride of Frankenstein but that doesn't stop me from enjoying Young Frankenstein a lot. It is one of those rare films that everyone is at their top of game and they're able to produced masterpiece. We got Gene Wilder, whose is truly superb as Dr. Frederick Frankenstein, whose kept insisting on Fronkensteen. Marty Feldman is damn hilarious as Eye-Gor. Madeleine Kahn is as funny as Wilder's fiancée. Teri Garr is so hot as assistant to Wilder. Cloris Leachman is very amusing as Wilder's grandfather's mistress Blucher, whose like to abusing the horses in her spare time. Mel Brooks' direction is great and I think 1974 really belong to him because he had Blazing Saddles come out earlier that year.The cinematography is absolutely breathtaking in Young Frankenstein because it managed to replicate original vision of Frankenstein, which is very impressive. Also, it was very smart of them using black and white photography because it only enhanced the film even more and give it timeless feeling. One can watch it over and over and still miss the sight gags because the pace is pretty fast so you have to be on your toes, which isn't something that you can say about comedies these days. You can notice that many people whose are working on Young Frankenstein really enjoy making it a lot and I heard a story that when principal photography was almost complete, which saddens many crew members so Brooks had wrote extra scenes so they can have more fun. I don't think you will see that type of stuff these days. Actors in Hollywood are only interesting in money so they just memorized the lines then film it then leave it. The results are that it won't probably turn out as good as Young Frankenstein.The set design is just plain out awesome and in fact, it is same location that they had shot original Frankenstein on, which makes it very interesting experience. Some guy whose had worked on original Frankenstein was willing to return back to fix some old sets for Young Frankenstein and even updating some of those equipments, which is really neat. It just makes you feel like that you're truly there to experience whole thing.The difference between Young Frankenstein and satires or parodies are that Young Frankenstein paid homage to films that it is based on then poke fun with them, not at. Young Frankenstein was done out of love for original Frankenstein, Bride of Frankenstein, and the book that had start it all by Mary Shelley. Perhaps, that's why I really enjoy Young Frankenstein a lot because it doesn't reduced original Frankenstein to ashes like other satires or parodies does.One performance that I admired the hell a lot is Kenneth Mars, whose played Inspector Hans Wilhelm Friederich Kemp. Mars could have made that role as merely fiddle to solid casts but he did something very different with that role, which is very amusing. That arm of his, don't get me start on that. It's great sight gag and I always laughing at that when he has to use that arm of his to make his points or to deceiving Wilder. Also, Mars add something new to his character, which he made his character talk very funny. It resulted in really hilarious situation when mob couldn't make out what he had said and Mars had to stress on what he had say. But I also like Peter Boyle's performance as The Monster. There is so something about child about Boyle's character. I don't know what is it about that but all I know is that it always end up in hilarious situation like when he went to Gene Hackman's house and I always roared with laughter at that part.It's been awhile since I had receiving Young Frankenstein as present but I will always cherish it because it turn me bona fide film buff that I am today. It's so great film and probably one of my favorite comedies of all time, next to Blazing Saddles and His Girl Friday. "}{"Title":"Pronounce it right, Herr Doktor!","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Can you imagine the first time this movie came out? Everyone must have died laughing! The plot of course has self-deprecating Dr. Frederick Frankenstein (Gene Wilder, and you know how to pronounce the name) suddenly deciding to carry on his grandfather's work with the help of wisecracking Igor (Marty Feldman, and you know how to pronounce it) and the very sexy Inga (Teri Garr). Peter Boyle is a hoot as The Monster, as is Cloris Leachman as Frau Blucher (cue horse sounds), Kenneth Mars as Police Inspector Hans Wilhelm Friedrich Kemp (you may recall the screwy arm), and of course Gene Hackman as the Blind Man (espresso, anyone?). Mel Brooks really pulled off a great one here, spoofing every Frankenstein movie from the '30s. Young Frankenstein is a classic! "},{"Title":"Incredible cast and production design, erratic script","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I would be hard-pressed to find another comedy with a cast this good. Everyone (Gene Wilder, Madeline Kahn, Marty Feldman, Peter Boyle, Cloris Leachman, Teri Garr, Gene Hackman, Kenneth Mars) sparkles in their own realm of dementia here--especially Wilder, whose brand of mayhem uncorks at whim and sometimes sends us scurrying for cover! It's a very funny--and yet serious--spoof of the Frankenstein movies, with humor that derives from our nostalgia and the set replicas as much from the dialogue. The plot is (intentionally) familiar, but the script isn't always so predictable, throwing the audience a curve-ball now and again, yet the cast and director/co-writer Mel Brooks almost always manage to stay on track. Wilder teamed with Brooks on the screenplay, and there was a small feud about who did most of the work; consequently, they never did another picture together. It was their loss as well as ours, for despite some OK films (Wilder's The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes' Smarter Brother and Brooks' Silent Movie), neither reached the heights they climbed with Young Frankenstein. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films ever made!","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The scariest comedy of all time! boasted the poster taglines for Young Frankenstein. When a tagline pokes fun at itself, you know you're in for a real treat. Such is the case with Mel Brooks' Young Frankenstein, one of the greatest of all comedies and one of the only modern day films able to convince me from the start that I really was watching an old 30s film, and not a film made in 1974.Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder are both fans of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, and so when they collaborated to write the screenplay for Young Frankenstein, I can only assume that it was a fun experience for both of them. They reworked the story of Frankenstein and his monster into a smart, occasionally hilarious, always enjoyable, classic comedy that helped put Brooks on the map after The Producers (Blazing Saddles also helped quite a bit).Some fans of Frankenstein could consider the film almost sacrilegious, I suppose, but that wouldn't be fair. It's not a poke at any flaws in Frankenstein -- it's a well-thought-out continuation of Baron von Frankenstein's legacy, with an added pinch of slapstick comedy thrown in for good measure.Gene Wilder is Dr. Frederick Frankenstein (Frahnk-un-steen, not Frank-en-steyn), grandson of the crazy old loon Baron von Frankenstein, who attempted to re-animate dead matter in his creepy mansion in Transylvania years ago. Frederick is a successful neurosurgeon, eager to put his past behind him. When a student asks him questions about his grandfather and research into re-animation, he is quick to change the subject.Then he inherits his grandfather's castle in Transylvania and makes the long, weary journey there to acquire ownership. Greeted by Igor (pronounced Eegor, not Eyegor), Frederick Frankenstein is soon haunted by his grandfather's interests. I guess the craving for re-animating dead tissue is just something that runs in one's blood!He stumbles upon an old chamber underneath the crumbling mansion, home to an assortment of odd inventions and textbooks (including How I Did It, by Baron von Frankenstein, which is a bit of an in-joke for readers of Mary Shelley's story -- they'll understand the joke, perhaps, more than most audiences).After finding a dead body in a graveyard and accidentally inserting an Abby Normal brain into it from the help of Igor (Marty Feldman), Frederick Frankenstein creates a new Monster (Peter Boyle), who is taken into custody by the townspeople and then escapes, finding an old blind man (Gene Hackman) in a cabin somewhere. He then kidnaps Frederick's bride to take her as his own and Frederick realizes that he must put an end to the Monster before everything in his life falls apart.There isn't much to say about a film like this. The comedy works, the style works, everything about it works. It's classic. Everything in it is classic Mel Brooks comedy.I suppose the accounts of Brooks' and Wilder's off-screen fights during filming are pretty well known. In one instance, Brooks got so mad at Wilder that he threw an object at him. Later he called Wilder and said, Who was that jerk that threw that thing at you today? He should be fired!It was because the two minds clashed together. Both being extreme fans of Frankenstein, I suppose both men had their own unique opinions as to what, exactly, the film should be about, and what, exactly, should happen in it. But for whatever the reason, despite all their arguments the film has turned into a masterpiece.Wilder's performance is extraordinary. After turning Leo Bloom (The Producers) into a nervous, paranoid, timid man, Wilder does a 180 here and makes Frankenstein into a self-assured, mean, forthright character --  giving us the feeling that he's been hassled his entire lifetime by nosy reporters researching into his grandfather's case, and he's tired of it.Filmed on-location in the original Frankenstein set, the film partly works because of its respect for the old horror films. The famous Universal horrors from the 1930s and 40s are spoofed in this film, and that is primarily is what truly makes it stand out from the other films in the genre. But Brooks and Wilder don't insult them. They compliment them and poke fun with them -- not at them.Brooks tried this formula once again in 1995 with Dracula Dead and Loving it!, which starred Leslie Nielsen as Count Dracula, although the outcome was not as smart as Young Frankenstein and not as convincing. Brooks did a great thing by filming Young Frankenstein in grainy 30-style black and white, reminiscent of old films such as Dracula or The Wolf Man or Frankenstein itself (not coincidentally, Brooks makes more than a few references to other Universal horror films, too). Part of the greatness of this film is the manner in which it is filmed. I can't imagine Young Frankenstein in color. But then again, I can't really imagine Spaceballs in black and white...5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Fantastic. One of the funniest movies ever made.","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Although Blazing Saddles might be the most famous Mel Brooks film, this is really where he achieves a pinnacle in comedy. It isn't quite the funniest movie ever made, but it's damn close. The comedy is laugh out loud, over the top hilarious, but it never resorts to cheap slapstick. As a matter of fact, if you removed a couple of scenes and turned off the volume, this could pass for a real Frankenstein movie. That's how well the satire is done.Mel Brooks does a great directing job, but the film belongs to his cast. I can't think of any comedy with a finer cast than this one, in particular Gene Wilder as Dr. Frederick Frankenstein. Wilder was excellent in the Producers and Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, but this is the high point of his career. He delivers one of the finest and most memorable comedic performances in history. His performance actually works as a strong 40's or 50's style dramatic performance as well as a comedic performance. Even though he doesn't quite beat Wilder, Marty Feldman is absolutely terrific in his role as the hunchback Igor. I would be unfair to disregard Madeline Kahn as Dr. Frankenstein's fiancée, or Teri Garr's sublime portrayal of the typical blond bombshell typecast. Peter Boyle is also very good as the Monster.The script is very good, but it's the electrifying chemistry within the cast that makes this so funny. Truly one of the finest comedies, and films ever made. "},{"Title":"This is how parodies should be","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Frankenstein Junior is the oldest movies I have reviewed so far ,but seen it for a fourth time in the past week, I decided it is time to give respect to a classic comedy. For starts the cast is the Monty Pythons, wow, they are for sure some of the funniest people ever to walk to earth so this movie can not be bad. The quotes, the slapstick and the timing is almost flawless and the fact that more than half a century later, we still laugh out loud with this jewel ,shows that what is funny stays funny. To go to the plot, the grandson of the original Frankenstein is called to come to the ancestral castle of his house and he, though he wants to distance himself from the family history, goes and in the end the traditional lunacy of the Frankensteins can not be put under control. To write more it would a spoil ,so go watch it. The parody part is the fact that takes a well known story and makes fun of its main elements, in this case the clichés of the mad scientist and Gothic horror with great effect as well as say it own story and makes us care for what with happen. The later part is where the most parodies lose and become in all honest a dumb ,offencive movie( Meet the Spartan or Superhero Movie anyone?) ,but here we thankfully do not have to deal with that. In summary, is a flick that you have to see before you die. "},{"Title":"This is what screwball is all about","Date":"7 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The king of spoof, Mel Brooks, proved his title with one of his most renowned films of all time, Young Frankenstein. Gene Wilder stars as Dr. Frederich Frankenstein, the grandson of the infamous Baron Von Frankenstein who created his monster which terrorized villagers years before. When Frederich inherits his grandfather's castle he stumbles upon the baron's work and sets out to create his own monster in the name of science. This film is what screwball comedy is all about. It is a uproariously hilarious ride that delivers one hilariously quotable line after the next.There is a right way and a wrong way to do screwball comedy. Mel Brooks knows the right way and he hits it right on the nose with Young Frankenstein. The absurdity and silliness of this film never feels out of place and it always fits just right with the pacing of the film. This is a very goofy and off the wall kind of film but there's something about it that is just so damn funny. I would have to say it starts with the eccentric cast of characters all played to perfection by their actors. Gene Wilder plays up the mad scientist cliché just enough to where it becomes a joke in and of itself, spoofing the mad scientist stereotype just right. Marty Feldman plays Igor in what is possibly the most hilarious role in the entire film. From hitting on Frankenstein's fiancée to having his hump switch shoulders constantly everything he says and does makes me laugh.The two female leads are also hysterical. Madeline Kahn is so incredibly over the top, yet a lot of her humor is subtle, at least as subtle as any screwball humor gets. Teri Garr plays Inga, who has the most ridiculous German accent, making every last thing she says a joke. Cloris Leachman even has a small role as Frau Blucher, a role that is almost more creepy than it is funny. Then of course Peter Boyle plays the monster in a Frankenstein performance to rival Boris Karloff. It's the nuttiest portrayal of the creature ever but his scenes are some of the funniest of the entire film. The absence of Mel Brooks as a character in the film was a little disappointing but there's nothing to be done about that.You have to go into Young Frankenstein with a very open mindset because it is incredibly nonsensical and ridiculous, just like any great screwball comedy. If you waste time questioning the logic of this film one, you will make an idiot out of yourself, and two, you won't be able to enjoy the film nearly as much. This is one of the silliest films ever made, as is to be expected from Mel Brooks, but it is incredibly fun and you won't see a spoof pulled off nearly as well as this in a long, long time. "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks & Cast Hit One Out of the Park","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" An excellent achievement by Mel Brooks and cast. This film is steadily funny throughout with everything from slapstick to subtle innuendo to a musical number to visual and verbal puns. Of course it's all the more enjoyable if you've seen the classic Frankenstein movies previously. In terms of cinematography, this black-and-white film is one of the best executed, most beautiful films imaginable. The mise-en-scene is exquisitely adept with opulent room settings filling the frame to the brim, a cobweb-strewn towering laboratory shot at oblique angles and even the use of a circular convex mirror to reveal action. The contrast range from the whitest white to the darkest black is incredible and the night scenes are breathtaking. All this in a movie that is actually funny! All the actors do a commendable job. Worth noting is Gene Hackman's brief standout performance as the blind man. Needless to say, no spoof/homage to the classic horror film will ever come close to this awesome achievement. This is probably one of the best films ever made and Mel Brooks can rest assured that it will be the vanguard of his legacy for generations to come. "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks' Finest Film","Date":"8 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein stands above other parody comedies because it makes sure that the humor is not the center of the film. The film makes the jokes a subtext to the story, characters and the atmosphere. The humor is executed trough these elements, and it not only makes the film hilarious, but also compelling, polished and memorable. The film stars Gene Wilder as Frederick Frankenstein, the grandson son of the original Frankenstein, who his highly skeptical of his grandfather's work. He journeys to Transylvania after inheriting his family's castle and eventually becomes his grandfather's successor. The story follows closely to the original Frankenstein and some of its early sequels, and it works just as well as the humor. The film could almost work as a drama as well as comedy. Gene Wilder gives a spectacular performance as Frankenstein. Wilder specializes in acting as eccentric brilliant psychopaths with a strong sense of charm and morality. He performed perfectly as Willy Wonka in 1971 and does the same here. Marty Feldman plays his loyal accomplice Igor, easily the funniest character in the film. Feldman manages to make Igor fun and innocent, yet takes him just seriously enough so he doesn't lose his credibility. Peter Boyle plays the monster, whom he gives a layer of playful innocence to accompany his enormous, powerful and frightening demeanor. It'll take forever to cover the entire supporting cast, yet they are all spectacular. The film is completely shot in black and white and successfully recreates the horror atmosphere of the films from the 1930s. The art direction makes the setting creepy and dark, yet lighthearted at the same time. The films humor is difficult to describe but it's a good balance of physical, verbal and story-centric comedy. The film doesn't go out of its way to be funny and the humor never feels campy or over the top. The laughs are evenly distributed and properly delivered in all three acts and the film never feels lopsided; something that a majority of comedies, even the most acclaimed, often suffer from. Young Frankenstein is simply a film where everything works, and it works really well. For any fan or comedy or horror, Young Frankenstein is a must watch. "},{"Title":"It's Alive","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The film is a wonderful love story, complete with a seven-foot tall(I think) re-animated monster, a half-mad neurosurgeon with just a small income, Frau Blucher(whinnying horses), a little guy who likes to make jokes of everything(even within the script), of course Dr. Frankenstein(Gene Wilder), and the Dr.'s enormously attractive assistant Inga. Inga is played by Teri Garr. Teri Garr looks terrific in gorgeous black and white. I actually had a hard time following the movie because I've always been in love with Teri Garr. She wears I think eight or ten different dresses or outfits. The remastering of the movie is outstanding.In the beginning of this famous Mel Brooks flick, Frankenstein, son of THE Frankenstein, is a rather crabby and exasperated man, his own nemesis in a way because he doesn't want to be compared to his father. But after finding the laboratory in the old castle(ran by Frau Blucher), he becomes a different person, a different scientist. He longs to re-animate flesh, in addition to having a desire to jump Inga's bones. The feeling is mutual. Back home, wherever that is(never read Shelley's book) is his fiancé, a woman who makes the Doctor wait until their wedding night. Her name is Elizabeth(Madeliene Kahn) and her parents are rich. She is somewhere between a very slowly melting iceberg and a haughty tease. But she catches Igor's eye(both of them belonging to British actor Marty Feldman). Which is very incidental, however the little guy does make a go of it, making light of it all the while. Igor's big mission is going to the brain depository in the little German town. I wondered today why the good doctor did not go, but it's one of many things that one finds at the local library when not searching for early Stephen King books. Those old Boris Karloff and Peter Cushing movies are a trick to find; I used to stay up late when I was a kid to see them.Inspector Kemp(played by Kenneth Mars) has problems himself, but he never died and was brought back to life. He is mostly mechanical above the waist. He also has an a way of expressing himself that apparently means he had some neurological speech impediment. Which is funny as hell, in the movie. Sometime during the movie Frankenstein asks Inga to elevate him, where that goes you know, if you have seen the movie. The monster, disturbed by fire during a performance for the town, gets Elizabeth to go out to the country with him. He now has fire under control, and Elizabeth finds out after another cigarette that The Monster is the most gifted man in the world. She says seven has always been my lucky number.After some schnapps the think tank goes back to the lab, and something miraculous is about to happen. "},{"Title":"Iconic Comedy of the 20th Century","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are no misses in this fabulous spoof. From the opening scene to the rolling of the credits, Young Frankenstein is a masterpiece. As fresh today as the year it was made, it can be watched over and over again.The actors are delicious. The writing is superlative. The comedic timing is impeccable. The medium - black and white - is spot on. Even the music is perfect?!There's a reason people can quote whole sections of this movie - it makes a lasting impact! You owe it to yourself to own this movie and watch it at least once a year. "}{"Title":"Mixes all kinds of comedy in a Horror oriented plot!","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is by far one of the most funny and exquisite Horror spoofs ever done... if not the best one.It always reminds the audience that it is a Horror movie because of it's atmosphere, the use of smoke, creepy settings, and grotesque characters.The humor consists on witty dialog, sexual situations, physical comedy, and best of all, extraordinary acting.Gene Wilder demonstrates he's a great, and talented actor. He carries the movie on his back. Dr. Frankenstein is witty, has a sharp tongue, and is sarcastic when needed. Peter Boyle is an instant favorite! His physical comedy is great! I dug his encounter with the blind man for example. That was the funniest scene in the movie. Marty Feldman was the goof-head that worked perfectly for the movie's tone.Teri Garr is absolutely hot! The woman is so sensual and hot it made me feel uneasy. Her breasts are glorious! She's funny as the dumb assistant.Some classical scenes include the little girl in the swing, the encounter with the blind man, the whole Frau Blucher name, Frankenstein finding Igor's head in the shelves, the infamous but hilarious sex scene, the musical moment that spoofs King Kong; and more.This is a very complete comedy. It works better as a Horror spoof. Forget about the Scary Movies and similar things. This one offers it all. "},{"Title":"It Really Is Mel Brooks' Best Film","Date":"30 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein is so incredibly authentic to its source material that at times it doesn't feel like a parody. I think this film, more than any of Brooks' spoofs, feels so much like the real thing, it's remarkable.I also agree that, of all his spoofs, this one really does have the most developed story. The characters feel like more than just caricatures and you come to care for them, especially Peter Boyle. Brooks also holds back on the anachronisms or breaking-the-fourth-wall that became the trademarks of his other works. While most of Brooks' other films just parody a genre, I really feel that Young Frankenstein actually works fine as story on its own. This is similar to how The Princess Bride is a good spoof of fairy tales, but works fine as a fairy tale on its own.Whenever I think of Young Frankenstein, I don't find myself thinking of the off-the-wall, laugh-out-loud-every-minute comedy that I do for The Producers or Blazing Saddles. The humor here is a little more restrained and subtle (not always, of course. The brain depository is just as outrageous as anything else). All in all, I like this movie for its humor, but I think I love it much more for its atmosphere, its heart, and Brooks' growth as a director. "},{"Title":"about the movie","Date":"28 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is truly one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. You can watch some movies that are hilarious over and over again and eventually they'll stop being funny and start being obnoxious and stupid. This movie I have seen over and over again and still makes me laugh in some parts, such as the Blind Man scene with Gene Hackman. Like any Mel Brooks movie such as Robin Hood Men in Tights its got some stupid parts and even for a Mel Brooks movie its got a little over-the-top drama. Also there are scenes where you have to understand the reference for it to be funny. However despite some of these cons it is still a funny movie and definitely a movie worth viewing. "},{"Title":"One of Gene Wilder's best works","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is a gem of my collection which I still pull out to amuse a new girlfriend or as a fun Halloween movie for the kids.What I love most about this movie is the attention to detail they put into set design. We are treated to a huge elaborate Transylvania castle, and they even dug up the old 'monster resurrection' equipment from the original Frankenstein movie! The actors are TOP NOTCH, with particular homage to Madeline Kahn It's all the same with you men, 6 or 7 times and then it's off to the pub to brag to the boys... WELL YOU KEEP YOUR MOUTH SHUT!!!!! Marty Feldman, and of course, Gene Wilder. You can tell these actors LOVED this movie and laughed so much during it they would have done it for free. The chemistry is excellent and the lines are delivered perfectly.The quirky inclusion of the dance number 'Putting on the Ritz', suggested by Gene, is pure comic GENIUS and will go down in history as one of the funniest scenes ever done.I really cannot say enough about this movie. If you love horror and love campy classic comedy, this is the movie for you, and you can watch it again and again and still laugh your arse off. "},{"Title":"hysterical","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The movie Young Frankenstein is a 1974 classic smash comedy hit. It was pure comedic genius from Mel Brooks. The movie was shot in classic black and white to further the old horror movie image. It took ideas from the old fright fest, and classic movies. I feel that this movie was funny because of its constant flow of jokes. It took references form the 1930's version like when the monster meets the little girl near the well with flowers. Marty Feldman in my opinion was just so absolutely loony that every time you saw Igor on screen you just had to chuckle at his goofy antics. One of my favorite parts of the film would have to be when the good doctor asks Igor what brain he had gotten. Igor responds by saying Abby&#x85;. Abby something&#x85;. Oh yeah Abby normal. Also I think that the parody of the sheriff was rather humorous. The way they over exaggerated his accent to make him have to repeat himself was classic. Also the over use of his fake arm was rather amusing. The dance number with the monster where they sing the famous song Putting on the Ritz was especially amusing because you got to see a randomly placed song and dance number in the middle of him trying to put on a great scientific display. I believe that any fan of Mel brooks should see this movie or anyone with any sense of humor what so ever. I can see this movie tickling the funny bone of parody fans for generations to come. "},{"Title":"I think this is a very good movie that everybody should watch .","Date":"19 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I liked Young Frankenstein because the actors really knew how to play the role of the person they were and they really made it believable. The setting was very creepy and eerie but yet it fit so well. The clothes were good for the parts everybody was playing; they weren't out of the time they were setting it in. My favorite characters were Gene Wilder as Dr. Frederick Frankenstein and Marty Feldman as Igor. This is a good movie to watch when you're bored or on a rainy day. It's funny for everybody. My favorite part is when Dr. Frankenstein is finally showing all of the towns people the monster and the monster and Dr. Frankenstein start dancing and singing and making noises. They added a nice part where every time somebody says Frau Blücher the horses would neigh. I would recommend this movie to anybody it is a fantastic movie and I think everybody should watch it at least one in their life . This movie is one of my all time favorites, and I hope everybody likes it too. "},{"Title":"Mel Broks is truly a genius","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Some people call Mel Brooks disrespectful because he chooses to spoof great classics. Some call him a genius because each of his spoof movies have actually inflated the popularity of the original. Whatever you think about him, you just cannot ignore his style of film-making and his great observational skills. It is an accepted fact that in order to truly enjoy spoofs, one has to watch the original movie first. But in case of Mel Brooks, his spoof movies can be viewed individually and they have their own comic impact. Young Frankenstein is one such work of Brooks which many consider his best. Young Frankenstein is a tribute to the Frankenstein movies from 1930 onwards. Character names have been changed but any one who has seen the original can identify the character. The movie has also been entirely shot in Black & White to give that 1930's feel. The movie has it's comic moments consistently and it keeps the viewer n splits. Mel Brook's observational quality has helped him to take notice of small things in the original and spoof them that others wouldn't have noticed. On the acting front, all actors have imitated the acting of the Black & White era, trying to over-dramatize things which adds to the comic quotient. Gene Wilder who is also the co-writer looks like a man possessed when he carries out his part. Whatever people say about spoofs, if it is done convincingly, it can be considered a great piece of cinema. I liked this movie and that is what matters to me.Rating  8/10 "},{"Title":"Slow yet pretty enjoyable","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When compared to Mel Brooks' earlier works, The Producers to name one, this movie strikes me as pretty conventional. It's about what you'd expect a Frankenstein parody to be like, but there's little else to say about it. I don't know what exactly I was expecting, but the movie feels like it misses a true edge. It doesn't really have a new Springtime For Hitler, let alone a new well, pretty much every scene from Blazing Saddles. Apart from the tedious first fifteen minutes, it's not at all bad though. Gene Wilder is always brilliant, but especially Marty Feldman as Igor (or is it Aye-Gor?) steals every scene he's in. It's just a shame that the material isn't a bit more clever, as most of the jokes are obvious and predictable. Oh well, we'll always have the monster's dance scene. "},{"Title":"The feeling's 'moo--choo-ul' - Inga","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love Madeline Kahn, I love Marty Feldman, Gene Wilder. Then, there's Teri Garr, Peter Boyle and Cloris Leachman. I love 'em all. Every time I see this movie, there is something that I find to delight over that I may have overlooked.Madeline Kahn singing 'Oh, sweet mystery of life' after being 'taken' by the monster is one of the funniest things I've ever seen in a movie. I love Wilder's turnabout when he's in the locked room with the monster, screaming to be let out. Marty Feldman doesn't even have to say anything to be funny but when he does, it's priceless - 'What hump?'.You could almost do a 'Rocky Horror' participation with this movie as so many lines are memorable.The only thing I would gripe about is sometimes Wilder's histrionics can go a little too long and become tedious which is a shame because he is so good at subtlety and has a natural laid back personality.This is one of those movies like Victor/Victoria which I wish I could have been a stagehand just to be around the fun. How do these excellent performers go on with their lives after having what must have been a blast followed by a letdown when it was over? "},{"Title":"works wells as a straight monster movie","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i liked this film a lot.there were a lot of memorable lines to be sure.i chuckled a fair amount at some of the jokes and gags.but to me,this movie works more as a monster movie.making it in black and white was a stork of genius.it made it much more authentic,just like the old monster movies of the 30's and 40's.i think it's one of the best Frankenstein movies i've seen.Gene Wilder is in great form here,as is Teri Gar.Marti Feldman is a riot.Peter Boyle is also great.and Cloris Leachman puts in another brilliant performance.and we can't forget Madeline Khan.of the first four Mel Brooks films i have just seen,this is the best one.for me,Young Frankenstein is a 7/10 "}{"Title":"Many memorably funny moments in this spoof, with great acting and black-and-white cinematography to top it off!","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In a time when the spoof movie genre has become a disease with the infamous Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer, I'm sure many concerned people can really appreciate classic spoofs like this! Directed by renowned comedy filmmaker Mel Brooks, with a screenplay co-written by Brooks and Gene Wilder, 1974's Young Frankenstein is a spoof/homage to the Universal horror movies of the 1930's, specifically the Frankenstein ones. The movie was an absolute success, and is clearly still very popular 35 years later. It was released over a decade before I was born, but in recent years, I've learned about Brooks and several of his films. Knowing this was one of the films he is best known for, I decided to watch it this month, and it certainly wasn't what I could call unfunny or forgettable! Dr. Frederick Frankenstein is a teaching neurosurgeon and the grandson of Victor Frankenstein, who was famous for reanimating corpses. However, Frederick is so ashamed of his grandfather's work that he does not wish to be associated with him, and has even changed the pronunciation of his surname. One day, a solicitor comes to the neurosurgeon's classroom, and after the class is dismissed, Frankenstein is informed that he has inherited his family estate, a castle in Transylvania! After bidding farewell to his fiancée, Elizabeth, Frankenstein travels to Transylvania, where he soon meets Igor, his new hunchbacked servant. The doctor then meets Inga, who will be his new lab assistant, and Frau Blücher, another servant. During his first night in the castle, he hears mysterious violin music, and searches with Igor and Inga to find out exactly where it's coming from! During their search, Frederick discovers Victor Frankenstein's secret library and reads his journals, which suddenly changes his thoughts on reanimation! He is now determined to follow in his grandfather's footsteps and reanimate a dead body, with the assistance of Inga and Igor, but unfortunately, this is bound to lead to trouble, just like it did for Victor! There were many times I laughed while watching this film, sometimes hard and sometimes lightly. There are some comic highlights during the classroom scene around the beginning, including Frankenstein's demonstration to the class, and especially his reaction to a student's questions about his grandfather! After that, there's the farewell scene at the train station, another comic highlight, and many more follow that one. These include the part where Dr. Frankenstein and Igor first meet (with several pronunciation jokes), the doctor and Inga trying to get through the revolving bookcase, Igor startling Frankenstein and Inga after they look at the dead skulls, and so many more, some of which I would probably be giving away too much of the story if I mentioned! Not ALL the gags are hilarious, but a good number of them are. Unlike some people, I couldn't give this a 10/10 just for the humour. Gene Wilder puts on an outstanding performance as Dr. Frederick Frankenstein, and Marty Feldman (Igor), Cloris Leachman (Frau Blücher), Teri Garr (Inga), Madeline Kahn (Elizabeth), Peter Boyle (The Monster), etc. are all memorable as well. Filmed in black and white, the movie also has nice cinematography, and does a great job capturing the atmosphere of the 30's horror movies! Finally, the script was well written, and as well as the humour, there's also suspense.Some viewers might say this horror spoof is hilarious from start to finish, maybe even the funniest movie of all time. I definitely can't say I agree with these statements, but I still laughed so many times, and the humour isn't all Young Frankenstein has to offer. Everything else I've mentioned about the film also helps make it what it is. It was released 35 years ago and is still popular today, so I probably haven't said anything about it that it hasn't already been praised for, and probably can't! For those who are disgusted by how low Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer have sunk the spoof genre lately, then you could find that watching a spoof movie like this, from a different era, to be somewhat of a relief! Of course, I haven't seen EVERY spoof movie from recent years, and I'm sure there are good ones I've yet to see, but I know some of the ones from the past decade or so have been lame, especially if they were made by Friedberg and Seltzer! If you're a fan of classic horror movies from the 30's and have the right sense of humour to be amused by this 1974 Mel Brooks comedy, I would say you're bound to find a lot to like! "},{"Title":"Watched it  again for the first time!","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As mentioned in my comments on Blazing Saddles, Mel Brooks' comedy seems to be somewhat dated and lacking the speed,zing or feral grossness that today's comedy-viewing crowd are probably used to,but that shouldn't take away the value of his movies,which have a loony sense of physical comedy and a spry sense of the ribald. I think you can be of ANY age and appreciate a movie like that.Filmed very intentionally in black-and-white and in the slow,dissolving fashion that characterized the James Whale Frankenstein movies of the thirties,the story follows Professor Frederick Frankenstein(Gene Wilder,co-writer of the film,using his more trademark manic explosiveness here),who insists on having his name FRONK-un-SHTEEN and bristles at the association with his famous grandfather,Victor Frankenstein. Upon learning that he has inherited the castle and laboratory that belonged to his Grandfather,he travels to visit it in the old country. He meets the grandson of the original henchman,Igor,pronounced EYE-gor(Marty Feldman,all bug-eyed,hunchbacked and gamest for the folly of anyone here it seems) and becomes close with the lovely townsfraulein INga(the always fetching Teri GArr). He quickly becomes obsessed with his grandfather's work,much to the delight of his grandfather's stern housekeeper Frau Blucher(Cloris Leachman),who had a hand in the work and was had a particular love interest in the late Herr Doktor. History is about to repeat itself,as the third generation Frankenstein also creates a massive hulk made out of hanged convicts(Peter Boyle,God rest his soul,who did more with no lines),who is also a powerfully strong creation who inspires fear and anger from the already suspicious locals.My comment summary refers to the fact that I've probably seen this movie AT LEAST four times before,and first recall sitting fully through it on a NBC late summer broadcast on a Friday night in August or September,1983. I recall being very tickled by the sight-gags,verbal plays and pratfalls back then,and upon watching it very recently STILL laughing out loud at the same gags. Perhpas I was in the mood or mindset to laugh at the comic devises this time as opposed to some of the times of watched this between then and now. Whatever,all I know is that this film has an organic sense of comedy that is probably all but lost now,which is somewhat of a shame. While Mr.Brooks' work may never quite be what it used to be,the work that was IS STILL brilliant and worth adding to one's film library,particularly for those who miss older,lighter fare that has a true appreciation for film styles and genres. "},{"Title":"Inspector Kemp's Visit, et al.","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Throughout the movie, Police Inspector Kemp wore his monocle OVER his patched eye! Also, it seems strange that all the villagers have English accents in Transylvania. After playing darts with Frankenstein in Inspector Kemp's Visit and Police Inspector Kemp leaves in his car, there are nine darts in the tires of his car; only only five were in play in the previous scene. Two were shown going through the window, one in the wall, one hit the cat and the last one went backwards. There were three darts in the front tire, three in the rear tire, two in the spare tire and one in the driver's hat. Every my friend Bob and I get together, we constantly quote our favorite lines from the movie. It's gotten so bad, he can't even enter my house without quoting the movie! "},{"Title":"A good fun film, but over-rated","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  With great expectancy I waited to see this in '74. When It finally came out I was way too busy to see it right away. Everybody who had seen it marveled and raved. Finally, I saw it. Hmmm. It is definitely a good film. It may be better than 'Blazing Saddles' in some film or technical way. A lot of work was put into this along with resurrecting parts of the original Karloff 'Frankenstein' laboratory set. A nice touch! Despite whatever intentions were meant by this film - it does not really complete itself as a 'horror' film. I feel that this is in the wrong category - but then maybe this film falls in-between somehow. It isn't really a drop-down-dead-funny comedy either. But it definitely has its moments. (The book shelf bit had me rolling) The story parallels and spoofs the original Karloff classic to a point. No surprise here. Thus, without getting detailed, the story is easy to follow and is peppered with Brook's humor - which I occasionally find to be hammy and kind of a-la-Jerry Lewis. It is paced nicely and is never boring but it is occasionally uneven. This may be caused my the brain trying to remember this is a horror film - or maybe the producer and director were trying to get us to remember. Not sure. The acting is superb. Every cast member is great. Yes, Wilder is over the top again - but so was the original Dr. Frankenstein (Clive). Boyle is an adequate monster. Kahn is outrageous. Leachman is especially good. Garr does well. And dear old Feldman (who dyed shortly thereafter) has many shining moments. Despite the great ensemble and acting I felt very much like I was watching a spoof the whole time. There are occasional asides to the camera that break any illusion the film ever had of creating a real horror atmosphere. I guess being filmed in B&W is supposed to help instill some of the Gothic. The camera work is right on. The background music is appropriate.There is very little that is bad about this film. It's not as funny as it could have been but that doesn't detract from the overall entertainment value. Most people should like this film. I do and I would recommend it. But not as a HORROR film - especially as high as this has gotten on this site's list.    "},{"Title":"Black and White","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mel Brooks has never been a clever humorist.  While his best works, Young Frankenstein included, are significantly above par, his misfires fall to the level of the Zucker brothers.  Thankfully, Brooks can provide gags and humor that don't consistently insult the intelligence of the audience.Young Frankenstein is both formulaic and slashing.  The humor is a combination of the typical slapstick and mild crassness that Brooks has supplied before, but the real gem is not in the script.Gene Wilder is a comedian in the prototypical sense of the word.  He understands his lines and his character.  He also knows Brooks better than most other actors that have worked with him.  Hence, he is able to wring just about everything he can from what Brooks creates.  Marty Feldman is even better.Brooks finally exercises some use of his camera as besides a stageplay apparatus.  It was interesting counting all the subliminal touches he made to keep the mood similar to the original Frankenstein, but then tweaks it to his own suiting.Overall, a good exercise in humor worth a few laughs.  3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a very funny movie in my opinion.  The script comes from the brilliant minds of Gene Wilder, more commonly known as Willy Wonka from W.W. and the Chocolate Factory, and Mel Brooks, the brain behind such works as Robin Hood Men In Tights, Blazing Saddles, Space Balls, and The Producers. When I first heard of it, I was skeptical.  A story about Frankenstein's grandson making a new monster didn't sound that appealing to me, but once I saw it, it was hilarious!  The characters are great, there's Dr. Frankenstein, (that's Frahnk-en-steen!), who wacky hair, obsessed nature, and habit of speaking loudly as if no one else can hear him, Igor, the bug eyed, hunch backed minion, who may just be the funniest character in the film, Inga, the often ambiguoisly seductive German assitant, Elizabeth, Frankenstein's prissy and vain girlfriend, and of course, the monster himself, who despite having very few lines is very funny with his confused fumblings, and being quite angry with everything. So, bottom line See it! "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder have done it again!","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  From The Producers to Blazing Saddles, it seems that when Gene Wilder and Mel Brooks do a movie together your bound for a good time (Even though Wilder only starred in those other two films, he had nothing to do with the screenplay). I am a huge Mel Brooks fan. I love History of the World Part 1, Robin Hood Men In Tights, Blazing Saddles, this film, and to a lesser degree, Spaceballs and DraculaDead and Loving It. I have warped sense of humor, and it shows. But this film is hilarious, but you can tell that this was more of a Wilder written film. Throughout it lacks the potty humor and off-color humor that have been constant in other Brooks films. It has some, but it has a little bit different feel to it than other ones. Yo u will find no sign of the p*** boy of History, or the racial jokes and gags found in that same years Blazing Saddles. But this is a time period when Brooks was at his finest, two of his best films, many call them his two best, came out the same year (1974) and they have become his two most successful films, both critically, and finanically. Actor wise, Peter Boyle is hilarious, his grunts and crazy looks always seem to come at the right times. The character Igor (it is pronounced I-gor, master) is my favorite, because of his eyes and remarks. Gene Wilder is good in this film also, he also comes off with some very funny looks. Madeline is funny and witty as she always is in Brooks films. (She also appeared in Mel's Blazing Saddles and History of the World, to name a couple)And Gene Hackman, he may have had a small (or should I say blind?) part in this film, but it was one of the funniest sequences in the film. I could hardly stop laughing when he was ladeling the soup for Peter Boyle. Overall, this film is a deffinate 10 out of 10. It has to be on my top two or three list for Mel Brooks films. It may even by number 1, I dont know, I just know it is funny. A must see. ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks's best comedy","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I was younger, I loved all of Mel Brooks's films.  Some of them have not aged well, but there are two, this movie and The Producers which have held up over time and still are funny all these years later.I understand there were a lot of scenes cut from this film to make it funnier and move it along.  I watched the deleted scenes on the DVD, and I can definitely see why they were cut, although it was interesting to see them.  The cast involved in the movie were all superb.  I still think of these roles when I think of them.  I saw Kenneth Mars on Malcolm in the Middle a couple of weeks ago, and I kept thinking of him lighting his cigars in this movie.Anyway, if you're going to see this for the first time, I recommend seeing this in a group, as this is the kind of humor that works better in a crowd. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"1974 Classic Comedy/Thriller","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has to be the best of the Mel Brooks films, and there are plenty to compete with, BLAZING SADDLES and HISTORY OF THE WORLD.  But this film directed by Brooks and written by Gene Wilder and Mr. Brooks, to this viewer, tops the list.  Written and played with tongue-in-cheek by a stellar cast of pros.  Let's start with Mr. Wilder himself, one of the best straight men in the business.  He knows how to set up the laugh and he definitely knows how to play it to the hilt.  Wilder brought such hilarity to his role of Frederick Frankenstein, grandson to the Baron himself.  Yet he was convincing as well.  You really believed he was earnest in his attempt to bring his monster, played by that affable Peter Doyle, in one of his most impressive roles, to life, let alone a top tap dancer in top hat and tails.  Doyle, now popular as the father in law on EVERYBODY LOVES RAYMOND, almost walks off with the picture.  His after glow scene with Madeline Kahn, smoking a cigarette was brilliant.  Speaking of Miss Kahn, she was perfection as Elizabeth, the ever so proper girl who couldn't let her lover, Wilder, touch her hair, her nails, her dress for fear of messing it up.  Kahn stole the picture. Then Marty Feldman as Igor, another brilliant performance, with those eyes of his that seem to focus in different directions, and Cloris Leachman as Frau Blucher which I believe means glue in German who's mention of her name makes horses of the area neigh in terror.  She brings that Judith Anderson type character as the Housekeeper to comedic perfection. Terri Garr as Inga, the town sexpot was hilarious with her accent and body language as Wilder's love interest.  Wilder, looking at front door knobs says, What wonderful knockers to which Garr answers, Why, thank you.  Richard Haydn in a small role as the person who brings Wilder back to the home of his grandfather and encourages him to carry on the work in the laboratory, Liam Dunn as the volunteer to Wilder's class where he is used as a sort of guinea pig for an experiment was incredibly funny with out saying a word, and finally Gene Hackman, as a blind violinist, in, to me, the funniest scene in the movie, where he welcomes the monster, Doyle, by pouring hot soup in his lap, lighting his finger, thinking it's his cigar and smashing his mug of wine into the monster's hand, driving him out of the cottage.This film I can see over and over again, each time finding more things that the actors brought to their roles.  It's a classic and still holds up. "},{"Title":"Hillarious work of art by Mel Brooks","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  No one has to take the FRANKENSTEIN story seriously any more, great parody of the 1931 classic, with many twists. Gene Wilder is wild in this role of Fredrick Fraunkenschteen. Igor is hilarious. Scenes include Igor having great difficulty closing his eyes, scaring the horses, and getting the wrong brain, and blowing the horn. Did you know that the Ritz scene was argued over between Wilder and Brooks, Brooks lost the argument, and had this famous scene? The bookshelf scene was funny. The film spoofs other black and white hits, as THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, CASABLANCA, and the original KING KONG. My father laughed at the scene where Wilder goes to Transylvania, and talks to a shoe-shining boy, and spoofs the song Chattanooga Choo-Choo Station 59. The German guy with a creaky arm is funny, especially the part where the monster took his arm off by accident. Gene Hackman is a blind man, who clumsy actions give the monster a hard time. This answers the question What if James Whale included the blind man scene in the movie? The answer is it would look like that but only serious. Very spoofy, contains elements (even the props) of the Karloff film. The little girl, the angry mob, and getting the body, and Igor getting the brain. I saw the opening credits (but didn't see the title), and I thought it was the 1931 DRACULA with Bela Lugosi, but I was corrected when I saw that the film was directed by Mel Brooks. Best linesFrankenstein This is a filthy job! What could get worse?Igor I don't know. It could rain.Igor I put in a brain by Abbey Normal.Frankenstein YOU PUT AN ABNORMAL BRAIN IN THIS 7 FOOT, 15 INCH GORILLA?!?!?There are some injured schlong jokes and gags, in this film, so I would give this film a TV-14 when televised. Brooks spoofed, DRACULA, and STAR WARS, as DRACULA DEAD AND LOVING IT (1996), and SPACEBALLS (1987).   "}{"Title":"Classic","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is probably Mel Brook's best. Its about the Grandson of Victor Frankenstein , who has inherited his family's castle in Transylvania. He goes to Transylvania to further his grandfather's work. I have seen this movie so many times I start laughing before the punch line, like when Dr, Frankenstein(Pronounced Fronkensteen) stops the bookcase with his body. One of my favorite scenes in when Dr. Fronkensteen confronts Igor (pronounced Eye-gor) about the brain he put in the monster. You mean to tell me I put in an abnormal brain into a seven and a half foot long, fifty-two inch wide GORILLA! "},{"Title":"Young Frankenstein 9/10","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  1974 was Mel Brooks' biggest year, with Young Frankenstein and Blazing Saddles releasing. Most people, including me, think that Young Frankenstein is the better one.YF starts off with a college class, with Fredrick von Frankenstein (pronounced Fronk-en-steen), played perfectly by Gene Wilder, teaching a science class. We learn that his grandfather tried to reanimate dead beings, and Fredrick doesn't like him. But, he inherits his grandfather's castle and begins working where his grandfather left off.He has to leave his fiancè Elizabeth, played with great snootiness by Madeline Kahn. At the castle, Fredrick meets Igor (pronounced Eye-gor) who is played by bug-eyed Marty Feldman. Also, Fredrick meets Inga, his, ahem, assistant, played by Teri Garr. She is also very funny. So, Fred gets to work and eventually creates a monster, played by Peter Boyle.YF is one of the funniest pictures of all time. Gene Wilder is, as always, great, while Madeline Kahn, who I adore, plays an equally great part as Elizabeth. She exchanges great lines with Fredrick, but so does Inga. Teri Garr is hilarious as his assistant, but I think the funniest part is Igor. He knows when to joke.The funniest part of the movie is the charades (Said a dirty word!). Kenneth Mars didn't do anything for me as the mechanical-armed Inspector Kemp, but the dart scene is pretty funny.Not as rude as other Brooks' movies, but funnier that them. If you want to laugh every time you see it, then rent (or even better, buy) Young Frankenstein.My rating 9/10Rated PG for some language and sex-related humor. "},{"Title":"It could be worse. It could be raining","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Line per line laughs galore in a comedy that never grows old. Mel Brooks best work features timeless hysteria from every member of the cast. Compare with the original movie Frankenstein of the 30's for a great double feature, just to see the same sets being used.  And nobody had a face like M Feldman's. His eyes alone were his best gift. The dialogue here is superior. It's hard to pick a favorite knee slapping example.  "},{"Title":"Verbally amusing","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mel Brooks' tribute to the Frankenstein movies of the 40s is done with such love, such skill, and such side-splitting, fall-on-the-floor hilarity, that it should rightfully become a comedy classic. I first saw it on tv and I had no idea what it was, had very little knowledge of Mel Brooks at the time, and expected to be bored. Instead, I found myself shrieking aloud with laughter that became so intense, I missed many of the major lines. Hence the video.What can I say? From the wild-eyed Igor, the hunchbacked Transylvanian servant whose hump keeps changing from side to side, to the modern-day descendant of Baron von Frankenstein, pronounced FRAN-ken-stien!(what verbal humour!) determined not to follow in his great-grandfather's ( no guesses for who he was) nefarious footsteps, to the nurse, a naif with enormous...er...chestal appendages, to the fearsome Frau Bleucher, whose mere mention causes horses in the castle's faraway stables to neigh in fear...to the scene of the monster and his creator singing and dancing in black tie to putting on the Ritz, this movie should come with a warning Danger--Uncontrollable Laughter May Become Chronic.The cast is beyond superb. The late, wonderful British comedian Marty Feldman (Igor), who turned his congenital wandering eyes into comedic foils, never misses a beat as second banana to Gene Wilder, who plays the distraught Dr. Frankenstein to the hilt and beyond. Cloris Leachman, who looks like a cross between a witch and a warlock, plays the feared housekeeper Frau Bleucher (neighhh!!!), and a very young, beautiful, and buxom Teri Garr plays the nurse-assistant to the good doctor. Then there is the marvelous Madeline Kahn, who gave a bravura performance as the doctor's fiancee. The late comedienne's burst into operatic ecstasy during her rape by the monster is simply inspired, and is one of the comedic high points of the entire film. All of Kahn's considerable talents came into play during this movie; she was taken from us too soon.This is truly one of my favourite Mel Brooks film purely because it's funny, witty and verbally amusing! Now I just want to see the other Mel Brooks movies, like Blazing Saddles, and The Producers just to see how they compare.  "},{"Title":"The best comedy ever made","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This stands as Mel Brooks masterpiece. Topping even the great Blazing Saddles. Every moment is planned to perfection and it has the most perfect comedic scene in history as Gene Wilder lowers Teri Garr from the wagon as they arrive at the castle. Marty Feldman is perfect as Igor. "},{"Title":"Hello, Handsome!","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I tell you, this is my favorite movie of all time. I can never get tired of watching this Mel Brooks classic. My favorite scene is with Gene Hackman as the blind hermit. The actors are pros, and the writing is just absolutely hilarious. Watch it. You won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was very good. The comedy wasn't stupid, and the language wasn't bad......I just wish it could have been a little longer. I really loved this movie. It was cool. "},{"Title":"Laughter promised - one of the best comedies I've ever seen","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Funny as hell, especially if you understand German. Even if you don't, you will still laugh like you're crazy cause the movie is just too damn funny.  what I recommend is, that you watch the original Frankenstein and Bride Of Frankenstein with Boris Karlorff, then it'll be even more fun to watch. DON'T miss it.  Laughter promised - one of the best comedies I've ever seen "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks is a genius.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How many comedy directors, when spoofing old horror movies, would make the flick in black and white?  Well, one for sure.  Mel Brooks's Young Frankenstein is a very funny ride from beginning to end.  It's certainly not a movie along the lines of Space Balls or one of Mel's all out laugh fests, but it is hilarious in its own way.  Oh yeah, and the flick's ending is one of the greatest in Cinema History. "},{"Title":"Classic!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just watched this for my first time last night.  It's not very often that I watch so-called Classic and say I can definitely see why this movie is a classic!, but after watching this movie, I can definitely see why this is called a classic.  The movie was really good, better than I expected.  Some of the jokes are kind of lame compared to today's tastes, but there were some parts that I thought were just hilarious, I even had to rewind the movie at a few parts, cause I was laughing so hard.Mel Brooks has a very odd taste in comedy, some of the comedy is just bizarre, but I love it!  I didn't think it was as funny as Spaceballs, but it still deserves a viewing.  The only other Mel Brooks movies that I've seen are Robin Hood Men In Tights and Life Stinks, and they're both pretty good too.  If you like the other Mel Brooks movies, then you'll probably like this one too.The cast was great too.  I loved Peter Boyle as the monster and Teri Garr is great too.  As I was watching the movie I was trying to think of what other movies I'd seen with Gene Wilder, and I couldn't think of any.  I thought that was so odd that I know who the actor is, but I couldn't think of any of his films.  When I finished the film I went and looked up his movies on IMDB and noticed that I hadn't seen a single movie with him in it.  Although, I have seen parts of Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory.  Is that sad or what?  I guess I've got some movie watching to do.Thanks for reading-Chris "}{"Title":"classic","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Favorite moments pardon me boy, is this the transylvania station?  what knockers! the blind man trying to pour coffee! what hump?What a classic movie! "},{"Title":"UNBELIEVABLE!!!","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I cannot believe that I have never commented on this, one of my favorite of all times comedies.  As a kid, I LOVED the old horror films with Boris Karloff, Bela Lugosi, Lon Chaney Jr., John Carridine and all the others.  I saw them all several times.  Then along comes Mel Brooks, King-- Nay, EMPEROR of the lampoon, Pope of satire and wit plenapotentiaire.  This film has it all.  Every moment that set those old films apart are recaptured.  And, what a cast.  Not a weak spot in it.  Boyle is superb as the monster, Wilder is great as Frankenstein (-steen)..., and it goes on.  Everyone's good.  I've seen this film literally dozens of time but I saw it the first time on a flight to Uruguay in 1975.  I'd missed it before due to a hectic work schedule and howled from the moment the first scenes came on to the last.   Brooks's genius comes together in this one, moreso even than in some of his later ones, e.g., Silent Movie, Screwballs, To Be Or Not To Be, etc.  This film was his best and it just doesn't get better than BEST!   "},{"Title":"A Funny But Complex Movie","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Young Frankenstein is a good movie, written well with many funny lines and scenes. But this movie does have a drawback - It can get very boring at times and occasionally caused me to not even bother to watch certain parts and to just fast forward. Some of the actors and actresses also have very strong accents, making it hard to understand them at all. But all in all, I would say you have to see this movie, because the funny aspects outweigh the occasional boringness. "},{"Title":"Sophisticated comedy masterpiece","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As far as I am concerned, this movie is beyond criticism. No, it may not be roll in the aisle hilarious, (tho if you react that way fine), rather it is much more subtle and sophisticated than that. You are supposed to just smile and chuckle - that's the point.  Combined with brilliant black and white photography, (color would be unthinkable for this movie) and terrific acting, Young Frankenstein is truly a classic, and frankly anyone who doesn't get it would not be on my list of the world's most perceptive movie goers.  "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever!!!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For some reason I never get tired of watching this movie.Mel Brooks first movie  The Producers may be more original and his others may have more one liners, but there is so much to see in Young Frankenstein. that it stands out from the rest. The great sets, the black and white photography, and the perfect comic cast make Young Frankenstein not only one of the funniest movies ever made but also one of the prettiest. In 1974 very few directors were shooting in black and white, Mel Brooks may have been the first to try something like this and the results are amazing...consider it was also a smash hit in 1974.  Of course it is a parody, which for the rest of his career may have not have served him as well. Some may disagree, but with Young Frankenstein we get a little more than just a parody. It's more like an homage thats still hilarious. Theres an affection in this movie for its material thats rarely found in comedy/parody. As comedies go Young Frankenstein up there with the best. "},{"Title":"One of the Ten Best Comedies of All Time","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Good comedies are rare. Great ones are rarer. Great parodies are needles in the haystack, and this is it. The parody can be brilliantly funny (most are horrid), and this one is near perfect.Mel Brooks hits all nails right on the head in this black & white classic. Taking its themes from the Mary Shelley novel and providing some bang on homage/parody to the James Whale classic, Bride of Frankenstein, Young Frankenstein is a breathless laugh and a half. In a weak comedy, you have the entire cast setting up one character for the laughs. Here, you have every character providing humour in every scene. None more than the late Marty Feldman as Igor, who slyly seems to know that he is in a parody movie. (Note how his hump changes sides and his occasional hilarious double takes and asides). Teri Garr is a combination of fabulously sexy and extremely funny - a difficult combination to pull off. Madeline Khan is hysterical as usual as the frigid fiance Elizabeth, whose long dormant sexuality is awaken by the monster himself. And of course, there is Gene Wilder, the straight man in this madness, deflecting jokes, setting up pratfalls, while all the while trying desperately to bring his monster to life. Also play close attention to the Inspector, a small role played by the same actor who played the psychotic Nazi composer Franz Liebkind in Brooks earlier (and best) film, the producers.Young Frankenstein is readily available on video and has not aged a bit. See it and laugh and laugh and laugh. **** out of ****. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mel Brooks includes his usual cast of hilarious characters in one of best movies.  Every actor is perfect in his or her role.  And it's especially great if you've seen the 1931 version of Frankenstein.  I definitely laughed until it hurt!  And even though I've seen this film many times, the jokes never get old.  Look for Gene Hackman in an unusual comedic role as the blind man.  Young Frankenstein is a must-see for all Mel Brooks fans!! "},{"Title":"I Think I'll Watch It Again","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can't watch the original anymore without giggling. I personally believe it is Mel Brook's best, although The Producers is nearly equal. Taking the sad and scary Frankenstein original, using its sets, putting the reluctant Frederick into his precursor's milieu, is wonderful. Granted, every gag doesn't work, but there is so much that to list them all, would take forever. My favorites are--When Frederick asks Igor if he would like something done about his hump (which seems to change sides now and then), the reply is What hump? The scene at the dinner table following the failure to revive the creature--followed by the said-a-give game of charades. Then, we have the monster visiting the old blind man (Gene Hackman) and practically being killed by him. Finally, the presentation of the monster to the pompous scientific community--Puttin' on the Ritz. This doesn't do justice because there are bits of schtick going on . Frau Blucher, Terri Garr and her thick German accent (Moochel instead of Mutual).Marty Feldman and Abby Normal. The list goes on. This is such a gem. With Blazing Saddles, Mel Brooks didn't seem to know when to quit. This is a masterpiece and deserves to be on the same shelf as the wonderful originals. "},{"Title":"Marty Feldman should have gotten an Oscar nomination for this!!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Parts of this film is funny, while other parts were a bit dull, but the real fun part was watching Marty Feldman. This man was a genius at comedy and he steals the film, at least to me!! He should have won the Oscar, and if not that, then,like my one line summary said, at least a nomination for Best Supporting Actor of 1974--I think that they could have taken out Fred Astaire for The Towering Inferno--as Mr. Astaire was not really that good in that film. But, I digress....... Marty Feldman had some of the best lines in the film and I can't help but have a smile on my face when I think of him in this film. It may be over-rated to some and under-rated for others, but it is a fine film to watch.  "},{"Title":"Satire At It's Best","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Besides the great performances by everyone involved and the top notch comic script writing, what makes this such a success is the beautiful creation of the 1930's monster movie look and feel.  Against this authentic backdrop everything comes off that much better and becomes more hilarious.  Everything from the lighting in the little girl at the well scene to Madeline Kahn's bride of Frankenstein's hairdo is right on the mark. It seems not an easy feat to recreate a bygone era of  cinematic style and technique years after it's past but this one along with Woody Allen's Zelig are the absolute best in achieving this. This is Mel Brooks at the top of his talents and easily one of the best comedies of all time.   "}{"Title":"Walk This Way...","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't know how many times I'd seen `Young Frankenstein,' but I was still amazed when a friend pointed out something new.  Take a look at the scene where Dr. Frankenstein meets Igor at the train station, and the `walk this way' gag.  My friend pointed out that if you look at Igor, you see him look at the camera and tilt his head at Frankenstein as he's shuffling down the steps, sort of a `look at what I'm getting this idiot to do!' aside to the audience.  I'd watched that scene dozens of times, but I never noticed that look until then.  That's the mark of a classic, though, isn't it?  When you can watch a movie over and over and still find new details and bits of interest, it keeps the movie fresh and new. The secret of `Young Frankenstein' is respect.  The script and the actors respect the audience's intelligence, and also respect the memory of the movies they're parodying.  You can feel the affection scriptwriters Wilder and Brooks have the original Frankenstein movies, and `Young Frankenstein' almost functions as condensed highlights of the classic Universal films.  The end result is a gentle ribbing of those movies (which didn't always take themselves too seriously to begin with) and one of the funniest comedies ever.  "},{"Title":"In the Top Ten FOREVER","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'd be hard- pressed to say anything original regarding this film.  It  is arguably Mel Brooks' funniest movie-- and definitely in the Top Ten Forever, including Blazing Saddles and The Producers (both also Mel) and Capra's Arsenic and Old Lace. What new film aficionados should do is make the effort to see the 1931 Frankenstein and the 1935 Bride of Frankenstein and then watch this one again.  It's even funnier when you get more of the subtle jokes-- NO SPOILERS.  It's Brooks' best creation of a comic ensemble, and the production makes the black- and- white seem truly alive. This Hallowe'en, detour from splattered coeds and see the greats.  Young Frankenstein and Arsenic and Old Lace are 2 of them.   "},{"Title":"An amazingly hilarious film with quick underlying humor and a great cast! Mel Brooks is a genius!!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The best movie made by Mel Brooks!  Better than Space Balls and Blazing Saddles!! Now thats impressive!  This is a great spoof of all the horror films of the early horror movies!  Its great to see what you'll catch on to next!  Each time I see the movie I catch a new hilarious stunt that I hadn't caught before! If you haven't seen it, See it!! "},{"Title":"Abby Someone...  (Spoilers)","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Best Ever is a phrase that has been tossed around so much these days that it really has no meaning.  I like to try in my life to give descriptions of things without resorting to cliche, but here it is just impossible.  So you don't think I'm gushing, there are two moments in the film that I feel fall flat, but that will be described later.  This wonderful film is without a doubt my favorite comedy ever, bar none.  Is it any wonder it is listed every time someone starts ticking off Frankenstein films? Gene Wilder, Madeline Kahn, Terri Garr, Peter Boyle, and all the rest of the cast are wonderful actors and for Wilder, we must (quietly!) enter the realm of genius.  But Marty Feldman is the person who made this movie the delight it is.  In almost every scene he is in, he steals it with such enthusiasm it makes you wish he had made many more films.One of the two places I spoke of earlier is the Transylvannia Station scene.  I just don't think it's relevant enough for many people to get in this day.  For those who don't know, it's a reference to the immensly popular (in the forties) song Chattanooga Choo-Choo with it's line Say little boy, is that the Chattanooga Choo-Choo? and it's reply Track 29, oh and would you care for a shine?The other place is stage show with The Monster dancing and singing Putting on the Ritz.  Fans generally throw tomatoes and say nasty things about me when I say this, but I really feel it falls flat and is only there for an excuse for The Monster to be captured by the authorities.  As I think of it though, I am hard pressed to say what COULD have replaced the scene though, so...So, for a good time that you shouldn't take too seriously, throw this movie in, sit back and laugh your rear off when you hear HE VAS MY BOYFRIEND! "},{"Title":"Funny, Funny, Funny!","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As you may have guessed from my brief summary, I found this movie extremely funny. I can't believe that it was made in the year 1974! It seems ageless! Gene Wilder does a terrific job in this movie - from the beginning to the end. I love the scene in the classroom, and the blind man scene, and Igor is truly hilarious. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants to laugh for a hour and a half. "},{"Title":"Put the Candle Back","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was only one year old when this came out.  I remember the first time I saw it a few years ago.  Never laughed so much in my entire life.  Best comedy ever made.  From a time when Mel Brooks made movies which were funny.  More than a spoof of Frankenstein movies, this is a homage which captures the atmosphere perfectly.  The brilliant cast includes Peter Boyle as the Monster, Terri Garr as Inga the lab assistant, Marty Feldman as Igor and Madeline Kahn as Elizabeth.  Top honours go to Gene Wilder as the mad and incredibly sexy Dr Frankenstein.  How he never won an Oscar is beyond me.Favourite lines include Put the candle back; Frau Blucher; What exactly is it that you do do?; and of course the whole Putting on the Ritz.The DVD version contains a lot of extra features which are well worth seeing.Ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"Highly amusing!","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A co-worker lent me his DVD of Young Frankenstein after hearing, to his disbelief, that I had never seen it. (Actually, as I watched it, I realized I HAD seen parts of it before, but never the whole thing.) While I would hesitate to agree with the tagline's claim of it being the funnies comedy of all time, the movie was undeniably hilarious.Gene Wilder did an excellent job in his convincing portrayal of the grandson of the original Dr. Frankenstien, and Peter Boyle earned our empathy and laughs as the monster. Extremely funny performances were put in by Marty Feldman (Igor), Teri Garr (Inga) and Kenneth Mars (the inspector). Madeline Kahn (Elizabeth) wasn't as funny as she was in Clue, but she played her part well.Some of the funniest moments the moving hump, the werewolf scene (There, wolf.), the doctor and Inga find the secret passage, sedative charades, the horses' fear of Frau Blucher, the inspector's mechanical arm, the monster's visit to the blind man, and Elizabeth meets Igor and Inga.Definitely worth seeing! "},{"Title":"A review of a very good film!.","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Marty Feldman is  one of my favorite comedians(sad that he died in 1982).Young Dr. Frankenstein(Wilder) is going to his grandfathers castle in Transylvania.He soon discovers the scientist´s step-by-step manual explaining how to bring a corps to life.Together with Igor(Feldman) and Inga(Teri Garr),he creates a monster who only wants to be loved. Well it´s  a great film,and a fantastic spoof on the Frankenstein- movies.Madeline Kahn is also with in the movie and even Gene Hackman in a small part.VERY VERY VERY VERY fun.Rent it, Buy it do what you want but just see it.Also a very good DVD on this film.  I give this one 10/10 "},{"Title":"My favorite comedy of all time!","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An outstanding comedy! In my estimation, the best thing  Mel Brooks ever did.The casting was perfect..The direction excellent..The story and screenplay couldn't have been improved upon..It was...Perfect!! But-I really think to more fully appreciate this picture, anyone seeing it for the first time,should rent the original Boris Karloff movie AND Bride Of Frankenstein. After seeing these two, Y.F. seems even funnier! "},{"Title":"Shoe-shine joke explanation","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  dude-2, Baltimore, MD USA wrote that ...i SWEAR i saw a scene ... the train sequence mirrors itself in transylvania ...Fronkensteen sticks his head out of the train and asks a little german shoeshine boy if this is the right station or something ... it's funny because of the previous instance of the shoeshine boy on the New York station platform otherwise it does not make sense (i.e. it ain't funny). I realize there is a lot of non-sequitur humour in the film but i do not believe this is one of those instances - that scene is GONE! Does anyone else remember it????It is possible you may be mistaken about this. This is a joke that references the old song Chattanooga Choo-choo. It goes roughly like thisPardon me boy - is that the Chattanooga Choo-Choo? (Woooo-woo!) Track 29! Boy, won't you give me a shine?. You'd perhaps need to be of Brooks' generation to get this. Hope this helps... "}{"Title":"A career high for Wilder and Brooks...","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...and that's meant as a compliment!  This brilliant satire may not be quite as hysterically funny as Blazing Saddles, but is certainly a more complete film.  The whole cast is on absolutely top-form, from Kenneth Mars' hilarious Inspector to Cloris Leachman's creepy Frau Blücher to Gene Wilder's superb turn as Doctor Fronkonsteen.  And Marty Feldman, Teri Garr, Peter Boyle and Madeline Kahn are fantastic, too - but I have a word limit here!The cinematography is superb, and the controversial choice of black and white (in 1974) really helps the simultaneous homage to/skewering of the old Universal horror movies.  The addition of the original Frankenstein (1931) lab equipment to the already great sets is merely the icing on the cake.Mel Brooks also turns in a career-best directing job.Highest possible recommendation, especially if, like me, you are only now discovering the wacky world of Brooks/Wilder through DVD.  Woof! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Classic in every aspect!","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After 27 years, probably nothing new can be said about this film. But, watching it again the other night, I couldn't resist the temptation. Without doubt it must be Brook's best film, and one of Wilder's best performances. It captures the atmosphere of classic horror films (being shot in b&w sure helps), packed with -sometimes hilarious- satire and pure comedy as well. Marty Feldman is wonderful, Teri Garr is very sexy and Peter Boyle one of the best Frankenstein creatures. If you haven't already seen it, do! And see how Blucher becomes an everyday expression.  "},{"Title":"Does anyone else remember the shoeshine boy in New York?","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Insanely funny film!!! I saw it when it first arrived in 1974 and i SWEAR i saw a scene which i have not seen since - on TV, DVD (deleted scenes section), or VHS/Beta. To wit, when the train sequence mirrors itself in transylvania (after the New York sequence) Fronkensteen sticks his head out of the train and asks a little german shoeshine boy if this is the right station or something and the little boy replies Ja! (german)and then ...would you like a shine? (english) to which Fronkensteen does a double-take and then says no. The double take is there because of the previous instance of the shoeshine boy on the New York station platform otherwise it does not make sense (i.e. it ain't funny). I realize there is a lot of non-sequitur humour in the film but i do not believe this is one of those instances - that scene is GONE! Does anyone else remember it???? "},{"Title":"One of Mel Brooks' best","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As far as Mel Brooks films goes, this is one of his best, maybe only surpassed by Blazing Saddles.  Unfortunately, Mr. Brooks lost his touch over the years and his movies showed it, getting worse and worse with each release.  His older movies tend to be his best.Gene Wilder plays Dr. Friedrich von Frankenstein, grandson of the infamous Victor Frankenstein.  Friedrich, now living in the U.S., travels to his now-deceased grandfather's European castle.  It is there where he feels trapped by his grandfather's legacy and possibly his own destiny to continue his monstrous work.  From then on, it's pure comedy. "},{"Title":"Brooks at his height","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Young Frankenstein is more polished than its predecessors (except maybe Producers), and funnier than its successors. Part of it may be the focus while Blazing Saddles lampoons Westerns in general, Young Frankenstein sticks to just one (or two) specific movies Frankenstein and Bride of... (and they're really so closely related they might as well be one long movie)  Only in Spaceballs does he really ever target a specific movie, and even then Brooks's all over the map. YF simply parodies one movie it would be less funnier if Brooks had tossed in Dracula and Mummy jokes (as he tosses Alien and Planet of the Ape jokes into Spaceballs, and Godfather jokes into Men in Tights).Everybody in the cast is hilarious, the dialogue and physical comedy is great, and some of the scenes are...well, realistic. Brooks doesn't just lampoon, say, the hidden-bookshelf gag, but demonstrates what would probably happen if someone actually tried to get through one.  Still, there's plenty of non-sequiter humor (why _does_ Igor's hunch keep shifting? Who cares?).Overall, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I've ever seen","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw it last night on AMC for, I guess, the third or fourth time.  I was laughing so much I'm afraid I may have missed some punch lines.  Every time I see it I find new things in it.  The writing is comparable to Tom Stoppard in Shakespeare in Love.  Marty Feldman is indescribably wonderful.  Just looking at him made me laugh.  A definite classic! "},{"Title":"Where wolf?","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is an unusual film because it doesn't lend itself to small group non-aficionado settings. Somehow it never measures up if one is concerned about the reaction of fellow viewers. Better to see it alone.However, with a like bunch gathered around the TV, or best yet- collected in a retro-theater at midnight- Young Frankenstein is incomparable. It's an excellent film that would be better without Gene Wilder's screaming. But that isn't irritating the first couple of times you watch and his performance more than compensates. The universal favorite scene is Gene Hackman's hermit host. Serious actors like Hackman are all the funnier in unexpected roles, and if I could write a horse whinney I would, as I mention Cloris Leachman as Frau Blucher.Madeline Kahn was the finest comedic actress of recent decades, and this was her film debut.  She is perfect. Marty Feldman, of the migrating hump and damned eyes, is my favorite character, but there are several to choose from. Kenneth Mars is wonderful as the Inspector with a good memory and bum arm.Young Frankenstein is not a film to see over and over. It is one to take out in anticipation of a long dark evening when a visit to Transylvania Station seems in order.  "},{"Title":"A flaccid Comedy! Absolute garish and lumpy CRAP!!!!!!","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I borrowed this film, with high expectations, thinking it would be like Dracula Dead and Loving It (another Mel Brooks Film)-a silly stupid but really humorous parody! unfortunetly I had to listen to a 'black and white' version, of this flat falt flat FLACID comedy! Gene Wilder's stupid roaring yell nearly busted the speakers on my TV set, not to mention my eardrums! My dad had said this was really funny, so he watched it with us, and we had to do pretend little excuses for laughs to impress  my Dad, who later quoted It wasn't as funny as I remembered it was really boring, and so old fashioned were's all the zany parody's and stupid stunts and tongue twisters and funniness? beats me! 3 1/2 out of 10 (An unfortunetly bad flop of a movie in my and everyone i know's view) "},{"Title":"Will have you rolling in the aisles","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Arguably, Mel Brooks finest creation, Gene Wilder plays Dr Frankenstein the grandson of the infamous doctor who created the feared monster. Wilder reluctantly inherits the family castle and returns to discover his fathers secrets. This leads him to embark on his own creation.. An absolutely hilarious parody filled with memorable moments.. Great acting by all involved especially Madeline Kahn and Teri Garr. Look for Gene Hackman in a hilarious cameo as a helpful blind man.. On a scale of one to ten..10   Second only to Airplane as the best comedy i have seen... "},{"Title":"If Brooks could only make them like this one...","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This and Blazing Saddles are Mel Brooks' great masterpieces. Unlike the pile of c**p Men in Tights, Young Frankenstien is really funny, especially if you're a fan of the old Universal Horror films. There are some direct spoofing of scenes from them here, as well as a number of other films. The movie doesn't die out, like other comedies of this type, sustaining its level of hilarity throughout.  The cast is really talented (how sad that a few have died) including the great Marty Feldman as Igor with the moving hunchback and Peter Boyle as the monster.  Brooks does a great job recreating the atmosphere of the original Universal movies, unlike Dracula Dead and Loving It, another unfunny attempt by Brooks, who apparently has lost his ability to write funny stuff.  If you want to see a Mel Brooks film when he was at the height of his comedic ability, see Young Frankenstien. "}{"Title":"I would have liked to have seen Boris Karloff's face watching this.","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If this isn't one of the funniest movies ever made, there's something really wrong. This movie is hilarious! Mel Brooks completely trashes the Frankenstein legend, I would have liked to have seen the look on Boris Karloff's face if he had seen this, but he died before this was released. Peter Boyle makes a Frankenstein, as does Gene Wilder as Dr. Fronkensteen. This also makes a good companion piece to Love at First Bite. Anyone interested in horror spoofs should see these two films. "},{"Title":"Hilarity Personified","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To truly appreciate this film you HAVE to have seen FRANKENSTEIN, BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN and SON OF FRANKENSTEIN. Otherwise much is going to be lost on you. Brooks and his team obviously went to much trouble to document what they were spoofing. An example when the monster meets the blind hermit (my favorite sequence) the way he grasps the cigar looks, on the surface, rather phony - just a way to setup the monster's thumb for the punchlione. But in the original BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN that is exactly how the monster picked up the cigar. Obviously people were attending! Combine the original Kenneth Strickfadden laboratory equipment, superb writing and an equally superb cast and you have something that will live as long as the classics that inspired it. Oh yes - to quell an urban legend - Blucher does not mean glue in German. According to Brooks, the name was just made up. German for glue is leim, kleber, klebstoff, leimen, warmleim and many more - but nothing like bleucher.  "},{"Title":"the funniest","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wonderful comic masterpiece features bright performances with a great performance from Peter as the monster.the studio  used original lab equipment from the original movie.Look For Gene's blind man cameo.Rating***** (out of five) "},{"Title":"sure to become a classic","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The conventional wisdom for once is correct. This is one of the greatest comedies ever made, by one of the greatest comedians, Mel Brooks. Wilder, Boyle, Leachman, Feldman and Kahn are at the top of their form here. Hackman's cameo as the blind man has got to be one the funniest five minutes in film (now don't inhale until the tip glows!). The parody of the Frankenstein genre is perfect. Anyone who has not seen this gem is living a deprived life.Frau Blucher!!!! "},{"Title":"More serious then obnoxious","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Before I saw Blazing Saddles or Young Frankenstein, I thought to myself Wow, how in the world did Brooks produce two comedy masterpieces in the same year?  Well, I rented Blazing Saddles and LOVED it.  I crack up just thinking about all the funny scenes from it no matter how depressed I am. The next week, I rented Young Frankenstein and I was so excited as I was putting it into my VCR.  I thought it was gonna have the same wild wacky childish humor as Blazing Saddles.  Well, when the movie ended, I was a little bit disappointed.  The movie was very...ummm....serious.  There were a few good laughs here and there and Marty Feldman's Eyegore chracter was great, but other than these 2 things, the movie just never tickled my funnybone and actually made me kinda sad when I saw the part where Dr. Frankenstein and the Monster first saw eye-to-eye.  I really hate to bash my idol Mel Brooks but this movie is quite a bore to watch.  If you're looking for plently of raunchy, childish, and obnoxious humor, rent Blazing Saddles but STAY AWAY from this one.   "},{"Title":"you take the blonde, i'll take the one in the turban.","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i have seen this movie repeatedly since its release in '74 and have memorized almost every joke in the thing.  however, it still holds up after each viewing and i look forward to each new time i watch the film again. mel brooks and gene wilder's labor of love for the classic horror film is visually supreme.  and the slapstick and double entendre (a staple in brooks movies) actually works in this text.  the story is still maintained throughout the laughter.  zaniness is held together by the thread of the shelley story and the james whale films.  peter boyle has one of his best roles as the monster, fear-inducing, pitiful and hysterical at the same time.  i can't imagine how much fun this picture must have been to make. highly recommended.     "},{"Title":"Wholesome fun...","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This comedy spoof is actually a rather enjoyable movie, and it is the type of movie that can be seen multiple time and still manage to be good and entertaining. Young Frankenstein is exactly what you would expect from a Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder collaboration.The story told in Young Frankenstein is about a descendant of the notorious Victor Frankenstein who is also a man of science. He travels to his forefathers old castle and stumbles on the written work of his forefather, which leads him to the secrets of reanimating dead flesh.Don't get deterred by the movie being filmed in black and white, because it actually did help the movie in the right way. The black and white is a great contrast and amplifies the atmosphere of the movie.And the cast in the movie was really good. Gene Wilder was good as Dr. Frankenstein and Peter Boyle was awesome as the monster. Cloris Leachman also brought her usual charms to the movie. But best of all was Marty Feldman as Igor. And there was also a nice appearance by Gene Hackman.All in all, Young Frankenstein is a fun movie and equally entertaining. "},{"Title":"A Frankstenstein spoof that brought a few chuckles.","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Director Mel Brooks' take on Frankenstein brings you some chuckles as you see Dr. Frankenstein's (Gene Wilder) inherit the castle that belonged to his late grandfather and decides to continue his research. He resurrects the body of a criminal into a Frankenstein Monster, a more twisted but funny version of the original monster played by the late Peter Boyle.Joined by a supporting cast of assistant Igor (Marty Feldman), love interest Inga (Teri Garr), fiancée Elizabeth (Madeline Kahn), housekeeper Frau Blücher (Cloris Leachman) and Inspector Kemp (Kenneth Mars), each brought some whacky performances and made the somewhat slow-moving plot a little more entertaining. However, I've seen more funnier stuff, though, as I expected that there would be more laugh-out-loud moments and slapstick fun in this film. Some of the dialog was campy at best, particularly the subtle sexual humor, and you could hardly hear what Kenneth Mars' character is saying. Overall, it's an average comedy. Fine to watch for some mild scares and some mild laughs. Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Puttin' On The Comedy","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Funny, funny, funny flick. If this comedy-horror does not get you laughing then you are already dead. It's a good film with a heavy salting of dry, odd-ball humor and lightly peppered of slap-stick. If you do not know the story of, or have never seen a Frankenstein film before then you should watch one in-order to get the humor in this movie.This is an all-star fantastic cast with a cute script. The movie set was so well done that it felt like Boris Karloff was going to enter the picture at any given moment.If you like a good laugh and some classic horror then I bet you will love Young Frankenstein.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Stood to the test of time!","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I always thought Mel Brooks' Blazing Saddles would be my favorite movie of all time but it isn't true! Young Frankenstein has stood up through the test of time as better and more interesting over the decades since its release in the 1970s. For a movie that is 40 years old, it doesn't seem like it is dated at all. Truly a marvelous poke at the original 1931 Frankenstein movie with Boris Karloff. Some of the storyline grabbed a bit of the Bride of Frankenstein along the way. The set used in this movie for the animation of Frankenstein is the same as the original. Superb acting by all involved and special mention should go to Gene Hackman as the blind hermit. Absolutely the best! "}{"Title":"Hilarious film!","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Having previously seen the original 'Frankenstein,' I figured that it was time that I check out this film to see what it's all about. Thankfully, my roommate had it readily available.With all the corny humor in this film, Brooks could have easily done a sloppy job with the editing and camera work, but the cinematography is actually really well done. Similar to the 1931 film, the low angle shots and harsh lighting throughout the film were absolutely fantastic. I found myself in awe of some of the shadow work present in some scenes. As usual, Gene Wilder never fails to disappoint. His performance as Dr. Frankensteins grandson is the perfect amount of crazy. Marty Feldman was probably my favorite character in the film due to all of his witty one-liners and overall persona. It was also really interesting to see Peter Boyle as Frankensteins monster. I've seen him in other films different from this one and I thought he pulled off the role of the monster wonderfully.It's a really excellent film. Glad I took the time to finally watch it! "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder Work Very Well Together,","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein is a fantastic film with a very fun and cleverly parodied spoof of classic Frankenstein films that is directed very impressively by Mel Brooks and is a pitch perfect resemblance of how those films actually looked.The cast is very inspired and all play really funny and unique characters,obviously the best performance is from the great Gene Wilder,this man just knows how to act,but in a serious and comedic way,and the other cast members all do a great job as well,the two that really stand out for me are Peter Boyle and Gene Hackman's cameo.I don't think it's Mel Brooks or Gene Wilder's best film,but all fans of classic comedy will really appreciate it,and fans of classic monster films will appreciate its very impressive parody.Dr Frankenstein (Gene Wilder) is assigned to recreate his grandfathers well known experiment,something he has being trying to avoid for many years. "},{"Title":"Easily Mel Brooks best film","Date":"21 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The grandson of Dr. Frankenstein (Gene Wilder) has been trying to ignore his grandfather's reputation. However he gets the grandfather's castle in Transylvania, finds the book on how he made a monster and decides to try his own hand at it.Now classic takeoff on the Universal Frankenstein movies. Mel Brooks obviously loved the old Frankenstein movies (unlike westerns that he crudely spoofed in Blazing Saddles) and he cuts down on his crude jokes and makes this quite amusing. As an added plus it was shot in black and white which just helped the movie immensely. Also the cast is great--Wilder chews the scenery as Dr. Frankenstein; Peter Boyle is funny (and scary) as the monster; Marty Feldman is just hysterical as Igor (his looks to the camera alone are great!); Chloris Leachman is underused by still fun as Frau Bluchar; the same with Madeline Kahn as Elizabeth; Teri Garr takes the impossible sexpot role and makes it work.The script is quick and funny, the cinematography is beautiful and there's a wonderful score. Also there's a totally hysterical sequence between Boyle and Gene Hackman (as a blind man). It only gets an 8 because it DOES have its slow spots, not all the jokes work (I never found the Putting on the Ritz number funny--just surreal) and it falls apart at the end. Still this is well worth catching. "},{"Title":"...simply one of the best comedies ever.","Date":"15 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are many fantastic and detailed reviews of this movie here - I will not bore anyone with a repeat of what other people have said better than me. What I can say is this as I grow older and re-watch movies from my youth, there are only a few that I can watch over and over again and love just as much as when I was young - and one of them is Young Frankenstein. It holds up no matter how many times you watch it. It holds up no matter how much you study movies. It holds up no matter your age. It is a timeless classic in every respect, and no matter who you are, you should at least give it a chance - if you are like me you will add it to your must see once a year forever list. See it. I hope you love it like I do. "},{"Title":"Not for your eyes","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film was so scary I had to watch it through my fingers- my eyes were safely hidden in my pocket. Not surprisingly I couldn't really see what was going on and had to guess. As soon as I heard the scary music at the start I knew I wouldn't be able to handle it- it's the same feeling I got watching the Halloween episodes of Bugs Bunny, the ones where the scary green witch tries to eat him. Brrr, I'm getting spooky just thinking about it. The film seems to be about a crazy scientist whose children die in some sort of freak electrical accident, possibly involving a lighthouse. The scientist wants to bring his kids back from the dead and believes he can do this by taking the best body parts from each and stitching them together. There are various terrifying scenes of him lurking through graveyards and Undertaker's houses so that he can acquire all the extra parts he needs. Eventually he builds a son for himself but it still needs life. As everyone knows 300 millilitres of electricity (Stat!) blown into the heart and brain at the same time is enough to bring any living thing back from the dead- of course in real life this vary rarely happens. He does it and his son is reborn again. They are both crazy though, the creature doesn't know if he is one person or various considering all the different bits which make him up. Naturally he goes on a rampage and throws lots of other children into lakes with lawnmowers attached to them. This was never fully explained and (pardon the pun) struck me as a little strange. I don't want to talk anymore about this as it is too scary. I might watch it again when I'm thirty, as when you're 28 you shouldn't be watching scary movies like this; You should be watching films with explodings and boobs, and playing Guitar Heroes.Best Scene When the monster breaks into Strictly Come Dancing and does a foxtrot with Brucie before mauling Bruno to death. I would give that a 4.5! "},{"Title":"Hilarious send-up of the Frankenstein story","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gene Wilder is the scientist Dr. Frederick Frankenstein (pronounced Fronkenshteen) who returns to the family castle in Young Frankenstein, a classic, 1974 Mel Brooks comedy that is now enjoying a reincarnation as a Broadway musical. Besides Wilder, it stars Marty Feldman, Madeline Kahn, Teri Garr, Peter Boyle and Cloris Leachman, all of whom are hilarious. Kahn is the wealthy fiancée of Dr. F, who sees him off at the train station as he leaves to collect his inheritance of the Frankenstein castle and his grandfather's papers. There he meets Igor (pronounced EYE-gor) (Feldman), who has a hump that moves from side to side - not that he admits to having one (what hump?), the housekeeper Frau Blucher - every time her name is mentioned, horses can be heard neighing in the distance, and a busty lab assistant named Inga (Garr). As if genetically encrypted, he repeats grandpa's experiments and creates a monster (Peter Boyle). What follows is a take-off on the Frankenstein films as the monster escapes and meets a little girl and a blind man (the uncredited Gene Hackman in a Bride of Frankenstein moment), the scenes all the funnier if you've seen the originals. Frankenstein is recaptured, and in order to prove his genius, Dr. F introduces him to a crowd of scientists, and man and his creation perform Puttin' on the Ritz, the highlight of the film.The movie is complete insanity, which is its intent, with great characterizations, funny bits and humor ranging from side-splitting to silly to sexual. The performances are fantastic Wilder plays it straight and dramatic, making his Dr. F even funnier than if he'd camped it up; Feldman also takes his part seriously and gives some deadpan line deliveries; Garr sports a German accent and is very funny as Inga; Leachman's Frau Blucher, who breaks down and admits the earlier Dr. F vas my BOYFWEND gives a truly classic performance in one of the best roles in the film. Peter Boyle's Frankenstein, when he finally speaks, has shades of Marlon Brando - Boyle is positively brilliant, first as a horny giant, then as a singer/dancer, and finally as a misunderstood misfit.The best performance, in my opinion, comes from Madeline Kahn as Elizabeth. It's a bravura performance with her every moment a comic gem, giving the role the magic touch that only she could. Feldman, Boyle, and Kahn are gone now, far too soon, but they all left wonderful comic legacies. Elizabeth is probably Kahn's best film performance. Who can ever hear Ah, Sweet Mystery of Life! in the same way again. "},{"Title":"Greatest Comedy of All Time?","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein is truly the greatest of all parodies of all time and one of the best comedies ever made. Mel Brooks & Gene Wilder are at their best with excellent support from Marty Feldman, Teri Garr, Madeline Kahn, Peter Boyle, Cloris Leachman, Kenneth Mars, and so many other character roles that are just as memorable and seemingly innumerable.Even without seeing the original Frankenstein and the Son of Frankenstein starring Boris Karloff, this movie seems to gain in its timeless quality as the years go by from its release. Of course, Young Frankenstein does get much funnier when you see the previous Frankenstein movies including Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein. If you have seen any Mel Brooks movies, he loves to appear in them. As he has made more and more movies, he cast himself in larger roles and then starred in them. (My favorite is High Anxiety.) I'm impressed with Mr. Brooks that he realized his appearance in this movie would not add to it. Still, his comic expertise and timing are showcased here better than any other Mel Brook film. His collaboration with Gene Wilder's original idea shows each man applying their comedic arts at their peak.Gene Wilder plays our hero, Froedrich Frankenstein. At the beginning of the movie, there several subtle hints that he's not a good guy. The best, quiet example is Give him an extra dollar for the supposed medical volunteer. Then, Froedrich begins his transformation, from pseudo-con-man wanting to cash in his inheritance to mad scientist to sacrificing himself for a greater good. This is a classic comedy with the happy ending in a Shakespearean tradition.Of course, what makes these comedians, Brooks and Wilder, shine is the supporting cast. Without Garr, Feldman, and Leachman, Froedrich's metamorphosis would not occur or make sense. Teri Garr's Inga's accent makes so many of her lines as very funny punchlines. Oof. Marty Feldman's I-gor is so adorable and plays to the audience emphasizing the parody aspect. With every scene he appears, you expect and receive a joke. After watching Cloris Leachman in the movie, you just want to go around saying, Frau Blücher hoping to hear the reaction.The film does contain three additional jewels Madeline Kahn, Kenneth Mars, and Gene Hackman. Kahn, as fiancée Elizabeth, is absolutely hilarious as a sex-pot of a woman who uses sexuality to get what she wants and who becomes the best bride of Frankenstein ever. Mars' Inspector Kemp is the kooky character that is so strange everything he does has a comedic effect. Finally, Gene Hackman, as the blind hermit Harold, is just precious with his monologue played off the Monster (Peter Boyle).I have mentioned just a few highlights of a great comedy that plays upon our society's collective knowledge and fear of a Frankenstein monster. Please watch Young Frankenstein. Enjoy, Laugh, and Smile. "},{"Title":"One of Mel Brooks finest movies.","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein will probably always be one of Mel Brooks most favourite movies along with Blazing Sadles and The Producers and out of the 3 is definitely my favourite. The movie is just so damn funny from Gene Wilders it's Frank-en-stein not Frankenstein and Marty Feldmans I got no body song is hilarious and the bit where Peter Boyles characters singing put it on the Ritz bit had me rolling around with laughter. This movie was probably one of Mel Brooks movies(I know thats the Summary) because it has the best damn bits of zaniness that I do not think anyone has or probably never will bit and it around 45 laughs in it and they were belly laughs after the movie I hurt all over because I laughed so damn hard. Overall I rate this one of the best Mel Brooks comedy's ever so I rate it 98%. "},{"Title":"Frau Blucher (Nay, whinny, whinny!)","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" That line never fails to cause me to bust a gut laughing. (Those poor horses. What does Cloris Leachman do to those poor animals? Lord knows she's ugly enough in this movie to warrant being cited for cruelty to animals.) I have been a big fan of horror movies since I was a kid, so I found this spoof on Hammer-Universal horror films quite hilarious. I seem to be the only one who thought that train ride from New York City to Transylvania was funny. When I saw it in a theater, I was the only one laughing and felt like an idiot. (Come on, folks, think. A train ride from New York City to Transylvania. TRANSYLVANIA IS IN RUMANIA! HOW WAS HE GOING TO RIDE A TRAIN ACROSS THE OCEAN? Oh, well...) Mel Brooks humor, even when it is broad and slapstick also tends to be deep at times, too. One of many things I like about it. Not as good as BLAZING SADDLES, but still a very good, funny movie. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"For what we are about to see next, we must enter quietly into the realm of genius.","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" James Whale's 1931 film 'Frankenstein' is rightly considered a timeless classic, perhaps the most famous and influential of all horror films. Curiously, I was to discover, despite the original's enduring stature, this 1974 spoof/homage by Mel Brooks is quite often considered a superior effort. Something of a hit-or-miss comedy director, Brooks discovered a stroke of brilliance in 1974, also releasing his popular western spoof comedy 'Blazing Saddles,' which I must really get around to seeing one of these days. Shot in black and white, 'Young Frankenstein' brilliantly and respectfully captures the essence of the 1931 film, complemented by hilarious performances from Gene Wilder, Peter Boyle, Marty Feldman, Teri Garr, Madeline Kahn, Cloris Leachman and Kenneth Mars.Decades after his grandfather succeeded in his experiment to reanimate dead flesh, publicly-skeptical Dr. Frederick Frankenstein (Wilder) &#150; pronounced, we are told, Fr&#156;derick Fronkenshteen &#150; travels to Transylvania to take over the infamous castle and laboratory. Here, aided by his hunch-backed assistant Igor (Feldman) &#150; pronounced Eye-gor &#150; Frankenstein rediscovers his grandfather's work, and so commits himself to reanimating a dead body of his own. Eventually, he succeeds in his experiment, and a hideous, bad-tempered and child-like Creature (Boyle) is risen from the dead.Peter Boyle &#150; best known to television audiences as the rude, obnoxious and infectiously hilarious Frank Barone from 'Everybody Loves Raymond' &#150; is brilliant in the role of the Monster, his comedic timing perfect, despite being restricted to random growls and grunts until the movie's final scenes. It struck me quite hard when Boyle passed away in December of 2006; we'd really lost a genuine comedic talent, and his performance here is yet more proof. Gene Wilder is very good in the title role, playing his character really quite seriously, and so getting a lot of the laughs. Marty Feldman is highly-memorable as the withered and slimy assistant Igor, whether it be for the awkwardly-shifting hump on his back, or the hilariously absurd dialogue (My grandfather used to work for your grandfather. Of course the rates have gone up). Particularly funny is the scene where Igor mistakenly steals the wrong brain to be reanimated, this particular one belonging to a certain person with the curious name of Abbie Normal!In order to fully capture the mood of Whale's 1931 classic horror, Brooks borrowed the same props and lab equipment from the original film. However, occasionally the film departs from that classic feel, most notably in the totally unexpected and sidesplittingly-funny musical rendition of 'Puttin' on the Ritz,' featuring Wilder and Boyle. That was undoubtedly my very favourite moment in the film. Another great scene features Gene Hackman in a cameo appearance as a lonely blind-man who makes the mistake of offering a rampaging Frankenstein some hot soup, some ale and a cigar. "}{"Title":"Mel Brooks Classic Young Frankenstein","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein (1974) Gene Wilder, Peter Boyle, Madeline Kahn, Marty Feldman, Cloris Leachman, Gene Hackman, Liam Dunn, Kenneth Mars, Richard Haydn, Danny Goldman, Anne Beesley, Arthur Malet, Oscar Bergegi Jr, Rick Norman, Rusty Blitz, Monte Landis, Rolfe Sedan, Johnny Dennis, Terence Pushman, Pat O'Hara, Richard A. Roth, Michael Fox, John Carradine, Ian Abercrombie, Berry Kroeger, Jeff Maxwell, Clement Von Franckenstein.....Director Mel Brooks, Screenplay Gene Wilder, Mel Brooks.From 1974, this is one of the earliest successes for comedian Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder, who teamed up for this hilarious and well-written comic parody/spoof of the beloved horror classic Frankenstein. It's specifically parodying the 1931 Universal Picture starring Boris Karloff. Gene Wilder stars as Dr. Frederic Frankenstein, a mad scientist living in a castle in Germany, engaged to the beautiful but shallow Elizabeth (Madeline Kahn), carrying on an affair with his sexy assistant Inga (Teri Garr)and waited on hand and foot by his hunch-back man-servant Igor (Marty Feldman). Shot in black-and-white and looking every bit as atmospheric and eerie as the original horror classic, this is possibly the best comic spoof of any film. Rather than being over-the-top, silly, grotesque or irreverent, much like today's spoof-comedies, it pays homage to Frankenstein and keeps the spirit of the classic alive, everything from the original music by John Morris, which is dramatic and lively, to the cinematography by Gerald Hirschfield and the impressive production design and costumes by Dorothy Jeakins, which pay tribute to 1930's horror films. When Dr. Frankenstein puts together a cadaver and brings it to life in his laboratory, little does he know how things will really turn out. Actor Peter Boyle, in Frankenstein get-up, plays the monster. Far from intimidating, Dr. Frankenstein trains him like a kind of kid genius and shows him off to the public in a hilarious dance bit- Putting On The Ritz. Frankenstein in the original horror film and novel is a kind of chaotic attempt to re-create a human being, complete with feelings of hate and love. Here, the comedy takes this a step further and provides him with a powerful male libido. This is hilariously showcased in the famous sex scene with Madeline Kahn's Elizabeth, who becomes drawn to the creature, mates with it and climaxes while singing O, sweet Mystery of Life, at last I've found you. Madeline Kahan would become a regular comedienne in the films of Mel Brooks after this film. Gene Wilder hams it up as the mad scientist, and is comfortable in a comic film, settling into the groove he'd entertain audiences with throughout the 1970's, some films being his own project, others comic collaborations with Mel Brooks. But Mel Brooks is the creative force behind this film, which soon enjoyed the status of a classic comedy. Mel even provided the voice for Frankenstein. Sit back and enjoy this comic jewel from the 1970's which saw many fine comedies, such as those by Woody Allen. Well-written, great-looking after all this years, Young Frankenstein remains a beloved comedy. "},{"Title":"Bust a gut funny","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember the first time I saw this film. I was literally rolling on the floor laughing. It is just that funny. This held the spot as my favorite comedy until Four Weddings came along.It is a spoof of horror flicks and it has it all Some of the best comedy writing you will ever see; music, sets and make-up that really distinguish a film; direction by one of the zaniest men in the business; and acting by Madeline Kahn, Cloris Leachman, and Marty Feldman that is over the top. Written by Gene Wilder and Mel Brooks, and directed by Brooks, this film will get the laughs out of you no matter when you see it. It doesn't get dated. It's a riot! "},{"Title":"A Classic Among Classics! One Of My All-Time Faves!","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of my favorite comedies of all time! There is nothing I can say about the writing, directing, acting that is negative. Mel Brooks is a comedic genius, and the 1970's were his 'golden years' of film making. (Actually go back to 1968 and the original 'The Producers') Gene Wilder stars in & co-wrote this film and 'Blazing Saddles', which were made within about a year of each other. Both are comedy classics! The late great Peter Boyle is a superb 'Frankenstein's Monster' and is so funny! The late great Madeline Kahn is wonderful as well. They are both Sorely Missed! R.I.P.! Another of my favorites of the 'Mel Brooks Stock Company' is Cloris Leachman.She is a scene stealer in this film as well as in 'High Anxiety'! 'Young Frankenstein' is a winner.Check it out if you are unfamiliar with the comedy of the great Mel Brooks.It's worth the time and effort. "},{"Title":"All You Need Is Love....","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It is not as good as BLAZING SADDLES or THE PRODUCERS or two other Brooks movies that I am fond of THE TWELVE CHAIRS and Dracula DEAD AND LOVING IT. But YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN is in Mel Brooks' best films, possibly because for all it's puns, jokes, spoofs, and fun it actually takes a moment to invert the actual novella by Mary Shelley and show what could have been the answer.Reading FRANKENSTEIN and seeing it's various incarnations on the movie screen and on television are two different things. Except for occasional documentaries on the history channel near Halloween, most people don't know the origins of the story - just perhaps some vague thoughts regarding the story of the Golem, perhaps, or of some of the odd early electricity experiments conducted by Alexander Volta and his contemporaries on dead frog's leg muscles or on executed criminals. You would also be surprised, in reading the story, to find that most versions on the screens delete a whole portion dealing with Captain Robert Walton's attempt to reach the North Pole by ship (a comparative nightmare that is nearly as deadly to Walton's crew as Victor Frankenstein's experiment is to his family and friends). Yet the tale is so powerful it almost always keeps it's audience attention.Here Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder update the story to 20th Century America, where Dr. Frederick Frankenstein (or Frankensteen, as he insists it is pronounced) is trying to live down his cracked grandfather's experiments. He's a successful brain surgeon and expert, and he reluctantly returns to Transylvania and the family castle to collect an inheritance. In the end he gives into the family tradition - as he says during a nightmare he can't escape his destiny. With Marty Feldman as his hunchback assistant (disgusted by Wilder's change of name pronunciation, he calls Wilder Froderick and himself Whygor), and Teri Garr as Inger the lab assistant, and Cloris Leachman as Blucher (note off stage horse whinny) as the enthusiastic house keeper, he creates Peter Boyle, only to turn from his creation when he learns it has gotten an abnormal brain by accident.But there is a major change in the story. In the novel Victor gradually realizes that his creation is hideous, and tries to destroy it - only to find it has hate for him in it's heart and destroys anything Victor loves (including his wife on their wedding night, and his best friend). The monster eventually pursues it's creator to his death, and then reveals to Captain Walton that it realizes that Victor was also the father it should have loved - and will destroy itself on a funeral pyre at the end. There is a hopelessness in the novel for the monster's predicament. Nobody is willing to accept the Monster - it's so ugly and frightening.But in the film, Wilder and Brooks offered an alternative in the modern world. While not losing sight of the ridiculous opportunities for the comedy (culminating in Wilder and Boyle dancing and singing Putting on the Ritz) the screenplay writers also point out that had Victor been kinder to his son and treated him with love and understanding (as Wilder demonstrates to Boyle), then the frightful destructiveness and evil of the monster would never have occurred. It is when Frederick treats the monster nicely that Boyle's monster grows into a more stable character, reaching out to Wilder's sudden interest to bring it acceptance from the locals. And in the end the monster finally gets the social acceptance he failed to find in the novella.I don't wish the reader to think YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN is an ultra serious film. Boyle's dancing and singing Putting on the RItz is worth watching the film for, as is Gene Hackman's cameo (based on the blind hermit played by O. P. Heggie in THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN) - only this blind hermit can't do anything for the monster but accidentally scald or burn it, driving it out of the hermit's home in a panic. Bits like Kenneth Mars' police chief, cheating in a game of darts with Wilder (and Wilder manages to injure a cat and hit Mars limousine and chauffeur's hat) or Madeleine Kahn's refusal to allow her lover to kiss or touch her (she is perfectly prepared for a society party she was invited too - in the end she and Wilder say their farewells by shaking their elbows!) are wonderful pieces of nonsense. It does succeed in achieving the amusement of the audience who watches it - what more can one do than achieve the main goal of any Hollywood film, particularly a comedy. It merits eight out of ten. "},{"Title":"The Parody of Parodies","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What a great film! Laugh? Laugh? I nearly wet myself! OK, Mel Brooks is gonna get most of the praise for the film, but I understand that Gene Wilder not only starred in it, but it was his idea! His original script! So its hardly any wonder that he played the Doctor so brilliantly - he wrote the part for himself! If a better actor (for the role of Igor)existed in any other man than Marty Feldman, speak up now. His eyes, his comedic timing, and the wandering hump have given me no less that 17 years of pure pleasure from the moment I first set eyes on him (well one eye at a time!) I wanted to roll in ze hay with Inga (Terri Garr) and if she was the lab assistant in my biology lessons, I'd be a brilliant surgeon! Peter Boyle was magnificent as the monster, Madeline Kahn was sublime as Elizabeth and with Cloris Leachman and Gene Hackman supporting, this film has got to be the best horror spoof out there. "},{"Title":"Hilarious- Mel Brooks @ The Top","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is one of the great comedy take-offs from the classic monster franchise created by Mary Shelley's work. While Frankenstein has been spoofed more often than most, notably by the team of Abbott & Costello, this take on the them is the best. I am not sure how it could be done any better. Gene Wilder, Marty Feldman, & Cloris Leachman are all great. Peter Boyle is well cast too.The difference between this and previous spoofs is that it follows through a parody of the original tail & mines it for almost every possible joke you can imagine. The mine seems loaded with golden ore too. With everything from Igor's moving hump, too Abby Normal, too Frau Bucher, & finally to topping it off with a classic endowment, this film is pure gold from start to finish. They managed to use the original lab equipment Universal used in Frankenstein which really gives it a classic look. It is so good, nobody ever complains about it being in black & white which gives it more of a visual feel dedicated to the original classic. Repeated viewings seem to be like working a stream with the pan, & finding more & more nuggets. "},{"Title":"My grandfather's work, was doo-doo!","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was all set to turn in last night when I saw Young Frankenstein in the TV listings for the Fox Movie Channel without commercial interruption. Can the movie really be over thirty years old? This flick is as refreshingly funny as when it first came out, and a wonderful showcase for the comedic talents of everyone involved.Even though the entire film is hilarious, I'm sure most viewers have their favorite bits. I bust a gut whenever I hear Igor's (Marty Feldman) 'take the bag response'. And for sheer genius, the 'Puttin' on the Ritz' number has me rolling each time.Not only does director Mel Brooks send up the original 1931 classic, but also it's offshoots, 1935's Bride of Frankenstein and 1939's Son of Frankenstein. Horror fans will recognize the references, done to exaggerated but laugh out loud effect. It's a blast that Brooks was able to locate the lab equipment props from the original film to use in his spoof, how much more authentic can you get?There's not a single reason anyone should miss this flick. This is the standard by which all film parodies should be measured, with respect and a bushel full of laughs - Blucha!!!! "},{"Title":"The Scariest Comedy Of All Time!","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" *SPOILERS, Jr.* Dr. Frederick Frankenstein (please pronounce 'Fronkenstin') (Gene Wilder) is the last heir of the (in)famous family, so he takes a trip to Transylvania and ends up following in his grandfather Victor's footsteps, creating a dumb monster (Peter Boyle) with the help of hunchback Igor (please pronounce 'Ai-gour') (Marty Feldman) and luscious assistant Inga (Teri Garr).Of course, there will be problems, what with the townsfolk, the arrival of Frederick's girlfriend (Madeline Kahn) and a lot of other stuff, but it will all end up in glory-ous B&W glory, with some of the best quotes ever (Werewolf? There wolf).It's a classic satire of a classic that's a classic in its own right; in short, a wonderful movie, with one of the best comedic performances given by the entire cast, a standout among the secondary actors being Gene Hackman as a particularly clumsy blind man (check the movie out and laugh repeatedly... it never gets old).Young Frankenstein 9/10 "},{"Title":"Put the candle back!!...Side-splittingly funny spoof of the original...","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks wisely decided to film YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN in B&W to better duplicate all the richly detailed castle exteriors and interiors of FRANKENSTEIN ('31). His homage to the James Whales original goes much further than that. There isn't a gag in the newer flick that doesn't remind you of just such a moment from a dozen other horror films. But that's what makes it so side-splittingly funny, as one silly gag follows another! From the opening scene in a medical class where GENE WILDER insists on the correct pronunciation of his name, to the railroad scene where he is saying good-bye to his sweetheart (MADELINE KAHN), the sharp humor never lets up. Their elbow nudging good-bye (she doesn't want to get her hair mussed) is priceless comic gold.And that's just for starters. Once it gets to the castle, we meet CLORIS LEACHMAN as Frau Blucher (she's so hilarious, I can't understand how anyone kept a straight face) and eventually PETER BOYLE (playful as the monster), we know this is a comedy classic the likes of which we'll probably never see again--at least from Mel Brooks.Wonderfully entertaining, there's not a single dull moment--especially when we have scenes like Wilder and his assistant, curvy TERI GARR doing their candlestick routine by the secret bookcase panel.All the cobwebs, thunder and lightning and special effects are perfect for this kind of fun/scary treatment--and to top it off, we have a show biz routine with Wilder and The Monster doing Puttin' on the Ritz. What more could you ask for? "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks' masterpiece and one of his most quotable films...","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What else can be said about this classic that hasn't already been said? 1974's YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN is Mel Brooks' dead solid perfect parody of the Frankenstein films, BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN in particular, in which we meet Frederick Frankenstein (Gene Wilder)who is the grandson of the Frankenstein of folklore, who inherits his grandfather's castle and eventually becomes obsessed with his grandfather's dream of re-animating dead tissue. Everything works here, partly because I think Brooks chose to stay behind the camera this time. I have found his work where he stays behind the camera is better. Brooks has assembled a perfect cast Wilder is brilliant as the deranged doctor, Marty Feldman creates one of the great comic characters in cinema history with Igor (It's pronounced Eye-gore), Peter Boyle makes a charming creature and Cloris Leachman brilliantly channels Judith Anderson in her Frau Blucher. Teri Garr is a lovely Inga and Madeline Kahn is memorable as Frederick's fiancée Elizabeth. It's one gag after another here and almost all of them work. Personally, I think Kenneth Mars' Inspector Kemp is a bit over the top, but why carp? But above all, you have the classic Brooks/Wilder screenplay, which has become part of pop-culture folklore...I'm pretty sure anyone who has ever scene this film can quote at least two or three lines from it. A comedy classic that just gets better with age...like fine wine. "}{"Title":"Huge hand a real hand?","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Here is a very obscure trivia question for any and all. There is a scene where Gene Wilder is transporting a corpse on a wagon. He get's caught holding one of the body's hands when a constable stops him. The hand is huge. Pretending it is one of his own hands is part of the humor of course. Does anyone know if that hand was some huge actors real huge hand? Of course it could have been a prop. But it looked so incredibly real. It appeared to be flexible like a real human hand. I wondered if they hired Andre the Giant or someone to provide that hand! While the rest of him was hidden of course. Does anybody know if if it was a real or fake hand? Hmm, I have to fill this up to ten lines. OK, the constable asks Wilder Do you need a hand. Wilder replies, No thanks, got one. At one point he manages to salute the constable with this huge hand. "},{"Title":"My 2cd favorite Mel Brooks movie","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" CAN NOT GET A POSITIVE COMMENT TO POST, SO BELOW IS MY POSITIVE COMMENTS TO SPACEBALLS BELOW THAT IS YOUNG FRANKENSTEINhttp//www.imdb.com/title/tt0094012/usercomments-206 I love this film!!Saw it 3 times in the theater.Being a long time Star Wars fan & collector this film could have went bad easy.But, it did not. Thankfully.Loved it the first time I saw it.Cast & script are perfect!! So many scenes & so many lines I can play over & over again.They've gone to plaid! Good, you're married! Kiss her!!Merchandising!! Where the real money from the movie is made.Great ideas taken from the original Star Wars trilogy & other films.Wonderful film.Wish Mel still made them like this.1, 2, 3, 4, 5.This is my 2cd favorite Mel Brooks movie.Right behind Spaceballs.An excellent cast.An excellent script.I remember seeing this in the theater when I was a kid.Very funny & still is to this day.Taking from the original Frankenstein & using the props from the original film was great.Glad they were allowed to do this.Good to see in wide screen/letterbox on DVD.Even a black & white film in the 1970's it was perfect as is.Wish Mel still made films like this.It's pronounced 'Igor'.Roll, roll, roll in the hay. "},{"Title":"Ah! Sweet mystery of life at last I've found you","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It is difficult to determine which is funnier Young Frankenstein or Blazing Saddles. Both sprang perhaps full blown from the demented brain of Mel Brooks. The two also represent the apex of his creative genius. He had already done such gems as Your Show of Shows and The Producers, not to mention Get Smart and The 2000 Year Old Man. Following these two masterpieces, Young Frankenstein and Blazing Saddles, his humor began to dry up and become even trite. Perhaps fame and fortune was too much for him. He still had a little of the spark left for Silent Movie and Spaceballs. Then oblivion. Too bad. We miss the old mad Mel.Young Frankenstein is basically a clever spoof of the old Universal horror flicks of the 30's and 40's, in particular The Bride of Frankenstein, which itself was somewhat of a spoof on the entire genre. Mel had the good sense to shoot it in crisp black and white using sets that resemble the sets in the originals, making the film seem all that more quaint and relevant. He also assembled his cast of idiots, the funniest buffoons on the planet earth at the time, or is it Mars? Who can forget Madeline Kahn's first sexual encounter with the monster? Kahn, who has to be one of the greatest comediennes in screen history, calls Frankenstein's monster by her pet name for him, Zipper Neck. Once consummated Kahn lets out one of the wildest soprano screeches ever heard, Ah! Sweet mystery of life at last I've found you. Gene Wilder is the only actor capable of playing Dr. Frederick Frankenstein (that's Frankensteen) with a flippancy so exaggerated that it comes off comical. Igor (that's I-Gor), the deformed dwarf who is in hump denial, is played in a grotesquely burlesque manner that is both repulsive and humorous by that crazy man Marty Feldman. Cloris Leachman is so creepy she would make any horse whinny and who wouldn't want a tumble in the hay with Teri Garr? So much as been written about the marvelous scene with the blind man played by the consummate actor Gene Hackman that one need only say, don't miss it. It is an outrageous parody of a similar scene in The Bride of Frankenstein, where the blind hermit is portrayed by O.P. Heggie. Then there's the monster, given a caricature interpretation by Peter Boyle. While not as ghoulish as Boris Karloff (who is?), he is just right for the comic touches required for the part.If for some unknown reason you haven't seen Young Frankenstein yet, by all means ignore the reviews and rent it on DVD or watch it on TV. You'll laugh till you're sore. This is one of those rare films that can stand repeat viewings and remain fresh and alive. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Yet another spoof movie, this time about Frankenstein. Or, rather, Fronkensteen.The movie starts off with Fredrick Frankenstein (Gene Wilder) being willed his great-grandfather's castle. Frankenstein begrudgingly takes a trip to visit it, though he wants no part in his ancestor's crazy scheme in re-animating the dead, and he constantly denies his heritage. It is only after he finds an old notebook detailing exactly how to re-awaken the dead that he believes it might be possible. That's when the movie takes off. Each scene becomes more hilarious than the last one.Frankenstein has enough meat on it to make fun of. A mad scientist resurrects the dead with his hunchback assistant? Seriously. The challenge wasn't making the movie funny. The challenge was making it funny while not making it too over-the-top. Although stories that focus only on humor can work, and have on many occasions, the general story of Frankenstein has too much plot for it to fit well here. And that's what Mel Brooks did. He focused on the plot and stemmed the humor from there. It works beautifully.From Fronkensteen to Eye-gor, and everyone in between, Young Frankenstein is one of the funniest movies around. "},{"Title":"It's pronounced Fronkonsteen!","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN A Mel Brooks comedy Dr. Frederick Frankenstein (Gene Wilder) has spent his life trying to live down the bad reputation of his name. When he inherits the castle of his infamous grandfather, Victor Frankenstein, he changes plans and decides to make grandpa's dreams come true. Working after Frankenstein Sr.'s notes, Frederick sets out to create life in his laboratory. If only his assistant Igor (hilarious Martin Feldman) hadn't screwed up by stealing an abnormal brain for the monster...Mel Brooks truly is the king of spoofs. With SPACEBALLS, he spoofed the entire STAR WARS trilogy, while still managing to write a coherent plot into the comedy. HIGH ANXIETY faced the hard task of spoofing Hitchcock, one of the most revered directors in film history, and succeeded brilliantly. Even the misfired Dracula DEAD AND LOVING IT had some clever stabs at the vampire genre.YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN is not as much of a spoof as it is an homage to the classic '33 horror film. Shot in black and white, with amazing cinematography and gorgeous set design that perfectly captures the spirit of FRANKENSTEIN, the film is great to look at as well as hilarious.Gene Wilder is solid as Frankenstein, but it's Martin Feldman who steals the show as the hunchbacked assistant, Igor. His wild facial expressions and memorable lines (what hunch?) make him one of the funniest characters you're ever likely to see on film. The most classic gag in the film might be Igor's walk this way pun at the train station. Kenneth Mars is also a treat as the armed and dangerous police inspector Friederich Kemp.Overall Mel Brook's movie is solid, beautiful to look at, consistently funny and definitely worth a look. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Gene Wilders triumph","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gene Wilder will be known as two people Willy Wonka and Dr. Fredrick Fronkonsteen. Marty Feldman will be known as Igor and Teri Garr will always be known as Inga. This is probably Mel Brooks' best picture. Blazing Saddles is nothing compared to this comedy farce. A lot of the credit goes to Gene Wilder who wrote a majority of the script. This is one of Mel Brook' only pictures in which he does not appear himself. Mel Brooks is great comedy director and this is proof of it. He has created the most quotable movie ever. This movie stares Gene Wilder, Marty Feldman, Kenneth Mars, Cloris Leachman, Peter Boyle, Gene Hackman Teri Garr and the late great Madiline Kahn. This is probably one of my favorite movies of all time. The greatest moment in film/comedy history is the classic Puttin on the Ritz scene. Can you believe that Mel Brooks protested this scene. The DVD has an funny commentary track by Mel Brooks an interesting documentary and some funny deleted scenes. The movie is great the actors are great the DVD is great the whole thing is great. This movie is funny from beginning to end. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Comedy of Comedies","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The best comedy from the mind of Mr. Mel Brooks and actors Gene Wilder and Marty Feldman. Young Fdrankenstein is by far THE Comedy Movie that will leave you laughing from start to finish and works whether you are five or seventy-five years old. The spoof of the Universal Frankenstein movies, fans will laugh as the Frankenstein Monster wreaks havoc in search for love and affection. It's funny when a young Gene Hackman lights the Monster's thumb instead of the cigar and burns his laps with the hot soup. Also, the name of the Frau making the horses nay and lightning strike and thunder is true comedy. In the end, this comedy gem is sure to make you a fan for this movie and any Mel Brooks comedy. The DVD version and recent VHS tape contains deleted scenes that were not in the movie or left out in the editing process, next time if it goes through the DVD treatment for anniversary should go ahead and put the deleted scenes into the movie. Go out and buy this movie or rent it, you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks' Best","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of the funniest films ever made. Featuring unforgettable performances by Gene Wilder, Madeline Kahn, Teri Garr, Marty Feldman, Joe Boyle, Cloris Leachman, Kenneth Mars and a wonderful cameo by Liam Dunn. I love all of Mel Brooks' films and this one is at the top of that list (even higher than Blazing Saddles). Unfortunately some of the people I mentioned have gone to a higher calling. Among them, Mr. Feldman, Ms Kahn and Mr. Dunn. I'm glad I have lived during a time when I could see and appreciate the work of Mel Brooks. His legacy will be as huge as the saga of Blazing Saddles. If you have never seen a Mel Brooks film then treat yourself! "},{"Title":"Funny film","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love this movie. It's funny and well made and was done at a time when Mel Brooks was at the top of his game, instead of later, when he did terrible movies like the Robin Hood one or the bad Dracula movie (trying to duplicate the success of Young Frankenstien with disastrous results).Brooks takes scenes from some of the original Universal movies and spoofs them well. Marty Feldman was at his best as Igor, the assistant with the moving hump. And of course Gene Wilder was great. It's a wonder he and Brooks didn't do more stuff together in the 70s and 80s, they seemed to have worked together so well in the projects they did work together in.Great movie. "},{"Title":"Richard the III's drive meets mel's comedy","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" okay this is a pretty funny movie and i do own it on DVD however its not mel brook's best. its okay to show for kids at a halloween party and its a nice halloween movie but its just to long and fizzels out in the end. like richard the third it just doesn't finish well. i don't know what else to really say without adding in spoilers. i love mel brooks and i love the first hour of this movie but theirs just nothing coming after that. i totally recommend all other mel brooks films which he very creatively get around not having an ending (i.e. blazing saddles, and history of the world part I) so go out and see this movie but just don't expect a fantastic film. low expectations for the film will make it sooo much better and you will enjoy it very much. having a girl/guy to watch it with wouldn't be bad either. "}{"Title":"The King of Spoofs","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstien is the king of spoofs. Everything that is needed to make a great comedy are gathered up and mixed. You'll be laughing non-stop throughout the entire film.Frederick Frankenstien (Gene Wilder) is the grandson of infamous Dr. Victor Frankenstien who created the original monster. Instead of a mad doctor, Frederick is a neurosurgeon and is now about to inherit the castle of his grandfathers. While exploring the castle, he comes across his grandfathers servant Igor (Marty Feldman) who just can't seem to keep his hump on the left or right side of his back. But his some delightful discovery is the finding of his grandfathers diary of how to create a monster.Things get a little silly but are all well-rounded and humorous in their own way. Among the best scenes include the dart throwing scene, the fixing of Ab-Normals brain into the monster (a discovery by Igor), and the monster and Gene Wilder doing a tap dance. The comedy is the best it will ever get. Mel Brooks proves that he is a genius for righting spoofs and would later continue with his creation Spaceballs (1987).The whole film is shot in black and white as sort of an honor to the traditional horror flicks. It is the funniest comedy I've ever seen. O! Ya, also watch for a surprise guest role by Gene Hackman as the blind man serving soup.Young Frankstien. Starring Gene Wilder, Marty Feldman, Peter Boyle, and Teri Garr.5 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Logical Explanation of how Mel Brooks Movies are Funny Young Frakenstein","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The only people in my experience that rate Mel Brooks movies comparatively low are those who have only heard about the movies. The tiny percentage of the haters who actually view the movie and dislike it do not have a good grasp of the subject material in the movie. I suppose that this is my main point. If anyone takes anything from my commentary, this is it To truly enjoy a Mel Brooks spoof, you must have a good knowledge of the subject material being satirized.Mel often includes little things in the movies that you may not notice unless you have, say, actually read Frakenstein or seen one of the movies that it has spawned.One closing comment No one can deny liking Puttin' On The Ritz. Period. P "},{"Title":"Great comedy from Mel Brooks!","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In 1974, Mel Brooks produced not one, but two hit movies. Blazzing Saddles and Young Frankenstein. Both are excellent. In Young Frankenstein Gene Wilder plays the grandson of Frankenstein, who's a brain surgeon. However he would rather be called Fronkensteen. At first he's reluctant to follow in his grandfather's footsteps, until he hops on a train to Transylvania and meets his assistant Igor. Before we know it, he does follow in his grandfather's footsteps, with a failed experiment gone wrong, and it wreaks havoc in the city in the most hilarious ways one can imagine.Marty Feldman is great as Igor, and so are the rest of the cast. The funniest scene was when Frankstein and the Monster were singing, Puttin' on the Ritz. Also, the part where Igor was looking for a brain, and ends up using an 'abnormal' brain, instead! Pure hilarity from beginning to end. People of all ages will enjoy this masterpiece of Mel Brooks. Young Frankenstein is sure to please fans of Mel Brooks, or people who are just beginning to get into his movies. I give Young Frankstein 4 stars! "},{"Title":"Ah!, Sweet Mystery of Life","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein is the classic of all time classic comedies. Mel Brooks directed, in my opinion his masterpiece of all his films. Filmed so beautifully in black and white. Gene Wilder is so sensational as Frederick Frankenstein and Madeline Kahn is once again so incredible as ever as his fiancé Elizabeth. I wish the film would have been in color just to see her beautiful red hair shine. Peter Boyle is wonderful as the monster. Marty Feldman as Igor is phenomenal. Cloris Leachman is hysterical as the housekeeper Frau Blucher. Kenneth Mars is great as Inspector Kemp. Gene Hackman has an uproarious cameo as a blind man and Teri Garr is very sexy and funny as Inga, the doctors assistant. The whole cast is outstanding. Not many films have a unique cast in one great movie.Anyone who has seen this film knows all the classic lines. Mel Brooks is getting ready to bring Young Frankenstein to Broadway as a musical, he may strike gold with it and probably do a film of the musical, but it can never be as good as this gem. The DVD is great to own and has lots of extras and some facts about the making of the film. One for instance is that Teri Garr got the part of Inga, because Madeline Kahn was offered the part first but felt the smaller part of Elizabeth was better for her. It was a far smaller role, but she put her stamp on it and stole every scene she was in. She should have been nominated for another Oscar for this role and could have one it too. That is the only one thing about the film that does bother me, that she is in only a few scenes, but when she is on screen its pure magic. She is so sexy and passionately funny in every word she speaks. "},{"Title":"A Phenomenon!","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Like Jewison's Jesus Christ Superstar, Mel Brooks' Young Frankenstein is another example of modern movie-making that translates comedy at its very best. Comparing the film to Citizen Kane, there is not a single frame not worth talking about. While the rest of the world will scream about the Producers as Mel Brooks legacy, Young Frankenstein is just as good if not better. The cast of characters which includes the late / great Madeline Kahn add to the movie's genius. A perfect movie for all, this is a comedy worth laughing with. It is very hard for a horror movie to be both scary at times and funny all of the time. Young Frankenstein is a marvel of a movie and a great comedy wrapped up into one. "},{"Title":"Classic comedy about a great horror character","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This truly is a film made from the heart of its makers and cast. Mel Brooks directed this masterpiece based on the older looks of the movies before when it was made (1974) and kept the comedy subtle at times and in-your-face at others. Frederick Frankstein, played by Gene Wilder, has decided to prove his father's experiments to reanimate a human after death as a hoax. When he gets to the castle where the experimenting took place, his view on the project changes and Frankstein continues the research and overall successes and failures that came with the creation.So automatically, you think OK, just like Mary Shelley's vision of the doctor and his monster. But that's where Brooks and Wilder come in and help with comedic possibilities in the castle. From the bumbling Igor (pronounced eye-gore), played by the bug-eyed Marty Feldman, to Teri Garr's character as Inga, the assistant to Dr. Frankenstein, everybody around Wilder's Frankenstein enacted upon him to keep going with his experimenting and resolutions. The characters were all memorable and hilarious, and, in contrast to most character films, the actors knew when to dumb down their characters and when to have them go crazy and hilarious.I thought that time kinda works against this film a little. The comedic movies that are released now don't work as hard as this crew did on this film, granted, but the jokes and pun-humor that is included in this movie is a little dated and old-timed. Its a definitive Brooks film, however, and that needs some recognition because Mel has been making great films for many years, all with great premises and gags. The music was eerie and tried for the feel of the 30's Frankenstein but mixed well with the showboating scene when the monster dances with its creator onstage in front of the town-audience. The sets were straight out of the original Frankstein (many of the original props and settings were used for the film, BTW) and the set designer was a genius with his vision, as well.I gave this film a 7/10 because it still feels a bit dated and hard to watch a little bit, but the comedy added that comfort to keep you watching. "},{"Title":"Another work of art from the Brooks/Wilder camp.","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie it was part of a double bill with Blazing Saddles, another great from Mel and Gene. This was back in the 70's and when I was a young lad. I thought it was the funniest movie I'd ever seen and it still makes me laugh today, 30 years on. Describe this movie in one word? BRILLIANT. I was surprised to find 'Y.F' in the horror category! Filming the movie in black and white gives it the authentic touch of all the old horror films I grew up with. An excellent cast all round, and including Marty Feldman (Igor) in his best performance ever. I ain't got no body, ra ta ta ta I'm still laughing my head off today.  "},{"Title":"You'll never be able to watch a horror movie with a straight face again.","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How do you make brilliant comedy? Get great writers (like Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder), then hire two stars who can be complete whack-jobs (like Gene Wilder and Terry Gar). Finish it off with a cast of human cartoons (like Marty Feldman, Madeline Kahn, Peter Boyle, Liam Dunne, Kenneth Mars and many, many more). With the possible exception of Shrek, this is the best movie ever made. You'll laugh yourself silly. And you'll find phrases creeping into your vocabulary, like put the candle back, elevate me, well, they were wrong then, weren't they, there wolf, there castle, Ovaltine? and, of course Blucker! &#150; as well as singing Sweet Mystery of Life in bed. Not only will you still be laughing the sixth and eighth time you see this flick, you'll go into hysterics when people (yourself included) repeat dialogue from it. This is the film that made Gene Wilder a star and Mel Brooks a legend.  "},{"Title":"There wolf, there castle! MMMMMMM!","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If somebody asked me which three videos I'd want if I weremarooned on a desert Island, I'd have to say Monty Python and theHoly Grail, Blazing Saddles and Young Frankenstein. Can'tdecide which of the two Mel Brooks films I like better becausethey're both fantastic. Brooks doesn't hold anything sacred in hisclassic spoof of 1930s horror flicks. Marty Feldman steals theshow as Eye-gor, Starting with the scene where a wolf howls inthe background and somebody says Werewolf? Where? Martypoints and says There! There wolf, there castle! Also, where heconfesses that the brain he took from the lab belonged to Abbysomebody. Gene Hackman as the blind hermit and the scenewith the monster and the little girl on the seesaw just had mecracking up. Peter Boyle's fabulous as the monster, and so is TeriGarr in a supporting role. Wish I could say more about it withoutspoiling it. "},{"Title":"Very funny movie","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To me, this film is not laugh out loud funny.  It's more Gary Larson funny, where you look at a picture, and even though you don't physically laugh, inside you can't control the hysteria.Still, I can't help but feel that I would find this film better if I had actually seen some of the classic horror films (in the same way that Blazing Saddles would be better watching westerns, or Airplane! would be better watching the '70s airplane disaster films).True, some of the jokes are few and far in between, but there are so many that still make me laugh.  The best jokes are the ones that keep you laughing, even after you've seen them a hundred times.  The monster is well played by Peter Boyle, and even in a Mel Brooks comedy, you can feel true sympathy for him.  I think this is Brooks' most serious comedy (who says comedies can't be serious?).  Some of the references are a little obscure, but they don't detract from the movie overall.  Good accomplishment.  7 stars. "}{"Title":"Wilder, Feldman, Brooks and Kahn. Bliss!","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SPOILERSWhen Mel Brooks was preparing to release the wonderful Blazing Saddles, he was set up working with his friend Gene Wilder on another piece of cinema. Wilder, for the last few months had been writing his latest idea, a satire of the classic Frankenstein films, and inviting Brooks to work with him, Wilder was to bring together an amazing group of people who would make Young Frankenstein the masterpiece that it is.In this film, Wilder plays young Frederick Frankenstein, a lecturer in neuroscience, who is given the last will and testament of his great grandfather. Travelling to Transylvania, Frederick finds himself with his own servant Igor (played beautifully by Marty Feldman) and it isn't long before he's creating his own monster too.Just like in Blazing Saddles and The Producers, it is not just Mel Brooks, but his cast which makes the film so damn good. By including Marty Feldman and Madeline Kahn in this film, Wilder and Brooks have chosen two of my alltime favourite actors. Marty Feldman was a comic genius who is so often undervalued and who's early death was a tragedy for comedy. Likewise, Madeline's death in 1999 of Ovarian Cancer was also a comedic tragedy. All three of the main women in this film are wonderful in fact. Alongside Kahn, Teri Garr as Inga is hilarious and brilliant, even if often nowadays it is too easy for people to see her as Phoebe's mother from Friends. Cloris Leachman as Frau Blucher is the third main female star of this film, and whilst missing the sexual element which Kahn and Garr added, Leachman casts a twisted feature as her character, the original Dr Frankenstein's secret Girlfriend.Just like in the classic Boris Karloff films, it is the monster who is the most important character, and teaming up with Kahn, Wilder and company, as the monster was Peter Boyle. Boyle spending the majority of the film groaning is superb, adding a sense of child like naivety to the monster's existence.Aside from the beautiful combination of actors, with Mel Brooks behind the director, Young Frankenstein is a beautiful success. With the rare style of filming it in Black and White (the first time a film had been made in monotone for eight or nine years), the magic was complete.Ultimately, it can be very hard for me to write a review for Mel Brooks films. The reasoning behind this is that whilst I can easily condemn the later features, with the earlier films, I adore them all so much that it can be incredibly difficult to compare them with each other. With Young Frankenstein though I adore it so much that I have nothing but praise for it. If I had to choose one Mel Brooks film for a Brooks virgin, I'd choose Blazing Saddles. In contrast if I wanted to choose the most clever and ingenius of his films, I confess I'd choose The Producers. For my own personal choice though and for my pure love of so many of the cast characters, I would choose Young Frankenstein every day. This film is a piece of cinema history and something to be remembered. "},{"Title":"Another winnah","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow.. just bought the dvd of YF.. My god, i thought Blazing Saddle was the proverbal bomb.. then I find this.. wow, Mel's work is genius then,  I mean he's work past has been excellent as well, with a few stinkers, but BS and YF are by far some of the best comedies made in the past 50 years.. wow! My personal fav seen is with the monster singing.. putting on the ritzzzzz... hilarious.. And gene was great as well, he is a true actor, almost watching danny kaye again.. bravo. rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"one of my absolute movies of all time!","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think that I first saw this movie when it came out, which would've made me 13 -- my mom took my sister and me to see it and I think she was embarrassed. We both thought it was hilarious. I can't even remember how many times since then I've watched this movie! There are so many outstanding quotes from this movie, too! I've always been a fan of Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder, but this is by far the best of their movies! The cast works well together -- Cloris Leachman as Frau Blucher (neiiiggghhh!), Teri Garr, Peter Boyle, Madeline Khan (taffeta, darling!), Marty Feldman (abby-someone), even Gene Hackman! This is a timeless movie, one that's as good now as it was 30 years ago (is it REALLY that old?!?!).  Enjoy it! "},{"Title":"A Very Funny Mel Brooks Movie!","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mel Brooks has made a masterpiece! I laughed my head off at this movie, because of the comedic talents of Gene Wilder, Marty Feldman, and Cloris Leachman. Besides Spaceballs, I don't think there are any movies made by Mel Brooks that are better than this; it's funny as Hell! There is such a talented cast including Gene Wilder, Marty Feldman, Cloris Leachman, Terri Garr, Madeline Kahn, and Peter Boyle. There are so many funny spoofs of Frankenstein movies, including Frankenstein and The Bride of Frankenstein. Mel Brooks also made this movie black-and-white to make fun of all the old Frankenstein movies.I recommend this movie to EVERYONE!! It is funny as Hell and you laugh your head off, like me.10/10  "},{"Title":"Simply Classic","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While I thought Blazing Saddles, Spaceballs, and High Anxiety were pretty lame, Mel Brooks' efforts with Young Frankenstein was simply enchanted.Using the original sets from the Karloff movies, the endless sight gags (Igor's everchanging hump, the hairdos, and the Puttin' on the Ritz dance number), Gene Wilder, Marty Feldman, it was all magic.Easily the best slapstick comedy ever made. "},{"Title":"Fun for all.","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was a laugh-fest. If you know anything about the early days of the horror genre, or the story of Frankenstein, this movie will tickle your funny bone. One of the funniest scenes, in my opinion, is when the monster comes upon the blind man (played by Gene Hackman!) and has a &#145;meal' with him. The black-and-white photography is also a treat! I recommend this timeless classic for all the ages&#133; "},{"Title":"Corny but fun!","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Despite this film being more than a decade older than I am, it remains one of my favorites. I have not really seen any of the early Frankenstein movies in their entirety but felt that this movie payed great homage with the film being in black and white and with the wonderful sets. The acting was superb yet the jokes were very corny. But so much so that they were appealing. A must see for any fan of parody or anyone just looking for a good laugh. Five stars "},{"Title":"Promethean Wilder, Subtle Brooks Shine","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There's a lot of amazing things about Young Frankenstein. To start with, it was made fast on the heels of one of the all-time comedy classics, Blazing Saddles, which director Mel Brooks was still editing while he simultaneously shot Young Frankenstein. The films opened months apart in 1974, and Young Frankenstein, while a very different and less wild comedy than Blazing Saddles, hardly suffered from the juxtaposition. They are still considered by most people Mel Brooks' #1 and #2 comedies, perhaps the #1 and #2 comedies of the 1970s. The only question may be which is which.I just feel blessed to be in a world with both. Blazing Saddles is funnier, it broke conventions and made anarchy into an art form. It's a greater comedy than Young Frankenstein, and a more significant work of art. But Young Frankenstein is the better film. It has a heart. You are encouraged not just to laugh, but to feel, feel for the pathetic, confused monster; for his vainglorious creator; for the sad crone who pines for her long-dead love and winces with real hurt when the horses whinny at the sound of her name. It has a beginning, a middle, and an end. And it's so funny, it's deadly.Gene Wilder and Mel Brooks clearly needed each other more than either cared to admit. As other posters note, they never collaborated after this film, and neither had much good to show for their separation (Wilder did have another collaboration or two left with Richard Pryor, so he did a little better, but choosing between Life Stinks and Funny About Love is a dog's breakfast to be sure.) Look how mightily Wilder roars. In his DVD commentary, Brooks calls Wilder's performance more than brilliant, it's Promethean. Wilder's Dr. Fronk-En-Steen is en fuego indeed, screaming with more passion than Wilder bestowed on all his subsequent roles combined. His wild hair, his lustful ravishings of Madeline Kahn and Teri Garr, his jabbing a scalpel in his thigh, is the stuff of inspired genius, and shows a comic actor at the top of his game. Brooks, by contrast, plays it relatively straight, letting the script go for the laughs while he concentrates on setting up the actors and establishing the film's brilliant mood, which plays off the original Universal Frankenstein films in a clearly respectful but nevertheless playfully satirical way. As caustic and scatological as he was in Blazing Saddles, Brooks is sweet and disciplined here. The vulgarity is minimal, the sex jokes are less obvious, and there's a real story to follow.The ensemble cast also helps. They play off each other like a polished orchestra, to the point where you can't really pick a favorite character. At least for me, it changes. Marty Feldman is the audience manqué as the charmingly weird EYE-gor, Cloris Leachman (the only member of the cast to ever win an Oscar, but for The Last Picture Show) is goofy and sinister at the same time as Frau Blucher He vas my BOYFRIEND! Actresses have never come as simultaneously sexy and hilarious as Teri Garr, who has fun with her accent and her eyes. Peter Boyle projects youthful innocence and fear as the Monster, cashing it all in comedically in his Putting On The Ritz performance.Young Frankenstein was nearly the first movie I ever saw, early in 1975 when I was all of eight, and watching it again takes me back to that first feeling of wonder. You get this great classic horror build-up, enough to stir dread in the youngest hearts, and then you get bowled over with humor for ninety minutes. But the film never quite lets go of the scary stuff, which is why it endures. Indeed, the best scenes, like the one where the good Doctor has himself locked in a room with a monster, ordering his staff not to let him out, have a healthy dose of both. (`What's the matter with you people, couldn't you tell I was joking! Let me out! Mommy!')The DVD for this is especially worth having, with Brooks' commentary, a documentary with Wilder but not Brooks (are they never going to collaborate on anything ever again?), and nice little bonus features, like commercials with Brooks' clever voice-overs (Some say this is the best movie ever made, and this is Some signing off) and a pair of Spanish-language interviews shot for Mexican television which demonstrate both YF's international appeal and the good-natured, try-anything attitude of the cast as Wilder, Leachman, and Feldman obviously relish being interviewed in two languages at once. (Leachman even kisses the interviewer on the lips at the end of her segment; where can I get a job like his?) Young Frankenstein may be a film set entirely at night, but the sun was really shining on these guys all the same.  "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks' greatest film","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Young Frankenstein is a bizarre film because it is a hilarious farce of classic horror films, but is presented to us with a beautiful cover.  The film is on part comedy classic and one part admirable film in an aesthetic sense.  The crisp black and white cinematography is really quite gorgeous.Co-written by Brooks and the film's star Gene Wilder, Young Frankenstein is (in this viewer's humble opinion) Brooks' greatest film to date.  Not only does it have some of the funniest lines of any film I've seen, (`What hump?') but showcases some of the most brilliant comedic acting seen in decades.  Gene Wilder, who has woefully all but disappeared from cinema the last two decades, is at his peak in this film.  His `Dr. Frankenstein' is at times both serious and completely spastic.  Teri Garr's `Inga' the lab assistant, is hilarious as a German sexpot.  Cloris Leachman's role as `Frau Blucher', the caretaker of Frankenstein's castle whose very name inspires the `whinnying' of horses is small, but incredibly memorable.  And Marty Feldman practically steals the show as `Igor', Dr. Frankenstein's henchman who has a wandering hump and a funny way of walking.  These characters are just a few examples of the outstanding cast who execute the brilliant lines in such a manner that thirty years later we are still repeating them and acting out various scenes.  There truly are not enough good things to say about Young Frankenstein, and certainly nothing that hasn't already been said.  If you have not seen this film, it is one of those films that one should see in their lifetime &#150; not because it is an `important' or `socially relevant' film, but simply because it is a GREAT film.  --Shelly  "},{"Title":"The only film to survive Mel Brooks","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First off, I am not Mel Brooks fan. In fact he is among my least favourite writers of all time. Which is why, when I caught a late-night showing of 'Young Frankenstein' on TV, I was so surprised at just how good it was. The art direction is brilliant, especially as it uses -and captures the feel of- the original Frankenstein sets. I have read most of the other user comments for this film and am alarmed at how different my opinion is whilst agreeing overall on the film's genius.Most of the reviews I have read lauded praise almighty upon Marty Feldman (as Igor) above the considerable talent of Gene Wilder (Frankenstein). Marty Feldman is NOT good in this movie and barely anything he says or does is funny (I mostly blame the writing as he does have the worst selection of jokes). I can't help wonder if people are just laughing at his eyes.More worrying is the choice of jokes that have been recounted (What big knockers, Frau Blucher etc..). Did no-one else recognise that the funniest bit was when Dr. Frankenstein gets so mad with a student that he stabs himself in the leg with a scalpel. On paper it doesn't sound so funny but Gene Wilder's reaction makes it hilarious. And this is why I think the film works; whilst sitting through the film I found it painfully obvious which jokes were written by Mel Brooks and which were Wilder's.The best example of Mel Brooks seemingly intentional avoidance of humour is that the fact that he wanted to get rid of the tap-dancing monster scene. This is one of the highlights of the film and one of the best comic scenes of all time. A quick mention of Peter Boyle is order, he quite simply is the monster. A superlative performance.Overall, this is a brilliant film and as much as I criticise the dodgy Mel Brooks humour, it didn't spoil the film. "}{"Title":"The Best!","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is possibly Mel Brook's best. It has great jokes,laugh a minute lines,and a great cast. The funniest has to be Marty Feldman as Igor. He is animated. Gene Wilder is also great! This is true Mel Brooks,no Spaceball garbage4/4 "},{"Title":"Old Friend.","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I believe it was Gene Wilder who said that this was the perfect example of a perfect cast making everything come out right. Gene Wilder, Marty Feldman, Peter Boyle, Teri Garr, Madeline Kahn, Cloris Leachman, and Gene Hackman in a small role all seem so perfect that they make up for some obvious and sub par jokes that are thankfully few and far between. I am thinking of when Igor tells Frederick to walk this way, the look on Gene Wilder's face makes up for the obvious joke. All of these actors are so perfect that I can't imagine anyone else in their parts. The touches made to make this movie look like one of the old Universal Frankenstein films(Peter Boyle's makeup, comic variations on classic scenes, and the brilliant choice to make the movie black and white) push this movie toward greatness. Add in a performance by Boyle that is worthy of Karloff and you can no longer avoid this film when speaking of classics. Like all classics it has flaws, but the good aspects make it forgivable, perhaps even more likable.*Until the day I die, I will continue to break out into this song at parties, I ain't got nobody and nobody cares for me!* "},{"Title":"Brooks' genius at its heighth","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of my generations' most loved movies and one of Mel Brooks's best works.Brilliant casting, comedic Mel Brooks genius, and some of the best performances since Ten Commandments is what you will get with this 1974 spoof of the Mary Shelley classic. While Brooks's comedic style is somewhat of an acquired taste, and either hits or misses almost instantly, Young Frankenstein was not only a more intellectual endeavor than his wildly successful Blazing Saddles, but like Blazing Saddles, has stood up under (almost) thirty years of scrutiny. Watching Young Frankenstein today, it is just as funny, and just as clever, as it was when it was first done.Gene Wilder brilliantly portrays the grandson of Baron Victor Von Frankenstein; an unwilling heir to his genius, his castle, and all the knowledge the infamous doctor had in his possession. Terri Garr is perfectly cast as the finger-in-the-mouth, knee-bent into the other knee, dumb blond, easy-to-seduce lab assistant to the young Dr.Frankenstein. And Marty Feldman had never been better cast in a role in his entire career, as Igor, Frankenstein's right hand...man.Complete with a cameo by Gene Hackman, and Peter Boyles as the Monster. The running gags throughout the movie are a bit weak, admittedly, but the overall genius of the film leaves no doubt that Mel Brooks captured something almost magickal in his direction of this wonderful homage.No wonder that the use of the English language was so well prescribed in this marvelous production. It was co-written by Gene Wilder himself, as a comedic adaptation of Mary Shelley's novel.As a classic in the comedy field, this fine Mel Brooks production has withstood the tests of time and stands with a brilliant line of classic parodies directed by Brooks.If you liked this movie, please give Spaceballs a try. It is another brilliant parody, this time of the Star Wars series by George Lucas.I also highly recommend The History of the World, Part 1, also by Brooks. It is an irreverent look at our biblical past. Life Stinks, another parody, this time of the legendary comedic effort by Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy entitled, Trading Places. And last but certainly not least, Blazing Saddles, a brilliant, well received parody of the western films of America's recent past.It rates an 8.7/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Great movie for anyone","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Having just seen this movie, I think it's great. I would not have thought a movie made in 1974 would appeal to me(being 17 years old), but this movie does a good job of making you laugh. The humor involved is great Gene Wilder is very funny as Dr. Frankinsteen, but Eye-gore played by Marty Feldman is even funnier. This movie was one of the funniest and well scripted movies I have seen this movie is now of my favorite's right along side another Mel brooks and Gene Wilder film blazing saddles. "},{"Title":"the best kinds of comedy","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Young Frankenstein is a compendium of all kinds of comedy farce, satire, and parody.  Brooks places less emphasis on farce and more on parody.  Igor (Marty Feldman) consistently plays on words (Werewolf? Where wolf?), Inga (Terri Garr) refreshes the meaning of common expressions (What big knockers!), and Frau Blucher (Cloris Leachman) is an icon of insider jokes.  Gene Wilder portrays the sexier mad scientist, wooing his teasing fiancee (Madeleine Kahn) and humoring his not-so-quick lab assistant (Garr).  Satire is the subtler comic element.  For example Constable Kemp's (Kenneth Mars) mechanical arm is one of many remarks on improvements in medical care and technology (the brains deposit box!).As a whole, Young Frankenstein is the epitome of a comedy.  The humor is well crafted, and invigorated by the talents of Wilder, Kahn, Garr, Feldman, Mars, Leachman, and Gene Hackman in his brief scene.  A scary comedy, a sexy monster film, and unexpected. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie ever made!","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the neglected masterpiece of all time.  It deserved the Oscar for Best Picture, Wilder deserved Best Actor, and Leachman and Feldman should have won for supporting acting.  The screenplay is a masterpiece, and every single performer deserves a standing ovation whenever he or she enters any room, even a restroom!  Most of all Mel Brooks must be immortalized for giving us this superb masterpiece, which should proudly wear, for all time the moniker of Funniest Movie ever made! "},{"Title":"Classic Mel Brooks","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   1974 was a good year for both Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder. They both hit back to back home runs with Young Frankenstein and Blazing Saddles that year. Young Frankenstein as you would expect is a spoof on the classic Universal Pictures horror flicks of the 30's and early 40s. Wilder developed the original concept and Brooks was brought in later to direct and ended up co-writing the final script. Frederick von Frankenstein...pronounced FrankenstEEn(Wilder) the grandson of the evil Victor von Frankenstein returns to his ancestral home upon the death of his father. There he meets the hunch backed dwarf Igor...pronounce EYEgor (Marty Feldman), his voluptuous lab assistant Inga (Terri Garr) and at the castle, the sinister Frau Blucher (Cloris Leachman). After hearing a mysterious violin, Frederick stumbles upon the laboratory of his ancestor. He then decides to create his own being which turns out to be Peter Boyle. The monster of course escapes and lampoons all of the cliches from the old movies including encounters with a little girl and a blind hermit. Later Frederick's fiance, Elizabeth (Madeliene Kahn) arrives and well..we have a foursome. Investigating all of the surrounding mayhem is Inspector Kemp (Kenneth Mars) in a hilarious send up of the Lionel Atwill character from Son of Frankenstein (1939). The film was shot in black and white to give it that classic look. All of the horror cliches are there. We have the dark shadows, creaking doors and the classic original set pieces, the secret passage behind the revolving bookcase, the whinny of the horses at the mention of the name Frau Brucher, the graveyard sequence, the town people's riot etc. The film is perfectly cast. Wilder is hilarious in the lead role. Garr in her first major part, is sexy and innocent as Inga, Madeleine Kahn is fantastic as The Bride of Frankenstein, Marty Feldman (with the bulgy rolling eyes) is unforgettable as Igor, Peter Boyle is equally funny as the monster (his musical number with Wilder is a hoot) and Kenneth Mars is great as Inspector Kemp with the artificial arm. Watch how Igor's hump and Kemp's arm change from one side to the other. If you haven't seen the film, you'll have fun identifying the famous actor doing a cameo as the blind hermit Harold. This one is not to be missed. It's probably no coincidence that both Brooks and Wilder's greatest cinematic successes were in Young Frankenstein and Blazing Saddles. It's a pity that they didn't collaborate on other projects. "},{"Title":"Seen it over 30 times","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Funnily enough when I first saw Young Frankenstein, I wasn't too impressed. Then I saw it again and again and again. This film contains some of the best comedy sketches and one liners/catch phrases than any other film I know. Though there are more hilarious scenes in Blazing Saddles, more clever wit in the Producers, Frankenstein wins over all, it has a better screenplay, is better acted and is still unbelievably funny to boot. Marty Feldman as Igor, was a master stroke and most certainly was funnier here than any film (or TV show) he had previously done, and Gene Hackman has still never been funnier, even though it was played so straight. This was Mel Brooks (and Gene Wilder - who co-wrote the screen play) at his best, humor generated by circumstance and character contrast, none of over the top, predictable humor of the Farrelly brothers (not unfunny- just not that cleverer (sic))Note I saw this back to back with the original Frankenstein, in this context the film is even better. "},{"Title":"Hmmm...","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think, after reading through the previous comments on this film, that Mel Brooks' two forrays into comedy in 1974 were deliberately intended to appeal to two completely different audiences.  It is true, as so many previous reviewers have stated, that some were disappointed in 'Young Frankenstein', as they had expected another 'Blazing Saddles'.  However, it is clear that they are very different films; Blazing Saddles is in-your-face, childlike slapstick, while Young Frankenstein is more reserved, thoughtful and subtle.  Both have managed to retain enormous appeal over the last 30 years, and for this reason alone Mr Brooks should be commended.  On a personal level, I prefer Young Frankenstein.  The use of language is brilliant, and the acting is superb (particularly Marty Feldman's visual comic genius and Gene Hackman's excellent, unexpected cameo)  A real credit to Brooks and his team. "},{"Title":"Actually...","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I believe it IS one of Mel Brooks' finest.  It was unique at the time and has, more importantly, stood the test of time.  Just as good today as in '74 and that is quite telling for a movie in my book.  Intelligent, witty verbiage and BRILLIANT casting! "}{"Title":"The best of Mel Brooks' films; perhaps the best comedy film ever made.","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film has practically everything one could wish for in a comedy -- wit, charm, intelligence, clean sex, mild violence, great sets, visual gags, wonderful acting and fun... a most satisfying experience.  Best of all, a cameo by Gene Hackman as the blind man brings down the house (who would have expected that???).  This film affirms the fact that Mel Brooks is a great American comic genius.  10/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent comedy for all generations to enjoy!!!!!!","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a great comedy that sports a spectacular cast, fast pace, and loads of laughs. Marty Feldman and Gene Wilder are perfectly cast. Also, the DVD is great. It is loaded with bonus material and has a very accurate transfer. Great movie that must be seen by all!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder Deliver A Classic Parody","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  	Ever wonder about what might have happened to the journals kept by the infamous Dr. Frankenstein, or the notes he must have made while conducting his ill-advised experiments, attempting to reanimate dead tissue?  And what of his descendants?  How would his legacy of horror have affected them a few generations down the line?  Well, ponder no more, because these questions and many more are finally answered forevermore in `Young Frankenstein,' an hilarious parody directed by Mel Brooks.  Dr. Frankenstein's great-grandson, Frederick (Gene Wilder), is a doctor and teacher whose research has gained him some renown in his own right, and he has done his best to disassociate himself with the tarnished reputation of his ancestor (he even pronounces his name `Fronk-en-Steen').  Then one day he is notified that he has inherited his great-grandfather's estate, including the castle, in which the elder doctor's laboratory has been preserved.  Frederick, of course, must go to Transylvania to settle his affairs; but the whole affair soon becomes unsettled when Frederick discovers that it is impossible to escape his destiny.  And once he arrives, the die is cast and there is just no turning back, as he can no longer deny that his... name... is... FRANKENSTEIN!	On his own, Mel Brooks is usually good, even great, but when he teams up with Gene Wilder it becomes something extra-special, which first became apparent with `The Producers,' in 1967.  But the directness with which Brooks approaches this material, combined with Wilder's understated performance makes this their all-time best.  They co-wrote the screenplay, and with their differing perspectives of comedy they managed to capture the best of both worlds and strike a balance that works to perfection here.  Brooks hits you over the head and gets right in your face with a gag, but Wilder steps aside, grabs it by the tail and hits the pause button (so-to-speak), just long enough to really put the joke across.  Together they're like the ying and yang of the comedic universe.  The screenplay is clever and includes all of the elements that successfully evoke the essence of the old B&W horror films that are such a part of cinematic lore today.  What they give you with this film is the Frankenstein story with contemporary sensibilities, while presenting a cast of characters that take it over the top.	As far as the performances go, nobody, but nobody could have played Frederick better than Gene Wilder.  He employs that prolonged, meaningful pause of his (nobody does it better), which he usually accentuates with a slight shifting of the eyes-- just before he delivers a line-- that can make even a mediocre line hilarious.  His subtle approach and staid countenance play this material perfectly, and complimented by Brooks' straight ahead direction it allows the humor to flow naturally and freely and never fails to get the right kind of laugh at just the right time.  The way they capture the sense of the original `Frankenstein' (and the many sequels) is uncanny, from the overall look of the film to the reactions by everyone at the mere mention of the monster, to the throng of anxious villagers led by the unfaltering and inarticulate Inspector Kemp (Kenneth Mars).	Besides Wilder, who is clearly the star of the show, the supporting performances turned in by this superlative ensemble cast are absolutely impeccable, beginning with Peter Boyle as the monster.  Boyle has the gait and the growl down pat, but also conveys so much with his expressions and introspective comportment.  Then there is Marty Feldman as Igor (that's `EYE-gore'), whose bug-eyed portrayal of the little hunchback who refuses to acknowledge his hump (mainly because he doesn't realize he actually has one) is hilarious.  Teri Garr is a joy to behold as Inga, Frederick's lab assistant, and Cloris Leachman practically steals the show as Frau Blucher (and don't say her name within earshot of the horses).  Mars also creates a memorable character by putting a mumble and a wooden arm to especially riotous use, and last but not least is the wonderful Madeline Kahn as Elizabeth, Frederick's intended who ultimately finds something grand to sing about.  	Also included in the supporting cast are Richard Haydn (Herr Falkstein), Liam Dunn (Mr. Hilltop), Danny Goldman (in a memorable bit as a medical student who challenges Frederick during a lab demonstration), Anne Beesley (Little Girl), Michael Fox (Villager) and Gene Hackman in an uproarious cameo as Harold, the Blind Man.  Often a parody of this nature wears thin after awhile, and even the best rarely manages to maintain a level of excellence for even thirty or forty minutes, let alone for 105 minutes as this one does.  And without question, `Young Frankenstein' delivers on a level to which few films of this nature can even aspire.  Arguably one of Mel Brooks' best-- if not THE best he's ever done-- and with a definitive performance by Gene Wilder, this parody takes a place among the all time greats in the history of the cinema.  It's funny stuff that gets funnier every time you see it, and that's the true magic of the movies.  I rate this one 10/10.         	  	 "},{"Title":"Not Mel Brooks' best; a bit of a disappointment, though there are some very funny moments","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Maybe I'm just a little spoiled.  I watch a Mel Brooks movie and expect to laugh nonstop.  From the beginning to end, I try to brace myself for his magic punchlines.  I laughed intermittently during Young Frankenstein.  There are, undoubtedly, some very funny moments.  I enjoyed the bit about the secret door with Gene Wilder and Teri Garr, the little girl flying off the see-saw and the blind-man sketch with Gene Hackman (who I didn't notice until I saw his name in the end credits).  But I really, really expected to laugh more.  Like always, Mel Brooks assembles a multi-talented group of performers (even if he makes a flop, he never fails to hire terrific actors) like Gene Wilder, Madeline Kahn, Marty Feldman and Teri Garr (who looked beautiful back then).  And of course, we have Peter Boyle as The Monster.  Boyle is an underrated actor who still hasn't become a household name.  I really wish Brooks could've made his character funnier, so he could've had more to work with.  He's turned in fine comic performances (watch his performance as a Bible-toting schitzophrenic in The Dream Team) and I'm sure he could've done something great with the role.Some people dispute Brooks' more recent works like Robin Hood  Men in Tights and Spaceballs, when in fact I think those are some of his best films.  I guess people just love saying, Mel's lost his edge.  I think his edge got sharper as the years went by.  I haven't seen Blazing Saddles in a long time (the last time I saw it I was about 8 years old, so I didn't fully understand the humor), so I can't fully judge if ALL his old movies weren't up to par.  I felt The Producers was just plain awful and Young Frankenstein is not bad, but inconsistent and overall...an OK movie.  However, I'm still a big fan of Mel Brooks, I still feel he's one of our greatest comedy writers/directors, and even greats can screw up at times.  I've seen almost all his movies, and with the exception of the two just mentioned and Dracula  Dead and Loving It Mel has never let me down. Looking at this comedy, I just couldn't help but ponder There's a lot more that could've been done here.  I'm not sure what--I'm no comic genius--but I just saw quite a bit of unused potential.I would much better recommend History of the World  Part 1 or Robin Hood  Men in Tights, if you're looking for a good Mel Brooks comedy.  As I said, it had its moments, but I would not closely regard it as one of the funniest movies of all time.  My score  6 (out of 10)    "},{"Title":"Good, not great, comedy","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed this film, but I am surprised that it has been so highly rated.  The gags are cute, and there are a few belly laughs, but I certainly wouldn't place this movie among the classics of all time (not to say that there are that many comedies that are even good in existence).There are several sections of the movie where it either lags or where the comedy is only chuckle-worthy at best...worth seeing though on a rainy day.6 of 10 "},{"Title":"Not a Parady, A Sequel!","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" And a better one at that. I thought the Original Frankenstein was a lame excuse for a movie, This one is not. It's not a Parady (Like Dracula Dead and Loving It, Robin Hood Men in Tights, etc.), It's a sequel. About Victor's Grandson, and well, he gets into the same type of trouble. It's not as funny as you might expect, but still an enjoyable film.I highly recommend you watch it with friends, if not, you might find it really boring. Actually, get drunk and watch it. You'll laugh more.It's in Black and White, but it's got quality. Wilder is great, And so is Marty.2.5/5(5/10). 1931 Original - 1.5/5 (3/10). Novel - 4/5 (8/10) "},{"Title":"More homage than comedy","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'd heard for so long that Young Frankenstein was a must-see movie that when a commercial-free station aired it, I made sure I taped it. However, halfway through viewing it, I stopped the tape and went off to do something else.  A little later, I watched the rest of it out of what I can only call a sense of duty.The 1930's feel was well done. The acting was also good (Gene Hackman was superb, as always). Teri Garr was so beautiful I found it hard to breathe.  So there were many reasons I should have given this movie a rating better than 5.  However, the movie simply failed to make me laugh.  I don't think I even cracked a smile.In fact, while watching the movie I had to find ways to amuse myself.  For example, after the first Frau Blucher/horse joke, I knew it would be a running gag, so I tried to predict each time it would be inserted.  I nailed most of them.If this movie deserves an excellent rating, it must be because (as some have remarked) it treated the mythos with care and respect.  However, since I've never been a fan of the Frankenstein films, I could only assess it by whether or not it made me laugh (which was the reason I watched it in the first place).  Unfortunately, it didn't elicit any mirth.This may be just the right movie for you, but I wouldn't watch it again. "},{"Title":"People's tastes of comedy nowadays are different from me!","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 4 months ago, I watched Blazing Saddles of the famous director Mel Brooks because I saw the positive reviews from many people for that movie with the sentence The best comedy of all time!. After I had watched it, I didn't know why they love it. It's not funny, it's really stupid.Today, I saw Young Frankenstein in my watch-list and I decided to enjoy it. I thought I would waste my time for this film because I saw the name of the director of this film, Mel Brooks, and I remembered that I've seen one of his terrible film, Blazing Saddles. After that, I realized my feeling was true It's really bad.In the beginning of the film, I liked it, it described the landscape of the castle, too dark. And I like the way they used the color black-white of the film. My feeling was growing up until I realized the half part of the film was passed but the character Frankenstein hadn't appear yet. After that I saw the little journey of Frankenstein, and I think it's too normal, it's not special, that I can see in many other movies. In the scene that Frankenstein was kept in the prison, I saw the stupid love story of Dr Fronkensteen, why could he be happy when his friend could die? In the most of last scenes, there are too many love story and I don't know that what did I watch? Comedy? Horror? Or Romance? I am very disappointed!So I don't like this movie, Blazing Saddles, Holy Grail and Life of Brian that aren't funny, they are really stupid! "},{"Title":"What if all the roles were interchanged between men/women?","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Frankenstein could be a gorgeous female. The monster could be a huge butch female. The hunchback Igor could be a deformed female. Frankenstein's assistant could be a handsome young man, her partner could be a prissy banker. And so on. There could be some really good laughs if it were directed by a woman with a better sense of humour than Mel Brooks (not too hard). Why doesn't someone do this? It would only take about $2m, which is what YF cost in the first place (and made $83m). The profits would be enormous and women seeing it would feel great, instead of ridiculed as they are in YF. Instead they have to watch tedious vampire flicks, or silly Hunger Games episodes.It must be so awful to be a young female in the US today and have a pervert (guaranteed) for a boyfriend. Thank heavens we live in Canada and escape those perv males who always want to go up the back passage. Trust a Canadian male, girls! "},{"Title":"Putting on the Ritz","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Spoofs ate ten a penny these days but Young Frankenstein had so much care and attention put in by Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder, making it fresh and innovative.What works is the atmosphere, filmed in Black and White and evoking the sets, location of the Universal 1930's Frankenstein films you are easily brought in to the atmosphere which get regularly punctures with jokes, one liners and visual jokes such as the enormous knockers on the door as they arrive at the castle.The cast of Gene Wilder, Marty Feldman, Peter Boyle, Madeline Khan, Cloris Leachman, Terri Garr milk the laughs for all its worth. Gene Hackman is a hoot as the blind hermit which sends to monster scurrying after he offers cigars. Feldman's Igor is the best and both Kahn and Garr are sensual and sexy.After almost 40 years, its still mad and funny. "}{"Title":"Loving and funny spoof of the Universal 'Frankenstein' movies","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In his heyday, Mel Brooks was the most skilled specialist in parody films. He tackled all manner of genres but Young Frankenstein is possibly his best. In this one the target was 1930's Universal horror movies, or more specifically the 'Frankenstein' films. What makes this one work so well is that, aside from Brooks' typical crazed humour; there is a real attempt to capture the look and feel of those old movies it is satirizing. The sumptuous black and white photography and the elaborate sets all recall the Universal 'Frankenstein' outings. And overall there is an unmistakable loving care at work. Brooks is definitely respectful of the films he is parodying and this ensures that they have not only the laughs but a fine attention to detail. Quite a few of the funniest moments require audience familiarity with the source movies, so Young Frankenstein is not simply pandering to easy laughs but working in specific references as well.The other thing that really helps massively is the cast. Gene Wilder is undoubtedly the star of the show as the title character. This film really shows why he remains one of the funniest cinema actors of all time. Peter Boyle's portrayal of the monster is a good rival to Boris Karloff's original but with great comic timing &#x96; his performance of 'Puttin' on the Ritz' is inspired hilarity. While Gene Hackman is hilarious as the blind hermit, his scene with Boyle is comic gold from start to finish and is one of the undoubted highlights of the movie. To be fair, like all Brooks movies, this is still somewhat uneven in bits. Some of the humour doesn't really work so well. Marty Feldman, for example, looks really funny but his comic delivery is pretty poor. But in the main, the jokes still work more than they do not. On the whole it's a great looking, funny film. "},{"Title":"More Here to Admire than Not","Date":"6 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It helps immensely to not only be familiar with the Universal Frankenstein Series, but to know them implicitly. Because much of the best humor here is derived from direct parody of certain famous scenes.This is typical Mel Brooks with its broad and lewd fixation on Sex and Human Sexuality, but these don't work the best in this Film. But, it is consistently funny with some clever slapstick and wordplay. Some of it is quite refreshingly inventive (Abbey Normal) and Cloris Leachman's deadpan mugging.The Hunchback (what hunch?) Igor (pronounced eye-gore) also is a field day for Marty Feldman. Add to this the spot on mimicry of the one armed Captain from the Son of' Movie, and the inspired Peter Boyle's Creature, it all sums up for a great looking love-fest from Brooks and company. The one drawback is the relentless screaming of lines, when they would have been even more effective delivered a bit more restrained. But when Gene Wilder isn't shouting he is rather amusing wavering between straight faced Satire and unhinged psychopathy. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is just so funny I couldn't stop laughing. This might be Mel Brook's funniest movie including Blazing Saddles, which was super funny in it's own right. Gene Wilder, Marty Feldman, and Teri Garr are just fantastic in this movie. Teri Garr is the sexiest I have ever seen her, including the movie where she showed skin.The outset of the movie has Gene refusing his heritage as a Frankenstein. He eventually goes to his ancestral castle and Cloris Leachman, the house keeper and old Frankentein's lover as it turns out, lures him to the old laboratory used by his ancestor. He goes through the usual procedures and creates a monster (?) played very well by Peter Boyd (RIP). Kenneth Mars plays an excellent inspector Kemp and I love his fake hand. The ending where Gene and Peter swap some of their brains and, as it turns out body parts is just too funny. I like Madelaine Kahn is good as the uptight I want it my way until she hooks up with the monster is a nice touch. "},{"Title":"A Secret No More!!!","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" had absolutely no clue what to expect from this film as no one prepared me for the insane hilarity with such subtle surprising humor... actually was quite upset that I waited over 20 years to watch this, and given how difficult it is to construct an homage comedy I was very impressed how easily I heartily laughed out loud appreciating the comedic genius of Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder... many would debate the Putting on the Ritz routine as too out there but I found the scene most entertaining and a crowning achievement for our dear sweet crowd loving monster... quotable, memorable, brilliant, and most joyous, can highly recommend this for another 20 years minimum! "},{"Title":"Pass the Popcorn review","Date":"4 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein is praised by many as one of the funniest movies in history. It is certainly a lovely movie, with great performances &#x96; mainly those of Gene Wilder and Marty Feldman &#x96; and an interesting, modern remake of the original Mary Shelley novel. I particularly liked the fact that it's black and white &#x96; this helps greatly in creating the creepy and old-movie-like atmosphere. It's also quite funny, but I suggest you don't see it more than once because it might disappoint you after more viewings.The respectable doctor Frederik Frankenstein (Gene Wilder) has tried for many years to cut the ties with his family, as his grandfather, the baron, had become famous for trying to reanimate dead bodies and in his opinion, his grandfather's work was crap. But after he arrives to the Transylvanian castle that belonged to his late grandfather, Frederik discovers his diary and decides to try and reanimate someone dead himself, as it appears his grandfather had succeeded. In this task, he is aided by Igor (Marty Feldman) and Inga (Teri Garr).As I said, the atmosphere in this movie is great it's all black and white, and it features mostly night scenes in the creepy Transylvanian environment, with howling wolves and fog all around. This characteristic is also very well used in some jokes. Marty Feldman is amazing as Igor, and the character himself is so funny and strange, it's delightful to watch him. Gene Wilder does an incredible job in portraying Dr. Frankenstein, especially in his madness. Peter Boyle, even though he doesn't speak most of the time since he's the monster, is very good nonetheless.This movie is also a nice homage to the old Universal movies. Unfortunately, Young Frankenstein fails as a comedy. Not horribly, but still. Some of the jokes are repetitive and not very funny, although there are some truly amusing scenes. Also, some parts are slow and boring. But considering how horrible modern spoofs are, this movie really shouldn't be bashed. I would definitely recommend watching it, especially since the first time you might just find it hilarious.Read more at http//passpopcorn.wordpress.com/ "},{"Title":"the old man revealed","Date":"8 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a classic. No argument I've heard has changed that. HOWEVER, I am 100% convinced that the director, Mel Brooks, is not as present in this project as you would think. I am convinced that Brooks is not the source of this great film's humor! This is not an essay and I have no supporting work. But I do have a long history of watching Mel Brooks. I don't want to add much more but I am compelled to write by the blah blah to get more blah blah and add to the line of copblah copblay! Also b lah , and also blah So in conclusion chal blah and don't let the system own you. Be YOU.!! Timaaqa "},{"Title":"Put the candle back!","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Oh, where to begin. In my opinion, Young Frankenstein is one of the funniest movies ever made. From the first scene with Gene Wilder lecturing his class, to the Abby Normal sequence later on, this film is a joy to watch and will have have you smiling all the way through. After his grandfathers death, Dr. Frankenstein (pronounced Fronkensteen) begins experimenting with the idea of bringing dead humans back to life with the help of assistants Igor (pronounced Eye-gor) and Inga. From brief chuckles to bursts of hysterical laughter, this movie has it all. An interesting factoid is much of the equipment you see in the laboratory are original prop pieces used in the classic Boris Karloff film. Also note how the film was shot in purposely in black and white, despite the complaints from the studio. Later a Broadway musical written by director Mel Brooks. "},{"Title":"Young Frankenstein, Standing the Test of Time","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a Mel Brooks classic from start to finish. If you don't laugh at this film within the first five minutes, there's something wrong! Gene Wilder stars as Dr. Frankenstein, the wildly and crazy man who creates the Monster. Peter Boyle stars as that monster, in his most famous role outside of Everybody Loves Raymond. The film also stars Madeline Kahn (a Mel Brooks regular), Kenneth Mars and Cloris Leachman.When I was first introduced to this film and Blazing Saddles many years ago, I thought it would be just another zany comedy, but it wasn't. This film, like Brooks' other films of the time has heart and a story. After watching it for a few minutes, it became interesting, most notably the dart playing scene with Inspector Kemp and Dr. Frankenstein play.It may be in black and white, unlike most films of its era, but it stands out amongst the crowd of films as a sure crowd pleaser. Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder's comedy were genius in this 1974 classic. A movie you sure don't want to miss out on. "},{"Title":"The one that started it all!","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My Auntie was very kind enough to lend me this DVD, since she recommended this film to me and I really enjoyed it! What I have found out on Wikipedia was The Dramatic Chipmunk used the theme song from this movie, and when watching this film, I recognised it! I really like Mel Brookes's spoof movies (Blazing Saddles, SpaceBalls and Robin Hood Men In Tights, etc) but when watching this, I was almost blown away by this! Yes, the film is in black and white, but it really does give out the effect of a classic horror movie. I really recommend this movie (and Igor, which is just as good in my opinion), (Watch if you like The Dramatic Chipmunk) so give it a try (young children may need to be supervised!) "},{"Title":"For what we are about to see next, we must enter quietly into the realm of genius.","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein is directed by Mel Brooks who also co-writes the screenplay with Gene Wilder. It stars Wilder, Marty Feldman, Peter Boyle, Teri Garr and Madeline Kahn. Music is by John Morris and cinematography by Gerald Hirschfeld.Filmed in black and white Brook's movie is an affectionate spoof of the Frankenstein movies that came out of Universal Studios back in the 1930s.There wolf, there castle.You are either a Mel Brooks fan or not, there doesn't seem to be any middle ground. However, even his most ardent fans admit not all of his productions have paid dividends, but when on song, as he was in 1974 (Blazing Saddles also released), it's justifiable that those fans proclaim him as a spoof maestro. Ineviatbly a bit tame when viewed today, Young Frankenstein is still a picture of high comedy and clinical execution of the film making craft. Everything works, from acting performances, the gags that are both visual and aural delights, to the set design of the Frankenstein castle. It also boasts a smooth storyline, this is not a hodge-podge of ideas lifted from those Universal monster classics, it has a spin on the story and inserts its own memorable scenes along the way (Puttin' on the Ritzzzzzzzz, Oh my!).Of its time for sure, but still great entertainment for the Mel Brooks fan. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"3 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks Proves once again how funny he can be with 'Young Frankenstein'. A funny film, that spoofs the legend of Frankenstein to the core.'Young Frankenstein' Synopsis Dr. Frankenstein's grandson, after years of living down the family reputation, inherits granddad's castle and repeats the experiments.'Young Frankenstein' is genuinely funny & some sequences, are simply hilarious. Brooks proves his sense of humor once again! Brooks & Gene Wilder's Screenplay is nuts & absolutely slapstick. Brooks's Direction, is jolly! Performance-Wise Gene Wilder as Dr. Frederick Frankenstein, is Magnificent. His performance make the proceedings look even funnier, thanks to his on-screen tactics & impeccable comic-timing. Marty Feldman as Igor, is another topper. He's very funny! Peter Boyle as the Monster, is superb. Teri Garr is flawless, as always. Madeline Kahn & Cloris Leachman are impressive. Gene Hackman stands out in a cameo. On the whole, 'Young Frankenstein' is pure fun. "},{"Title":"To call it a spoof is almost insulting ...","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein isn't just funny, it's a masterpiece that transcends every standard of comedy with such brilliance and grace that calling it a parody or a spoof is almost insulting. After watching Young Frankenstein, I discovered that it was only nominated for 2 Oscars Best Sound and Best Original Screenplay (co-written with Mel Brooks from Gene Wilder's original draft). Had the movie been nominated for other awards, it wouldn't have surprised me the photography is top notch and perfectly renders the feeling of old 30's horror classics, the black and white cinematography perfectly conveys the haunting shadowy atmosphere of the original Frankenstein, the score is perfect for the story, Mel Brooks' directing never seemed so tactful and professional and I can think of any of the main cast deserving a nod for the acting. I guess that the film being released the same year than Chinatown or The Godfather Part II didn't help; Mel Brooks wasn't the only one at the top of his game.But let's get back to Young Frankenstein. Besides being an undeniable technical achievement, the film is an excellent comedy that contains some of the most hilarious lines and moments in cinematic history and certainly the greatest comedic cast ever (thunders' sound effects to emphasize). Indeed, each actor, each actress occupies the screen with a unique magnetism, starting by Gene Wilder, the one with whom it all started. As Wilder said, he wondered how he would act if he was the descendant of the infamous Baron Viktor von Frankenstein, the answer couldn't have been more intelligent and hilarious. The Professor is so ashamed of his affiliation that he wants his name to be pronounced 'Fron-kon-steene', but this attitude reflects an interesting contradiction as he finally realizes he can't escape his destiny and must go to Transylvania to accomplish the same miracle than his glorious ancestor. After a decent start, Mel Brooks 'elevates' the film.The doctor meets a wonderful gallery of colorful characters, the voluptuous assistant Inga, played by Teri Garr, in a knock-out performance, Cloris Leachman as the frightening Frau Blücher whose any mention of her name never ceases to make the horses rear in fright, and there is Fronkonsteen's fiancée, in a role that could have been secondary if it wasn't for Madeline Kahn's extraordinary scene-stealing ability. The film also features Kenneth Mars barely recognizable in his policeman's disguise, and an even less recognizable performance by Gene Hackman as a well-mannered blind man (I can't believe I missed it during the first viewing). But in all cinematic objectivity, the film's greatness relies on two pillar performances, and I'll start with the most memorable one.First, there's Marty Fedlman's role as Igor (pronounced eye-gor) as the hunchback and butler of the Transylvanian mansion. Igor's character inspired what would remain for me the greatest character's introduction in any comedy, with this sudden and unforgettable close-up on his smile and incredibly bulged eyes. To appreciate the comical talent of Feldman requires both a voracious appetite and a gourmet's delicacy. His comical genius can take you totally off- guard when his face shows up from nowhere, or when he ad-libs a scene -I won't say which but it's so hysterical that even Gene Wilder looks like he's totally losing it- OR you just have to pay attention to his mimics, his reactions when a gag is already over, and realize that Igor himself, is a punchline within a punchline. The What hump? moment is pure comedic gold.The other pillar is of course Peter Boyle as the Creature, monster is too cruel a word to even be used on this gentle giant with high-pitched screams and touching hobby of catching imaginary butterflies in the air. Boyle beautifully incarnates the syndrome of the misunderstood monster and the spirit of Mary Shelley's novel. And this epitomizes the merit and the force of Young Frankenstein each actor and actresses doesn't play a character, but reinvent a role with such an intensity that the film stands alone as a classic. Of course, it has all the elements of the Frankenstein series, but you don't need to be a fan to appreciate Mel Brooks' film on its own. It's not just a masterpiece of stylish copy, it's a masterpiece as a story, as an ambiance, as an ensemble cast performance, as a comedy where visual and written comedy works in perfect harmony (the farewell in the train station scene is a perfect demonstration) I often blamed Blazing Saddles for being too broad on the parody-thing, and to let the movie evolve to an extreme where the humor ceased to be enjoyable story-wise and overused the whole meta-referential jokes, almost insisting upon itself until a throw-away climax. Young Frankenstein doesn't evoke itself; it doesn't try to imitate but succeeds in duplicating an atmosphere to provide a whole other reaction from the audience. And the adaptation is so original that it can be regarded as one of the greatest 'Frankenstein' films, any genre combined, and Peter Boyle's performance has nothing to envy on Boris Karloff, it's simply &#x85; magical and it contributes to one of the highlights of the film.Indeed, if you wanted a last proof that Young Frankenstein is an original classic, forever rooted in cinematic memories, just start singing this If you're blue and you don't know where to go to why don't you go where fashion sits&#x85; any movie expert would say Puttin' in the Ritz referring to some Fred Astaire dance routine, but a true movie lover would immediately reply PUDDIN' ON A RHEEEEEEZ in a high-pitched voice. The movie features one of the most hilarious musical duets ever that would make even the most abnormal brain laugh.And if only for that piece of hilarity, Mel Brooks's masterpiece Young Frankenstein deserves to its place as one of the funniest films ever, it's raunchy, outrageous, irreverent, poetic, sensitive, inventive and as would shout the Creature OOPAH DOOPAH "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks is a genius","Date":"21 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks is, in my humble opinion, nothing short of a genius when it comes to satire. In this film, he takes a shot at all the old black and white horror films of the 1940's and 1950's, using elements of Dracula (the Castle), The Hunchback of Notre Dame (imprisoned on the wheel), King Kong (the stage scene), and Frankenstein. Gene Wilder, who also co-wrote the Screen Story and Screenplay with Brooks, is the wild eyed, pseudo conservative scientist who is inexorably drawn into the world of his ancestors with little encouragement. Marty Feldman (God bless you, Marty) is priceless as Igor, the misshapen hunchback with a terrific sense of humor and a passion for the ladies. Teri Garr....hmm...one word...Wooof! Perfectly ditsy and blonde, her character adds the perfect setup lines for the dry and witty humor of Wilder and Feldman. The entire cast is fantastic, and the photography in black and white is a treat for anyone who appreciates the medium. The inclusion of the original Frankenstein laboratory equipment with the permission of Kenneth Strickfaden was a particularly nice touch. Now while there is sexual innuendo in the film, the tone is more Vaudeville than lewd, and I think most families could watch this with the kiddies in the room and not be offended. And if you are not aware, Young Frankenstein The Musical, is currently touring the U. S. and is as entertaining as the original film. See it, love it, own it, and pass it down to your grandchildren as a priceless example of a bygone era where everything was fair game for satire. "},{"Title":"Great fun for comedy *and* horror fans.","Date":"15 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Leading actor Gene Wilder and director Mel Brooks do a great job of spoofing the classic black & white Frankenstein movies, Son of Frankenstein in particular. Wilder is Dr. Fronkensteen (he's trying to distance himself from his grandfather's legacy, hence the alternate pronunciation) who returns to the old family castle in Transylvania, not taking a very long time to develop an intense interest in Victor's plans to reanimate dead tissue. Both helped and hindered by ultra sexy assistant Inga (Teri Garr) and hunchbacked associate Igor, pronounced Eye-gor (the hilarious Marty Feldman), he gets to create his own Monster, played by Peter Boyle. With equally amusing work by Madeline Kahn as uptight Elizabeth, Cloris Leachman as conniving Frau Blucher (cue the horse whinny), and Kenneth Mars as sometimes unintelligible Inspector Kemp, who does some superb shtick with his artificial arm, the cast plays their roles to the hilt. Wilder goes delightfully over the top at times, always coming up with just the right delivery of his lines, Boyle is very endearing as The Monster, and Feldman does some priceless mugging. Many memorable set pieces, including the show-stopping Putting on the Ritz musical number, and much in the way of quotable dialogue. The spoof of the interlude with the blind man from Bride of Frankenstein is also fantastic, with an unrecognizable Gene Hackman playing the blind man, as is the sequence with the revolving wall. Hearing Kahn voice her sexual pleasure in song is a hoot, especially considering her choice of song. Utilizing the talents of people like composer John Morris, cinematographer Gerald Hirschfeld, and production designer Dale Hennesy, Brooks impressively recreates the look of those old movies, and for good measure also utilizes the original laboratory equipment designed by Kenneth Strickfaden. Young Frankenstein has to remain one of the high points of Brooks's career (along with Blazing Saddles, he had a real banner year in 1974), and although he returned to poking fun of classic horror with Dracula Dead and Loving It, it just wasn't as effective. 37 years later, Young Frankenstein is still genuinely funny and atmospheric, and enjoyable upon each viewing. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"WOW, absolutely amazing","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein is a work of genius combining the talents of Gene Wilder, Marty Feldman, Teri Garr, Chloris Leachman and the hilarious Madeline Kahn, all directed by Mel Brooks. Shot in black and white, this spoofs the horror films of the 1930's, and had me laughing out loud through the whole thing. After it was over, I played it again. HILARIOUS. From the horse whinnying to Putting on the Ritz, I love this movie. I really need to buy it, come to think of it. If you enjoyed this hilarious comedy film why not watch these...Frankenstein (1931) The Bride of Frankenstein (1935) Son of Frankenstein (1939) The Producers (1968) Blazing Saddles (1974) Antonio and the Mayor (1975) The Muppet Movie (1979) Real Life (1979) Ko To Tamo Peva (1980) Pecos Bill (1988) "},{"Title":"My personal favourite Mel Brooks film","Date":"14 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am fond of Mel Brooks' films, and for me Young Frankenstein is my favourite of his and also one of my absolute favourites of the genre. It is wonderfully loopy and an ingenious send-up of universal horror clichés. Young Frankenstein is wonderfully shot in a sumptuous black and white, while the costumes, sets and make-up are wonderfully kooky. The story is fun too, while the script is hilariously quotable and Mel Brooks' direction is great. What gives Young Frankenstein real staying power is the marvellously done Puttin' on the Ritz musical number, the brain depository(outrageous to the point of being hilarious), the scene with Igor behind the book-shelves when they were looking the skulls(the facial expression and the breaking into song kills me every time), the old dad speech(then he just starts eating again), the hermit setting the monster's thumb on fire and the performances, with Gene Wilder giving one of his best performances as the infamous baron's grandson, and Peter Boyle almost stealing the show as the monster. The supporting performances are also a delight, Madeline Kahn's bride, Gene Hackman's blind hermit and Marty Feldman's hunchbacked Igor are very memorable. Overall, hysterically funny and kooky. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Was I supposed to love this?","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I haven't watched the 1931 original that this is a spoof of, and I'm not a fan of Wilder(in fact, I dislike his style; with that said, parts of his performance in this did work for me, though I didn't care that much for how over the top he was at points). Maybe that's why I can't quite chime in with the mass of people calling this one of the best of its kind. I just find it to be pretty hit and miss, and frankly, minutes passed several times without me enjoying any of the jokes(and I honestly did not bring a negative attitude to my viewing, intending to dislike it, nor am I disappointed from having come into it with too high expectations), including the very beginning. This pokes fun at horror movies and the typical film clichés, and there is silliness, black comedy, crude material, a little verbal and slapstick, as well. A lot of scenes from the story are incorporated, most to good effect, and Brooks definitely gets plenty of laughs out of the instantly recognizable grunting of the Monster. The cast do well, and this does a fair job of not overusing any of them. Boyle and Hackman are hilarious, probably my favorites of this, and you don't get tired of either of them. At the end of the day, I prefer Spaceballs and Men in Tights to this. There are many mild references to sexuality, and a little minor language in this. I recommend this to fans of those who made it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  wonderful puns, aging","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein is quite a masterpiece given that it is clearly a low budget black and white film. To be fair, a lot of comedy has come out since 1974 and the timing and acting leave something to be desired. I am forced to say that I was a little disappointed that the movie wasn't as good as I had remembered.But enough of the gags work that -- if you like cult flicks like Airplane! or Big Trouble in Little China -- the movie can be considered a classic. And I love the music. It is definitely Mel Brooks' best, certainly better than High Anxiety.Who should see this film-- punsters and comedy lovers of the wacky type who like Monty Python and the Holy Grail-- nobody elseI'll give Young Frankenstein a charitable 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the most well-crafted comedies of all time!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The average Mel Brooks film is the equivalent of the Grab Bag.  It is filled with numerous objects of various shape and size.  Many are desirable, many are not.  Numerous Mel Brooks films, including Robin Hood Men in Tights, Dracula Dead and Loving It and High Anxiety amused me in points, but overall left me craving more of the desirable goodies.  However, when he is in top form, like in Blazing Saddles and both stage and screen incarnations of The Producers, he unleashes a treasure chest of comedy. Never is this more apparent than in his greatest film, Young Frankenstein.The plot lovingly pays homage to Mary Shelley's famous horror story while simultaneously spoofing it.  Gene Wilder plays Dr. Frederick Von Frankenstein (pronounced Frahnk-en-steen, as he duly notes), grandson of the famous scientist responsible for bringing the dead back to life.  When it is discovered that his late grandfather left the estate to him, he travels to Transylvania to inspect it.  Accompanied by Igor, a hunchback in denial (What hump?), curvaceous German assistant Inga, and haggard Frau Blucher (whose very mention of her name inspires the horses to neigh in fright...no matter where they are), Frederick finds himself slowly drawn into his grandfather's practice, much to the dismay of the nearby villagers.The reason this film works so well is because, unlike other Brooks outings, this was very controlled.  Its over-the-top moments are still done with more subletly than previous Brooks jokes (most are caught only through repeat viewings).  The script, by Wilder and Brooks, is filled with with one small comic gem after the other.  Brooks' direction is also at its best, as he crafts the film much like Frankestein director James Whale would have done it.  The black-and-white cinematography shines almost as much as the cast. Wilder, Teri Garr's Inga, and Marty Feldman's Igor dominate the first half of the film, while Peter Boyle as the Monster, Madeline Kahn as Wilder's vain wife, and Kenneth Mars as the inspector with a wooden arm steal the show's later half.  A notable cameo is a nearly unrecognizable Gene Hackman as a blind man.There are so many moments in this film that shine, it is hard to choose a favorite.  The hump joke?  Puttin' On the Ritz?  The blind man? Put...the candle...back?  The brain depository?  There are perhaps more classic moments from this film than any other film since Casablanca. The fact that this film is more loved, more sharply written, and perhaps a better film than the target that it spoofs is truly a small cinematic miracle. "},{"Title":"Among my top ten","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember when my father first made me watch this movie with him. I was in the second grade and when I went into school the next day, I wasted the entire day re-telling, using or writing out some of the parts that made me laugh the most. Some years later, I no longer laugh as hard at Young Frankenstein, but I still love to watch it. I attempted to show it to some of my friends who weren't too amused by it, but the fact that it's humor is more subtle than more modern comedies is the basis of it's appeal to me. It's kinda like the three stooges. Most jokes don't warrent more than a slight chuckle, but it's still amusing and you're not laughing so hard that you miss the next joke. Yes, there have been better comedies, but there have been more worse than Young Frankenstein than better. Though it's now become worn and predictable to me, I still count it among my top favorite movies. "}{"Title":"perfect","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Anyone who voted below a 10 on this film simply cannot see a perfect film when it smacks them in the, er....slapstick.  I cannot help but adore each and every cast member, and Brooks staked his place in film immortality with this one.  Dying is easy; great comedy is miraculous. "},{"Title":"The funniest comedy of all time!","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  1974 was the year of Brooks because not only did he deliver us Blazing Saddles but this masterpiece as well. This is the third and sadly the last collaboration between Brooks and Wilder and both go all out in this picture. This is the type of picture where you laugh from beginning to end. And what's great and original about this movie is that Mel Brooks doesn't direct a spoof of Frankenstein but instead the comedic version.****out of****starsA MASTERPIECE!!!!A little side note While this movie got an Oscar nomination for Best Screenplay, I feel that it should have gotten more. For instance Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, and Best original score and I believe it should have won for Best Director, Actor, and screenplay.Another side note As an aspiring filmmaker I have found a lot of inspiration from this movie. The way that Mel Brooks made a comedic version instead of a spoof really fascinated and inspired me.Thank you, Mr. Brooks "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has been one of my favorites for years! The humor ranges from overt to understated and Marty Feldman is amazingly outrageous. The story is obvious - Frankenstein, DUH! - but the handling is pure Mel Brooks at his finest (not slapstick).I recommend this to anyone who hasn't seen it, and anyone who hasn't seen it in a while - check it out again! "},{"Title":"It's pronounced Eye-gor","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you have seen this great movie, you will not be scratching your head right now, trying to figure out what this means.I have seen a lot of funny movies in my day, and this is one of the funniest. Tears were rolling down my cheeks as I thrashed about on the couch, trying to get a hold of myself.It was also very creative how they did the entire movie in black & white.See this movie immediately! "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie!","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I didn't think it was that wonderful, considering I was only about 10. But now that I'm a bit older and am fully capable of understanding the satiristic elements and humor that this movie offers, it's become my favorite. My personal favorite performance is the cameo by Gene Hackman. The entire blindman scene is terrific and still gets me cracking up everytime. This movie is a must-see for all the other Mel Brooks fans out there. Once you see it, you'll never forget it! "},{"Title":"Family Tradition","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  an annual event at our home is to watch 'Young Frankenstein'. we added the third generation this evening. we have most of the lines memorized. can anyone confirm that mel brooks played the part of the little girl's father? not in the credits must be a cameo. we have a 3 to 1 vote it's mel, but need proof from outside the family. what a classic if you don't find this film funny, you must have a brain from abby someone!  "},{"Title":"FUNNY, FUNNY, F-U-N-N-Y!!!!","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is truly Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder's finest film. Not only was the script very well written, but it was outrageously well performed by a cast of great performers.This movie was marvelously filmed in black and white, which gave it an classic movie atmosphere. Wilder's portrayal of Dr. Frankenstein(or is it Fronk-an-steen?) is a work of hilarious art. He plays the part so seriously straight, that you can't help but laugh. Marty Feldman's portrayal of Igor (....sorry,I mean EYE-Gor) is just too funny for words to describe. Madeline Kahn is superb(as always ) in her part as the soon to be bride, and Peter Boyle's version of The Monster will leave you Frightened......Frightened into thinking that you will die laughing.I highly recommend this film to all who are in search for a good laugh.........I assure you, that if you see this movie, you'll get it. Ma "},{"Title":"THE Definitive Mel Brooks Masterpiece","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Many people think different things of Mel Brooks' work; those people also differ on their opinions of which of his films, brilliant or otherwise, were the best.  My personal favorite is Young Frankenstein, as it is not only a send-up of old black-and-white horror films, but also a tribute, with its wonderful photography, authentic scenery, and the actual laboratory equipment from the original Frankenstein movies.  Gene Wilder is without a doubt a national treasure, one of the greatest (if not the greatest) comic actors of all time, and his portrayal of Dr. Fronk-un-steen is masterful. No slam on Mr. Brooks, but this is one of those films that are better for his acting absence; it is evident that this was to be his masterpiece, and he wanted only the best in front of the camera.  Better than High Anxiety by a nose, this film certainly deserves mention on any comedy top-ten list that might come down the pike. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies of all-time.","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    Frankenstein is one of the best horror stories ever told in the history of mankind.  The story of a mad man who was able to bring a dead person back to life has shocked nations and generations and will shock in the future as well.  This is probably one of the reasons why Mel Brooks' movie is so great.  He was able to take a serious story, almost traumatising and make a classic comedy out of it.  His movie is a pure satire from beginning to end and this is where you can see how hard he must have worked on this movie.  His more recent movie Spy Hard (1996) was quite disappointing because the humor there seemed much more sexual and the parody wasn't all that great.  The only interesting part of that movie was the variety of different scenes Brooks mixed in although they didn't really blend well together.  In most movies in which you have a very rich man and his butler, the butler is quite often very funny and delivers some of the best jokes.  The best example for that would have to be John Gielgud's role in Arthur (1981) which won him a best supporting actor Oscar.  He played a wise-cracking butler who was able to be snide to his master without being too impolite.  However, I seem to find that Martey Feldman as Igor in Young Frankenstein was even funnier than John Gielgud was in Arthur.  This is the second part of Young Frankenstein.  Finally, the third part of Young Frankenstein has to with family reputation.  Gene Wilder plays Fredric Frankenstein and does not like his name because of the reputation it was given by his crazy grandfather.  He wants nothing to do with his past family but when his great grandfather's will is found and asks him to return to Transylvania, he sees no choice but to go out of respect for his predecessor.  Upon arriving in Transylvania, he quickly meets Igor and is taken to the Frankenstein castle.  There, he soon becomes obsessed with the idea of bringing a dead human being back to life.  This obsession is provoked by a woman who works at the castle and who was the mistress of Fredric's grandfather.  The rest of the story is developed in a very similar way to the original terrifying classic only in a highly comic manner.  Gene Hackman has a cameo as a blind priest and his scene is one of the funniest ones in the movie.  Mel Brooks smartly directs this movie letting the viewer hope some things happen and others won't.  Gene Wilder's contribution to the script is another plus and he delivers his role very well.  The scene in the classroom is highly comic.  Also noticeable is Teri Garr who plays young Frankenstein's assistant in the laboratory room.  But Martey Feldman walks away with the movie as the snide and hilarious butler Igor.  He plays the role of one those people who make you laugh just by appearing on the screen. You won't want to miss this one. "},{"Title":"Best of the Mel Brooks Series....funnier each time you see it","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've always judged a good movie by the number of funny quotes you can remember, and this movie has a plethora of fun quotesIx-nay on the Roten-ay YES!...YES!...HE WAS MY BOYFRIEND!! Hump?....What Hump?? Abby......Abby Normal... No matter how much I scream, don't open the door...............let me out, let me out of here, OPEN-THE-DOOR!  FOR THE LOVE OF JESUS OPENTHEDOOR!Young Frankenstein is one of the funniest movies of the 70's, it had some great stars, and wonderful cameos.  Gene Hackman as the blind priest is hilarious.  And any movie with Madeline Kahn is a winner.  Marty Feldman was at his comedy peak with this great film.  Peter Boyle is great as the monster. And Teri Garr is fabulous as Dr Frunkenschteen's love interest.Gene Wilder should have won an Oscar for his performance.Rent or buy it today, it should be in every homeowners film collection.  "}{"Title":"Brilliantly Funny, ahead of it's time","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mel Brooks sets the scene for this comedy with the opening 13 clock chimes and from there on it continues to send up the originals and adds what can only be described as the masterpiece of reanimation to one of the hardest things to do in the (bordering on gizmos and special effects) early 70's era, make a film in Black and White. It is done so well you often forget that.This is satire, slapstick and creative humor at it's finest and the cast of characters are the icing on the cake as each makes the most of their luck in being cast in such a cult that possibly exceeded even the writers expectations.Marty Feldman is as only Marty Feldman can be, and `I.. Ain't got nobody' is truly a classic bit of footage as is `The things my old dad used to say.'.Gene Wilder (with the enormous schwarnstucker) has the uncanny knack of being able to give perfect, precise delivery and timing to his lines, `Need a hand','Uh, No thanks, have one, thanks very much all the same' whilst he picks at the fingernails of the dead man. `Alive.' is probably the best overacted without seeming it bit of film I have seen, especially the `monsters' reaction. Oh and don't forget `Class. is . dismissed'Fra Bleuher's modest brilliance can easily be overlooked by the blonde and the one with the turban who both make their parts sing! Cloris often makes the faintest of gestures that have to be viewed over and over to appreciate. `Some varm milk perhaps..'Cameo Gene Hackman (who has probably been one of the leads in more films than just about anyone) is testimony to his ability forte. He makes what could have been a short one-liner scene transcend into rib-tickling humor, even a simple line like `But wait...  I was going to make espresso' rises to the occasion.Having read some of the negative comments below or nonsensical ravings of the lunatic minds, it is clear, that there are people on this planet who are in desperate need of a new Hans Delbruck. Over and over I laugh out loud when even my kids put this one on and would have to rate it as my favourite comedy even to the point of Mel Brooks acting as the cat in the darts scene. An absolute gem and I must get a DVD to see those extra bits.  "},{"Title":"Don't blink, you'll miss something","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The funniest film I've ever seen! There are so many quotable lines from this movie. Marty Feldman runs away with this movie; but Gene Hackman gets his chops in as well, as the blind man. I thought I recognized him, but had to check the credits at the end of the movie to make sure. Everybody in this film was well cast. Don't blink, you'll miss something funny! Although most people think that Blazing Saddles is Mel Brooks best, I'll put my vote in for this one! "},{"Title":"Classic...","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the best comedy movies of all time.  In the top three.  The fact that it is black & white adds to the picture.  There are so many remarkable lines in the movie it would be impossible to name them all.  This and Willy Wonka are probably some of Gene Wilder's best works as a comedian. "},{"Title":"Later on I was Going to Make Expresso....","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What big knockers!  Put the candle back!  My name is Frau Blucher....Neigh!!!!  are just a few...and I mean few...of the classic, oft-repeated lines from this comedy landmark from the mid-seventies.  The film did to Horror what a year earlier Blazing Saddles did to the Western...spoofed it and awakened an interest in it.  This film is really a joint collaborative effort from a number of outstanding individuals....Madeline Kahn, Peter Boyle, Cloris Leachman, Marty Feldman, Terri Garr, Kenneth Mars, and most importantly Mel Brook and Gene Wilder.  Brooks and Wilder scripted this lunacy...and what a script.  Almost every line contains something humourous...some kind of allusion.  Wilder is at his best playing the title character with his subtlety when least expected and his wildness too.  There are too many great scenes to mention and too many great things to say about about this film.  One important thing to mention, however, is that the film is an intense study of the trilogy of Frankenstein films from the 30s.  many of the jokes are inside jokes for the true horror fan. "},{"Title":"An intelligently daft comedy classic","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not a big Mel Brooks fan and rate little of his work other than The Producers. This however is a masterpiece.... a comic classic, where he manages to pay homage to the early Karloff and Lugosi horror movies and still produce a laugh a minute. Absolutely everything is right about this film, the actors perfectly cast, the sets superb and the script just wonderful... seven or eight quick ones and you're off bragging to the boys!You cannot possibly fully appreciate this film on one viewing as it is only after repeated viewings you start to appreciate many of the comic subtletiesBrooks has managed the almost impossible task of creating an intelligent homage to early cinema while at the same time creating a film where each scene can happily stand alone as a comedy classic. "},{"Title":"A Comic Masterpiece","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Young Frankenstein, Mel Brooks's loving paean to the '30s Frankenstein films, is his masterpiece and is undoubtedly one of the funniest movies ever made.  Some of its lines have passed into cult classicism  What knockers!, No tongues!, etc.  When I saw it again last night I laughed as often and as hard as I had when I first saw it, nearly 25 years ago -- well, just as often and nearly as hard.  Everybody in the movie was perfect.  Gene Wilder as the mama's boy mad scientist, Peter Boyle as the monster, Madeline Kahn as the rich girlfriend, and everybody else involved had star turns.  Nobody has ever done loving spoofs of classic movies as well as Mel Brooks.  Great, great stuff. "},{"Title":"Near-perfection... one of the funniest movies EVER!","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If this movie doesn't leave you weak in the knees with laughter, you should be checked for signs of life.Mel Brooks is in top form here, with a superb parody of the old horror classics.  While Brooks's later movies have a deplorably high ratio of groans to laughs, virtually every joke in this movie works flawlessly.  (The only one that I didn't think was very funny was Madeline Kahn and then Teri Garr ecstatically singing Ah, sweet mystery of life, at last I found you after being introduced to the wonders of the monster's ... shall we say ... organ.)  Terrific performances by Gene Wilder, the scene-stealing Marty Feldman (he alone makes the movie worth watching!), Madeline Kahn, Kenneth Mars as the Inspector, and Peter Boyle as the monster.  The Putting on the Ritz dance number is priceless!  "},{"Title":"My name is pronounced Frokensteen","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Young Frankenstein is perhaps not Brooks funniest movie, but it is without a doubt his most complete and well rounded film. The photography is beautiful, scary, funny and almost as good as the actors. The actors in turn, are almost as good as Morris music, which is almost as good as Brooks and Wilder`s perfect script. Unlike almost all other spoofs (including Brooks), Y.F. has a good story and real characters. This give you the feel that you are actually watching a real film, and not just a string of jokes without any connection.Conclusion A MUST SEE for any comedy fan. "},{"Title":"Putting on the Ritz!","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  From start to finish, Mel Brooks gives us a comedy gem. The casting is top - notch, and the script is funny all the way through. I wish Mel had taken the time to insert himself into this one, it would have sent it over the top in my book. Marty Feldman and the moving hump had me in stiches the whole movie. Just call me abby...abby normal...lol "},{"Title":"Another Brooks' Masterpiece","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is another one of Mel Brooks' classic, outstanding comedies.  Brooks often uses innovative ideas that are really throwbacks to earlier times.  In Silent Movie, he shoots a film that is silent (as implied by the title!).Here, he shoots a film in black and white.  Furthermore, he uses or recreates the actual sets from the original Frankenstein movies.  These features make it a great spoof, while excellent writing and acting by Gene Wilder make it a excellent comedy period.    "}{"Title":"A near perfect satire","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This comedy has withstood the test of time.  The scene out-takes provided on the DVD actually enhances the enjoyment of the movie by filling in the gaps in the story as released in the theaters.  If you have the DVD version, do yourself a favor and do not skip these treats.  "},{"Title":"See this movie or it's the glue factory for you!","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A humorous twist on a classic horror flick. This is Mel Brooks at his comedic finest. You didn't know that Mary Shelley was a comedy writer? Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder knew. How else could they have written such a brilliant screenplay?This is not mere sarcasm, but pure genius, blended with tongue in cheek jabs at everything from medicine, religion, politics, and Hollywood horror, to sex and marriage. Nothing is sacred, and Wilder and Brooks pray (prey?) at that alter often.How would our PC society view Gene Hackman's performance as the blind man' today? His character is hilarious.What about Kenneth Mars as the police inspector? He does for amputees what Hackman did for the sight impaired.Unless your cravenly PC and/or Humor challenged, you must see this movie, twice, as you will be laughing so hard you will miss things the first time around.(I saw this on the big screen with a rather dense classmate in high school, and I had to pay to see it again because I missed so much explaining all the sight gags and such to him.)On second thought, maybe the PC should be made to view this film in it's uncensored entirety, as well as other Mel Brook's gems, to give them a reality check of their funny bones. (Latin Humerus, a bone from your elbow to wrist.)Enjoy, or it's the glue factory for you!    "},{"Title":"Ain't got nobody, and nobody cares for me! (Yakata chakata yakata cha)","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the best spoofs, and one of the best all-around films, that I have ever seen.  The cast is magnificent, and while a few of the sexual jokes could have been omitted, they do not take away from the hilarity of this movie.   "},{"Title":"laugh out loud","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I laughed and laughed.  This movie is just too funny, cute, sweet, & evil to be believed.  The monster in the blind man's house is one of the best scenes even though you have to know what's coming. My favorite line is what knockers referring to the doorbell and Teri Garr's character says Thank You. If you need a good laugh-please rent this. "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks' Best","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After Blazing Saddles, Mel Brooks and Gene Wilder married their complementary talents of outrageous and obtuse humor to perfection.  This may be this funniest film ever made.  Special note about the composer John Morris he is probably the most unappreciated film composer in history!  This is his greatest score.  And he wasn't even nominated an Oscar! "},{"Title":" Brooks and Wilder at their best!","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Young Frankenstien-what a movie!  Fans of Mel Brooks(like myself) have this movie memorized by now, and even though it is 'old' it is still as funny now as the first time I saw it.  Of course, it's not as funny as the classic 'Blazing Saddles', but it runs a close second.  But what makes this film stand out is the comedic genius of Gene Wilder.   Wilder lets himself go in this adapttation of the classic horror tale, and he is complemented by the zany cast(did I just say zany?), Marty Feldman, Madleine Khan, Cloris Leachman, Teri Garr, and Peter Boyle.  Like in any other Brook's film, look for cameos galore!  A must have for any Brook's fan and a gotta see for everybody else.   "},{"Title":"Great comedy","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie.  It has everything that you have come to love from Mel Brooks.  The laughs never stop from Igor's moving hump to Frankenstein puttin' on the ritz.  In closing I have one other thing to say.......BLEEEUUUUCCHHHHHEEEERRRR!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Better than the original","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The original Frankenstein was not as good as the latter Young Frankenstein. The  original was boring and at some parts draggy. This movie is hilarious and fast-paced, funny without being obnoxious. Another great Gene Wilder movie (besides Willy Wonka and those I have yet to see). This movie is a parody but more like a continuing saga of the original movie. Dr. Frankenstein's son (Gene Wilder) is left to make his own monster to raise. At first he is shamed by his father's ego and pronounces his last name differently (prompting Igor to pronounce his name eye-gore). Then he bonds with the monster and, well, it's just a great movie. And the thing is, it has an actual plot, unlike some parodies. If you like the original Frankenstein, or even if you don't, you will most definitely get a kick out of this movie if you have even a touch of a sense of humor. Five stars. "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks, the genius at his finest.","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Young Frankenstein is simply the greatest movie by Mel Brooks, including Spaceballs.  And this movie has not only a great script but a great cast, and Gene Wilder does a fantastic job.The classic is in black and white, but it only adds to the creepy effect that the generates into tricking you into thinking that your watching just another Frankenstein movie.The comedy in this movie is better than most other Mel Brook movies (Especially History of the world...)  and Gene Wilder's charade skills are second to none.If you like Mel Brooks and you say that you don't like this movie then you must need a sedative. (see the movie!) "},{"Title":"A Classic Satire!","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN is a classic satire. Just as the original FRANKENSTEIN is representative of the horror film, this satire could be just as representative of the comedy film. As usual for Mel Brooks, the entire film is hilarious. The entire cast is great, especially Gene Wilder, Teri Garr,Madeline Kahn, Cloris Leachman, and Marty Feldman, not to mention Peter Boyle as the Monster and Gene Hackman, in a cameo, as the old man. A sidenote The electrical effects were by Kenneth Strickfaden, who did the original electrical effects in the original FRANKENSTEIN back in 1931!  "}{"Title":"The Eyes Have it!","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A wonderful parody of the 1930s classic horror films.  Lovingly recreated laboratory sets (using some of the props from the original Frankenstein movies) and marvellous use of black and white film.Great ensemble performances by all the lead actors - especially Peter Boyle as the Monster; and wonderful use of close ups and wide eyed facial expressions so reminiscent of the silent movies and early talkies.  The haunting music theme repeated throughout the movie fits the atmosphere very well.The collaborative rapport between Director Mel Brooks and screenplay writer/lead actor Gene Wilder is very evident.One of the few movies that I could see every month for ever.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious!","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Without a doubt, one of the funniest (if not THE funniest) movies of all time, with Wilder (whose idea was the genesis for the project, not Mel Brooks as is often indicated) and Brooks at the very top of their form.EVERYTHING works in this movie, from the writing, directing, acting, sets, lighting, camera work, you name it, an absolutely on-target spoof/tribute to the James Whale Frankenstein films of the thirties (though the plot resembles SON OF FRANKENSTEIN more than either Whale picture).By all means, see it!  See it a dozen times!  I've seen this movie at least 2 - 3 times a year and it still never fails to make me laugh out loud.  The best! "},{"Title":"Halarious remake of a Classic! One of the BEST","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Terrific! One of the top 10 comedies in my opinion. It will make you laugh, even if you are alone! Not many movies do that for me.Mel Brooks' remake of this classic is outstanding. Most of the props are from the original Frankenstein Movie series and the story line follows the original. If you have seen the original Frankenstein, than this movie will be even funnier. The casting is perfect with shining performances by Marty Feldman (Igor, pronounced Eyegore), Peter Boyle (The Monster) and Gene Wilder (Frodrick Frunkenstein). Classic scene (for me), The Monster meets a Blind Gene Hackman. You HAVE to feel bad for the Monster! The movie is full of memorable one-liners which most people can recite at the drop of a hat. Rent it. You will love it. "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Cinematography is superb as is the attention to detail, Marty Feldman and Gene Wilder are outstanding.  One of the few films I would watch over and over, if you haven't seen it yet (it's only been out 24 years) do so very soon.   Remember Fire GoooooD .....  "},{"Title":"Yummy satire","Date":"1 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of Mel Brooks' best films and my favorite. He  carefully re-creates the look and atmosphere of the  classic Universal Studios horror films while, at the same  time, he gives the old classics a complete roasting. "},{"Title":"funny.........but could have been better","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" well I saw the movie after great amt of review readings...but found the movie funny in bits and pieces only. some of the potential funny incidents fell flat like when Elizabeth says do you want me to elevate you here in the laboratory....and then the situation ends with oh that switch....really could have been much better. However some of the clips of Igor were really funny...like the way he first asks Gene Wilder to walk like this with his little stick...but to add to the humor they could have made the initial part of Dr. Frankinstein in color...anyway the movie could have been better. The sounds were a bit blaring here and there but the suspense was well depicted. "},{"Title":"A funny comedy, one of Brooks' best","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mel Brooks makes one of the best parody films ever with this comedy about the gradnson of Dr. Frankenstein (Gene Wilder is terrific) who inherits his grandfather's mansion.  He like his old man is also a doctor, and sees he has a new assistant, Igor (pronounced as eye-gor in perfection by Marty Feldman).  But soon, he is enfatuated with a book his grandfather wrote (How I Did It) and creates a monster.  Hilarious escapades in this goofy yet quotabe comedy parodying all the frankenstein movies and even creates some Brooksfilm cliche's.  Very funny every time I watch it.  Written by Brooks and Wilder.  Gene Hackman gives the funniest part of the movuie spoofing the Blind Man from the first Frankenstein.  A+ "},{"Title":"Young Frankenstein","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" From director Mel Brooks (The Producers, Blazing Saddles), I remember seeing this once before, but seeing it a second time really helped me appreciate it possibly even more. Basically young neurosurgeon Dr. Frederick Frankenstein (Gene Wilder), grandson of the infamous Dr. Victor Von Frankenstein, has spent years living with the fact that his grandfather cut up bodies, made one and brought it to life. This looming over him he tries to live normally, ready to marry and settle with fiancée Elizabeth (Golden Globe nominated Madeline Kahn), and wanting his surname pronounced differently. Then he finds out he has inherited the castle of his grandfather where the infamous experiments were carried out, living with big-eyed hunchback servant Igor (Marty Feldman), pretty lab assistant Inga (Teri Garr) and old housekeeper Frau Blücher (Golden Globe nominated Cloris Leachman). Blücher by the way is German for glue, which is why the horses always panic whenever anyone says the word. One night, Frederick and Inga find the secret passage way behind the fast revolving bookcase, and that is when they find the laboratory where the incident happened. Reading through his grandfather's books, Frederick is convinced that he could create a creature from dead tissue all over again and this time succeed. Obviously it was due to fail when Igor took the wrong brain and he misread abnormal for Abby Normal, and when the Monster (Peter Boyle) wakes up it is chaos. The Monster does escape at one point and hang out with a Blindman (Gene Hackman), Inspector Kemp (Kenneth Mars) with the stiffly adjustable wooden arm starts the search for it. Frederick does get it back, and there is a big unveiling of the Monster on stage in front of a large audience to prove the creature is capable of carrying out orders, and they sing and dance as well. In the end though, the Monster is chased by a mob, and to save his experiment Frederick decides to sacrifice himself passing his soul into the other body, and vice versa, so imagine what happens when he marries Elizabeth. Also starring Richard Haydn as Herr Falkstein, Liam Dunn as Mr. Hilltop and Danny Goldman as Medical Student. Wilder makes a great mad scientist, Feldman has many fine one liners as the hunchback, Kahn gets her moments including as the bride with the big striped hair, and Hackman is good as the Blind Hermit. Filled with all the clichés from the great classic horrors to create the laughs, and a song and dance to go with it, it is a marvellous homage and a good fun horror spoof. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Sound and Best Writing, Screenplay Adapted From Other Material for Wilder and Brooks. It was number 89 on 100 Years, 100 Songs for Puttin' on the Ritz, it was number 20 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films, and it was number 13 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs. Very good! "},{"Title":"Over-rated?","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Humour is such a subjective thing. I barely laughed at all during this film yet the vast majority on this site seemed to be rolling on the floor with tears pouring down their eyes from start to finish. So it seems I just have a different taste in humour, I don't know...My favourite comedy movies are Life of Brian, Naked Gun, Top Secret, The Holy Grail, Airplane, Shaun of the Dead, Some Like it Hot, Dr Strangelove...do I differ so radically from other's tastes? Anyway, taking the humour aside ( which is difficult, as it's a comedy film...hence my low score! ) it's hard to fault the performances or production. The film looks wonderful, the acting is superb throughout and it's obviously been done with a lot of heart and effort. But the corny, staged jokes and slapstick humour barely raised a giggle from me so it has to go down as a failure in my eyes. "},{"Title":"Put the candle back!!!","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dr Frankenstein - pronounced Fronkensteen (Gene Wilder) leaves America for Transylvania when he acquires a will that has been left to him by his great-grandfather Baron Von Frankenstein. Dr Frankenstein is initially sceptical about taking residence in his late great-grandfather's castle, but soon becomes interested when he discovers his great-grandfather's private library. Armed with a book from this library and a corpse Frankenstein begins 'experimenting' with potentially disastrous consequences.I tried watching this film in its entirety on two occasions - first time I fell asleep halfway through and being the sort of person who can't pick up on a film the next day from the halfway point I started the film again the following day. The second time I made it to about 15 minutes from the end and gave up again. I decided not to start again and just watched the last 15 minutes just so that I can say that I watched it all. That just goes to show how bored I was when watching this film....The problem I had with this film is that the story for me was very weak and rather repetitive. I also found large portions of the film unfunny simply because very little was done with the character of The Monster - I mean he's got an abnormal brain so why not make the film funnier by showing him being crazy all the time and doing made things? Poor Peter Boyle was just left grunting and snarling and whilst this perhaps is more of an accurate reflection of how The Monster behaves it doesn't make for a very good comedy film in my opinion.Wilder gives a rather Marmite performance here; infectious and amusing in the early stages, but his overacting gets worse and worse as the film progresses and he started to become tiresome towards the end. Many of the other performances are OK, but it's clear that Brooks' approach here was the louder the better - there is lots of shouting and noise which is unbearable and irritating at times.This isn't an out and out failure and there are certainly some amusing moments; the bookcase scene was brilliant and I also found it funny when Frankenstein and his creation were both singing and dancing to the song 'Putting On The Ritz'. However I only laughed twice in the 100 minute running time and I'm somewhat puzzled by the high ratings that it's getting on IMDb. I haven't seen the Frankenstein films of old so perhaps that's part of the problem. However, given the fact that this is billed as a Comedy and due to its high rating I expected to be laughing consistently and in that respect I can't help but feel a little short-changed. "}{"Title":"Mel Brooks fails to bring much life to his parody of Frankenstein.","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks opens his 1974 parody of Universal's classic Frankenstein films with a suitably atmospheric scene in which the camera, having slowly closed in on the Frankenstein castle during the credits, glides across a rain-lashed courtyard and into a room where lies a coffin emblazoned with the name and crest of Baron Von Frankenstein. The coffin lid swings open to reveal a decomposed corpse clutching a box; at this point, Mel Brooks starts with his puerile comedy, a hand trying to snatch away the box, the corpse pulling it back. It's all downhill from here-on in, the dreadfully unsophisticated humour rarely hitting the mark.It's clear that Brooks has an affection for his subject matter, such is the attention to detail in the sets and the acute cinematography, but his gags simply do not do the concept justice, the material ranging from broad farce to puerile smut. To make matters worse, Brooks frequently has his performers break the fourth wall, giving knowing looks to the audience, which is plain embarrassing. While he was at it, he should have had some of his cast apologise to the viewers for their dreadful performances as well Gene Wilder is particularly irritating, shouting his way through every scene, Marty Feldman simply mugs a lot and rolls his huge eyes, and Madeline Kahn is annoyingly shrill.The film's most credible turn comes from Peter Boyle, as the creature, who is far better than the dross he is given to work with. The movie's other saving grace is Teri Garr, as Frankenstein's sexy assistant Inga her performance is Teri-ble, but at least she is Garr-geous to look at (believe me when I say that my awful puns are no less funny than any of Brooks' gags). "},{"Title":"Lots of Mel Brooks zaniness, some work, some not so much","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dr. Frankenstein (Gene Wilder) has been living down his infamous grandfather but finds he has inherited his castle. There he finds hunchback Igor (Marty Feldman), blondie Inga (Teri Garr), and the old housekeeper Frau Blücher (Cloris Leachman). Although he had dismiss his grandfather's work, he rediscovers the old experiments and recreates the monster (Peter Boyle).This is a daring gamble by Mel Brooks to shoot this in black and white. It worked out for him. I can imagine if this was in color, it would look cheap B-movie camp.There are some hilarious bits like Teri Garr 'rolling in the hay'. It's somewhat uneven with the zanny Mel Brooks jokes. They just keep coming. Some hit, but not all. Although Puttin' on the Ritz is incredibly hilarious. "},{"Title":"Good for a relaxed evening","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein is Mel Brook's continuation of the popular horror story. Of course, it's not an official sequel, but it's a comedy with all the characters of Frankenstein. The story consists of Dr. Fredrick Frankenstein (or Fronkensteen, as he likes it) who tries to bring dead corpses to life...or something like that.I forgot the story, but the movie was filmed in black-and-white. I don't know how much color was available in 1974, so they may have put it in black-and-white to save money or something like that. But, I think it was to mimic the original Frankenstein. The film is by Mel Brooks, so it's obviously a comedy. It has a few funny jokes, such as the one with the horses. But, the jokes come by few. In the last 20 minutes or so, the movie backs away from comedy and heads towards material in the original Frankestein. In the ending, Dr. Frankenstein begins to teach the monster compassion. I guess there is character development here... for the monster. Anyways, this part may be heart-warming, but it certainly isn't funny.Young Frankenstein is funny, but only creates laughs here and there. Your stomach won't hurt from laughter, but it's good fun for a relaxed evening.Good Light-hearted, funny at times, heart-warming (perhaps), homages to Frankenstein and a nice continuation Bad Ending is too long, jokes are forgettable, remains good, but never great Feel free to send me a Private Message regarding this comment. "},{"Title":"Rolling on the floor laughing!!!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie! Mel Brooks at his finest! Gene Wilder is hilarious as the straight man, and Marty Feldman is the perfect comic relief. Of course, this movie needs no comic relief, being how it's all a joke. It doesn't matter how many times you see it, you just can't get enough of it! "},{"Title":"One of the funniest comedies of all-time!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Young Frankenstein is without a doubt one of the funniest movies ever made in my humble opinion! Mel Brooks is a great director! I own it on DVD! The grandson of a famous scientist (Gene Wilder) goes to Transylvania and continues the research of a late relative. There he meets a strange hunchback named Igor (Marty Feldman), a beautiful lab assistant named Inga (Teri Garr), and an old housekeeper, Frau Blucher (Cloris Leachman). Peter Boyle is hilarious as a monster in his role. Kenneth Mars is amazing in his supporting role as the inspector. Young Frankenstein is a movie that should be seen if you have not seen it!10/10 stars! "},{"Title":"Pointless dribble","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The eighteenth-century English poet Samuel Taylor, once made a statement declaring, that anytime someone experiences a work of art, they must leave their ideas of reality at the door and see the work of art on its own merits &#x96; he called it 'the willing suspension of disbelief'. But unfortunately that statement can't be applied to Young Frankenstein; first of all it is not art! it is monstrosity with very little merits to its name, and because over the top performances, used to compensate for poor characters, a plot that often finds itself tripping over with its pants around its ankles and ultimately a movie with no real identity; is it a horror or is it a comedy? Well during the entire duration of the film, I neither jumped nor did I laugh, therefore it is neither and thus should be tossed in the bin! I'm not expecting another Casablanca or a Godfather, but at least have a plot line that makes sense. Years after the famed exploits of a crazed doctor Frankenstein and his monster, his great, great grandson finds himself as a lecturer at a university also studying the human body funny enough, expect that is where the similarities end, because the great grandson played by Gene Wilder, wants nothing to do with his great Grandfather doggies dealings, so detaches himself from the infamous man by requesting that everyone refers to him as 'Dr.FrankenSTIEN'. But unluckily for him, he soon finds out that he inherited the Granddad's castle and he accepts and goes to the castle &#x96; wait! If the guy wants nothing to do with his grandfather, then why not turn down the inheritance? Then as he turns up to the castle, he finds a book with his uncles tricks of reanimation and repeats the experiments? Didn't the guy change his name slightly just to remove any attachment to his Grandfather, yet 10 seconds later he does the exact same thing? The rest of the film barely deserves mention, but to cut a long story short; it is a lot of forced, contrived and unimaginative humour, which made me rather disappointed at Gene Wilder, especially when I love his other performances in Blazing Saddles and Charlie and the chocolate factory so much. Bad Gene, naughty step for you! "},{"Title":"Hearts and kidney's are tinker toys!","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm not kidding, this is one of the best comedies of all time! The 70's was one of the best decades of movies and Mel Brooks kicked butt in the comedy era. Young Frankenstein was obviously a parody on Mary Shelly's Frankenstein and I heard that Gene Wilder had wrote a script and just imagined being the grandson of Frankenstein. He and Mel Brooks together created a masterpiece of non stop laughs and a fun movie.Young Frankenstein is great because it's an intelligent comedy that could make any adult or child laugh. I've been watching this movie since I was 5 years old and it still gets me today. My favorite scenes are Puttin' on the Ritz, Now could you tell me who's brain I did put in?, the monster and Elizabeth getting it on, and actually just the whole movie in general. The cast is just perfect, you can tell they had a blast making this movie. I think that's why people can enjoy it, because if the actors enjoyed it, so will the audience. Please, watch Young Frankenstein, it's a great movie that will always bring a smile to your face.10/10 "},{"Title":"Wildly uneven but generally funny.","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Like most hit-or-miss comedies, Young Frankenstein is wildly uneven there are perhaps one or two brilliant moments (what knockers!), some pretty funny scenes, some mild scenes and a few completely unsuccessful running gags - like the presence of the detective with the mechanical arm. As a whole, the film is generally funny, certainly better than embarrassing Mel Brooks films like Dracula Dead and Loving It, beautifully photographed and makes good use of its huge sets. Wilder is very enjoyable, but Feldman looks like a forgotten member of the Monty Pythons with that accent and Boyle makes you feel sorry of the poor Monster, which is good, but uncomfortable in a comedy. "},{"Title":"I waited 30 years to watch THIS??","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"13 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was a senior in college when this movie was released. I did not see it at the time and then just sort of avoided it on videotape and then DVD...for no particularly good reason. I loved Blazing Saddles and I now own a copy, but I could never seem to get around to watching YF. Finally, my younger brother's fanaticism about the movie forced me to rent it and watch it, some 30 years after it was released.Seldom have I been so disappointed in a movie. The trivia for this movie states that Mel Brooks made up scenes after the main filming was completed because everyone had so much fun that they didn't want to stop. I believe it. The marks of self-indulgence are all over this movie, from the operatic screams of passion to the deadpan looks every performer casts to the audience. Breaking the fourth wall has never before been done so often with so little positive results. This movie redefines telegraphing the punchline.Sorry...not a chuckle, not a laugh, not a giggle, not even a smile. This movie just doesn't make the mark. The humor is trite, clichéd, and unoriginal. (And don't bother telling me that this film is 30 years old and was the basis for the humorous clichés we now see in films. Every bit of what passes for humor in this movie can be traced to films that went before it.) * out of ***** "},{"Title":"Not Mel Brooks' best film, but pretty close","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The career of Mel Brooks is much like that of Woody Allen in that both of them did their best stuff in their earlier years when their films were just plain funny. After a few films, Allen's got too introspective and artsy and Brooks' became so juvenile and cheap that both geniuses became intolerable to watch to many past fans.Young Frankenstein is one of Brooks' earliest films and like THE PRODUCERS (his first and best), it is so hilariously funny that I don't mind seeing them again and again. So why did I like YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN, exactly? Well, the acting was superb. I particularly loved Gene Wilder (particularly during his speech while holding a scalpel) and his sidekick, Marty Feldman,...though Cloris Leachman was also terrific as Frau Blücher. And while the film lacked the subtlety and grace of THE PRODUCERS, it was silly and dopey but still restrained compared to later Brooks films. Plus, it had a lovely black & white look that really was a wonderful homage to the Universal monsters of the 1930s.I know this will ruffle a lot of feathers, but his equally famous BLAZING SADDLES was, for me, the beginning of the end of Brooks' genius. While SADDLES had many wonderful moments, there was absolutely no restraint and the end degenerated into a horrific and stupid mess. Like Jerry Lewis, after a while his films were practically unwatchable, as there was no one on-hand to say enough or perhaps you might want to make this scene a little more subtle or doing a comedy about homeless people just can't work. "}{"Title":"Seems overrated to me.","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein starts as Dr. Frederick Frankenstein (Gene Wilder) a brilliant neurosurgeon & grandson of the infamous Baron Victor Frankenstein learns that he has inherited the ancestral family castle in Transylvania. Arriving there the quickly finds his grandfather's private library & notes which describe how he created & re-animated a dead body, inspired by this Frederick decides to carry on his grandfather's work & perfect it in the hope that he will be able to create a new life...Co-written & directed by Mel Brooks I came on the IMDb to comment on Young Frankenstein & I am greeted by various comments & user ratings that seem to suggest that this is just about the greatest & funniest spoof homage ever, having watched Young Frankenstein from start to finish mere hours ago I wondered if I had seen the same film as the users here who rave about it like it's the best thing since sliced bread because I have to say I thought it was average at best. Personally I think Young Frankenstein works better as a straight beautifully crafted homage to Universial Frankenstein films rather than a spoof comedy. For me the comedy more often than not misses the mark & even on the few occasions when it doesn't I didn't find it anything more than mildly amusing. The minor gags like when Frankenstein accidentally stabs himself in the leg, the scenes when the horses keep make a noise when a certain character's name is mentioned & a scene when Frankenstein has to pretend a dead bodies arm is his own when confronted by a policeman work quite well but when the film descends into total farce like the dumb inspector with a wooden arm, Frankenstein & the monster tap dancing on stage together & a silly bit when while being throttled by the monster Frankenstein has to play charades with his assistant's to get them to help him just feel out of place & to my eyes weren't in the least bit funny. Apparently the original cut of the film was twice as long as the released one & when viewed was considered terrible so all the unfunny jokes were cut (not all of them in my opinion) & that is the version that was released & became so popular.Young Frankenstein follows the Universal Frankenstein films quite closely & many scenes are lovingly recreated like the re-animation part, the girl by the lake scene & the part when the monster meets a blind-man. The one area where the two do differ is in the ending which here is very silly & again I just didn't find funny at all. The film looks wonderful, shot in black and white with beautiful atmospheric production design which gives the film a sumptuous look. The film actually uses many of the original laboratory props & equipment from the original Universal Frankenstein (1931) which someone had kept in their garage.With a supposed budget of about $2,800,000 the production values are great & the film looks great throughout of that there is no doubt & in a way the constantly unfunny jokes & gags got in the way for me & I thought Young Frankenstein worked best when it was a straight homage to the Universal Frankenstein films. The acting is alright, Gene Wilder apparently rates this as his favourite film that he has been in while Gene Hackman originally went uncredited as the blind-man.Young Frankenstein is not the best comedy ever, it's not the best spoof ever & it's not even Mel Brook's best film, I'm sorry but I just didn't find it very funny & apart from the tremendous production design & one or two mildly amusing gags I can't see why it's so highly rated. A musical version was adapted & premiered on stage in New York during 2007. "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein (1974) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Mel Brooks hysterical spoof/tribute to the early Universal horror films hits all the right notes up until the final thirty minutes. I'm not sure what it is but the dance scene never really worked for me and this scene throws the rest of the film off. The final joke does work as does the sex scene between the monster and the fiancé but other than that the ending leaves me cold. Everything up until that moment is spot on perfect with the highlight for me being the gag with the monsters hand sticking out of the coffin and Wilder having to pretend that it is his. I know a lot of fans bash the Gene Hackman scene in the film but I'm not one of them. I think the blind hermit scene in The Bride of Frankenstein is one of the greatest scenes in film history but the spoof here works perfectly well and I personally don't see it as an insult. "},{"Title":"Extremely well made comedy shot beautifully in black & white.","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Isn't it funny? Most of the jokes in the movie are extremely lame and often predictable but you're still laughing your butt off because of them. This is thanks to the comical genius that Mel Brooks is. With this movie he shows once more that he was quite probably the best comedy director of the 20th century.The atmosphere of the movie is totally fantastic because it was shot entirely in black & white. At times you really think you're watching the 1931 Frankenstein movie. This movie is an hilarious and brilliant spoof of that old classic horror movie.Billy Wilder is extremely good in this movie but person that blew me away was Madeline Kahn. What a talented comical actress she was! Kenneth Mars and Gene Hackman also show up, in extremely hilarious roles.The story works extremely well for the movie and it flows very well. Most comedies often have both hits and misses but Young Frankenstein almost entirely only has hits. It's a rare hilarious comedy that is brilliant both in a comical and artistic way and has some extremely well performances.Brilliant movie!10/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks ' comedy triumph !!","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Creating a funny and light-headed comedy is one thing...but producing an effective parody might as well be the hardest thing to achieve in cinema. Because you need to have the talent to tell an already famous story in a tolerable and comic way. And, above all, you should always show respect for the original movie or classic story it is based on. And that's why most movies in this subgenre of cinema are a failure and the early movies of Mel Brooks are a triumph...Young Frankenstein is a series of brilliant scenes and hilarious highlights but the basic plot of Frankenstein is never mocked!! Thanks to Brooks ' writing talent and the terrific acting performances of the entire cast, Young Frankenstein is a magnificent cinema experience to observe. Brooks even manages to keep the horrific atmosphere in his movie and that's an achievement to itself. As mentioned before, the cast of Young Frankenstein couldn't be better. Gene Wilder is delicious as the baron but the show is obviously stolen by Marty Feldman as Igor...His facial expressions and small inside jokes are the absolute highlights. Acting legend Gene Hackman plays the role of the blind man. The classic sequence in which he invites the monster to his house stands as one of the funniest ones in modern cinema...in my humble opinion, at least. When talking about nowadays crappy movies in the genre (like the Scary Movies for example), I think it's safe to say that the genre of decent spoofs is dead and buried. Young and untalented directors turned it into a vulgar and uninspired genre. If you're looking for the titles that are worth the effort, you can't go wrong with the earlier work of Mel Brooks. Young Frankenstein of course, but also Blazing Saddles, High Anxiety and Silent Movie... "},{"Title":"Monstrously Funny - NOT","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As you can see from my star rating as compared to the overall IMDb score, my feelings on this movie don't go along with the average viewer. Going in I had different expectations. Mel Brooks, funny. Gene Wilder, funny. Peter Boyle, Marty Feldman, Madeline Kahn, Cloris Leachman, all funny. But this monstrous comedy masterpiece is anything but. Perhaps if I would have seen this in 1974 when it was released I would have enjoyed it more, but probably not because I was only 2. It is horribly dated and uninspired and unoriginal in its humor. There were some funny parts, sure, but I was bored most of the time. The only thing I got out of it was realizing how hot Teri Garr was at one time. Hubba hubba. "},{"Title":"A good show gone awry at the end","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Young Frankenstein is full of hilarious quips and fun one-liners. The movie leads the audience along a fun, slap-sticky road. UNTIL the humor turns completely sour!!! Once the movie moved to showing Frankenstein (the monster) and his new would-be bride actually consummating their odd marriage (though one sees only the monster's back), the movie shot right out of funny to completely off color (no pun intended for the black & white feature). The movie's real intents seems, from this point on, to be the female climax as brought on by the size of the male's anatomy. Didn't people grow out of finding this humorous in middle school (if not earlier)? Simply put, the movie took a terrible turn from good-natured, slap-stick to inappropriate slap-'something else'.If you are looking for a recommendation, I would suggest you watch something else, the end isn't worth any of the jokes in the rest of the show. "},{"Title":"Over rated comedy!","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"12 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Surprisingly over rated spoof comedy that is really only FAIR at best but is being praised as a masterpiece!The movie struggles for any luaghs it can get despite many opportunities the material has to offer.I do recommend this movie for the classic FRANKENSTEIN horror movie fans who like the comedy genre for this comedy version treats that classic horror film with respect.Wait for the sequence when Gene Hackman as an old blind man who plays host to our monster to one of the most hilarious scenes in movie history much in the 3 STOOGES style.But other than that sequence,everything else is cliche comedy.The cinematography is only standard 30's style black and white and yet it is praised to high heaven as if it was in the same level of quality as LAWRENCE OF ARABIA!Most probably these over rating high praisers were blinded out of reality by Terri Garr's obvious beauty.If you want a masterpiece horror/comedy,see THE RE-ANIMATOR.For a masterpiece Mel Brooks movie,see BLAZING SADDLES which deserves it's praises......   "},{"Title":"Most overrated film ever?","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"19 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I recently bought this movie on DVD without having actually seen it. The rave reviews it receives on this site made it sound like a must have movie for all comedy fans. Once i started to watch this film i was gob-smacked. It is utter crap. The jokes are lame as hell, the script pathetic, the only funny thing in it is Marty Feldmans eyes and they hardly deserve 10 out of 10. It just amazes me how this film picks up these great reviews despite the fact that it stinks so much. My advice to anyone out there who hasn't already seen this stinker is to avoid it at all costs because it is a complete waste of nearly 2 hours of your life. Simply pathetic.1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"O-ver-rated","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"9 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is the least funny movie I have ever seen, and that is not limited to just comedies. It is the first comedy I've ever seen that didn't have one funny moment(intentional or unintentional. I can't believe this piece of is considered a top comedy of all time, and I am going to say right now that the emperor has no clothes. On a scale of 1 to 10, i would give this a 1. I would like to warn anyone considering watching this film to save your time and money, as it doesn't even attempt to be funny, and instead it insists upon itself. I found it to be both shallow and pedantic. The best part is probably the terrible sexual humor, which wasn't funny but at least it was trying to be funny. "},{"Title":"At least Ed Wood's Plan 9 from outer space made me laugh.","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"11 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought Mel Brooks hit an all time low with Dracula  Dead and loving it. I was wrong. He hit that low in 1974 with Young Frankenstein. Usually once in a Mel Brooks movie, I get a good belly laugh in, but this just missed the mark on all attempts. It just wasn't funny. I mean the feeling of the old movie and the settings were technically perfect, but it doesn't hide the fact that wasn't amusing in any respect. While watching the movie with friends, chuckles and a solitary ha were heard in the first 45 minutes, after that, silence. The movie at this point, doesn't even try to be funny. It's just stuff happening. If I just want to see stuff happening, I'll watch Seinfield. Anybody thinking about buying, renting, or borrowing this movie should really think hard if they want to waste 106 minutes of their lives they'll never get back. Don't see it. It's not funny.  "}{"Title":"Completely Unfunny, with the usual screaming insane wilder character.","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"12 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" With all that talent, all the beautiful film-making skills that have gone into it, the beautiful black-and-white style, the gorgeous sets and locations, does not redeem the fact that it is a horrendously unfunny film, regardless of Mr. Wilder, Mr. Feldman, and all the other obvious talent/s that has gone into it.It does not, in my opinion have any comedic element at all. It seems to try too hard to make you laugh when all it does is make me cringe. It isn't a popular film. Everybody seems blinkered because of the obvious amount of comedic talent that appears to of gone into it. It is a perfect Christmas film at a time of day when a testcard would suffice.Dire, in it's most natural form. Painful, in it's most obvious. "},{"Title":"..","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really cant see what the fuss is about this film. While it is decent but not nearly close as funny as say the monty python movies. Severely overrated. Gene Wilder is damn irritating too.... "},{"Title":"Do not bother with this pile of rubbish","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I like Gene Wilder. Even if he is not flavour of the month anymore, if he ever was, I make no apologies for that statement. I have a story I would like to share.In 1982, after the release of The Frisco Kid and Hanky Panky, and even though I was possibly too old to indulge in such childishness, I wrote Gene Wilder a fan letter. I expressed my admiration for his work and politely requested an autograph on a magazine, featuring Gene Wilder on the cover, that I had enclosed with a stamped addressed envelope. A month later the magazine arrived back and it had been autographed.I have no idea if the autograph is genuine. It may well have been signed by Gene Wilder, or maybe it was just signed by somebody in Gene Wilder's office. I will never know. Do you know what? I don't care. Somebody went to the effort to send that autograph to me for that I think that Vin is sound, is cool and I give him much respect.I just wish that Wilder appeared in better movies. This brings us to Young Frankenstein.My ten year old, admittedly now weaned on Mary Shelley and company, asked to walk out after ten minutes. Without doubt the worst film I've ever seen. Suddenly the 'Golden Compass' seems coherent, the animated 'Anastasia' tasteful and 'District 9' a serious addition to the sci-fi genre.The poster was extremely misleading. It did not make it clear this film was in English with Hindi subtitles. That it was a black and white musical. It said it was a Mel Brooks production (which made a difference to me). Nor did it make it clear that the people involved were clearly not professional film makers, and deserved to be tied to the roof of the Sydney Opera house and gently pelted with seagull droppings.The only reason we went was to be out of the house and avoid my wife's piano quartet rehearsal. Nothing - I reasoned - could be worse than that. Damn but I was wrong. "},{"Title":"Quite stupid, really.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was hoping for a non-stop laugh fest when I bought this movie. I was in a way, expecting a classic SCARY MOVIE that spoofed the FRANKENSTEIN films. But what we have, is a stupid, unfunny Mel Brooks film. I will never in my life see another Mel Brooks movie because of how bad this film is. There absolutely no laughs at all. The only good parts of the film are the serious parts that try not to be funny. This is more of a serious movie than it is a comedy. Gene Wilder hit rock-bottom here. I do not recommend seeing this if you haven't yet. I would not wish this film on my worst enemy. YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN 1/2* out of 5. "}]