[{"Title":"A train worth catching","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"36 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":"  Anyone who's ever had to slog through his soul-destroying ITC or Cannon-years output will find it hard to imagine that there was ever a time when Charles Bronson was a half-decent actor who not only made films that were actually released in cinemas, but good ones at that. Breakheart Pass is probably the best of the last burst of quality output in the actor's oeuvre that also saw Hard Times (aka The Streetfighter) and the whimsical From Noon Til Three; for that matter, the last good Alistair MacLean screen outing before what seems like an eternity of formulaic made-for-TV efforts with C-list casts.The plot has all the MacLean staples - sabotage, secret identities, wolves in sheep's clothing and a plot where no-one and nothing is what they appear to be. The only novelty is the location, a train rushing through the old West to bring medical supplies to a cholera-infected fort through strikingly snowbound mountain countryside beautifully captured through cinematographer Lucien Ballard's lens. But the fact that so much of the film is simply one of the author's beloved WW2 plots with outlaws and Indians instead of Nazis doesn't matter it's the telling that counts, and with a tight script and strong direction from Tom Gries that is equally adept at the mystery (more a 'what the heck's going on?' than 'who's behind it all?') as action (most notably a good rooftop punch-up and a spectacular wreck) it's never a dull ride.Bronson, still making an effort in those days, comes over well, while the strong supporting cast (including John Ford and Sam Peckinpah regular Ben Johnson, as well as Richard Crenna, Charles Durning and Ed Lauter) add a pleasing layer of professionalism and credibility. Even Jill Ireland, never the most interesting of leading ladies, acquits herself well here.Everyone here has done better work (check out Gries extraordinarily affecting Will Penny or Ballard's work on The Wild Bunch), and it's not a life-changing experience, but that's not the point. This is an audience picture that sets out to entertain you for an hour-and-a-half, and succeeds admirably. And Jerry Goldsmith's terrific and exhilaratingly exciting score - his best in the genre - is the icing on the cake.   "},{"Title":"enjoyable western","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"32 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" This movie was made at the height of Bronson's career. He had just done Death Wish a year before and Hard Times and Breakout were the other two to follow. It must have made a packet and its easy to see why. A train heading for a destination where Indians await and mysterious murders happening along the way. Many characters make this movie seem alas Hitchcock/Christie and the music by Jerry Goldsmith is one of the best of the 70's. His music captures the mood of every scene whether it be high pitch as the train moves along or dark as the shady characters go about their business in the carriages. Some of the location shooting is breathtaking and i actually felt cold watching it. The acting is solid as expected. Bronson, Crenna, Johnson, Lauter, Durning and even Jill Ireland are all good while not giving much away to their character. The action explodes at the end and gunfire a plenty making this one of the most entertaining action films of that era.8/10 "},{"Title":"Finally, someone read the book BEFORE making the movie!","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"36 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":"  Alistair MacLean has always been one of my favorite authors, dating back to my high-school days in the mid-'60s.  He has written many outstanding books, and many films have been made from them.  Too many times, however, the title is the only thing that remains the same.Not in this case, however.  Either MacLean himself was involved with this film, or the director actually read the book first before starting, as this film is faithful to the book.  A rarity indeed. "},{"Title":"It's generally considered to be the odd one out in the list of MacLean's books, but the film adaptation is reasonably worthwhile.","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":"  Alistair MacLean spent most of his novelist days writing wartime suspensers or twisting, turning thrillers. The one book that he wrote which doesn't fit either of those descriptions is Breakheart Pass, a western set aboard a train. This film version of it is surprisingly enjoyable, and features the added bonus of an expressive, colourful characterisation by Charles Bronson.The train is travelling to a fort in the Wild West with medical supplies to cure an outbreak of a nasty disease. However, some of the soldiers aboard the train are mysteriously disappearing, and anyone who's ever seen a film like this will figure out straight away that there's a murderer on board. Furthermore, the train must make its journey across hostile Red Indian terrain, where a fearsome ambush or a sabotaged stretch of track is only a spear throw away.Bronson plays a mysterious outlaw who is held prisoner on the train, though there are plenty of clues that he may not be exactly who he says he is. Other well delineated characters are played by Richard Crenna, Jill Ireland, Archie Moore (yes, the boxer!), and Ed Lauter. One truly amazing sequence involves a rooftop scuffle between Bronson and Moore.... indeed most people who have ever seen the film remember it for that sequence more than any other. All things considered, Breakheart Pass is one of the better adaptations of a MacLean novel, admittedly not quite in the same league as Fear is the Key or Where Eagles Dare, but definitely worth seeking out, especially on DVD. "},{"Title":"Fatalities On a Train","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" One thing I do like about Breakheart Pass is that absolutely nobody is who he pretends to be. For the first time viewer, 90% of the fun is figuring just who the good guys and bad guys are on this train to Fort Humboldt in the Rocky Mountains. It's not revealed until about 75% of the film is done and when it is revealed the action steps up considerably.A special train is being sent to Fort Humboldt with medical supplies and a relief force as cholera has broken out there. The territorial Governor Richard Crenna is taking personal charge of the operation, the troops are commanded by cavalry Major Ed Lauter. Along for the ride is U.S. Marshal Ben Johnson, Doctor David Huddleston, the Commanding officer's daughter, Jill Ireland. The engineer is Roy Jenson, the conductor is Charles Durning. Governor Crenna travels in style with a private car with a cook, Archie Moore and a server Victor Mohica. As you can see Breakheart Pass has a good cast.Marshal Johnson arrests a fugitive, Charles Bronson, before the journey starts and circumstances force him to take Bronson along. People start getting killed on this trip, even before the train leaves and as I said no one is exactly who he seems to be.Alistair MacLean for a non-American writer managed in this story to get the western ambiance down pretty good. Breakheart Pass combines the best elements of a western and a mystery and I wouldn't miss it if I was either a western or a mystery fan. "},{"Title":"good, solid western","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" The movie is a little too long, the plot isn't the greatest, and it drags here and there, but all the actors are excellent - Richard Crenna and Ben Johnson in particular. Charles Bronson does what he does best - be Charles Bronson. It has good stunts, and plenty of action - what you expect from a Western. To me the main item of interest is that Yakima Canutt, the first great movie stuntman, and later a great stunt coordinator, was the 2nd unit director. It was his last movie. He died the next year - 1976. He started in silent movies, worked with John Wayne on many occasions, and staged the chariot race in the nine-Oscar winning Ben Hur. It's fitting that his last movie was a Western. "},{"Title":"Thinking that I was going to see a Western helped ...","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" ... to add to the mystery. The film starts slow without boring the customer. We are introduced to some of the characters who will enter a military support train from Arizona(?) to Fort Humboldt, California. The train will pass only wild mountain landscape so that there is no leave. Mysterious things start to happen and we don't know what's behind, a situation roughly comparable to A LADY VANISHES from Hitchcock. So it's more a Thriller and Murder Mystery located in the Old West than a real Western. Bronson does a good job and handles the increasing action well, the other actors give some good but not great performances. The film would be better and more credible with some less mystery events and particularly less carcasses on the train. Why not dump them in the wilderness!? It must have smelled. But overall good and well shot entertainment.Quite popular in Germany. "},{"Title":"Appealing Western with a gazillion plot holes & One Amazing Fight Sequence","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" entertaining but ludicrous western mystery, starring charles bronson at the height of his career, with beautiful outdoor scenery, a familiar cast and an uneven but at times memorable score from jerry goldsmith.bronson plays an alleged arsonist and murderer who is being escorted to trial by a state marshall, on board a train that's also on a rescue mission to an army camp beset by disease. nothing is what it seems, and there are plot twists galore, several of which make no sense. most ridiculous development sees murder suspect bronson allowed to roam the train at will, as he figures everything out.but the taciturn star has his roughneck charms, the railway sequences through the wintry, mountainous terrain are lovely, and there's an incredible, lengthy fight atop the rolling train that is eyepoppingly good -- no special effects here -- and escalates to a jaw dropping climax as the train rolls over a high wooden bridge.nothing special, but an entertaining diversion. "},{"Title":"Westerns, trains, and Bronson...","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" ...all in one. What more to ask for? Well, the music could've been better, in between action and speech scenes there's a lot of suspense music, what I call TV-movie music, that the film could do without. But aside from that, I like this film.A good story, good cast, great scenery, and something I thirst for in westerns good iron horse action, with actual American rail equipment of the era (unlike, say, the European stuff in Sergio Leone's westerns). The setting is a railroad in the frosty cold weather of the Sierra mountains, with lots of power shots of the locomotive working hard on steep grades. Why, oh why, don't more western films take advantage of this great atmospheric effect? And let's not forget, this is one of Bronson's best films. He's a cool character and there's enough action to satisfy, including a great train roof fistfight. A good mystery in a western setting, and worth a rental. "},{"Title":"Breakheart Pass","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" Undercover Secret Service Agent John Deakin(Charles Bronson;Deakin is posing as a notorious criminal so to fool Ben Johnson's Marshal Nathan Pearce)has followed hidden Winchester rifles(to support notorious in-jun Whitehand and his men in a collaborative effort to collect gold and silver)to a certain train holding military whose leader Maj. Claremont(Ed Lauter)is suspicious to why he is being ordered around by a piss-poor politician(Gov. Richard Fairchild played by Richard Crenna). Fairchild tells his lover Marica Scoville(Jill Ireland)that their train must reach the fort her father is stationed quickly carrying medical supplies due to a diphtheria outbreak. Slowly as the train travels, men begin to die in strange ways. In one particular harrowing sequence someone unlatches the train compartments holding Claremont's soldiers..they can not escape as it goes off the tracks crashing into the ground below.When you have a cast featuring such names as Johnson, Crenna, Bronson, Ireland, Durning, and Lauter, it's definitely not gonna be boring. There's a marvelous sequence on top of the train as Bronson's agent and Archie Moore(playing a cook but secretly a henchmen for those in command of the gunrunning)do battle. There are some stunning camera shots of the train traveling across bridges way above the ground(we get a cool shot of Bronson preparing to travel down the side of a bridge to the ground where the engine technician's fire-man fell to his death and it is definitely not for those battling vertigo). But, what makes this film really entertaining is Bronson's agent snuffing out the culprits using his mental skills while trying to stay alive aboard a train with certain corrupt individuals seeking his life. "}{"Title":"One of the best Western movies ever","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":"  This movie is a real classic. The movie takes its place on a train on its way to Fort Humboldt, and Charles Bronson acts as a man accused of many ill-doings. Suddenly people starts disappearing and the thrill of the movie has begun. The movie is excellently made and one can never figure out the ending. Personally I think that this is one of Charles Bronson's greatest movies and his co-actors also does a very fine job. This is also one of the best movies made out of Alistair Maclean's books - even if it doesn't completly follow the book. "},{"Title":"Fine Action Western On A Train.","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" Based on Alistair MacLean's novel about a troop train transporting soldiers and medical supplies to a plague ridden fort, that is threatened by hijackers and other secrets from various characters like the territorial governor, doctor, and a mysterious prisoner.Featuring a fine cast that includes Charles Bronson, Richard Crenna, Jill Ireland, Charles Durning, and Ed Lauter, this suspenseful and action filled western thriller(directed by Tom Gries) is great fun all the way, and also has a twist laden plot to keep the viewer guessing.Some graphic violence at times, but intelligently done, and beautifully filmed on real snowy locations. If you love trains, you can't miss this one! "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable and intricate murder mystery Western thriller","Date":"16 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" Shrewd federal undercover agent John Deakin (an excellent and convincing performance by Charles Bronson) infiltrates a train that's headed for an Army outpost in Utah. However, someone on said train starts bumping of various passengers left and right. Can Deakin figure out what's going before it's too late? Director Tom Gries, working from a smart, taut, and gripping script by Alistair MacLean, relates the complex and compelling story at a steady pace, makes the most out of both the wintry landscape and the cramped confines of the train, and delivers several well-staged action set pieces (a fierce fight on top of a moving train car rates as a definite exciting highlight). Moreover, the stellar cast keeps things buzzing Bronson does credible work in a juicy lead role, Jill Ireland looks positively ravishing and exudes considerable charm as the gutsy and outspoken Marica, Ed Lauter has a welcome and refreshing change-of-pace good guy part as the no-nonsense Major Claremont, and Richard Crenna pours on the slippery smarm as the crooked Gov. Richard Fairchild, plus there are sound contributions from Ben Johnson as the rugged Marshal Pearce, Charles Durning as the huffy O'Brien, David Huddleston as the ill-fated Dr. Molyneux, Bill McKinney as the hard-nosed Reverend Peabody, Roy Jenson as gruff engineer Chris Banion, and Robert Tessier as vicious outlaw Levi Calhoun. Better still, the whole thing plays like an Agatha Christie-type murder mystery set in the Old West Almost no one on board the train is who or what they appear to be; this adds greatly to the overall drama, tension, and intrigue while the flavorsome 1800's setting gives it a certain novel appeal. Jerry Goldsmith's robust score does the rousing trick. Lucien Ballard's crisp cinematography provides a handsome look. An immensely fun and worthwhile picture. "},{"Title":"Rousing entertainment.","Date":"16 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" A good time is guaranteed when one sits down to watch this exhilarating blend of action, Western, and suspense - largely set on a train. Based on the novel by Alistair MacLean, and scripted by the author himself, it has an engaging plot with twists and revelations along the way. Charles Bronson delivers a fine performance as John Deakin, a wanted man who is brought aboard a train headed to Fort Humboldt, which is supposedly experiencing an outbreak of diphtheria. We'll find that things are not as they seem, and the characters cannot be taken at face value, either. The phenomenal supporting cast is a pleasure to watch; there are so many good actors in one place here. Ben Johnson, Jill Ireland (looking quite beautiful), Richard Crenna, Charles Durning, Ed Lauter, Bill McKinney, David Huddleston, Roy Jenson, Robert Tessier (who curiously seems to be dubbed by Paul Frees), and Sally Kirkland are all present and accounted for; the young trooper Rafferty is played by Paul Newman's son Scott. The action is first-rate and the movie, just like the prominent mode of transportation, races forward. Tom Gries directs first unit, with the legendary Yakima Canutt handling the second unit and the stunt coordination. Among the highlights are an intense fight between Bronson and boxing champ Archie Moore, as the dubious chef Carlos, and an incredible train crash. And it's all done in the classic tradition without the modern tendency to rely heavily on special effects. We already know we're going to have some serious fun with the opening credits, courtesy of Phill Norman, accompanied by a majestic, powerful, catchy main theme by Jerry Goldsmith, which this reviewer can still hear in his head as he types this. The movie gets right down to business, with a good solid story that has no need for filler, and which moves right along to a nicely executed action climax. The movie's got something for a variety of tastes, and makes for mighty fine escapism, which manages to remain fun on repeat viewings. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"The fact is Major, we have a killer aboard.","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" There came a point in the movie when I began wondering to myself, how come John Deakin/Murray (Charles Bronson) is running around loose without scrutiny or in the presence of any of the authority figures, like Marshal Pearce (Ben Johnson) or Major Claremont (Ed Lauter). After all, his face was on a Wanted Poster, and he admitted to being an arsonist and murderer. There was only the very loose explanation that the supply train was winding it's way through uninhabited and dangerous wilderness, but a dangerous guy, I think, would have made a break for it at some point.But Deakin was not the dangerous guy the viewer is set up for. The picture jumps all of it's characters through some hoops so that they turn out to be somewhat different players than how they started. Only Miss Scoville (Jill Ireland) survives the trip unscathed as the same character, but reviled by the idea that her fiancée and Governor (Richard Crenna) is one of the picture's main villains. I always get a kick out of seeing Bronson and Ireland in the same picture, knowing that they were married in real life, and wondering if they played out their movie roles at home. You know, like tying Bronson's hands behind his back and slapping him around for fun.Probably the most memorable part of the film is the fight scene between Bronson and Archie Moore! on the train roof-top hurtling along though the mountain pass. By this time, Moore didn't look like he could make his weight limit as a light heavyweight, and he didn't have much in the way of a speaking role, but he did look dangerous. I wonder if that's how his ring opponents saw him without a knife.Overall, a decent time filler for an action flick, more of a mystery than a Western, and suitably outfitted with rugged countryside that complements the characters of the main players. Aliatair MacLean wrote the screenplay based on his own novel, utilizing some of the same elements that brought his more heralded war stories to the screen, like Where Eagles Dare and Force 10 From Navarone. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" An intriguing western and mystery wrapped in one, the film starts off quite strong, but it later spirals into run-of-the-mill action sequences that feel added in just for thrills, some of which are awkwardly silent. The directing works by clichés and the characters are all standard types, however in spite of all this it is quite watchable stuff. The film is supported by some appropriate bits of music and effective photography, which includes an extensive range of different camera angles and fitting use of distant shots. Not a wonderful piece of cinema by any stretch, the film is nevertheless a decent one of its type. "},{"Title":"Slow Train To Nowhere","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" One is aware of some daunting negatives going against this film even before seeing it1. It's a Western made in the 1970s.2. It's a Charles Bronson movie made in the 1970s.3. It's an Alistair MacLean film adaptation made in the 1970s.Westerns, Bronson movies, and MacLean novels all bespoke a certain high level of quality in the 1960s, and all made the transition into the 1970s about as well as the Beatles or the Green Bay Packers. Mindful of that, you want Breakheart Pass to beat the odds and show you it has something in the tank, or in this case, the engine compartment as most of it takes place on a train traveling across the snowy mountains of Colorado.But Breakheart Pass is stupid, turgid, and poorly-acted at nearly every turn. Perhaps the nonsensical script kept Bronson and the other actors from taking anything too seriously, though their tight expressions suggest no one was having much fun. A train carrying medical supplies and soldiers is on its way to relieve a fort wracked by a diphtheria epidemic. Bronson is John Deakin, a wanted man being brought to the fort by a hard-talking deputy marshal (Ben Johnson). Also on the train is the governor of the state (Richard Crenna) and his mistress (Jill Ireland).There's a weird mean streak in this film that weighs down the lighter-than-air storyline, soldiers being slaughtered or having their brains blown out for cheap effect. About the only fun you can have is making a drinking game out of all the clunker lines here, though you'd risk a coma before the second hour. I'm still trying to figure out which actor gives the worst line reading. Is it Ireland's Seven people, my God, Richard, how awful! or Bill McKinney as a preacher exclaiming How dare you expose all of us to this dreadful pestilence!Of course, lines like those tax any actor's selling ability, and it's no wonder Crenna, Johnson, and Charles Durning (as another of the train's mystery men) are content to slouch their way toward a paycheck here. Bronson's his typically inert self, taking only what the script gives him, but director Tom Gries is no Sergio Leone, and Bronson's acting has a laggard quality all-too-familiar in his Death Wish days.Breakheart Pass was the last film for fabled stunt coordinator Yakima Canutt and one of the last Westerns for cinematographer Lucien Ballard, who memorably shot The Wild Bunch and True Grit. Canutt with a fight on top of a rail car and Ballard with his views of the train chugging through snowy valleys give the best work here, along with Ed Lauter who as U.S. Army Maj. Claremont manages to win our rooting interest. With everything else so flat, though, they are easy to miss. Gries' static exterior compositions, his dull, repetitious framing of the actors and scenes, and his over-reliance on MacLean's bland and pokey script all doom any entertaining quality this film might have had.SPOILERS FOLLOW - Why does the deputy marshal allow Deakin to freely roam around the train after taking him into custody for the murder of seven people? Why does the governor of a state, who however corrupt would presumably have plenty of everyday opportunities for graft and embezzlement, risk his life and office to help an Indian war party get ahold of rifles and explosives? Why do he and his evil henchmen leave the vulnerable and trusting Maj. Claremont alone while taking such chances to kill his troops? Why does a clearly American army officer have a daughter with a British accent? How come, after being told how remote this Fort Humboldt is (more than a day's journey by rail), Claremont is able to ride off and bring back a Cavalry troop a few minutes later to save the day? - SPOILERS ENDIt's not that a film needs to make much sense to be entertaining. But Breakheart Pass doesn't have the craft to bluff past its silliness, and doesn't have the charm to make you want to be gulled. "},{"Title":"Good performances by Bronson, Lauter and Crenna","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" Breakheart Pass is a good, mystery western with an appeal relative to the 1985 movie Clue (except there isn't three or four different endings like there was in Clue). This movie makes you keep guessing who the culprit is and the action nor suspense ever let up at all. Some very interesting death sequences for a western, a train wreck scene that is almost impossible to believe it when you see it! Bronson's real life wife Jill Ireland plays one of her better roles in this film. Richard Crenna does a remarkable job portraying the character of Governor Fairchild. Ed Lauter portrays a command chief (Seargeant, Colonel???) for his army that is supposedly stranded out west in the middle of a diphtheria epidemic that is raging like wildfire. Bronson as usual is his in character stoic self playing his character with cool and calm ease as John Deakin, a supposed assassin and robber with a criminal history but hey wait! that's not all folks... "},{"Title":"I Hear That Train a'Comin'.....","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" Breakheart Pass is a western mystery where no one is who they seem, set in a north western state around 1900.A private military train is chugging across the country over the opening credits, on a secret mission to the army post Fory Humbolt. The train stops in a small town where we meet John Murray (Bronson) who is identified from a newspaper as a wanted man. Deputy Marshal Pearce (Ben Johnson) looking for a way to board the train, arrests Murray.Aboard the train as it leaves are Governor Fairchild (Richard Crenna), Marcia Scoville (Jill Ireland) who is going to meet her father, Reverend Peabody (Bill McKinney), Dr. Molyneux (David Huddleston), a platoon of soldiers led by Major Clairemont (Ed Lauter), as well as, the conductor (Charles Durning), a steward (Joe Kapp) and the cook Carlos (Archie Moore).Fairchild reveals that the purpose of the trip is to bring medicine to the fort which is suffering from an epidemic of diphtheria. Suddenly two army officers disappear followed by more mysterious deaths. Someone doesn't want the train to reach its destination.Murray whom we learn is a government secret services agent begins to snoop around. While still Pearce's prisoner, he is allowed the freedom of the train which is traveling through isolated country deterring escape. Finally Murray discovers the truth and...........An excellent cast make this thriller very enjoyable indeed. Bronson is well, Bronson as the cold eyed Murray, Johnson as always, is solid as Pearce as are Crenna and Durning. There's a terrific fight between Bronson and Moore atop the moving train that's not to be missed. Also watch for Paul Newman's son Scott Newman as Trooper Rafferty the soldier who becomes the train's fireman.A classic Alistair McLean thriller. "},{"Title":"Fun movie.","Date":"10 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" The music was exhilarating.The scenery doesn't get any better for the story.The cast of characters put together was great. I actually liked them all.The story may be weak measured against real life experience, but what movie story doesn't fail on the same point? It worked OK here because the other aspects of the movie were so interesting.The train helps make the movie. I loved hearing the train whistle blow. They could have used the bell when arriving and leaving Myrtle, though.Ben Johnson was particularly at his best as a westerner. Too bad he didn't have a good guy role.Fun to watch over and over. Get the movie. I did. "}{"Title":"All aboard the mystery train.","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" A dreary murder/mystery story aboard a moving locomotive steam train with the Old Wild West as the backdrop. The train is on its way to a remote army post, but the reason for it is classified and one by one passengers are strangely disappearing or dropping dead. This leaves Charles Bronson to put the jumbled pieces together.Mechanical, but a highly polished and enterprising feature that benefits greatly by the striking use of the sweeping camera, plenty of things going on in Alistair MacLean's tight-lipped screenplay (adapted off his own novel) and a strong tailored cast who really do put in. The likes of Ben Johnson, Richard Crenna, Charles Dunning, Ed Lauter, Bill McKinney and Robert Tessier really do chew up their parts. Jill Ireland is mainly acceptable and Bronson etches out a solid performance.Director Tom Gries lets it move along quickly, offering enough tension and action in some enclosed settings, until it's chaotic but bang-up climax. It's a competent display with little in the way of flair as there are a couple of pretty good set-pieces involving two carriages of soldiers meeting an unpleasant end and a tussle (between Bronson and Archie Moore) on top the train. Underlining it all is a stirringly grand arrangement to Jerry Goldsmith's score. As for the story it can become a bit hazy, due to the twists and turns the material takes on but it makes it oddly interesting even if it opens up a can of worms and loses the mysteriously taut edge it started off with. "},{"Title":"A Fun Railroad Western","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" An aging Charles Bronson in the Death Wish period, but still a curious film set mostly in a dramatic railroad-western. With a dose of who done it in the classic murder/mystery genre this film is a predictable, yet dramatic action film that seeks to mix genres. Although the stunt doubles face can clearly be seen in the typical railroad roof fights, Bronson helps bring about a double personae (we wont mention them here) that is intriguing and a little surprising--even though he is suspiciously adept at Morse code..lol. Much of the film is typical camp, but it makes the viewer asks questions as to how guns, money, and war were the conflicting state of affairs of railroad expansion into the west. This movie has it all Indians, horses, mountain men, rail car crashes--you name it, it has it. A fun movie that tries to compound everything western into a classic Bronson film. Although Bronson is too old for much of the action in the film, his presence helps to build the suspense and make hardcore fans keep watching. "},{"Title":"The worlds best sleeper","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" When this film aired on television back in the 80s, I taped it and watched over and over again. As a child, anything is funny. I don't know if it is because of that, but I highly enjoy this little movie.I have a habit of putting on a film on my VCR as I go to bed and sleep in my sofa in the living-room. It is a habit I have developed as a single bachelor. The thought of getting sleepy and fall asleep as I watch a movie is highly enjoyable and quite comforting. And the films I see I have seen ten to a hundred times, over and over again. And the point is, not every film is suitable as a sleeper-film.The first thing is, you have to have seen the film before. The point is not to get excited in the action of the film, but fall asleep. Thus you can't use a film you haven't seen. The second thing is, it has to have a balanced character with not that much noise or action. The third is, it has to be good, and I mean really good. It has to stand up for repetitive viewings. The fourth thing is, You have to like it. It has to have something that you can relate to. The ultimate sleeper-film is, of course, Bladerunner.Breakheart Pass is one of my favorite sleeper-films. I have seen it thirty times, perhaps. It is not a good film, but it has something I really can't explain that makes it enjoyable. The train, the snow, the setting. The Alistair McClean script. Its slow pace, and made-for-TV footage and editing. Charles Bronson, Richard Crenna, and of course, the man of all men, Ben Johnson. I can't think of a more manly actor on this side of John Wayne.It is like a cross between Agata Christie's Ten little Indians and Waiting for Godot. It is in itself a journey to inevitable doom. It is the boat over river Styx. The point is, on the outside there's nothing much one could say to appraise this film. Though it has some uncertain qualities that smooth things over and makes you enjoy the journey. It quite definitely has a kind of unexplainable something. "},{"Title":"Murder on the Occident Express.","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" If this film were set and shot in any other location it would probably be pretty boring. However, the story here takes us aboard a train traveling for a day or two from an oasis of civilization in the post-civil-war Northwest to Breakheart Pass, an army post. Along the way we have spectacular vistas of mountains, gorges, snow-laden firs, and rickety wooden bridges. Throw in the derailing of some cars and a couple of dynamite explosions at the end. Add a good cast and a director who had done some admirable work in Will Penny, and you have a generally satisfying movie.Railroad movies are usually satisfying in one way or another. The train rattles along, everything inside tic-tocs from side to side. There is the distant rumble and measured clicks of iron wheel across iron rail. Spaces are small and cozy. Landscapes roll past the windows and there is the occasional clang and flashing light of a warning at a railroad crossing. Somehow it makes you want to curl up and go to sleep, as if in a cradle.But, truth be told, things get a little hairy when you have half a dozen conspirators who have loaded the train up with arms to be sold to the renegade Indians. The Indians here don't get much respect, anymore than they did in real life. In addition to illegal rifles we brought all kinds of 19th-century infectious diseases to the West. Sometimes cholera or smallpox just wiped out a good portion of the tribe (Blackfeet) and sometimes demolished it entirely (Mandan).The script is a little confusing and weakens towards the end, after the Reveal. It turns from a mystery into a Western action movie. I don't need to tell you how it turns out. Well, I'll tell you anyway. The cavalry ride to the rescue.The skill that the director, Tom Gries, showed in his earlier film is not on display here. He has an eye for the picturesque but dialog scenes are riddled with clichés. When one character has something short, important, and pithy to say, the camera rolls in for a closeup. That camera movement tells us, Listen up. The guy is about to say something important. The problem is that we don't need to have the camera spell it out for us. Why gild the flower? Of course clichés, like stereotypes, are functional, otherwise they wouldn't have become clichés. Lesser imaginations use them all the time even though they condescend to the audience.For all its defects, though, the film captivates a viewer with its old-fashioned railroad story. Maybe it's just me, but I love 'em. I like trains a lot more than I like airplanes, which have an alarming tendency to fall down. Then there is the cast, saddled though they may be with predictable and easily forgotten dialog. Jill Ireland is especially nice. She was never much of an actress but had a sweet face and endearing big ears. And she was a ballerina too, which gives her bonus points in my book.Kind of fun to watch once in a while. "},{"Title":"OK I suppose","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":"  When I read the book recently, I thought it was good, but not the best of the MacLean's. However, having just seen the film, my opinion has changed. I realise now how skillfully written it is- how no one is who they seem and you don't know who's the real hero.  With the movie, though, it's a very different story. I can't believe how MacLean had changed the storyline for the film he's made it much much worse! I expected a lot from this, and it wasn't what I got, due partly, I think, to some of these problems a)Casting. How are we expected to be puzzled as to who's  who when Charles Bronson is in the John Deakin role?   b)Length OK, they got a bit longer toward the end (eg, just slightly shorter than normal) but how is our interest supposed to be kept when the scenes are so TINY. C)Ending The last part was way more exciting in the book. I think doing the reading first made it even less enjoyable, because the two just don't compare. But I am going to say that I didn't actually mind the movie, although it wasn't well done. But I definetly do not think it is one of the best westerns! There is another point in favour of it- Jerry Goldsmith's typically wonderful score. On the whole, the bad points don't take too many marks off, and I'll give it 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Very good train-set thriller with western trappings","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" Based on a novel by spy-master Alistair MacLean, BREAKHEART PASS is one of those twisty suspense films in which nobody is really whom they first appear to be and there are bad guys everywhere you turn. I thoroughly enjoyed this mystery story, which benefits from a perfectly-cast Charles Bronson playing the film's hero. Although he wasn't the first choice for the role, Bronson is a breath of fresh air away from his grittier DEATH WISH-type films and his stoical turn here is one of the movie's best assets.Making wonderful use of some bleak, snowbound locations, BREAKHEART PASS is a film set entirely on a train and, like the later B-movie UNDER SIEGE 2, the endless momentum of the train ploughing through the countryside is matched by a screenplay that is fast-paced and equally relentless. Veteran director Tom Gries really knows his stuff when it comes to film-making and it shows, as this is pretty much perfect on a technical level. Jerry Goldsmith's score is an exciting, driving piece of work and the photography is crisp and beautiful throughout, one of those films where every scene looks good.The suspense story in itself is involving and thrilling, but on top of that there are a series of action set-pieces which really add to the film's impact. Bronson's train-top fisticuffs with real-life boxing legend Archie Moore is the bit everybody remembers, but there are also some fine, bloody shoot-outs on board the moving train as well as tense sneaking around in the carriages. Special effects for the time are very good, with one of the most horrifying train crashes I've seen on film, and I got a real kick out of seeing one of the villains fall to his death down a ravine! Things eventually culminate in a gung-ho climax using the convention of a tribe of Native American Indians as the villains of the piece, and somehow fresh life is put even into this tired plot element.The film does feel a little clinical and coldly-detached in places and that's because the story is focused on over the characters throughout. I didn't let this bother me in the least; many '70s westerns are the same and this one feels right at home in the genre. Aside from Bronson, there are good turns from a range of willing character actors including Rambo's Richard Crenna, veteran actor Ben Johnson, Charles Durning, Paul Newman's son Scott, the ubiquitous Jill Ireland &#x96; Bronson's wife at the time &#x96; and finally a young-looking Ed Lauter, who would later team up once more as Bronson's gun-buddy in DEATH WISH 3. BREAKHEART PASS has all the right ingredients to be a top-notch, intelligent thriller and it never disappoints. An above-average treat. "},{"Title":"Rousing action with a train full of creeps","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" 95 minutes of action packed excitement. A train traveling through the Pacific northwest heading to a diphtheria ridden military outpost is full of characters who are never what they first appear to be. Wanted man Charles Bronson is being escorted by ornery lawman Ben Johnson. Governor Richard Crenna is bringing gal-pal Jill Ireland to see her father and soldier Ed Lauter is suspicious of everyone. None of these people turn out to be what you think they are and that's the fun of this tightly wound Alistair MacLean thriller. Bronson, steely eyed and ever intense turns out to the hero while most of the remaining cast turn out to be ruthless criminals. Directed by the ever efficient Tom Gries and featuring an appropriately rousing Jerry Goldsmith score. The supporting cast also includes Charles Durning, Archie Moore and David Huddleston. "},{"Title":"Solid and stolid dependable older western.","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" Classic old Charles Bronson Western. Considering its age, it's got decent acting, decent plot, and decent film work. Nothing spectacular, nothing great, but, and there's that word again, decent entertainment. I grew up on this stuff, so there's the added nostalgia factor at work for me; however, my conscience is completely clear recommending this movie if you're looking for a solid, basically conventional, older Western. For me, there's the added bonus that they couldn't rely on computer-generated special effects way back then and actually had to build and wreck stuff outside of the matrix. Mockingly, I feel the need to suggest that they must have gone through gallons and gallons of ketchup simulating blood while filming this movie, or, possibly, people actually used to bleed ketchup and somehow it just escapes my memory (there must be a vampire joke in there somewhere about humans and condiments). So, summarizing, while it's a bit of a throw-away movie, it's done well enough that you're unlikely to feel like you've lost a portion of your life to it. Maybe that's a backhanded compliment, but, from bitter and unfortunate experience, it's still a worthwhile compliment. "},{"Title":"A 'Tom Gries' western with Charles Bronson as an intelligent actor who thwarts all  of his enemies' evil plans.","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" American film 'Breakheart Pass' is a highly entertaining western film about the death defying adventures of some passengers on a moving train. It has been directed by Tom Gries who is best remembered by fans of westerns for one of his successful films 100 Rifles. The development of action superstar Charles Bronson as an actor is evident in his role as an intelligent man with a hidden agenda and a secret identity who uses all his cleverness to outsmart his enemies who are determined to get their demands met at all costs. For this role Charles Bronson had to either remain quiet to a large extent or speak whenever it was necessary. His intelligence gets revealed in his talks which is not at all appreciated by his opponents. The action elements are equally divided in Breakheart Pass as apart from vile acts of violence on a moving train, there are challenging fight sequences outside the train too which reveal the devilish treachery of some of the train's passengers. There are numerous elements of mystery too in this film which has been adapted for screen by bestselling novelist Alistair Maclean. 'Breakhart Pass' also starred actress Jill Ireland who played the role of the sole woman passenger on the ill fated train. Apart from magnificent actions scenes, Breakheart Pass features excellent views of rocky mountains. "},{"Title":"Entertaining western","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" At the peak of his popularity, Charles Bronson appeared in this very appealing romp. While the movie certainly can be called a western, it's quite different than most westerns. Much of the movie is a mystery, for one thing, with a lot of investigation along the way. Some action fans may be disappointed that there isn't a terrible amount of action for a Bronson movie. But I found the movie entertaining all the same. The mystery of the multiple murders is intriguing, and will have you wondering who is behind it all. The movie also looks great, from its ample production values to the scenery. And Bronson makes an appealing hero, using his brains more than his fists and guns for a change. The only real flaw of the movie comes after you watch it - when you think back on what you've seen, some details don't make complete sense. But before that point, the movie does entertain from start to finish, without a single boring or tedious moment. "}{"Title":"Engine Engine Number #9","Date":"30 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Action adventure super star Charles Bronson doesn't disappoint his fans in the movie Breakheart Pass as the wanted for arson murder cheating in poker and not paying his dues desperado Deakin. On the lamb from the law Deakin who after purposely getting himself arrested reveals the true reason for his very uncivil behavior. Deakin is actually a top US Government Secret Agent, with a medical degree to boot, working undercover. It's Deakins job to uncover a plot to arm a band of rebellious Indians, who are off the reservation, with 400 the latest Winchesters 73's rifles to do in the local white settlers and the US Calvary!After winning the confidence of his captor, with his keen and incisive knowledge of infectious diseases, Marshal Pearce played by Ben Johnson Deakin is allowed to roam freely on the train that's on a mission of mercy to get desperately needed medical supply to Fort Humboltd that's in the mist of suffering from an out of control diphtheria epidemic! With all the so-called accidents that Engine #9 suffers on its trip to Fort Hhmboldt with it losing more then half of its crew and passengers, that included a full company of US troops, the very observant Deakin smells that something isn't exactly kosher on the train! And it isn't the pork chops that the cook Carlos played by former Light heavyweight Champion of the world Archie Moore is grilling! In fact it's later in the movie both Deakin & Carlos, or their stunt doubles, are involved in one of the most unbelievable life and death slug-fest ever filmed on top of the train going 50 miles an hours in the middle of a snowstorm!We and Deakin soon find out that it's the crooked and corrupt Governor of the Nevada Territory Richard Fairchild,Richard Cranne,and his band of motley underlings that includes the vicious murderous and mentally unstable hillbilly Levi Calhoun, Robert Tessier, who sold out their country to the Indians lead by Chief White Hand, Eddie Little Sky, for 30 or 300 or even 3,000, go pick a number, pieces of silver and gold that White Hand offered them for the guns camouflaged as medical supplies that the train is carrying!Of course it wouldn't be a Charles Bronson movie without his pretty English wife actress Jill Ireland, who unfortunately steals ever scenes that she's in with her husband, in it who plays Fraichild's lover Monica. It's Monica's father who's the commander of Fort Humboltd and, she's made to believe, is together with his men on the brink of death if the medical supplies doesn't get their in time!****SPOILERS**** You've just got to love this movie despite its skimpy and filled with plot holes storyline in it with a hard as a rock Charles Bronson playing a James Bond type character some 80 years before Bond ever came on the scene or in books and in the movies and amazingly be able to pull it off! As well as save the day with the help of about 200 members of the US Army Calvery who were supposed to be dead or dying from diphtheria coming to both his and Monica's as well as about the only good guy, besides Deakin & Monica, still alive on the train Maj. Claramont, Ed Leuter, rescue. It was Maj. Claramont who went out on his own, before the Indians attacked, to far off Fort Humboldt in order for him to fetch them. "},{"Title":"A Western version of Murder on the Orient Express!","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" It's like an Agatha Christie novel and a Western all in one. Breakheart Pass is a classic western who done it? set on a train. Now I like Western movies pretty much, especially the gun fighting, and train rides as well. Charles Bronson play a Secret Service agent disguised as a killer, in a train full of shady characters. No one in the train appears as they claim. Killers are in disguise as well. The governor is corrupt, and the Calvery Col. is the only one of the few that John Deakin(Bronson) can trust. Marcia Scoville(Jill Ireland) seems to be unsure about anyone on the train herself. The real big scenes are all there in the movie The detached hitch; Metal fatigue? Possible. Sabotage? YES! I my opinion someone either put a car with a bad hitch, or dumped something corrosive on the hitch that made that heinous crash that claimed the soldiers. And I liked the gun fight between the Indians and the Calvarymen along with the smugglers in the train. The duel between the Marshal Pearce(Ben Johnson) and Deakin was no contest. What a waste for these people to suffer, over some Winchesters. Give me a break! This movie is a real gem, and it's one of my favorite westerns I ever saw. Rating 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Bronson Rules - Always Has, Always Will!","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" This tightly plotted Charles Bronson whodunit plays somewhat like one of writer Alistair MacLean's World War Two stories, transfered to a western setting with a bit of Agatha Christie thrown in for good measure.Combining that with excellently photographed northwest locations, a great cast of fine character actors, and some well-staged action scenes, makes this quite an enjoyable time for fans of Bronson and MacLean, as well as mystery, action-adventure and western aficionados.It's always great to see Ed Lauter (in a rare heroic role), Robert Tessier, Bill McKinney, and David Huddleston, four very underrated actors.As time goes by, I miss Bronson's presence on the big-screen more and more. The same goes for co-star Ben Johnson. Those wannabe tough-guys of today just don't carry the same weight as guys like these!Also, this was the last film from legendary stuntman/stunt-coordinator/second-unit director Yakima Cannut. In the 1930's, he revolutionized the art of action in the movies and along with young B-western star John Wayne, pretty much invented the way film fights were (and still are) staged and photographed. He knocks it out of the park in this, his last turn at bat. "},{"Title":"Charles Bronson and Yakima Canute make an exciting movie where the plot is irrelevant and the stunts are great","Date":"9 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" Something's not right at isolated Fort Humbolt and diphtheria may be the least of the problems. Breakheart Pass is based on the adventure thriller by Alistair MacLean, who also wrote the screenplay. It's not bad as a Bronson vehicle except for its excesses An obvious 1970s score glued on a movie that's set a century earlier; one action set piece after another, most a lot of fun but so many that the storyline becomes just the excuse for the set pieces; and corny directorial indulgences that have nearly every character in the movie exchanging suspicious glances with one another at key moments, accompanied by music stings. What Breakheart Pass has going for it are some fine character actors like Ben Johnson, Charles Durning and David Huddleston; the look of the film...the hovel of the tiny rail town of Myrtle in the Rockies, dry, gray, worn-out plank buildings, a shack of a train station, a utilitarian brothel that's all business; the tired steam engine and worn carriages but with a plush interior of the wood-paneled dining car and parlor; the rugged snow-covered Sierra Nevada mountains; the stunt work directed by Yakima Canute in his last picture; and, of course, Charles Bronson, phlegmatic, stoic, always watching and seldom speaking. Bronson sure wasn't handsome but he had a memorable, worn and craggy face, even with that Fu Manchu moustache he often wore. He also had the screen presence of a basically tough good man who could do, when aroused, violence that would hurt. Few major movie stars were as unlikely as Bronson. What's the fuss at Fort Humbolt? It has something to do with conspiracy, treachery, rifles and gold...the usual. All we know is that we're on board a train carrying medical supplies and provisions to aid the sick soldiers at the fort. Aboard is the territorial governor, the daughter of the fort's commander, a doctor, a minister, a train official, a major, some of his soldiers and a lawman with his prisoner, a man called Deakin (Charles Bronson). We don't really care, even when the passengers start being murdered. We learn those supplies seem to consist of rifles and ammunition and that Deakin is no bad guy, but this is predictable. All those great stunt set pieces just pile on and make the plot irrelevant. There are fights atop the moving train, the steam engine billows out huge white clouds of steam as it chugs and rattles across a high, rickety wooden bridge, men fall and bounce off that bridge, corpses are discovered in firewood piles, in rifle boxes and in train compartments, Indians rampage and attack, there's a cavalry charge across the snow, a runaway troop car crashes down a mountainside, you name it. Best of all, most of the movie takes place in and around that steam engine, clattering and swaying over the tracks through the mountains. Engine Number 9 should have received star billing alongside Bronson. Just about everyone on the train is suspicious and only Deakin is smart and tough enough to figure things out and then do something about it. With the stunts, with Bronson and with that steam engine, Breakheart Pass could make a great theme park ride. That sentiment holds true of most of Alistair MacLean's books. He was an immensely successful writer of thrillers that featured the same formula Workmanlike plots, lots of action, little or no sex (it got in the way of the action, MacLean thought) and indestructible heroes. He wrote about 30 thrillers. The last half were nothing but tired exercises in theme park rides. His reputation now probably rests on two movies made from his books, Where Eagles Dare and The Guns of Navarone. For those who enjoy well-written adventure thrillers by authors on their way to being forgotten, try some of the books by Desmond Bagley, James Leasor, Geoffrey Jenkins, and Victor Canning. "},{"Title":"My 'fellow man' is about to hang me!","Date":"6 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" Breakheart Pass is directed by Tom Gries and adapted to screenplay by Alistair MacLean from his own novel. It stars Charles Bronson, Ben Johnson, Richard Crenna, Jill Ireland, Charles Durning and Ed Lauter. Music is by Jerry Goldsmith and cinematography by Lucien Ballard.A train apparently loaded with medical supplies is heading through the mountains towards plagued Fort Humboldt. On board is a small U.S. Army unit and an assortment of passengers, all of whom are about to be in the middle of murder, mystery and dastardly plotting.Not exactly loved by the critics of the time, but liked well enough by the paying public, Breakheart Pass is a thoroughly enjoyable movie. True enough to say it's a blend of Murder On The Orient Express and Ten Little Indians, only with a gorgeous Western backdrop, but so what? Just exactly what is wrong with that anyway? The plot is a little too tricky for its own good and characterisations are not rich in detail, but there's so much else to enjoy regardless.It's a fine cast playing a number of desperate/cunning/dubious characters, with Bronson leading from the front at a time when he was hot at the box office. The reasoning behind all the murders, as passengers start getting bumped off one by one, keeps the mystery element strong, while Gries (Will Penny) directs without fuss and filler. The action sequences are impressive (the train roof fight is as great as you have heard it is), with stunt coordinator Yakima Canutt (in his final assignment) once again excelling.Elsewhere, Jerry Goldsmith's score is wonderfully robust and chest thumping, a real triumph from the great man. Ballard (also Will Penny/The Wild Bunch) beautifully captures the snowbound Lewiston locale whilst ensuring the gorgeous Camas Prairie Railroad is a must see for locomotive enthusiasts. All told it's a very entertaining hybrid picture that is well constructed, technically smart and pulsing with good honest intentions. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Western on a train&#x85;","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" &#x85;is the best way to describe 1976' Breakheart Pass with Charles Bronson. Bronson plays John Deakin, a prisoner on a train carrying medical supplies and soldiers through the Rockies to Fort Humboldt, California. Amongst its passengers are a territory governor (Richard Crenna), his mistress (Jill Ireland), a priest (Bill McKinney), a doctor (David Huddleston) and a U.S. Marshal (Ben Johnson). People start mysteriously dying on the train and they have no recourse but to turn to Deakin for assistance. Robert Tessier plays a heavy at the fort.I don't know why I put off seeing Breakheart pass all these years. Maybe it's because I read a lukewarm review in Brian Garfield's excellent guide Western Films; or maybe it's because I feared it would be another Murder on the Orient Express (1974), one of the dullest movies I've ever seen (you can barely make out a word of Finney's heavily accented dialogue), not to mention the totally absurd murder mystery (as the ending reveals) (still, it's worth catching just for the all-star cast and the lush train sets). Both films are murder mysteries that take place on steam-engine trains back in the day; the difference is that Breakheart Pass has a more interesting story and Western action, which is to be expected since it was written by Alistair MacLean.Speaking of action, the energetic climax with everyone chaotically running around &#x96; shooting people and exploding things -- is the film's weakest part as it doesn't completely work. Other than that, though, this is a standout Western and a must for all Western fans. Two highlights are the tragic wreck of the railway cars and the thrilling fight on top of the train.The film runs 95 minutes and was shot on or near the Camas Prairie Railroad, Lewiston, Idaho.GRADE A- "},{"Title":"One of the finest westerns of the 1970s","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" Alistair MacLean wrote the screenplay from his own novel, so needless to say, director Tom Gries was extremely faithful to the original source. For those who consider Bronson as just another actioneer star, this is actually a mystery film, with a great deal of suspense. When the action scenes DO appear, second unit director Yakima Canutt did a super job. (Then again, when didn't he?) Gries assembled a great cast of some of the 1970s finest character actors (Charles Durning, Ben Johnson, David Huddleston, Bill McKinney, Ed Lauter), and turned them into a terrific ensemble. Topping it off was Jerry Goldsmith's outstanding score, which has just come out on CD for the first time. The main theme goes to the rhythm of the train, adding to the suspense. Magnificent! Regretfully, one has to be a Bronson fan or a true lover of the western genre in order to even know about this film. However, this is far more than a western, it's a detective story, and an extremely enjoyable one. "},{"Title":"A classic must-see for fans of Bronson, Westerns, mysteries or train movies","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" I loved the original novel Breakheart Pass, which seamlessly combined the adventure, mystery, and Western genres and produced something memorable and fairly unique. My main fear about watching the movie adaptation was that the filmmakers would make the same mistake that was made with Ice Station Zebra and change the story line to something unrecognizable.Fortunately, the director and screen writer stayed faithful to the book and managed to incorporate those elements that work in cinema to make a lively and enjoyable film. The casting is perfect - there's not a miscast actor or a bad performance in the bunch. The scenery is breathtaking and the sense of scale and place as the movie switches from train compartment to mountain scenery and back keeps everything fresh. The story is a corker, with twist after twist - almost nobody is who they claim to be (including the hero) and the plot includes several horrific scenes not for the faint of heart along with some pretty vigorous action. (To give you an idea, I count at least 3 deaths by people either falling off or being thrown off the train.) It's a lot easier to find fault with movies at length without boring a reader, so I will keep this short. Make sure to see this movie if you like Bronson, Westerns, trains, or Alistair MacClean novels. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended","Date":"31 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" Because of it's year and period, it's often considered only worthy of a Sunday afternoon matinée on t.v. but this is so unfair. The book is (like many Macleans) underrated and the film is even more so. The protagonist is a realistic, intelligent and highly entertaining good guy and *should* have spawned at least two sequel stories - this is James Bond in the wild west! The setting is claustrophobic and intense, the action suitable and, all things considered, well placed. If Agatha Christie had turned her eyes to mid-West America ... well, let's just say the mystery, plot and thought is certainly worthy of multiple watching! "},{"Title":"Thrilling, inspiring western","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" I have enjoyed this extraordinary thriller when I was 11, in a movie theater ,and then when I was 14&#151;almost 15 this time on a B/W TV set. It may have been my first Bronson movie; so I presume. The second time, having already seem a couple of the RAMBO flicks, I did notice Crenna, in a supporting role, as well. Bronson meant action quality to me&#151;more so, than anyone else&#151;more so than Willis or Gibson.It is termed a suspense western; a thriller. It's one of the best. In a movie theater (and a cold, winterly cold one),it looked cool and, for a 11 yrs. kid, almost larger than life. It had the name under which it's known to the French buffs as well--Fort Humboldt. For Bronson,it's a defining role. "}{"Title":"Western by Alistair MacLean","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" The biggest problem with this movie is the rather uninteresting beginning. The movie doesn't introduce us to the characters in the interesting way. It simply lacks hook for the first twenty minutes. Thankfully with time the movie slowly gets more and more interesting. It's not strange , because the story is an interesting mix of western , thriller and action.There are some nice dialogues here and plenty of action in the last 30 minutes. There is also quite many twists and nice mystery along the way. Good old Alistair MacLean. Breakheart pass feels like a book , although I'm not sure if there was a book under the same title.Charles Bronson (Death wish) is a typical silent bad ass hero that is easy to like. I was delighted to see Richard Crenna (Rambo  First blood) as the governor. Other actors are OK.Action scenes feel real. The special effects are sometimes a little outdated. The music by Jerry Goldsmith is really nice.Good and underrated western. I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"The music's good - shame about the film","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" Just re-watched this film after maybe 15 years gap. The film now seems shallow and fairly pointless. Charles Bronson is clearly a hero character so it ain't going to fool any kid today. Jill Ireland is there for the money only I'm afraid. The scenery is good, I've always liked snow encased scenes for some strange reason. The script isn't a match for Alister Macs Last film where eagles dareHowever, what has stood out is the title music from jerry Goldsmith, it's a cracker! I've just re-listened to it a dozen times and I find it great rousing stampede of a score - almost sublime. The chaotic piano part in the score almost matches the script at times. "},{"Title":"I expected a lot and received little","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":"  Maybe, I had too much of a build up for this film, I found the story unbelievable, and long.  The beginning was good, but the film fell apart.  This is a forgotten 70's film for good reason its boring.  If you can find it, don't rent it 3/10. "},{"Title":"Breakheart Pass- You May Need A Bypass After This One *","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":" A real dreadful clinker involving Indians and bad guys in cahoots for guns and gold and silver.The action is on a train where Charles Bronson is supposedly an escaped fugitive. If he is supposed to be a fugitive, why is he allowed to walk around the train so freely?Jill Ireland is engaged to the governor. The latter is played by Richard Crenna. Trouble is that Crenna is part of the gang.After a while, people begin disappearing on the train and wind up either over the cliff or in coffins which are in the back of the train.The film is senseless and moronic at best.Charles Durning plays a sophisticated man who is also in with the gang. He mentions that he is not a gunslinger. He was carrying so much weight around that he can't even fall with grace when he is shot while trying to run the train.The explosives are less than spectacular. The picture needed more action and a far better script. "},{"Title":"Barely entertaining.","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":"  There are a few good things one can say about Breakheart Pass (Bronson's acting is effective, the music score is rousing), but, unfortunately, they are overshadowed by the bad things, like the murky script and the routine direction. The result is barely comprehensible, and barely entertaining. "},{"Title":"One of th most remarkable western-movies ever!!!!!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":"  Since I was a kid I every time recognized Bronson as an actor playing in this movie. Now, I still think that this,besides Once upon the time opera,is for me his most remarkable role. Wonderful story, and better landscapes,and everything with Jerry Goldsmith's unforgettable score.And not to forget,the thrilling is also effective.So,watch this film,it's in the best way of Agatha Christie.And of course at least as good as Hitchock's train-thriller.At least as good.When not even better... "},{"Title":"Lacks A Hook","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Western","Review":"  Seeing as it`s a thriller BREAKHEART PASS lacks any sort of hook . What`s a hook ? It`s an opening scene that grabs an audience. DOCTOR WHO and THE X FILES are brilliant at this showing us a scaled claw , or a robotic foot or a bizarre murder. Here the film starts with a train arriving at a station where absolutely nothing happens for the next 15 minutes.Despite this major flaw - Maybe films in the mid 70s sold on the names of Bronson and Maclean rather than script structure ?- once the film gets into its stride it is rather entertaining . The plot twists and turns even though it falls apart if given too much thought and the climax leaves no cliche unturned . Watchable enough.  "}]