[{"Title":"A fascinating character-based comedy drama masquerading as a buddy action movie.","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"52 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found 'Thunderbolt And Lightfoot' in the action section of my local video store, and a quick glance at the cover and blurb might make you think you're in for a buddy action comedy, like Eddie Murphy et al made in the 1980s and Jackie Chan is making now. This is not entirely correct. While it is essentially a buddy movie and there is action in it, it is much more character-driven and episodic than most movies in the genre, and has more in common with forgotten 1970s gems like 'Scarecrow' or 'Fat City', than your typical Clint Eastwood fare from this period. Michael Cimino, who co-wrote the ecological SF sleeper 'Silent Running', and wrote the first (and best) movie in Eastwood's 'Dirty Harry' series, debuts impressively as director here. Eastwood himself is very good as enigmatic thief Thunderbolt, even better is Jeff Bridges who steals the movie as his young protege Lightfoot. Some people dislike this movie because it appears to meander along for no particular reason, but I really enjoyed the interaction between Eastwood and Bridges, who really seem to be having a ball working together. The plot eventually comes together with a robbery involving the two and character actors George Kennedy ('Cool Hand Luke' and Eastwood regular Geoffrey Lewis ('The Way Of The Gun'). I still really wouldn't call this a caper movie (ala 'Rififi', 'The Killing', 'The Anderson Tapes', etc,etc.), it's not as straightforward as that.  The robbery plot is almost an excuse for a bunch of enjoyable scenes between the actors, who are all excellent and really play off each other in an entertaining way.  Also keep an eye out for bit parts by Gary Busey ('Big Wednesday'), Catherine Bach (Daisy Duke!), Dub Taylor ('The Wild Bunch') and others, especially an unforgettable bit with the legendary Bill McKinney ('Deliverance'), one of the highlights of the movie. There's no way I'm going to argue that 'Thunderbolt And Lightfoot' is a forgotten classic, but it is a lot of fun to watch, it is unpredictable and interesting and features some fine performances, and that is a lot more than you can say for most subsequent Hollywood movies of this type. Recommended to 1970s buffs and anyone who enjoys Jeff Bridges. "},{"Title":"Where do I go from here?","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"42 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Michael Cimino's first film is an arresting fusion of early 70's road movie, 'Buddy' picture and 'planning a heist' action-thriller. That it manages to incorporate these elements into a poetic study of male friendship and the unquenchable restlessness at the heart of the great American pioneer/drifter mentality makes it a remarkable piece of work.Cimino avoids the 'arty' distance of Terence Malick's 'Badlands' or the po-faced existentialism of Monte Hellman's 'Two Lane Black-top', but entertains the same thematic concerns within the framework of an accessible genre piece. From it's opening vista of a deserted wheat field, accompanied by the haunting strains of a single acoustic guitar, the film resonates with loneliness and loss. Tell me where, Where does a fool go, sings Paul Williams, when there's no-one left to listen, to a story without meaning, that no-body wants to hear?It is also funny and tender in it's observation of male camaraderie. Eastwood has never been more effective and affecting on-screen than in his interplay here with Jeff Bridges. We get a real sense of his character's connection to Bridges which makes the 'Midnight Cowboy'-ish ending genuinely moving.Like all the great 70's movies, it has some wonderfully memorable scenes and dialogue Dub Taylor ranting about the imminent collapse of the American economy at a nocturnal gas station; Bill Mckinney as a crazed speed-freak with a trunk full of white rabbits; Bridges encountering a hammer-wielding female motorcyclist, etc, etc.Throw in some breath-taking scenic photography of Montana by Frank Stanley (prefiguring the use and role of landscape in relation to character later explored by Cimino in 'The Deer Hunter') and some beautifully understated character work in the smaller roles, and you have a fondly remembered minor classic ripe for some serious re-appraisal. "},{"Title":"Beyond buddies.","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"42 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think this movie gets lost in all the commercial Clint Eastwood vehicles,it far surpasses most of his 70's attempts. This is mostly due to Cimino's script and Bridges acting and honest words.This is far more than a buddy picture,rather one of the greatest love stories on film(all homosexual connotations aside),taking the male relationship in film to new levels because of the contrast of characters and there immediate like for one another.Skipped is most of the bickering used in lessor buddy flicks instead great interaction between the two and Clint still gets to shine as one of the coolest tough guys of the 70's.Great cinematography coupled with beautiful backdrops and a fine supporting cast make this a must see. "},{"Title":"Cimino first triumphant debut&#133;","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The very first shot of Thunderbolt and Lightfoot &#150; a faultless composition, fifty per cent wispy Idaho sky, fifty per cent cornfield &#150; establishes an elegant style which Cimino maintains throughout the film&#133; The second scene &#150; Clint Eastwood as we have never seen him before, wearing spectacles, his hair slicked back and dressed as a vicar delivering a sermon in a crowded country church &#150; immediately makes one realize that the film may be quite different from any of Eastwood's previous ones&#133; But the third scene, in which the vicar is chased across a seemingly endless cornfield by an irate gun-firing George Kennedy establishes that all is not as it seems to be&#133;Eastwood is rescued by Lightfoot (Jeff Bridges), who has just relieved a car salesman of $3000 dollars' worth of automobile, and a partnership is quickly created, with the veteran Thunderbolt asserting his experience and virility over the inexperienced Lightfoot... Casting off his vicar's clothes Thunderbolt then takes his belt and endures agonizing pain as he uses it to pull his dislocated shoulder into place&#133;Thunderbolt is being pursued by Red Leary (George Kennedy) and Eddie Goody (Geoffrey Lewis) who are former partners of his in crime and who believe he has the half million dollar takings from their last bank raid&#133; They mean business&#133; While Thunderbolt and Lightfoot enjoy themselves with two young ladies named Gloria and Melody, Leary and Goody wait outside. 'Are you sure that's their car?' wonders Goody. 'That's their hearse,' says Leary&#133;The film was a triumphant debut for Cimino&#133; His script combined wit and the naive philosophy of the motorized cowboys&#133; 'Leary, I had a dream about you last night. About what? I dreamt you said hello to me.' At the beginning of the film when Eastwood recites his sermon for the benefit of his felonious friend, 'and the lion shall lie down with the leopard' (Cimino used it purposely to indicate the liaison between Lightfoot the lion and Thunderbolt the leopard), the younger man asks 'What's that &#150; a poem?' 'No,' replies Thunderbolt, 'a prayer'. At the end of the film the younger man is still seeking answers from his senior partner&#133; 'Where you heading?' 'See what's over the next mountain! We won, didn't we?' 'I guess we did &#150; for the time being.' Cimino created the part for Eastwood and in doing so drew greatly on his actual personality&#133; For those people who know the real Clint Eastwood, no film part better conveys the style, the warmth, and the dry delivery of the man himself&#133; "},{"Title":"A male Thelma And Louise!","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"36 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Thunderbolt and Lightfoot (1974) isn't perfect, but it has a lot going for it. The pairing Eastwood and Bridges is great, these aren't the same kinds of actors, and yet their on-screen relationship works well. Supporting character actors George Kennedy and Geoffrey Lewis round out rest of the heisters, and Gary Busey makes an early appearance in a small role.  Also of note is the striking Montana scenery, quite unseen on film, this movie does an admirable job showcasing it. What I'm really surprised about is how no one else seems to have noticed a couple of things about this film.First  The title of this film, and its two main characters are an homage to a pair of famous 19th century highwaymen who called themselves respectively `Captain Thunderbolt' and `Captain Lightfoot'. This isn't the last time Hollywood film criminals would be named after real life bandits. In the film `The Way Of The Gun' the characters are called `Mr. Parker and Mr. Longbaugh' which of course were the real names of Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid! Also of interest is the fact that Geoffrey Lewis appears in The Way Of The Gun!Second Those interested in a companion piece to this film might consider watching `Thelma and Louise' which mirrors the on-the-road relationship of this film very closely. Though the plot is different, the relationship with the landscape and the emphasis on two characters is strikingly similar. In short a good film, worth watching!  "},{"Title":"Stick with me kid and you'll live forever!","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" How times change. Back in 1974, after paying his dues co-writing Silent Running and Magnum Force, Michael Cimino was one of the most promising new directors on the scene thanks to his directorial debut Thunderbolt and Lightfoot. In 1978 he was an Oscar winner whose place in movie history seemed assured by The Deer Hunter. Two years later he was the poster boy for directorial excess and hubris in the wake of the unjustly maligned Heaven's Gate. Now he's unemployable.Thunderbolt's once-sterling reputation seems to have fallen victim alongside Cimino's career. It's become one of the less-remembered films from the days when Clint Eastwood ruled the box-office yet it holds up as one of the best pictures of its over-rated decade, managing the neat trick of both delivering what the audience wants and subverting their expectations at the same time. Eastwood plays a crook on the run from ex-partners in crime George Kennedy and Geoffrey Lewis (often hysterically funny here) who teams up with Jeff Bridges' extrovert drifter to retrieve the loot from a previous robbery only to find his old accomplices tagging along and things &#150; naturally &#150; not going at all to plan. It's an almost perfectly judged mixture of comedy and action with both feet firmly on the ground despite the more absurd moments in a way that would be almost unthinkable today. There's a real rapport between the outstanding cast and an affection for the characters that adds to the impact of the very Seventies ending &#150; not only is the central pairing of Eastwood's old hand and Bridges' cocksure kid far more convincing and genuinely affecting than it has any right to be, but Kennedy and Lewis' untrustworthy partners in crime are beautifully drawn too.Cimino handles the mood swings adeptly and even injects a subtle undercurrent of sexual ambiguity that never gets in the way of the entertainment. While his direction is bang on target - there's a great use of mid-Western landscape too - it's the strength of his script that keeps the film surprisingly fresh today. It's basically a road movie crossed with a heist movie, but Cimino throws in so many unexpected and quirky left turns that catch you off guard that you never get the feeling that you're going over the same old ground. This was a terrific movie in 1974, and if anything it's an even better one today. Just remember; never accept a lift from a man with a raccoon in the passenger seat and a trunk full of bunnies! Sadly the DVD transfer isn't great, but it is in the original 2.351 widescreen ratio. "},{"Title":"Eastwood & Bridges & Lewis & Cimino = sheer delight !","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have to admit, I am a sucker for 70ies movies, this was the last golden age in Hollywood and compared to those days, we're now already on a 25 year trip through the desert with now light ahead.Of course, since I just plain simply love this movie, I might not be objective in my praise, but IMHO this movie does offer a lot to praise. When I read through some other favorable reviews of T&L I found - here and there - lines indicating some apology that they consider this a great movie, but I don'think there is any reason to apology for any praise regarding this little gem.Made in the heydays of New Hollywood (5 years later the party was over anyway) T&L might have been considered as a throwaway-picture by the studio, but it certainly was not one for the people involved. In those days there was abundant talent available and it was much easier for young cinema-lovers and professionals to get the foot into the door. One of them was Michael CIMINO (aged 35 then), who was trusted enough by Eastwood and the studio to be allowed - with a mere two screenplays on his belt (Silent running + Magnum Force) - to direct his first feature (I think his later pictures and the stories behind them are known well enough). And what a marvelous job he did ! Like so many other directors of the 70ies Cimino proves the point that most of them made their best pictures at the very start of their careers. Cimino is one of them, whose first 2 pictures are his best 2 as well (as opposed to Old Hollywood, when directors made their best work in their later careers, because they first had to free themselves from the rigid studio-system prevailing then).Considered by some as a highly entertaining, but minor Eastwood-outing, this view has to be corrected. At this time Eastwood was already a seasoned veteran, who had worked with some of the best directors available these days (Leone, Siegel, to name the 2 most important) and had already successfully directed two features (so it can well be assumed he also lent his hand at this or that scene). Compared to that, Cimino was a complete nobody. T&L is also the first one, in which Eastwood gives a completely unexperienced director his first chance and - after a string of superb action/western-flicks - one of his first efforts to break the tendency to by typecast. Insofar his role in T&L is a step away from the Man with no name, be it western or cop, but of course - always knowing his limits - not a too far away step from his usual roles (a loner, here with more humor than usual). If wanted, one can consider this little gem as one of his first steps at auteurism (I know, this theory is aged, but not completely wrong).Eastwood certainly did take this movie serious as did Bridges, whose fifth important picture this is (after Last Picture Show, Fat City, Bad Company and Last American Hero). Bridges was of course the perfect choice for this movie and Eastwood/Cimino certainly knew, whom they picked. The same goes for Eastwood-extra Geoff Lewis (still active today in US TV) and Gary Busey, who spends his time today in grade E action-schlock.In addition to this perfect cast and the direction, which I would describe as one full of lazy assurance (although by a newcomer) we have a well balanced, highly entertaining story with superbly drawn characters (the movie is evenly balanced and to equal parts plot- and character-driven). The characters are not the usual cartoon-type clich√©'s, but believable slackers, living the day and planning a heist.The whole movie has a superb aura of laid-back laziness and coolness, and this all comes completely unforced. In fact I'd even go so far as to say that it is maybe this special aura, which lifts this above all other road- and heist-movies I can think of (some come near, but not many). Right from the start, when we see Eastwood running through a corn-filed until the twisted end, this movie is full of small stories, vignettes and subplots, but without forgetting it's main story. With so much happening it is more than surprising, that it can keep up it's leisured pace, it's laziness, although there's in fact more happening in it than in many other faster-driven movies.Also the ending - ATTENTION SPOILERS AHEAD !! - is untypical for a Hollywood movie of the old(er) era = pre-70ies. Actually, when Eastwood and Bridges have found - more less by accident - the building, where they had hidden the money, hardly any viewer would actually expect the loot to still be there. But then, after this has been accomplished, everybody would wish and expect them to get away with it and drive off into the sunset happily. Both assumptions are not fulfilled. They do find the money, but they do not get away happily. The ending is bitter, but highly realistic. Contrary to some comments here, the given ending is not owed to the old morale crime does not pay, in no way at all. First, Bridges going to petty-criminals heaven has absolutely nothing to do with the heist, it is just the result of bad circumstances resulting from a fist-fight (ironically, that's what the novelist behind Outlaw Josey Wales died of later). Insofar it has no morale at all, it just happens, because things like this also do happen in the real world (unfortunately). Eastwood and Cimino are clearly playing with expectations here. ..../. unfortunately I only have 1000 words available here, but did need more, so please check the discussion board for the complete comment ... sorry, sometimes there's more to say than fits into 1000 words. -) "},{"Title":"Stop you FREAK - I love you","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"27 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Thunderbolt & Lightfoot might just be the second best film in both   Eastwood & Bridge's career. For Eastwood, I can't see anything   excelling The Good, the Bad & the Ugly. As for Bridges, I think his   pinnacle was in The Big Lebowski. But whatever - today we're discussing   Thunderbolt & Lightfoot and it is a great great film.    Doherty (Eastwood), an ex con / bank robber is by fate, recklessly   aided by Lightfoot (Bridges) helping Doherty make a sharp exit from his   former criminal associates (played by G Kennedy & G Busey). All four   characters are forced to overlook their pasts and differences, we see a   transformation and are strung a long a brilliant story of   classic-buddies-plotting-to-beat-the-impossible-odds. Michael Cimino   (Director) immediately throws the story and the characters into quick   pace. He litters the film with good looking sets, sweet colour and   oddly placed obstacles - for instance, a deranged hick driving by with   a boot full of white rabbits.    Maybe it was unintentional, but I think Cimino created one of the first   films to really stage what we know as black-humour. 2 hours of tragic   events, lined up one after the other underlined by stupidity and smart   wit, of course we can not forget George Kennedy & Gary Busey's super   assistance in supporting roles.    Jeff Bridges is a remarkable and funny actor in this film, his part   reveals a warm and naÔve handsome young fella, yet somehow edged with   that wise-fool-20-something vision that provides infectious viewing,   especially the line to Clint I don't know want your money man. I want   your friendship. Clint Eastwood, is as you expect - laidback, dry and   completely handy. Nothing new, but nothing you'd want to take away from   that screen presence or enigma he's carefully carved over the years.    Thunderbolt & Lightfoot was overlooked back in the day, United Artists   must have been insane not to push, or help sparkle such a strong piece   of golden nugget that was laid amongst so many other rough pebbles.    ~Paul Browne. "},{"Title":"Old Movie that still kicks","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film has a few weak spots in the script, but I sure like it.  A heist movie, with a mean Kennedy in it.  Jeff and Clent never made another movie, and they could be like Redford and Newman; they have movie chemistry.  TBS edits this film too much, its recomended watching on video.  Worth renting 7/10. "},{"Title":"Great roadmovie,love it!","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"19 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really like this movie, and I believe Thunderbolt and Lightfoot are one of the better movies with Clint Eastwood, and he really make a great pair with Jeff Bridges. The location where Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is filmed are wonderful, the casting is perfect, good plot, great theme song in the beginning and at the end of the film, add this together and you have a really good movie! This movie is a must for those who loves the movies from the seventees! I gave this movie 9 stars out of 10  "}{"Title":"Somewhere between The Man With No Name and Dirty Harry....","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is somewhat of a puzzle. It is an uneasy mixture of comedy, buddy road movie, and action film. While Eastwood's spaghetti western anti-hero was a good bad guy, Thunderbolt fails to elicit the same reaction. He plots a heist with bad guys, and were it not for Eastwood's support of the highly likable Lightfoot, his character would be difficult to embrace as anything but just another criminal. In fact, Eastwood's Thunderbolt is completely overshadowed by Jeff Bridges endearing performance. The movie benefits from terrific supporting characters, great on location photography, and surprising comic moments. It is weakened by uneven transitions from comedy to drama, and about 10 minutes of car chases that could have been trimmed. - MERK "},{"Title":"clint and jeff","Date":"16 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" most people remember Michael Cimino for his classic masterpiece the DeerHunter,, this film while not quite that is very close i think to a cult classic,, Clint Eastwood and Jeff Bridges work so well together,, add in Geoffrey Lewis,, George Kennedy,, small parts for Catherine Bach Vic Tayback , and Gary Busey, plus a great story,, and music, you have a wonderful film to behold,, Johnny is on the run from Red,, from a job he pulled 10 years ago,, Red tries to kill him but with Lightfoot's help Johnny lives another day,, he then convinces Johnny to pull the exact same job as 10 years ago, because they would never expect it.. the job involves blowing a safe, and high tailing it out of town,, Red gets greedy decides he wants all the cash,,,, but alas our heroes have something close to them Red does not,,, the wherabouts of the original 500,000 ,,, great movie,, i'd watch it over and over again,, Hollywood needs to make these kinds of movies,, "},{"Title":"Eastwood and Bridges","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Two misfits and a love story between two loners. That in itself it's an intriguing premise but if you add to that mix, Clint Eastwood and Jeff Bridges as the two loners, then we'll have something we've never seen before. Lightfoot (a superlative Jeff Bridges) has a crush on Thunderbolt (an astonishing Clint Eastwood) at first sight. Thunderbolt seems to be aware of it, if only subconsciously but eventually surrenders to the kind of feeling he, probably, never experienced. A father with a son who hero worships him. Tragically romantic. Brutal and deeply felt, Michael Cimino's debut as a director is a feast for the senses. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A Little Piece of Americana","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is a vastly underrated film and a worthy addition to Clint Eastwood's fine canon of work. The movie begins with Eastwood (Thunderbolt) posing as a preacher in a small Montana town. When an assassin enters the church and starts shooting at him, he flees on foot and is rescued by Lightfoot (Jeff Bridges), a carefree drifter who has just stolen a car. The experienced, level-headed Thunderbolt and the young, impulsive Lightfoot form a partnership of sorts as they wander aimlessly throughout the countryside.We find out that Eastwood's character robbed a bank years earlier using an anti-tank gun to blast a hole in the wall. His former confederates, the violent Red Leary (George Kennedy) and his none-too-bright sidekick Goody (Geoffrey Lewis), mistakenly think Eastwood took and hid the money for himself when Leary went to prison following the robbery. When cornered, Thunderbolt beats up Leary and convinces him of the truth- the money was never stolen It was hidden behind the chalkboard of a one room schoolhouse in town which has since been replaced by a modern school. Thinking the money is gone forever, the four decide to pull off a similar caper.Their partnership is an unholy alliance, made so by the hostile Leary, who detests Lightfoot and regards him as an incapable smart ass unworthy of inclusion. Only his grudging respect for Thunderbolt- an old war buddy and the brains of the operation- prevents bloodshed. Nonetheless, they meticulously plan the caper- getting legitimate jobs in town while casing the bank and determining the alarm set up and the time needed for escape. Eventually, they pull off the robbery but dumb luck gets them spotted afterwards- with tragic results for all involved.This is a wonderful movie for several reasons. The first is the interplay between Eastwood and Bridges. Their contrasting characters create great on-screen magnetism. The second is the implementation of the plot itself, both precise and dramatic in its execution. Character actors George Kennedy and Geoffrey Lewis add immeasurably to the film; Lewis' mannerisms as the simpleton Goody are amusing while Kennedy shines as the temperamental Leary. He has a hilarious response to a little kid who chides him as he and Goody pose as ice cream men while staking out the bank. And Eastwood company player Bill McKinney makes a memorable if brief appearance as a drug-crazed nut with a shotgun and a trunk full of rabbits.Perhaps the most revealing reason for this movie's allure is that it brings us back to a time when America still had its innocence in much of the country. Carefree living was the norm- there were no terror alerts, 9/11, or airport screenings. Drifters didn't automatically conjure images of people up to no good or out to do someone harm. At one point in the movie, Eastwood buys an extra ice cream cone and gives it to a random little kid- a harmless act that today that would sadly raise suspicions.Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is a lot of fun- and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Bridges and Eastwood. Together at last","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This excellent outdoors caper heist comedy drama is an unusual and compelling drive-in movie of the 70s that plays as well in 2010 as it did 36 (!) years ago. Has Jeff Bridges ever been better? As a sunny simple and slightly off kilter (mentally and sexually) sidekick to Clint Eastwood's robbery planner with cruel George Kennedy and silly Geoffrey lewis as their accidental and mean spirited accomplices. Everything about this film is compulsively watchable. I was very surprised how the film had barely dated from 1974. It still plays modern. The 'big sky' world of Montana with rural towns and suburbs make a terrific setting. Excellent script from infamous Michael Cimino and with fantastic beautiful and memorable photography THUNDERBOLT AND LIGHTFOOT is still a great film to watch. The sort of comedy drama with indelible characters and surprise tragedy mixed with hilarious nudity and situations that every audience still loves. Jeff Bridges is spectacular in every scene he is in and I am not at all surprised to know he was nominated for an Oscar. THUNDERBOLT AND LIGHTFOOT must have looked amazing on a big drive in screen. As hilarious in drag as he is digging a hole, he is the key heart of this great emotional crime film. Like MIDNIGHT RUN or other 70s 80s crime comedies here is one with heart and suspense. Kennedy's disgracefully funny retort to a kid not wanting to buy ice cream is utterly hilarious. "},{"Title":"One of Clint Eastwood's Best Contemporary Crime Chronicles!!!","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Before he ascended to the zenith of his career with the Oscar-winning Best Picture The Deer Hunter (1978) and then plummeted to his nadir with the costly western Heaven's Gate (1980) that bankrupted United Artists and forced them to merge with MGM, writer & director Michael Cimino got his start with Clint Eastwood. Initially, Cimino contributed the Russian roulette sequences to the Dirty Harry sequel Magnum Force. Incidentally, Cimino's first credit as a scenarist occurred earlier on director Douglas Trumbull's sci-fi epic Silent Running, with Bruce Dern. Anyway, Cimino made his directorial debut with Thunderbolt & Lightfoot. This exciting, tour-de-force Clint Eastwood & Jeff Bridges thriller ranks as one of the top ten perfect crimes heist movies of the 1970s. Cimino's film chronicles the friendship between an older man, a Korean War veteran on-the-lam, and a hopelessly footloose but fast-talking twentysomething who cherishes grand theft auto, easy women, and clich√©s.Ultimately, Joe Doherty, aka 'Thunderbolt' (Clint Eastwood) and Lightfoot (Jeff Bridges) team up reluctantly with Eastwood's old partners-in-crime, Red Leary (George Kennedy of Cool Hand Luke) and Goody (Geoffrey Lewis of High Plains Drifter) to rob an armored car company. They wind up wielding a 20MM cannon to blow gigantic holes in the wall of the safe. The first third of the action introduces us to the rogue's gallery of thieves, and the second third details their elaborate plans as they accumulate the necessary tool to pull it off this complicated heist. The third focuses on the frenzied getaway, dissolution of the gang and the final showdown with Red. Not only is Thunderbolt & Lightfoot a memorable crime caper with quotable dialogue, but also it is a top-notch drama with interesting characters, including Geoffrey Lewis as a bumbling fool and George Kennedy as a sadistic killer. Jeff Bridges received as Oscar nomination for his sympathetic but ill-fated bad guy. The scenes with Bridges dressing up like a girl to lure a tubby security guard in the alarm systems board are hilarious.The action opens with scenic long shots of wheat fields to the lovely strains of Dee Barton's music and we find ourselves near wooden church with a majestic steeple as an old black car wheels up to it. A burly guy in a dark suit and white hat, Dunlop (seasoned heavy Roy Jenson) gets out to stretch his legs as he listens to the choir warble a standard hymn. Cimino switches to another setting as the eponymous young drifter, Lightfoot, limps onto a used car dealership, and admires a Firebird. The owner, brilliantly played in a bit part by Gregory Walcott) invites him to climb behind the wind and kick the engine over. She's cleaner than a cat's ass, the dealer brags and then wonders if a youth like Lightfoot can handle her. Lightfoot tells him that he has a wooden leg. While the dealer ponders this sudden shift in conversation, Lightfoot steals the car and tears away across country.Back at the church, we discover that Clint Eastwood is posing as an Episcopal minister in black suit with a white collar. Just as John 'Thunderbolt' Doherty utters some Biblical homilies about the lion lying down with the lamb, Dunlop bursts into the sanctuary with a Mauser machine pistol and triggers a barrage of shots that sends everybody scrambling for the doors, including Doherty. Our hero charges across the wheat field with a wheezing Dunlop in close pursuit, pausing occasionally to fire at his fleet-footed quarry. Doherty flags down a sports car, Lightfoot in the Firebird, and Lightfoot swerves, plunges into the wheat field, smashes into Dunlop, and kills him. Reversing, Lightfoot races back out of the field. As Lightfoot races past Doherty, Doherty slings himself onto the automobile, climbs through the passenger's window, dislocating his shoulder, and settles in alongside Lightfoot. Presto, their friendship begins. Along the way, they swap cars with a family and Doherty decides to go his separate way at a bus depot.Doherty leaves Lightfoot at a bus station. While he is sauntering through the depot, Doherty spots is old crime partner, vindictive Red Leary, and rejoins Lightfoot before he pulls out of town. The guys head off to a motel, and Lightfoot changes vehicle license tags. Along the way, he picks up two cuties, Melody (Catherine Bach) and Gloria (June Fairchild of Detroit 9000), and takes them back to the motel. Doherty, we learn, has a bad leg. Gloria inquires about all his scars and he explains that he received them in Korea. When Doherty refuses to take Gloria home at 3 AM, she runs out in her underwear and screams rape! Doherty gives her cab fare.Eventually, Red and Goody catch up with our heroes. Initially, Red tries to ambush in a roadside diner parking lot. Lightfoot leads Red on a careening chase through the mountains with Red blasting away with his carbine but missing. Later, Red and Goody get the drop on them and try to kill them. Doherty disarms Red but refuses to kill him. Instead, he explains he didn't take the loot from the previous hold-up. They stashed it in a one-room school house. When they returned to get it, the school house had vanished. Lightfoot's suggests that they rob the same armored car company. Red hates Lightfoot from the get-go, but he cooperates reluctantly as they set up the crime. They take jobs. Goody drives an ice cream wagon. Red is a janitor at a local department store. Doherty goes to work as a wielder. Lightfoot works as a landscaping technician.Cimino provides recurring comic relief scenes to lighten things up and a number of character actors, such as Gregory Walcott of Plan 9 From Outer Space, Gunsmoke veteran Dub Taylor as a gas station owner, Vic Tayback of Alice, and Deliverance redneck Bill McKinney as a psychotic who cruises around in a souped up car with white rabbits galore in his trunk, appear at intervals. "},{"Title":"Michael Cimino's first is carried by Jeff Bridges","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really liked this movie. Cimino keeps the story simple, funny and pretty involving A young hotshot (Bridges) inspires a has-been bank robber (Eastwood) to take another crack at the bank which nearly brought him down the last time he hit it, and along the way they are both sabotaged and helped by Eastwood's former buddies (Kennedy and Lewis).In my humble opinion, Jeff Bridges is ace as Lightfoot in this movie. There simply would be no movie without him, or, well, it might, but it would've been boring as hell. Eastwood plays Eastwood, maybe a bit softer around the edges than Harry Callahan, and does his part well. Still, he is kind of drowned by Bridges, Kennedy and Lewis. They do other stuff besides just being tough and professional, and God bless the script and them for it. Bridges is so incredibly good in this, he jumps around, he tries to wind up Kennedy and tries to lure some enthusiasm out of Eastwood; I can not imagine anyone else but Bridges as Lightfoot. He steals the movie away (he's also does some drag-stuff here, classic). The scenes with the lady in the house, the tussles with Kennedy, the brunette and her friend, the lady on a bike with a hammer. You have a lot to look forward to here.Cimino's picture is about a criminal who is tired and who just wants to take it easy, but a young dude, full of romantic ideas, tempts him back into the game. Along the way, the violence and mayhem that made Eastwood leave it all back then catches up with them and they have to fight for their lives.The movie is a must-see for fans of Eastwood, Cimino, Kennedy and Lewis - but it belongs to Jeff Bridges. "},{"Title":"Great find from the past - perfect remembrance of the 70's","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was a delight -- found it by accident and really enjoyed it. The story line builds up slowly. The music and photography evoke the lonely vista of the west and pan in to a church rising from the wheat fields. The heat is visceral, people fanning themselves and quietly listening to the preacher, who is.....Clint. This is a startling scene in and of itself, and when a lone gunman comes in shooting Clint (Thunderbolt) leaves by the window.Mike Cimino builds the relationships slowly. As the characters come into play with each other, the violence is tempered with humor.The characters seem very shallow until they start talking about the plan to repeat a former bank robbery; the discussion is detailed and technical, another twist giving the characters more depth.The clothing, sexuality and free sexual expression truly evoked the era (represented by Lightfoot, the Jeff Bridges character). The disapproval and repressed sexuality expressed in comments to Lightfoot are representative of one of the major areas of conflict at that time (the older generation represented by Red, the George Kennedy character).All in all a great romp, complete with a surprise bittersweet ending. In fact as all the characters die off it is somewhat like a Greek tragedy. Before going to meet his own death, Red administers a promised beating to Lightfoot. The protagonists, stripped of everything, are left where they started -- with nothing. It is clear from Lightfoot's body language that he has some neurological damage, but nonetheless the buddies go on. Coming full circle, they end up back in Warsaw, MT, where they find the money from the first robbery. You keep rooting for Lightfoot to make it, but the damage has been done. Bridges does a fantastic job showing us the symptoms and underplays it to great effect. Clint shows up in the brand new gigantic Cadillac convertible, and it is clear the end is coming. After Lightfoot expires, we watch Clint drive down the long lonely road, a warrior alone at last.Definitely a buddy film; no female roles with any depth at all. Nonetheless a great flick - highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Thunderbolt and Lightfoot.","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Preparations are in order to rob Montana Armoured when a young goof-ball roadie named Lightfoot(Jeff Bridges, nothing short of amazing)convinces ex-bank robber Thunderbolt(Clint Eastwood, very mellow and pleasant in this particular film)and his ex-heister partners(Geoffrey Lewis as Goody & George Kennedy as the extremely volatile Red Leary..who originally plan to kill Thunderbolt believing he hid the loot they stole from that very bank of Montana Armoured ten years prior)to attempt the daring feat of working over a bank twice. It's a ballsy suggestion, but Thunderbolt gives it considerable thought and talks his pals into making plans to commit to robbing it. But, Red doesn't like the young drifter and swears that harm will come to him after the heist is over. Red has some issues controlling his anger and his partner Goody often receives the brunt of the punishment. This is a heist film so you know even if the robbery goes well, complications are bound to ensue, especially when you have a partner like Red who can not control his rage.At first the film is a road movie with Thunderbolt and Lightfoot bonding almost, if not, like brothers. They grow on each other, and that chemistry between Eastwood and Bridges is a pleasure to watch. Kennedy really plays Red like a fireball operating on a very short fuse. Lewis is pitch-perfect as the unfortunate punching bag of Red, though he doesn't deserve to be treated the way he is..he's loyal, but not a violent man. Perhaps associating himself with Red was not wise and would certainly lead to an early grave. The film is filled with colorful characterizations, but this provides Jeff Bridges with the perfect star vehicle to show his incredible talent. "},{"Title":"US version censured ?","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember watching this movie for the first time in the early eighties. I was still in elementary school but I still vaguely recall a scene where a young woman on a bicycle gets ambushed by Red Leary and gets away by clawing his cheek. Exciting stuff when u see a breast pop out on screen for the first time! If i'm not mistaken this would have been right before the scene where Jeff Bridge's character meets up with Red to go pick up the large caliber weapon. Where's the scene in the US DVD release? Other than the missing scene the movie was fun to watch again 30 years later. The cars and the print shirts, Jeff Bridges is simply awesome as a hippie drifting in the 70s. Clint Eastwood moves through the movie with a shattered shin and bad shoulder and still able to kick everyones ass when he has to. Awesome! "}{"Title":"Good Entertainment","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is a huge highlight in the list of 70's buddy movies. In fact, it's a huge highlight on any list as this movie is sure to delight, entertain and amuse anyone that comes into contact with it. While the movie doesn't offer any depth, nor does it probe into the human condition or anything like that, it just simply WORKS. This is the sort of film that you can just put on and enjoy yourself while the movie plays out. It's the sort of film that you just simply can't dislike, and why would you want to? Thunderbolt and Lightfoot plays it's crowd-pleasing elements - things such as comedy, action and strong performances from good leading men, as far as they can go and this is what makes the film a winner. The film lacks a clear structure, and at times it is apparent that it doesn't really know what to do with itself - but it simply doesn't matter. The film could show Eastwood and Bridges playing cards, or watching paint dry even, and you still get the impression that it would entertain you. And this is testament to the great characters and crowd pleasing elements that this film gives it's audience.Clint Eastwood and Jeff Bridges really couldn't be much more different if they tried. Eastwood is the loner; an understated man who has made his name in westerns and gritty crime dramas, while Bridges is always the charisma and the man that takes a film and steals it with his likable persona; but in spite of their differences, the two combine here to great effect. Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is both a buddy movie and a character driven crime caper, and it plays both of these sides of it's personality to great effect. The buddy side of the film works thanks to the characters and the fabulous actors playing them, while the crime side of the film comes into it's own with the numerous action sequences, the well thought out caper and, again, the characters; as the buddy element of the film ensures that we always care for their plight. While Thunderbolt and Lightfoot hasn't, and wont, go down in history as one of the greatest films ever made; it's a very nice one, and if you want a stellar piece of entertainment starring two top quality lead men; you could do a lot worse than this. "},{"Title":"did someone re-edit the ending of this movie at some point?","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Warning, May contain a spoiler.I love this movie, it's great for a bunch of reasons. There is the talent involved, Eastwood in his prime, Jeff Bridges laying out the kind of persona he would riff on for the next thirty years, George Kennedy in full blown red neck psycho mode, and Michael Cimino working on the friendship/futility of life themes that would then be refined in the masterpiece that is Deer Hunter. It's also a nice period piece showing life in Montana in the 70s including assorted muscle cars.My irritation is that I watched an old VHS copy last night and was troubled by the ending. This was probably the fourth or fifth time I watched it, and I was sure that at the end, Clint disposes of Lightfoot's body by tossing it off a bridge and then driving off. Yet when I watched this copy, that scene was not there. Bridges dies and Clint drives away with him in the car and then you see Clint driving alone and then the credits.Maybe it was another movie, but I was sure that scene is in there. And it bugs me because I think it belongs there, the equivalent of a funeral...Anyway, a nice little movie that just matures with age and gets finer even it it was hacked for some stupid reason. Maybe the anti-litter lobby complained about the reckless dumping.... "},{"Title":"Loose Eggs","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you can forgive the 70s amorality and weirdness of exhibitionist housewives and meth-monster hillbillies with trunk-fulls of bunnies, I strongly recommend Michael Cimino's heist/buddy/road film, Thunderbolt and Lightfoot. There's so much to like about this study in criminality and friendship amidst the beauty of central Montana that what quibblings you may have should be put to rest.Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is a fine, fine crime drama, heavily reinforced with humor, both touching and crude. The performances are uniformly appealing. George Kennedy and Geoffrey Lewis are wonderful as a Mutt-and-Jeff team of recidivists. Clint Eastwood, who has grown as an actor over four decades of work, shows both charisma and restraint (even though he is the star). Jeff Bridges owns this movie in no small part to the professionalism of his co-stars.Because Eastwood is quiet and world-weary (and underplays his part nicely), Kennedy seethes with anger over every injustice inflicted upon him, and Lewis perfects his act as a thoughtful lapdog, Bridges' petty thief and half-assed philosopher dazzles the viewer. He's all energetic pleasure-seeker who knows little of big crime, but is willing to learn. Even Bridges' choice of clothes adds a layer of seat-of-your-pants freshness--he wears a middle-aged traveling salesman's stolen polyester and what I would not think of as the uniform of a landscaper--leather pants--with equal enthusiasm.There are problems with the film. It's so 70s morality-neutral that some viewers may be put off by the criminality and casual treatment of women as sperm-receptacles. The movie relies heavily on juxtaposing middle-class with working-class. Whenever the characters come out of the bars and pool halls of Great Falls, they look out of place, at the mercy of the haves. It's a wonderfully subtle way to build an underlying conflict.Thunderbolt and Lightfoot has a beauty that sneaks up on you, both at the human level and with the location photography. I recommend it because, although upon release it was dismissed as just another Eastwood flick, it has a human depth that builds slowly and quietly. You don't realize how much you're invested in these characters until the disastrous robbery and its tragic consequences. "},{"Title":"In The Same Stylish Manner","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Thunderbolt and Lightfoot casts Clint Eastwood as a former bank robber now turned preacher who is trying to escape from his former gang who think he sold them out. While escaping one of them he gets an unexpected assist by drifter Jeff Bridges and the film is their bittersweet odyssey. Eastwood turns out to be the legendary Thunderbolt, a man who was part of a gang that robbed an Idaho bank by using an army mortar to break into the vault. The money was hidden and then disappeared and was never recovered or found by any of the gang. But the rest of the gang remaining which is now George Kennedy and Geoffrey Lewis think Eastwood took it.After a couple of escapes Kennedy and Lewis do catch up with Eastwood and Bridges and Clint finally convinces the other two he didn't keep the loot for himself. What to do, but rob the place again and do it in the same stylish manner. Thunderbolt and Lightfoot garnered one Academy Award nomination, for Jeff Bridges for Best Supporting Actor. Bridges was up against some stiff competition that year. Fred Astaire was the sentimental favorite for The Towering Inferno and the other three nominees all came from The Godfather Part II, Lee Strasberg, Michael V. Gazzo, and Robert DeNiro. It was DeNiro who beat all odds with two other nominees from his film in the same field and won. Bridges was probably rounding out the field here, but that's not to take away from his performance. He's an amiable, cynical young drifter who has a very tender side to him that Eastwood brings out. The audience likes him even though he's up to no good.There are more than gay undertones in Thunderbolt and Lightfoot which any number of critics have commented. In fact the only reason that the scene with Catherine Bach and her friend who Bridges picks up for himself and Eastwood is in the film at all is to mainstream it for Middle America. Otherwise Eastwood and Kennedy act like a pair of middle aged gay men fighting over a young hustler. And Bridges with those black leather pants he wears in half the film certainly gives that impression. Bridges also gets to do drag as part of the robbery plan and I've seen a lot worse. Eastwood himself says to Bridges that he came along about ten years too late in his life.Michael Cimino was acclaimed for his first film as both director and writer. Four years later Cimino won all kinds of awards and praise including the Oscar for Best Picture for his second film, The Deer Hunter. After that though came the elephantine disaster Heaven's Gate and what the god's gave they took back with a vengeance.The only criticism I have of the film is we never do learn how our gang got a hold of a mortar for the job. For that matter how did Eastwood get one the first time? This really is carrying the right to bear arms way too far. Cimino's script doesn't explain and I don't think it's on the cutting room floor because the film as a whole is well and tightly edited.Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is one of Clint Eastwood's best films, certainly one of my favorites. And the ending is an interesting one to say the least. "},{"Title":"A Heist Film That Still Holds Up","Date":"9 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I can remember the first time I saw this movie, back when it was first released and ended up playing at the local drive in. That drive in was the only place to see movies in town so when word reached it was coming I knew I'd be there. I wasn't disappointed. The owner of the drive in would hold posters for me and the half sheet on this one remains in my collection, a perfect piece of movie poster art that captured the movie well. But while the poster displayed star Clint Eastwood with his foot resting on a big gun it was about more than that.The movie kicks off with a panoramic shot of a wheat field, a small country church on a Sunday morning off to the side. A car drives up and we cut back and forth from outside of the church and a man about to enter to a preacher (Clint Eastwood) delivering a sermon. The man enters, pulls out a gun and begins shooting. This prompts Eastwood to run out the back and across that field.At the same time this is happening a young man (Jeff Bridges) walks from train tracks to a used car lot. Talking to the salesman he's invited to sit in and listen to a sporty new car to see how powerful it is. It is indeed and even more so when he speeds off the lot, stealing the car.These two stories intertwine when Eastwood runs out of the field into the road and is nearly hit by Bridges and attempts to jump into the car. As Bridges tries to lose him he careens off into the field, hitting the man chasing Eastwood. The pair drive off and a friendship is begun.As things progress Bridges tells Eastwood his name is Lightfoot and the two travel down the road together, stealing along the way and swapping cars when needed. He lets Eastwood know he could see there was something different about him and he wants to learn from him. When he discovers the men chasing them were involved in a major bank heist years ago he remembers the name of the man who operated a cannon to rob the bank, the Thunderbolt.The pursuing ex-gang members eventually catch the pair with plans to kill them. When they learn that the loot from the old robbery is gone they back down. It's then that Lightfoot suggest that they pull off the same heist all over again. Who would ever suspect a group of thieves doing the same heist using the same plan? It isn't just the story that makes this movie work although there is more story going on here than in many movies being made today. It isn't just a heist movie. It's a movie that talks about friendship, about loyalty, about greed, about achieving a dream and it's done in such a way as to make what should be considered bad guys out to be a combination of killers and anti-heroes. Many movies released at the time had that ambiguous lawbreaker as the central character in their films. Burt Reynolds made a career out of it.At the core of this film is the relationship between Eastwood and Bridges. You get the feeling that in Bridges Eastwood's character sees himself when he was younger. Brash, mouthy and ready to take on the world Bridge's character is constantly joking with the others earning him the rancor of gang member Red Leary (George Kennedy). A butting of heads is inevitable between these two and you're just not sure where that will lead. The interaction between all four crooks, including Geoffrey Lewis as Eddie Goody, makes you wonder at times if they can pull of the heist at all.All of the performances seen here are great. Eastwood's cool demeanor, Bridges' cocky youngster, Lewis' bumbling sidekick to Red and Kennedy's anger driven criminal meld together to make the story work. While you would never think of these four different people coming together to achieve anything the fact that they did once and got away with it seems amazing. That they could possibly do it again is even more questionable.The movie was another landmark as well. It was the first film directed by Michael Cimino. Having written the screenplays for both SILENT RUNNING and MAGNUM FORCE this was his first film in that position. Four years later his next film was released to stunning success. It was called THE DEER HUNTER. While that movie raised his level in Hollywood his next film brought it crashing down, the often discussed financial disaster HEAVEN'S GATE. To date he's only directed 8 movies which is a shame when you watch those that he's made. Hollywood isn't a forgiving town though.Twilight Time is releasing this movie in a limited edition series. As with all Twilight Times films this means there are only a limited number being made so if you want one make sure you get it now. The transfer is amazing with a widescreen presentation that uses the full frame to tell the story. The extras are small in number but it is the movie itself presented this clear that makes this worth picking up. This one is a definite add to the collection for all movie fans and Eastwood fans in particular. "},{"Title":"hidden gem","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Thunderbolt (Clint Eastwood) is a bank robber hiding out as a preacher and the only one who knows where the loot is hidden. Red Leary (George Kennedy) tracks him down and shoots at him. Lightfoot (Jeff Bridges) is passing by driving his stolen Camaro and rescues Thunderbolt. Thunderbolt can't get rid of him. Red Leary and Eddie Goody (Geoffrey Lewis) continues to follow them. Thunderbolt discovers his hiding place, an old schoolhouse, has been replaced with a new school. With his loot presumably gone, the four rivals decide to join forces to take down a big score with an anti-tank gun.Michael Cimino delivers some beautifully shoot scenes and some wild characters. He also has the great Eastwood and a young stud in Bridges. It's a fairly simple heist movie composed of really interesting scenes. The acting is terrific and the guys have good chemistry. For all the wild action, the most memorable is the outrageous man with the rabbits in his truck. This is a hidden gem from the 70s. "},{"Title":"The heist aspect that we see in the second half is serviceable, but it's the poor first half that really lets this down","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Here is the IMDb summary for Thunderbolt and Lightning - With the help of an irreverent young sidekick, a bank robber gets his old gang back together to organize a daring new heist. Sounds like it's the sort of film that would be exciting and lots of fun doesn't it? Yeah well I'm sorry, but this really didn't do a lot for me I'm afraid.For a start the actual plot doesn't really get any focus at all until we're close to the hour mark which isn't necessarily a problem in itself if the first half of the film does anything of interest, but unfortunately that isn't the case here.Even if we overlook the rather contrived set-up to the story it's a really hard film to become involved with. The first hour consists of Thunderbolt and Lightfoot picking up prostitutes, stealing a car and being pursued by Leary (George Kennedy) who has a score to settle with Thunderbolt (Clint Eastwood) as he believes that Thunderbolt set him up on a previous job. I haven't got a problem with silliness in films but it has to feel as though there is some sort of point to any of it. The first half is a rather dumb and random sequences of events serving no real purpose and the second half involves the planning and execution of the heist. For me, the two aspects don't mesh very well together and made the film feel uneven.I also found it a little bit convenient that Leary would suddenly drop everything and decide to join Thunderbolt for one last job - given how angry he was with him previously. If I'm honest I just found many elements of the story to be a little hokey.Another problem in this film is that it suffers from notably weak chemistry amongst its characters. Eastwood and Bridges are OK individually, but share few sparks when they're on screen together. Although to be fair to Bridges he did at least try and inject some fun into the film and managed to be both annoying and funny in equal measure. Kennedy and Lewis fared worse and seemed to add very little to the film.Things improve slightly in the second half of the film when we're actually seeing the 'heist' itself. I thought that the planning and thought that went into the heist was clever, but again it wasn't exciting and once the heist is executed it was rather workmanlike and run of the mill and again just didn't do a lot for me.Simply put, Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is a mixture of bad and mediocre and a film that doesn't deliver upon its rather exciting sounding premise. "},{"Title":"Rootless duo of Clint Eastwood and Jeff Bridges rob a Montana bank","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Thunderbolt and Lightfoot (1974) is an excellent neo-noir that does not appear in the usual neo-noir lists, including those of major critics. I do not understand why they have missed or ignored or not seen the film for the noir that it is. Most people seem to think of this movie as a comedy, a buddy film, a road movie, an action movie and a drama. But whatever genre label one chooses, this film is neo-noir. The direction of Michael Cimino is excellent.Here are some of the neo-noir elements.1. The story is told from the point of view of criminals. Jeff Bridges steals a car. Clint Eastwood has been part of a gang that robbed a bank. 2. Amorality of the principals is taken for granted. The movie takes the side of Bridges and Eastwood, treating them sympathetically. 3. The protagonists do not have traditional goals. They do not conform to social norms of work. In that sense they are aimless. They certainly are rootless. 4. Cimino makes extraordinary use of wide open spaces and isolated older buildings (a church, a one-room schoolhouse) to show the alienation and rootlessness of the principals. 5. As in many noirs, a disaffected veteran is central. Eastwood is a hero of the Korean War who is a bank robber. We fill in the blanks in his back story that he could not find a place in normal society after returning home. 6. The family life of Bridges is virtually non-existent. 7. Noir films have more than the average of unhappy endings, and this one fits that description. 8. A caper or heist that goes wrong due to small circumstances is a feature of quite a few noirs, and that happens here.This film treats social mores with the acid of irony throughout, starting right at the outset when Eastwood is posing as a preacher. Fun is poked at ordinary labor and the position of men doing it; work doesn't pay; it's only good for making a stake to finance a bank heist. The robbers use a heavy weapon against society and its supposedly impregnable vaults. Rather than being used for the purpose of defense, the weapon invades the bank's defenses. In one bit of dialog, the hero, as explained by Bridges, is an outlaw. The film in several places shows middle class angst and fear. In one case, a gas station owner speaks about bankruptcy and delivers a spiel about the fragility of the economic system.To bring out the craziness and off-balance character of life, there's a sequence in which a madman (Bill McKinney) is driving a car and picks up the hitchhikers, Bridges and Eastwood. The character of George Kennedy adds significantly to the instability and imbalance. He's a friend of Eastwood and Eastwood saved his life, but he still is out to shoot him. There is another theme of instability brought out in the conflict between youth (Bridges) and age (both Eastwood and Kennedy). "},{"Title":"Comedy,crime and drama are available in equal measures in Michael Cimino's debut feature 'Thunderbolt and Lightfoot'.","Date":"19 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Before making his directorial debut in 1974, American director Michael Cimino had already written two films 'Silent Running' and 'Magnum Force'. The experience of writing these big budget films proved much too beneficial for him. It is with perfect ease that Michael Cimino has been able to mix crime, comedy and drama in his film. These three elements have been merged with beautiful locales to give the film the looks of a complete entertainer. As a film 'Thunderbolt and Lightfoot' pays excellent homage to the notion of friendship built on admiration and mutual trust. It is a friendship which builds over a period of time as both friends are able to ascertain their strengths and weaknesses. Actors Clint Eastwood and Jeff Bridges are this film's friends in question. Apart from admiring each other for unique personalities, Thunderbolt and Lightfoot are also involved in the quest for finding hidden money. It is through a series of hilarious adventures filled with comedy, melodrama and violence that they are able to achieve coveted success. However, it is said time and again that there is a price to be paid for every success. This is the most important lesson one learns from this highly entertaining film. "},{"Title":"A fresh start from an excellent director","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Thunderbolt and Lightfoot was Michael Cimino's first film as a director and to me it is one of the best heist movies that I have ever seen and perhaps the most entertaining movies of the genre. The movie stars Clint Eastwood as a bank robber named Thunderbolt who in the first scene we believe to be a preacher but his mass gets interrupted when shots get fired and he ends up escaping the scene, after the shooting he ends up meeting a young man named Lightfoot (played by Jeff Bridges in an Oscar nominated performance) and start a friendship with one another and they are on their way to Warsaw, Montana to look for a one room schoolhouse for some money that hasn't been found, and they end up going to the wrong school whilst assuming that the one room schoolhouse was torn down while getting some ice cream. Then after the ice cream they go into their car and almost get killed again by the same people who tried to before whose names are Red Leary (played by George Kennedy) and Eddie Goody (played by the late Geoffrey Lewis) who then all of them become friends and plan a bank robbery and it ends up being mostly a success and somewhat isn't and I won't give away any details in case people haven't seen the film. In the ending Thunderbolt and Lightfoot find the old one room schoolhouse moved to a different area in Warsaw, Montana and end up finding the money behind a chalkboard. This was a heist movie experience about a friendship between four central characters more than an actual heist itself. "}{"Title":"After A Decent Start This Becomes Largely Unfocused","Date":"19 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The best part of Thunderbolt And Lightfoot is the start. It grabs your attention and makes you start wondering right off. Clint Eastwood is playing a preacher. A preacher? This certainly wasn't what I was expecting. His sermon was a bit rambling, but he was definitely preaching and collared. So, what's with this? Then, suddenly, Red (George Kennedy) bursts into the church and opens fire on the preacher, who runs for his life. Good start. You expect more. But then the movie settles down. A lot.Eastwood is actually Thunderbolt - who robbed a Montana bank years before, and Kennedy's Red thinks Thunderbolt ran off with the money. (Why would he be preaching in a little country church if he had half a million dollars?) Running from Red, Thunderbolt runs into Lightfoot (Jeff Bridges) - a small timer who'd like to pull off something bigger. Misunderstandings are overcome, and Red and his buddy team up with them on a plan to rob the very same bank - because who would expect that!You can't really call this an action movie. It has some action, but not a lot. Some of it is a sort of comedy. Mostly, though, after its strong start it just kind of wanders aimlessly. You know it's leading up to the bank robbery, but mostly you'd look at this as a form of male bonding between the leads.The strong start is the best part of this, but it's not really a compliment to say that the best part of a movie is its opening scenes. (5/10) "},{"Title":"In for a penny, in for a pound.","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" An excellent character based comedy / drama, Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is a well above average 1970s vehicle for established star Clint Eastwood. Clint plays the role of Thunderbolt, a bank robber laying low (masquerading as a preacher!) when an old associate shows up, ready to do him in. Saving Thunderbolts' life is amiable, carefree youngster Lightfoot, played with charm and likability by Jeff Bridges. They become quick friends. Soon, they'll find that they won't be able to escape Thunderbolts' old partners in crime, Red Leary (George Kennedy) and Eddie Goody (Geoffrey Lewis). Lightfoot gets the bright idea that they should mastermind the second robbery of a bank that the others had previously hit.As could be expected with any good caper film, it's fun to see the participants discuss all the obstacles in their way, and all of the preparations that they will have to make. This material is immensely enjoyable, but it's the characters and performances that really make an impact. Clint does a typically solid, engaging job, with very fine support from the foaming-mad Kennedy and the always reliable Lewis. There's quite a few other familiar faces in the cast, too Catherine Bach, Gary Busey, Jack Dodson, Burton Gilliam, Roy Jenson, Bill McKinney, Vic Tayback, Dub Taylor, Gregory Walcott, and Cliff Emmich. But make no mistake, this is Bridges' film. Whether he's taunting Red in an interesting way, or being made to dress in drag as part of the robbery scheme, he steals the show.Michael Cimino, the filmmaker who later scored big with The Deer Hunter, and earned himself infamy with the notorious spectacle Heaven's Gate, made his directing debut here. He'd previously co-written the Dirty Harry sequel Magnum Force, and Clint had lots of confidence in the up and coming talent. Cimino gives his film great pace, and, in collaboration with cinematographer Frank Stanley, gives Thunderbolt and Lightfoot some impressive widescreen compositions.Endearing entertainment all the way, further enhanced by Paul Williams's touching song Where Does a Fool Go.Nine out of 10. "},{"Title":"A classic that   Hollywood does not make anymore","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is one of those films that Hollywood and the people of today have forgotten. This film is more than a caper and road comedy film. It is also A film about it's characters who are played wonderfully by a grade A cast starring Clint Eastwood as the laconic loner, also starring Jeff Bridges who gives A wonderful Oscar nominated performance as Lightfoot, with wonderful supporting actors George Kennedy as the violent and menacing red Leary, and also Gregory Lewis as Eddie Goody. The whole cast gives wonderful performance's that are to be praised and remembered. The other thing worth praising is the direction of Michael Cimino, who also did the writing for the film which made it a very memorable winner and the editing by Ferris Webster was excellent also the cinematography by Frank Stanley is gorgeous, the images will stay with you long after the film ends.Overall this film is one of the best classics that movie goers of today have nearly forgotten. "},{"Title":"Mildly interesting, nothing special","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Interesting in that it stars Clint Eastwood and Jeff Bridges, and is probably the only movie to include both of them. Eastwood was already an established star while this movie came early in Bridges' movie career. Interesting too in that it is the directing debut of Michael Cimino. His next movie was one of the greatest movies of all time, The Deer Hunter.This said, despite the acting, directing and writing (Cimino also wrote the script) talent involved, the movie is nothing special. It mostly plays as a farcical comedy. Gratuitous car chases, scenes that have no point, sometimes-random plot. Throw in an implausible bank heist and it doesn't feel at all original.Then we have a very dramatic and moving ending, just to confuse your emotions and sense of what type of movie it is.Performances are good, however. Jeff Bridges is great as Lightfoot and Clint Eastwood is solid, and very Eastwoodesque, as Thunderbolt. Good support from George Kennedy and Geoffrey Lewis. Gary Busey has a very minor role. "},{"Title":"Eastwood & Bridges.","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clint Eastwood & Jeff Bridges star in this peculiar crime/road picture as they portray a veteran crook/thief and his willing/free-spirited young partner who reunite with Clint's(Thunderbolt) old partners(George Kennedy & Geoffrey Lewis) to finish a heist job they had committed seven years earlier, but were unable to collect the loot. They formulate an elaborate plan to get it back from where it is still hidden, but of course they can't quite trust each other either as personalities clash.I say peculiar because(despite the good actors) three of the lead characters are unsympathetic crooks, and the fourth seems too immature to care about. Being quite profane at times doesn't help matters either, nor does the over length. Michael Cimino directs in his debut. "},{"Title":"What might have been...","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Discovering this film just last night, I regret that Michael Cimino's career has been so unproductive. T&L is first rate. Special mention should be made of George Kennedy's performance as a perverse bully with the sexual sensibility of a fourteen year old. Also, Geoff Lewis is allowed to steal scene after scene as the shlamazel thug trying to be one of the guys. But the real star of the film is Cimino who moves effortlessly from panoramic nature shots to chases to farce to violence. As one who admired Deerhunter more than he liked it, and found Heaven's Gate insufferable, it was nice to find a Cimino film that does not alienate its audience. Indeed, whenever I wondered if a shot was being held too long or a sequence was starting too far back, I found instead that Cimino had a reason for pacing his film the way he did and his method of story telling was perfect. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable character-based crime story","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Thunderbolt and Lightfoot was director Michael Cimino's debut feature. Up to this point he was an up-and-coming screen-writer, responsible for the sci-fi movie Silent Running and the pretty decent follow-up to Dirty Harry, Magnum Force. Obviously he would go on to be much more famous for directing the Oscar winning The Deer Hunter and then somewhat infamous for Heaven's Gate, a film that was such a monumental flop it sunk the studio United Artists. But perhaps the much less heralded Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is in fact his best movie.It's about a gang of misfit thieves who plan a big robbery. But really it's about a lot more than that, in fact the heist is merely one of many equal parts that make up this movie. As much as anything this is a road movie and a buddy film about male friendship. It also has a good deal of comedy. And funny comedy at that. The humour is often derived from great interplay between the characters. There is a lot of chemistry between the principal actors. They are playing well drawn characters, not paper-thin caricatures. Clint Eastwood plays a laid-back loner, which he has done many times of course but there is something a little more believable in his performance here. Jeff Bridges probably steals the show as a countercultural young drifter who befriends Eastwood's character. A lot of the humour of the film comes from Bridges antagonistic interaction with the character played by George Kennedy, who is the obvious villain of the piece. He stars alongside Geoffrey Lewis, who is the most witless character in the gang. Together, all four are a very well-drawn group and fun to watch. There is also some interesting support from a young Gary Busey, a gorgeous Catherine Bach and a hilarious cameo from Bill McKinney as a crazed redneck with a car full of rabbits &#x96; seeing as McKinney is most famous as the terrifying sodomising hillbilly from Deliverance, it would be only fair to say that he has been type-cast a bit!The pace is laid-back and it's quite an episodic story overall. There is a definite narrative; it's just that the fun of the movie comes from character-driven things much more than plot related ones. It still looks very handsome, with a lot of elegantly framed landscapes. So it's a nice combination of things that makes Thunderbolt and Lightfoot so enjoyable. It doesn't end in a particularly predictable way either. It's a bitter ending, no question. But it does add a dimension of seriousness that does the movie no harm at all. "},{"Title":"look kid, go f*** a duck","Date":"18 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I first heard about THUNDERBOLT AND LIGHTFOOT thanks to the DVD commentary of UNDERTOW (2004), featuring director David Gordon Green and actor Jamie Bell. Gordon Green expresses his love for Michael Cimino's debut feature; I'm obsessed with this actor (Bill Mckinney) from THUNDERBOLT AND LIGHTFOOT, he has an amazing role where he picks up Jeff Bridges and Clint Eastwood and he's got the raccoons in the car and the bunnies in the trunk. Have you seen that, Jamie? That movie maybe is the best movie ever made. After finally watching the film, plenty of years after hearing that commentary actually, I'm kind of surprised that Tarantino hasn't publicly expressed some love for it &#x96; maybe he has but at least I haven't heard any. Anyway, he must love it. THUNDERBOLT AND LIGHTFOOT is a sort-of mix of many elements &#x96; it's a road movie that becomes a heist one, and that's always a buddy film, all with some folk music. Seeing Clint Eastwood and young Jeff Bridges as new buddies in a car, and a folk song as background music, reminded me of the Jamie Foxx/Christoph Waltz/Jim Croce's I've Got a Name part of DJANGO UNCHAINED. And yes, this is too a Clint Eastwood picture of the seventies &#x96; one that begins with Eastwood as a preacher actually but that can't pretend it's different for more than 5 minutes, I mean, the runtime marks 6 minutes and preacher Eastwood is already dealing with some tough guy and some bullets! Nevertheless the film does ends being something *different*. Like I said, first we have a road movie with Bridges' character Lightfoot seeking the friendship of Eastwood &#x96; on the road there's some chases, folk music and crazy characters (like the one Gordon Green mentions), but this is just the setting for the real deal the heist picture. If RESERVOIR DOGS is a heist movie without the heist, then this is a heist film with the heist and the preparation of it. Yes, I know that sounds like an average thing but trust me, the preparation of the heist is pretty darn unique &#x96; the whole thing becomes funny in a good way, like a great absurd comedy with, for instance, some of the criminals working as ice-cream vendors and having problems with their child clients! Eastwood's performance isn't his coolest of the period, certainly it can be seen as a minor work made between the DIRTY HARRY movies. Bridges steals the show for sure. I haven't seen a lot of young Bridges but this has to be one of the most distinctive roles from his early days; he's really funny and even dresses himself as a woman &#x96; crazy stuff overall, with a bittersweet conclusion in the vein of other seventies films. *Watched it on 17 March, 2013 "},{"Title":"Am I dreaming or what ??? !!!!","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't believe it. I can't. No, I really can't. There must be a mistake at IMDb, my second family. NO ONE has commented this very important film yet. Yes, very important because it is the first picture directed by Michael Cimino, the greatest and most unlucky director of the US movie industry, the director of DEER HUNTER, HEAVEN'S GATE, YEAR OF THE DRAGON, DESPERATE HOURS - 1991 - THE SICILIAN and SUN CHASER. A magnificent director who could have been another Stanley Kubrick, with the same way obsession in his way to make movies. A sort of visionary, dreamer, blazing film maker, who knew how to analyse the real, authentic American dream, with every thing that means. The best as the worst. This film, starring Clint Eastwood, already a star at this time, and the new comer Jeff Bridges, may be watched as a mixup of old fashioned - and also modern in the same time - movie, which reminds us John Ford's features with the gigantic and beautiful settings of the wild west. And we discover here a powerful actor's directing, especially the relations between Eastwood's and Bridges' characters. The story may seem old fashioned, I repeat, but this film is very modern in its structure.But I keep thinking that there is a problem on IMDb, and there are hundreds of other comments, far better than mine, about this little masterpiece, which every movie buff in the world has already seen at least ten times. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Watched this on DVD last night for the first time in about 25 years. I'd forgotten how good it is. The movie now to me plays like a free-spirited American tragi-comedy, and boy is it effective.Clint Eastwood is his usual dependable self as Thunderbolt, so named as he once blew a bank vault open with a 20mm cannon, leading a disparate team to re-create the successful bank raid on the same bank by following much of the original plan. First time around the team hid the money in an old school house, only to fall out in bitter acrimony. Teaming up with young con-artist Lightfoot (Jeff Bridges) Thunderbolt re-unites with former members of his gang Red Leary (George Kennedy) and Eddie Goody (Geoffry Lewis). Can the boys pull it off again? The attitudes in this movie towards women have dated incredibly, but it's who these guys are, and it's played to the hilt by all concerned. Bridges is brilliant, Kennedy is both comic and menacing, and Lewis quietly steals several scenes. The ice cream van sequence is hilarious, and the film rambles amiably towards it's surprise conclusion.This is one of Eastwood's most enjoyable movies, and I have to say it's largely due to the other actors that this is so. Clint as ever is CLINT, and Michael Cimino directs his own fantastic script to great success. I thought this was brilliant - give it a go! "}{"Title":"Entertaining and Low Key","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" There was a relaxing and down-to-earth feel for Thunderbolt and Lightfoot, several decades old, but pretty well done on the whole. It had an excellent beginning and chance happening for the leads. There's a very good dynamic between Bridges and Eastwood as the energetic young mixes with the experienced old. The story is a mix of cops and robbers with treasure hunt and mystery thrown in. It plays well for a 30+ year old movie as most of the scenes aren't too 70s cultured save for some rambling folksy music in a few scenes. (spoiler)The ending was pretty gratifying and well put together. Storytellers could've sugar-coated it but instead you get an in-your-face real downer. Thought the supporting cast Geoffrey Lewis and George Kennedy as goons helped round out the cast well. Well shot in the wild west too. "},{"Title":"not Eastwood's best, but still a pretty good film","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In my opinion, this is not one of Eastwood's best film's, but it is still a fun and enjoyable action/buddy caper film.  He and Jeff Bridges make a pretty good duo, while George Kennedy and Geoffrey Lewis are strong as well. The action in this film was pretty good too.  There were plenty of good car chases, while the heist scene was exciting.  I noticed that the film did'nt seem to age well, and that is one thing that may have put me off a little. It seemed a little weird at times as well, I dont know why, I guess its just my opinion.  In all, an enjoyable film.  A little odd at time but its still pretty good. 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Fine performances from a talented cast","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm fond of this film for two reasons, and both of them have to do with George Kennedy. His character (Red) is definitely the most complex of the four leads, able to turn in subtle comedy and incredible, savage brutality in one believable package. You can watch his personality swing from one extreme to the other in the last twenty minutes of the film, when things start to unravel for the main characters and it's suddenly every man for himself. I'm going to tiptoe around so I'm not spoiling, here, but I have to say that putting Jeff Bridges in drag for the climax of the film was a masterstroke, even if only accidentally. There's something strangely vulnerable about a man in a dress, making the violence just a little more poignant. I only wish Hollywood today had the cojones to make movies with unhappy endings. The final song was perfect; I only wish the soundtrack was still available. "},{"Title":"an eccentric comedy, with some drama, plenty of action, under-rated","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Now here's something interesting, the film Thunderbolt and Lightfoot. I first heard of the film through the documentary 'A Decade Under the Influence and was interested right away via a clip from the 'rabbits in the trunk' scene. When I sought it out and watched it, I was even more impressed (not just the scene, which is a riot from when our leads are picked up by the wild-man, but the film in general). Here is a work over-looked in the much maligned career of Michael Cimino, though also for actors Clint Eastwood and Jeff Bridges. You know things will be going in unexpected turns right from the first sequence- a keeper- in which we're introduced to Eastwood as a Priest, first preaching the sermon, and then on the run right away from a gun-wielding 'old friend'. But what keeps the film alive through a slightly unusual story is that the connection between the two actors is strong, and often in the 'genre' films Eastwood's been in the attention to what goes on can be sometimes made well or broken by his co-star.It's not just the two main actor's personalities put to really good use, but really Cimino's attitude towards the characters in the story. Much more like a European-style film than something of the usual Eastwood-Hollywood game, it's more in tune with showing who these characters are, in the small towns and wide open Idaho spaces they go about in (shot very spaciously and brilliantly). I loved how the basic premise- Eastwood leading Bridges, and two others (one George Kennedy in a well-fit villain-type tole) to rob an Armory in a small Montana town after a botched attempt- keeps getting put aside for more of the 'little' things that they come across. For example, how Cimino shows the men getting odd jobs as cover for staking out the area; another filmmaker might just make this a montage, something goofy, but the goofiness here is more replaced by a genuine, though off-kilter, sensibility giving the actors more to work with. Or early on in the scenes establishing Thunderbolt and Lightfoot- somehow it's weird to see how these people would meet, but they're together, and a strange fit.The film isn't great, however the aspirations of what would come in Cimino's later films (for better or likely for worse) are seen here in good light. The dialog is pleasing, if a little 'off' when compared to the performances and cinematography (Lightfoot's dialog especially, not due to Bridges lively performance, is filled with sayings that run their course quick). But what is achieved is a mix of cool, 70's action-movie pathos, with elements more intelligent than would come across elsewhere. Other Eastwood films from the time were just as entertaining, yet sometimes lacking in the originality that comes in many of the scenes in this film. And the climax is a whopper, with one of the most successfully bittersweet endings in 70's cinema. This would be a movie I would be curious to see again, even if years from now, like on a late-night TV showing. In widescreen it is, of course, superior. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the first and best Cimino movies ever. Yes The Deer Hunter is also a beautiful and complex movie too, but I do think in this first effort everything is not only just perfect but also genuine. I love the title song by Paul Williams which is just a different way of telling the story of John Thunderbolt Doherty story, notice how the young Lightfoot act like a sort of guide through the movie. The final scene where the song plays in the background and Doherty is driving and fading away, reminding everyone of truth of the lyrics. Every background and every location is just so genuine, it does make the spectator slide into the story and believe everything which happens. The actors are extremely good, Eastwood of course show his usual two expressions, but they do fit the role, George Kennedy is very good, but above everyone is Bridges, I love is performance, I think he is just a great actor, and he have been since the beginning, and he is at his best here. Watching movies today, I think about Cimino filmography and wonder why, after such debut and the following The Deer Hunter, he was unable to maintain the expectation of everyone of us. But doesn't bother me, he gave as two masterpieces, what else could we ask from a Director? A final comment about how this movie rate compared to today movies, I do think it does show the poverty of today production in terms of good stories, good acting, and nonexistence of any effort to go deeper. Especially if you compare it to any movie portraying criminals, robbery, and so on, produced today, they are so superficial. "},{"Title":"A mediocre buddy film","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is definitely your typical buddy film with a bit more bloodshed and violence. It has more drama than comedy and the supporting characters are less than model citizens. Eastwood is his usual steely-eyed and stern self and this limitation diminishes the depth of an otherwise terrific character that could have been realized. Jeff Bridges does very well as the young and eager sidekick. The pairing of Eastwood and Bridges was not engaging enough for me and the plot was a bit sluggish. George Kennedy plays a borderline psycho and his demise is rather gruesome to watch.The whole idea of two criminals out on a lamb, planning a robbery can be interesting but here it falls short and just sort of lumbers along. This film suffers from unappealing supporting characters and a dull performance by Eastwood. This forgotten action/buddy flick of the 70's is good for Eastwood fans, but a tedious bore for others. "},{"Title":"Works On So Many Levels","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a movie that crosses many genres , you can look upon it as a heist movie , a road movie , an action comedy or perhaps ( As some critics claim though it might be stretching things a bit ) a gay love story . Whatever you interpret THUNDERBOLT AND LIGHT FOOT as it works on so many levels There is some evidence of the faults of Michael Cimino that would become prominent in his later movies but ironically here they're strengths rather than weaknesses like the psychotic hill billy who keeps rabbits in the trunk of his car . This scene adds absolutely nothing to the plot but sticks out in the mind due to its quirky nature and the movie is full of these amusing moments like the naked housewife at the window and Red's shocked expression at catching the petting teenagers Red ? Oh you mean the sexually repressed Korean war veteran . Yeah he's one of the more memorable bad guys to have appeared in American cinema in the 1970s ably played by George Kennedy . All the cast are good even though Clint Eastwood is basically playing himself but it's impossible to mention the cast without mentioning that this is Jeff Bridges film . He gives certainly one of his finest performances in a distingushed career THUNDERBOLT AND LIGHTFOOT is one of those movies where the director wrote the script and which unfortunately leads to the director being accredited to the driving force rather than the screenwriter . Would this movie have been so enjoyable without lines like  Hey flattery is going to get you nowhere  Or  I know , why don't we get jobs   Goody you're better at asking questions than answering them There is a fairly large plot hole involving the missing money being hidden behind a blackboard at the end - No one noticed the money in the bags when the school was moved ? Is this credible ? Probably not but this is an enjoyable movie and contains one of the most poignant endings seen in cinema "},{"Title":"Lively, overlong, brainless...","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Action-filled comedy-drama from debuting director Michael Cimino, involving a group of ex-cons attempting the very same bank robbery which got them in trouble years before. Surefire premise, but the screenplay (an original, also by Cimino) waits a very long time to make its move. The liveliest section of the film is the final forty-five minutes, though some may feel their patience taxed before then. Sterling cast (Clint Eastwood, Oscar-nominated Jeff Bridges, George Kennedy, and Gary Busey--billed as Garey) keeps it afloat, and the final twist is clever. Nice to see Clint letting someone else take the reigns for awhile, although he gives his standard squinting-and-shuffling Eastwood performance. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Plenty of Thunder; Not Light-Thunderbolt & Lightfoot ***1/2","Date":"8 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Two losers discover each other by chance and forge a relationship that will again take them down the path of crime. It's a serious story of the two guys getting to know and understand each other. Unfortunately, they're involved in the wrong game and as we know, nothing good can come from that.Clint Eastwood and Jeff Bridges are the two guys and they pull out all the stops as the former brings his gang back for another robbery which will include the young Bridges this time. Seeing Bridges in drag will bring forth laughter that you haven't quite experienced before.George Kennedy assumes the role of the heavy here and again proves that there is no honor among thieves.Look for a Midnight Cowboy like ending here. "},{"Title":"Who said lightening doesn't strike the same spot twice.","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Thunderbolt Doherty disguises himself as a preacher, because seven years ago he was part of a small group who were involve in a daring bank robbery. After on the guys were arrested they believed John was the one who ratted them out and so now his in hiding. But it's not long before the guys track him down and while, escaping one of them he meets a young drifter called Lightfoot and a new friendship is born. Soon enough, they meet up with Thunderbolt's old partners in crime, eventually they put their differences aside and then the group decides to pull off the same scheme again.This simply larger-than-life flick isn't particularly savvy or have any depth behind it, but this enterprisingly joyful and airy exercise skews between a buddy / cross-country / heist / character flick with flying colours and never loses shape. Everything basically seems to click into place. It's a rather quirky item amongst Eastwood's earlier flicks and it's a prime example of a boys' own adventure, but that's not taking anything away from it. The film bathes in many comical episodes, which benefits from a strong character base set-up between the main group that definitely hold a lively rapport with each other and it's always an eventful ride by getting into the thick of it. Clint Eastwood's performance as the steely Thunderbolt is certainly assured, but while Eastwood might be top-drawer, Jeff Bridges definitely holds his own as the smart-ass, carefree lad Lightfoot. Bridges is terrific! The chemistry between the two simply sparkled with authentic touches within their friendship. Rounding off the bubbling support cast were excellent turns by George Kennedy and Geoffrey Lewis. Also appearing in tiny, juicy roles are Gary Busey and a gorgeous Catherine Bach. Combining with the outstanding acting is a frank script that's naturally sharp and precise in its intentions and snappy jest. The first half of the story, which is written by Michael Cimino (who also directed) - follows a warm character driven-model with a crop off unexpected surprises and fascinating situations. But after the film's mid-section involving the group getting ready for the big robbery. It makes way for a tense closing half where the heist goes down with action packed results and a rather touching scenario to finish it off with. Cimino's workman-like direction keeps things moving at a reasonable pace allowing us to get caught up with these fellas and there's certain immediacy gathered up from the flexible photography that has that gritty scope about it. Crossing the boundaries is a lilting country music soundtrack that fits right into the feel and context of the film. It might seem like a light-hearted tale at the core, but it does test out the real meaning of friendship and asking - is it really worth a price.It might be far from extravagant, but it's well made, exceptionally acted and I just found it hard to wipe the smile off my face. "}{"Title":"Rambling, but enjoyable","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint obviously enjoys this type of movie and the style reminds me of Every which way but loose and Bronco Billy. The story develops at its own easy pace introducing a range of characters who band back together to plan a robbery.Much of the story development seems unconnected to the real plot. Jeff Bridges brings real charm to his character. From the feel created during the movie it did not make sense to end the movie on the note it chose.This is a good movie but it does suffer from that 70s direction a directing which lacks the fast and slick pace which we have become used to in the 90s.  "},{"Title":"The best caper film!","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is, essentially, a caper movie. But this one blows away all of the cliched caper movies. This is wholly original, funny, and just an all around great movie. At the heart of the film is the friendship between Thunderbolt and Lightfoot (Clint Eastwood and Jeff Bridges). For me, it's what really makes this film very special, and one of my favorite Eastwood movies. My rating 10 "},{"Title":"This film works on every emotional level.","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have seen 'Thunderbolt and Lightfoot' many times and every time it ends I'm all choked up. This is the first film by Michael Cimino, director of 'The Deer Hunter', and he clearly shines. All his early movies are first seen as drama's, then as adventures, but what many fail to point out is the genuine humor and goodwill spread throughout. Even the wonderful 'Heaven's Gate is laced with it. But after that movie was critically banned, Cimino lost the humor which, sadly, has yet to regain. But 'Thunderbolt And Lightfoot' has seriously wacky scenes that happily come out of nowhere. Great story enhanced by wonderful actors such as Jeff Bridges who asks for American fries. There's so many amazing moments, just see it! "},{"Title":"What a letdown.","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERSHow, from showing excellent potential, delivering a great movie, an interesting story with great characters and some funny occasions, can you deliver such a bummer of an ending? TURNER & HOOCH dealt with the loss of a dog but this? THUNDERBOLT AND LIGHTFOOT would be recommended, had it not thought of a more clever way to use its characters.A young man steals a car and a priest is getting shot at. These two somehow meet and discover they have much in common.The movie is funny and Bridges puts in a great performance. Eastwood is at his usual comfortable self. But Cimino should have tried harder for LIGHTFOOT, despite his next effort would ultimately be THE DEER HUNTER. The movie gets a lift from being loaned to me by one of my buddies at work who grew up laughing and loving this movie. Thanks Thomas, the bunnies and the daughter were hilarious. "},{"Title":"Satiric action film","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Before The Deer Hunter and Heaven's Gate, Michael Cimino wrote and directed this unsung Clint Eastwood heist film that is less an action movie than a satiric play on one.  Eastwood and Jeff Bridges (an Oscar nominee for best supporting actor) have a vaguely homosexual relationship which itself makes this unusual, and it is the delightfully offbeat characters, rather than the action, that make this such a winner.  George Kennedy and particularly Geoffrey Lewis are aces all the way, as are the two stars. If it's not as ambitious as The Deer Hunter, this is still Cimino's best film, and also deserves renewed consideration among the titles in Eastwood's filmography. "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Film with an Astonishing Performance by Jeff Bridges!","Date":"18 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Michael Cimino's 1974 Crticial & Commercial Hit 'Thunderbolt and Lightfoot' is A Fantastic Film, along-with an Astonishing Performance by Academy-Award-Winning, Legendary Actor, Jeff Bridges! 'Thunderbolt and Lightfoot' Synopsis With the help of an irreverent young sidekick, a bank robber gets his old gang back together to organize a daring new heist.'Thunderbolt and Lightfoot' is grasping, entertaining & memorable. The journey of its mostly notorious characters, gets better with each passing scene & the overall drama, is applaud-worthy.Michael Cimino's Screenplay is Simply Fantastic, while, His Direction, is Commendable. Cinematography is Razor-Sharp. Editing & Art Design, are well-done.Performance-Wise Jeff Bridges dominates the show with an Astonishing Performance, that's beyond words, to be honest. Clint Eastwood is superb, as well. George Kennedy & Geoffrey Lewis are impressive. Gary Busey does his bit ably.On the whole, 'Thunderbolt and Lightfoot' is a must see. "},{"Title":"Men on the run","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A young man called Lightfoot teams up with John Thunderbolt Doherty.There is a lot of money hidden in a one-room schoolhouse, that came from a bank robbery seven years ago.Now the school, and the money, seems to be missing, so Thunderbolt, Lightfoot and the two living members of the old gang must commit another heist.Michael Cimino started his directing career with Thunderbolt and Lightfoot (1974).I saw the movie the first time in '93 with my brother.Now last Saturday (Nov 21st) I saw it again with my brother.Both times were most enjoyable.It's a buddy movie, and there are never too many buddy movies.These movies work if the two leading men work great together.And this time they do.Clint Eastwood and Jeff Bridges make a perfect match as Thunderbolt and Lightfoot.George Kennedy is terrific as Red Leary.You've got to like Geoffrey Lewis as his dumber partner, Eddie Goody.Both of these men are known from other Eastwood movies.Gary Busey plays Curly.Catherine Bach portrays Melody.Jack Dodson is Bank Manager.Gregory Walcott is Car Salesman.Dub Taylor plays the part of Station Attendant.Cliff Emmich plays the tragic part of Fat Man at Telegraph Office.This movie got one Oscar nomination, and that was Jeff Bridges' performance as Best Actor in a Supporting Role.He lost to De Niro.This movie has many awesome scenes.In the beginning we see Clint being the fake priest and the gun man comes and tries to kill him.But there comes Bridges with his stolen car and drives over the crook.Also the chase scene with George Kennedy, where he drives through the store window, looks great.Let's not forget the heist, where Jeff has to wear a dress.And you feel joy when those two find the old school, that has been removed from its original location.There they find the money behind the blackboard.Then you feel grief when the younger member of the two dies in the car.This is a movie not to forget. "},{"Title":"A Good and Entertaining Eastwood Production","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clint Eastwood, like John Wayne before him, always gave the audience what they wanted. But in Thunderbolt and Lightfoot his character shows you a deeper side to his character than what we had seen before. He becomes attached to his friend and partner Lightfoot, played brilliantly by Jeff Bridges. Bridges has always been one of my favorite actors due to this performance. The bond between the two men is evidenced by the last scene they are together in. It was one of the most emotional scenes I have watched. And George Kennedy was terrific. His character, Red Leary, is unlikeable, mean, and ultimately villainous, yet one comment me makes in the film gives him the mystique of actual honesty and shows you that Eastwood's character is not as bad as he would have you believe he is. If there is a moral to this film it would be that there is a price to pay for everything and even when you win you can still lose something. It's a classic Eastwood and a fun ride. "},{"Title":"*** out of ****","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Directorial debut of Michael Cimino is an entertaining, if not particularly distinguished, action piece / buddy movie.  Cimino's strong direction, combined with two very charismatic leads (Clint Eastwood and Jeff Bridges) and a solid script makes it an entertaining way to spend two hours. Ultimately though, it feels like just a Eastwood vehicle, punctuated by a strange tacked on ending.  Not the best work of anybody involved, but a solid effort. "},{"Title":"A good Eastwood action/adventure","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood is a career bank robber (Thunderbolt) who teams up with a novice played by Jeff Bridges (Lightfoot) to get the money hidden from a previous robbery.  The movie plays as a better than average buddy film with some funny quirks. (Bridges dressing in drag for one part, and the weapon Eastwood uses to crack into vaults.)  However, it does have a sad ending and oblique ending, as did many movies of the late sixties and early seventies.  "}{"Title":"A brisk and sophisticated buddy movie","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A brisk and sophisticated buddy movie from 1974. Robber Clint Eastwood is hiding out as a vicar until his ex-pal (George Kennedy) bursts in during a sermon. Jeff Bridges is a charismatic, full of himself car thief Eastwood meets after his ensuing quick sprint from the church and together they plan a robbery from an old heist. Featuring two stars who click and both show they have great chemistry on screen together plus a great show of comical from Kennedy, this is one of Eastwood's classiest Films and one of his most underrated. This movie is one for Eastwood fans who like him playing tough guy roles such as this one.                                                           "},{"Title":"I like this one","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is a classic to me.  It starts out slow where Eastwood's and Bridge's characters first meet and form a rapport.George Kennedy and Geoffery Lewis join in on the caper, and all 4 actors complement one another nicely in a unique way.  Eastwood was the stoic planner. Bridges was the young cocky son of a gun not lacking of a sarcastic crack to air his irreverance. Kennedy was the headstrong, irritable former crony of Eastwood whose short fuse with Lightfoot makes for some entertaining rants. And Geoffery Lewis was the bumbling, harmless lackey who provides some comedy relief.Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is kind of a feel-good buddy film and action-adventure rolled into one.  The addition of Catherine Bach (Daisy Duke of Dukes of Hazard) and some twangy Dukes of Hazard style music in the beginning of the film would definitely make for a good recommendation for Dukes' fans.  BTW, nice Trans-Am in the beginning.If you like Clint movies, keep an open mind, this is a good one.If you like Jeff Bridges movies, this is one of his best.Cheers! "},{"Title":"The Three E's, Enjoyable, Entertaining, Exciting","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the more overlooked Clint Eastwood Films. The film itself is easily watchable, and with Clint you are always guaranteed to get an entertaining piece.The film centre's around the unlikely relationship between Eastwood's character(Thunderbolt) and Lightfoot, played by the excellent Jeff Bridges.The film will make you laugh as well as cry, this film is highly underrated, and If you are fan of Clint or Jeff Bridges, or you generally like a smooth, easy entertaining watch, then see it.9/10. "},{"Title":"An Eastwood movie that stands out.","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Thunderbolt and Lightfoot was a well put together piece of entertainment. it stars Clint Eastwood as vetern bank robber John Thunderbolt lured back into the criminal world with a new sidekick, Jeff Bridges as Lightfoot. Before long the two reunite with Thunderbolt's old companions clueless but intelligent Goody, and ruthless and mean Red Leary ( played by George Kennedy, who plays a REAL BAD guy).  With Clint Eastwood's fighting, Jeff Bridges' humor, and George Kennedy's evil streak, 'Thunderbolt and Lightfoot' features smart action, fun, and an unforgetable sad ending that everyone will love. 10/10. Do not miss this movie.    "},{"Title":"An action film supported by it¬¥s humor and melancholy","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don¬¥t know why Jeff Bridges and Clint Eastwood only made two movies together; the two partner up very well. Maybe they just got tired of it.  I liked this film, very funny. The relationship between ``temper temper¬¥¬¥ George Kennedy and the smart ass Jeff Bridges is hilarious, as is Geoffrey Lewis¬¥ performance.  All four perform a bank heist and things don¬¥t exactly turn out as they want them to. Just another Eastwood winner with melancholy music in the end. Highly recommended for late night cable viewing. "},{"Title":"A plaintive American dream","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think, it was at junior high school that my first time to see this movie on TV. It was dubbed American into Japanese. I have a distinct memory of beautiful and vast sky, at the opening Thunderbolt is running in fields, both of them hitchhiking, and the ending they run away. I quite cottoned to Jeff Bridges after seeing this movie. '70s American movie is great and my favorite. They were depicted pessimistic and plaintive, but They were clawing their way up. I think it's owing to war-weariness. Yesterday, I ordered the video in English. "},{"Title":"Thinking man's buddy movie","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who dismisses this as a badly paced action film just isn't looking closely enough. Cimino's inherent intelligence as a director was more clearly stamped on The Deer Hunter; it's more elusive here, but the sly subtext of a 70s-bound generation gap (as examined in the relationship between Jeff Bridges and George Kennedy) is compellingly mixed into the script amidst the more conventional plot elements. Eastwood and Bridges make for an incredibly charismatic pairing, and each complement the other without any apparent clash of egos. The nuances of human interaction are studied in such a way as to make the dialogue-led scenes more interesting than the straight-up action sequences. Exuberant comedy is often at the centre of the exchanges of speech, offset by the vague sense of foreboding near the end, concluded by a searing poignancy. An excellent multi-genre piece, and testament to the golden years of filmaking that was the 70s.  "},{"Title":"Jeff Bridge`s magnum opus..","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If i had to pick the best straightforward road movie of all time, this would be it. I`m not Clint Eastwood`s biggest fan, but he has made some great movies, and is the perfect living legend. Always cool, calm, and collected, as he is in this early 70`s film, co-starring an up and coming Jeff Bridges. Eastwood (Thunderbolt) plays a bankrobber who has stashed the loot, hiding in the guise of a preacher, trying to evade his accomplices. By blind luck, he meets up with Lightfoot (Bridges), a drifter with illusions of grandure. They decide to plan Thunderbolt`s final heist, with the aid of Goody (Geoffrey Lewis, father of actress Juliette), and Red (George Kennedy). Theres no honour amongst thieves, as greed comes into play, and things take a sour turn towards the end. Written and directed by Michael Cimino, who won an Oscar for best picture with The Deer Hunter, this is a very likeable movie, hidden away from todays blockbusters and epics. It features my favorite perfomance by one of my favourite actors, Jeff Bridges, as the cocky, but likeable Lightfoot. "},{"Title":"Top quality entertainment","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is a huge highlight in the list of 70's buddy movies. In fact, it's a huge highlight on any list as this movie is sure to delight, entertain and amuse anyone that comes into contact with it. While the movie doesn't offer any depth, nor does it probe into the human condition or anything like that, it just simply WORKS. This is the sort of film that you can just put on and enjoy yourself while the movie plays out. It's the sort of film that you just simply can't dislike, and why would you want to? Thunderbolt and Lightfoot plays it's crowd-pleasing elements - things such as comedy, action and strong performances from good leading men, as far as they can go and this is what makes the film a winner. The film lacks a clear structure, and at times it is apparent that it doesn't really know what to do with itself - but it simply doesn't matter. The film could show Eastwood and Bridges playing cards, or watching paint dry even, and you still get the impression that it would entertain you. And this is testament to the great characters and crowd pleasing elements that this film gives it's audience.Clint Eastwood and Jeff Bridges really couldn't be much more different if they tried. Eastwood is the loner; an understated man who has made his name in westerns and gritty crime dramas, while Bridges is always the charisma and the man that takes a film and steals it with his likable persona; but in spite of their differences, the two combine here to great effect. Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is both a buddy movie and a character driven crime caper, and it plays both of these sides of it's personality to great effect. The buddy side of the film works thanks to the characters and the fabulous actors playing them, while the crime side of the film comes into it's own with the numerous action sequences, the well thought out caper and, again, the characters; as the buddy element of the film ensures that we always care for their plight. While Thunderbolt and Lightfoot hasn't, and wont, go down in history as one of the greatest films ever made; it's a very nice one, and if you want a stellar piece of entertainment starring two top quality lead men; you could do a lot worse than this. "},{"Title":"Incomprehensible Mess","Date":"10 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was in grade school when this came out, and I remembered it as a crime/caper film. It later became known as Michael Cimino's directorial debut. Of course, his next film would be The Deer Hunter (one that I am not a fan of). Watching this movie in 2011, it's clear why his career floundered after The Deer Hunter. Here is a movie with no sense of story or even character. We move from scene to scene and the film's ongoing motivation seems to be to stage something that looks neat.Thunderbolt never recovers from its opening sequence. Clint Eastwood is seen as the preacher of a small Idaho church. Jeff Bridges, at the same time, is a leather pants-wearing huckster that makes off with a used car. The character we later learn to be Dunlap enters Eastwood's church and shoots at him in the middle of a sermon. Clint runs off into the field behind the church and is picked up by Bridges in the stolen used car, who runs over Dunlap for good measure. And just like that, Bridges and Eastwood are a team.This may be good enough for some people, who are quick to label the merely absurd as poetic, but try another adjective nonsense. From the get-go Thunderbolt lets us know that it really has no interest in being coherent or grounded in some kind of reality where people behave with any reason. Let's just make a movie where neat stuff happens, irregardless of what's happened 10 minutes before or after.Case in point- later on, Clint and Jeff are hitchhiking. They are picked up by a guy who appears to be drunk and has a raccoon in his front seat. As soon as they are in the car he proceeds to drive all over the road until they nearly crash. Upon getting out of the car, and decking the driver, the duo finds the trunk of the car full of rabbits. The whole sequence stands apart from the movie, adding neither humor or insight. But I guess it seemed cool to Cimino and company.BTW, save the 70s filmmaking sensibility arguments. As if every complaint about incoherent storytelling (which this is) is coming from someone too programmed by super-obvious narratives like old TV shows to appreciate something that is diffent. Er, try again. I'm not expecting Hawaii Five O, and there are plenty of 70s films that hold up by simply adhering to basic conventions of movie-making while still being different (i.e. The Last Detail).Kudos to the photography, which is also aided by stunning locations (perhaps inspiring Cimino to return to the area for Heaven's Gate later). However, while this is certainly a guy's film, did it have to be so incredibly sexist? If a woman appears in the film and she's under 25, she's probably in the shortest skirt possible, and/or flaunting cleavage. Not that some women don't dress this way some of the time, but all of them? And it's hard to imagine a more gratuitous nude shot than the one of the suburban wife who merely stands completely naked in her window for Bridges to see. Other than solidify the R rating and give a few guys in pre-cable/video 1974 a thrill, what's the point of that? "}{"Title":"thunderbolt","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" saw this last week,haunting atmospheric,superb character study. Whenever i see the movie it reminds me of the seventies, i don't think bridges has been better,with Eastwood underplaying his role which enhances bridges performance.Where this movie benefits from is superb performances from all the actors,of course with a few standout ones.Cimino's direction is top notch when did he last have a hit.The songs complement the movie with nice tunes, definitely one of my favorite movies.Looks like no one wants to hire Cimino because he goes over budget,i say give him a chance it would be worth it. Just imagine him directing kill bill or the last samurai, sin city. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The value of this film is in the direction. An early effort by Michael Cimino before he became so self absorbed that he has faded out of sight. This film has some really great camera placements and the scenery is an integral part of the film without being too obtrusive. Has a quirky story and a very nice ensemble of actors to tell it. The film is dated because of the cars and clothes, but the story holds up very well for our time. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Slightly undershot the target","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A film I recall seeing in the early 1970's from which the image of the dying Jeff Bridges' Lightfoot character has stayed with me down the years. Rarely seen on (at least) UK TV schedules, I was pleased to re-new my acquaintance with it, recognising it for the first time as being written and directed by Badlands director Michael Cimino.A combination buddy/caper/road movie it starts very quietly with a car in the distance carving out a plume of dust as it approaches a country church whereupon it explodes into life with the car's driver entering the church, brandishing a shotgun and taking potshots at the preacher, a rather improbable Clint Eastwood (Thunderbolt from the title). In the course of a hare-brained escape, Eastwood hitches up with young drifter Jeff Bridges (Lightfoot), himself a car-thief, the plot leading the two of them into an uneasy alliance with two former gang-member accomplices of Eastwood's and their attempts to repeat a bank heist the previous gang successfully pulled off before but from which the proceeds have disappeared.The movie is obviously episodic and laced with a smattering of black humour and a rather bigger dose of frenetic car chases and fairly brutal violence. All very early-70's in other words. While there's much to like in the wide-open-spaces cinematography of Cimino (reminiscent of Badlands in fact) and the tough acting of Eastwood and George Kennedy in particular, the film does have some unsavoury moments, which detract from the whole.While I can easily swallow Kennedy as a grand bully, the beatings he dishes out to Bridges for it would appear being no more than irreverent, especially after the latter has contributed a crucial part to the successful robbery, stretches credulity, especially under the protecting eye of Eastwood. Then there's the Neanderthal treatment of women in the film, where they're either ogled or one-night-stand fodder. I fail to see the significance of Bridges' character's encounter with a naked housewife who flaunts herself at him through her front window other than for shock or worse, gratuitous reasons. As I said, so very 1970's.All that said, the film does have a kinetic energy moving from phase to phase reasonably efficiently before the elegiac down-beat conclusion, very well acted by Bridges in matter of fact. If the film could have been made more coherent in its characterisation and less off-colour in its treatment of some of its characters' relationships, I'd have appreciated it more, although enjoy it I still did. "},{"Title":"Never heard of this film?  There's a reason for that","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had never seen this film before. I may have heard of it, I'm not sure. But...fantastic cast, famous director, nominated for Oscar, armed robbery, car chases, hot girls....how could it not be great?! How have I never seen this before?!Why? Because it's really bad. REALLY bad. Boring plot. In Clint's long list of cool characters, this isn't among them. Jeff Bridges is the one nod I'll give for a well acted part in his youth. George Kennedy and Geoff Lewis have mildly humorous characters, but again, they've both had so many better roles you can't count them. Catherine Bach was listed as a co-star, and while she was better looking here than in the Dukes (and 5 years younger), she was only in the movie for 1 minute.This movie reminded me of Let's Get Harry. 1986 action film starring Robert Duvall, Mark Harmon, and Gary Busey. Sounds cool....was the worst 90 minutes of film ever.Hey, they can't all be winners. And not every Clint film can stack up to Josey Wales, Any Which Way But Loose, or the Good, the Bad, and the Ugly "},{"Title":"Off-beat, quirky and a bit uneven","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is the first film directed by Michael Cimino. Cimino is well known for making one of the best films of the 1970's - The Deer Hunter, and notorious for sinking a studio by making Heaven's Gate, one of the most expensive failures ever. Clint Eastwood recommended that Cimino be hired to direct Thunderbolt because of Cimino's work on the Magnum Force script. This is obviously a much smaller film than Deer Hunter or Heaven's Gate and the plot does not assume epic proportions. The outdoor scenes are well photographed and the performances from a decent cast including supporting actor George Kennedy are decent.The biggest problem with the film is that it meanders. Its not a heist film. Its not a buddy movie. In fact, I'm not quite sure what it is because it flits about from theme to theme. The other thing that I saw as a major weakness was the sexuality. To me, homosexual overtones were visible but at the same time not too obvious. Just one of many themes that the film was flirting with. The whole sex thing, cross-dressing, homosexual overtones, gratuitous nudity and sex scenes were too in you face and I found them childish and off-putting. The heist sequence itself is reasonably intelligent and to his credit, young Jeff Bridges does show a lot of enthusiasm every time he's on the screen, even if he comes out looking clownish a lot of the time. "},{"Title":"one of the better 70's crime films","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Four bank robbers attempt to recover money from a previous heist.  Action film nicely weaves comic moments with violence, plot twists and a brisk pace. Animosity between convincing characters adds to the tension. (Rating A-minus) "},{"Title":"The best action/buddy/crime film of the 70's","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I saw this film, I really didnt expect much, because its older, and many older action movies havent aged well, such as The French Connection, The Sting, and Bullitt.  But this film ages very well, It's never boring, the action scenes are great, and the music and scenery are very good. Maybe I like it so much because I really like Clint Eastwood and Jeff Bridges. The plot was really nothing special, but all of those other things made up for it.  I enjoyed it much, much more then the other movies I listed above, and I will stand by that.  I will definately remember this film.  9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Thunderbolt and Lightfoot","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had heard that this was a very good film, and being debut by director Michael Cimino (The Deer Hunter) I was certainly going to try it. First we see Lightfoot (Oscar nominated Jeff Bridges) stealing a car, and then we see supposed preacher John 'Thunderbolt' Doherty (Clint Eastwood) trying to be assassinated, and after being rescued they quickly team up to steal another car and party at a hotel with two girls, one being Melody (The Dukes of Hazzard's Catherine Bach). Lightfoot learns Thunderbolt is actually a bank robber, and they are travelling to find an abandoned one-room schoolhouse where a large amount of money from a heist is hidden. They are soon joined by heist gang members, once pursuers, Red Leary (George Kennedy) and Eddie Goody (Geoffrey Lewis), and together they plan a new heist. Until they can do it, they find jobs, Thunderbolt as a welder and Lightfoot as a plumber. So it comes to the robbery, it is successful, Thunderbolt getting into the safe and Lightfoot in drag, but the police are soon on their tail. While Eddie is shot and Red crashes through a store and is then shot, Lightfoot is getting over being beaten repeatedly, and he and Thunderbolt find the monumental schoolhouse and find the hidden money. In the end, Thunderbolt buys a new Cadillac convertible, and Lightfoot some new boots, but it is obvious the injuries by Red were more serious, and after a little slurring, he dies, making Thunderbolt the only survivor of all robberies. Also starring Gary Busey as Curly, Jack Dodson as Vault Manager and Gene Elman and Lila Teigh as Tourists at Schoolhouse. Eastwood and Bridges make a good duo, Eastwood does seem to let Kennedy, Goody and especially Bridges take up more time, but it is a fun crime drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"Underrated on all counts; one of Clint & Jeff's best","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  THUNDERBOLT AND LIGHTFOOT (1974) *** Clint Eastwood, Jeff Bridges, George Kennedy, Geoffrey Lewis, Gary Busey.   Light-hearted buddy flick with Clint and Jeff as two found friends on a cross-country trek to pull a bank heist and retire in style with Kennedy in dogged pursuit of one-time crony ism with Clint.  Fine performances (Bridges earned an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor) and a breezy comic air all about.  Directed by up and coming filmmaker Michael Cimino. "},{"Title":"Homophobic Sleeper","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jeff Bridges' secretly-homosexual, up-beat, annoying character makes this boring picture even more unbearable to watch. Although Eastwood is in typical form as the cool, tough-guy, and George Kennedy is hilarious as Red, they cannot sustain the poor script. This picture is a disappointment for anyone who is a fan of Michael Cimino's work or a fan of - or expecting - the quality of 'The Deer Hunter'. Even the screen presence of Eastwood, Kennedy, Geoffrey Lewis and the stunning Catherine Bach (although she's only in for a few scenes) can't save this slow buddy-buddy movie. More a companion/character-study than an action film, this film is note-worthy because it is rarely-televised and rarely-talked about. It should however, only been rented or viewed by true Eastwood fans. "}{"Title":"Tired, familiar fare.","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Thunderbolt and Lightfoot suffers from a clear case of too much talk, too little action. It's too relaxed and laid-back to be considered a successful action picture, yet the story is also too thin and too vapid for us to take the movie very seriously.The movie does have great star power, and Bridges' performance is outstanding, but the meandering script takes too much time to get moving and the direction has no energy, no zest. "},{"Title":"A sign of things to come","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" After recently watching Deer Hunter and Heaven's Gate, I uneasily decided to see if Thunderbolt and Lightfoot also was as inadequate. It was.Elements of both future Cimino films can be found here. Just as in Deer Hunter, the first half of the movie plods along with meaningless scenes and cornball dialogue that seem to go on forever. The second half picks up the pace only slightly and ends with loss- loss which we don't really care about if we haven't gotten to like the characters in the first place.Just as in Heaven's Gate, the picturesque views are at times pretty impressive, but staring at a mountain or a river for a minute with nothing going on just isn't great movie making. Something about the scene where the two bozos are riding around in the ice-cream truck reminded me of the endless rollerskating scene in Heaven's Gate.A possible idea for a future release would be to combine the three. How does this sound Thunderbolt and Lightfoot Hunt Deer in Johnson County. "},{"Title":"Kicks butt!","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the few best of the 70's movies I hadn't seen, and boy, am I glad I caught up with it.  Eastwood and Bridges make a great team, meeting by chance and binding almost immediately.  The crime is secondary to their banter, which was much more clever than the forced chatter of Pulp Fiction. Catch it! "},{"Title":"Great Acting, Bad Movie","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Thunderbolt and Lightfoot is hardly tolerable. Jeff Bridges does anincredible job playing a loner kid who wants friendship, girls, andeasy money. Eastwood stars as his mentor, but for the most part,Clint's character is subdued, weak, and not full of testosterone likenormal Eastwood movies. George Kennedy's fat face and thinmustache were disgusting to look at, but this was compromisedwith a brief nude scene featuring a hooker with a mighty largebooty. This movie's story might be interesting for a one hour short,but not a full length movie. I wouldn't recommend this film toanyone, even if they love Clint Eastwood or Jeff Bridges. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  has not aged well, skip it","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" To me, this story was neither interesting nor competitive with other action / adventure films.Normally, I don't like overly arty films, but I don't think this film is arty and therefore others with more refinement might like it.I just think it hasn't aged well, and action movie standards are much higher now than they were in the pre-blockbuster 1970s.I think a film's rating should reflect its current shine, not its past.So I regret I must give this film a 3.Even action lovers and Clint Eastwood fans can do much better.Who should see this film-- NobodyI can't decide if it's a shame or a good thing that movies have progressed so much, leaving the past far behind. I guess it's good. "},{"Title":"More Irreverency","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The familiar '70s tale of a crook impersonating a preacher, some ample doses of blasphemy, people just meeting each other and quickly having sex, etc. Yeah, it's the 1970s Hollywood where morals go down the toilet.I will say it is nicely photographed, especially in the first 40 minutes with some nice scenery and attractive muted colors. It would be a good, solid story without a lot of the sleaze which includes a profane outburst by Strother Martin, one of the sleazier character actors of the '60s and '70s. He blasphemes four times in less than two minutes. That, and Eastwood making fun of being a preacher right off the bat, tell you how religiously-biased this film was, which means one viewing was one too many for me. "}]