[{"Title":"Shocking and offensive but strangely lyrical and charming","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"53 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I had mixed feelings for Les Valseuses (1974) written and directed by Bertrand Blier when I started watching it but I ended up liking it. I would not call it vulgar (Dumb and Dumber is vulgar, The Sweetest Thing is both vulgar and unforgivably stupid); I would call it shocking and offensive. I can understand why many viewers, especially, the females would not like or even hate it. It is the epitome of misogyny (or so it seems), and the way two antiheroes treat every woman they'd meet seems unspeakable. But the more I think of it the more I realize that it somehow comes off as a delightful little gem. I am fascinated how Blier was able to get away with it. The movie is very entertaining and highly enjoyable it is well written, the acting by all is first - class, and the music is sweet and melancholic. Actually, when I think of it, two buddies had done something good to the women they came across to they prepared a woman in the train (the lovely, docile blonde Brigitte Fossey who started her movie career with one of the most impressive debuts in René Clément's Forbidden Games(1952) at age 6) for the meeting with her husband whom she had not seen for two months; they found a man who was finally able to get a frigid Marie-Ange (Miou-Miou) exited and satisfied; they enlightened and educated young and very willing Isabelle Huppert (in one of her early screen appearances.) Their encounter with Jeanne Moreau elevates this comedy to the tragic level. In short, I am not sure I'd like to meet Gérard Depardieu's Jean-Claude and Patrick Dewaere's Pierrot in real life and invite them over for dinner but I had a good time watching the movie and two hours almost flew - it was never boring. "},{"Title":"A French Must See","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one a most famous movies of the French sexual empowerment of the seventies, starring Gerard Depardieu and Patrick Dewaere in extremely sarcastic roles. It is also one of the many dark psychological dramas of the seventies/eighties, such as Serie Noire, Buffet Froid, Beau Pere, all realized by Blier.However, I would like to correct the previous comment that was posted on the movie the translated title in English is very far from the French version. It is true that both protagonists are going places, but the title in French could be literally translated by the waltz dancers, which is a metaphor for the movement of the testicles... "},{"Title":"To dance a valse you need to be elegant, but going places you don't.","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"24 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not so many people like the movies of Bertrand blier simply because they don't understand them. Simply because they are different kinds of people.If you have not been living under a deep desperation intertwined with great personal hope it may be hard for you to enjoy the humor blier shown here.And also the film of blier cannot be classified easily as black-comedy or cult etc. like those of pulp fiction etc. Because there is this delicacy which the audience of north-america frequently fail to appreciate.When I looked at these two `hooligans' dining with Jeanne moreau in the seaside restaurant, I felt they were more gentil than any gentleman can have been.The urge to make love wildly like these is the normal reaction we feel under the unbearable pressure of meaningless being-symbolized by the camion suddenly emerges at the Carrefour.SO, les valseuses is much better a name than going places. To dance a valse you need to be elegant, but going places you don't.  "},{"Title":"If you fire off enough shots, some of them are bound to hit","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie has a distinct (albeit brutish and rough) humanity for all its borderline depravity - the zippy/lyrical score points up the comic side of their misadventures, and even when they're at their most thuggish (like terrorizing the woman on the train), a semi-pitiful vulnerability lurks never far away (Dewaere sucks on her breasts like a baby). Blier cuts away from the scene where Depardieu may be about to rape Dewaere, so we're never sure how explicitly to read the manifestly homoerotic aspect of their relationship - either way, that incident is the start of their relative humanization (so the movie could certainly be read as pro-gay, although it could likely be read as pro-anything you want). The movie has many objectionable scenes and points of sexual politics and is probably best taken as a general cartoon on the foibles of both sexes, making a mockery of the whole notion of sensitivity and honesty, and hitting numerous points of possible profundity on the basis that if you fire off enough shots, some of them are bound to hit. "},{"Title":"this uncompromising and daring film demands respect","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A wonderful, free flowing, often lyrical film that whisks you along, ever smiling, even if there are truly shocking incidents along the way. One gasps at the way the women are treated and yet ultimately they seem to come through very well and it is much credit to all concerned that so many potentially disastrous scenes all work so very well. This is possibly Depardieu's best performance, certainly his most natural. Jeanne Moreau performs outstandingly in what must have been a very difficult role to play and including vigorous sex scenes with a couple of guys at least half her age. Miou-Miou is lovely throughout and again has very difficult scenes to play. Initially this seems a down and dirty misogynist rant/romp but as the tale and characters unfold a much more tender and honest picture emerges. In the end this uncompromising and daring film demands respect. "},{"Title":"Unrated in the US","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can remember seeing this movie as a kid in 1977 or 1978. HBO would show it late at night back when they were they one and only movie pay channel in existence. Back then it was UNRATED and was the only movie of its kind ever shown on pay television...especially back then. I would love to see it now as an adult where I would be more apt to understand the adult theme of it. It was probably the closest thing I had ever seen to pornography at the young age of 7 or 8. Luckily I had stupid babysitters and party-going parents on the weekends. Most of my memory of this movie was the completely erratic sexual behavior of these two guys. Breaking into houses to sniff underwear, feeding on a stranger's breast milk on a public bus, and fornicating in a cab at the request of one of their female subjects were just a few of the whacked escapades these guys were pulling off. A very racy film for the early '70s. Until I checked IMDb, I had no idea this movie had such a following. Most people I talk to have never heard of it. "},{"Title":"what about the stolen car?","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not sure if this counts as a spoiler or not, so bewareJust a small but crucial thing to watch for, an intriguing possibility the boys steal a green Citroen at one point, for a joy ride, and return it to the owner having done purposeful and vengeful hidden damage to the car, hoping that the owner will crash. Is it the very same car they steal much later from the picnicking family? We know the original owner sold it. They drive off at the end on a dangerous road, one which I understand has been closed to all but pedestrians for the last ten years. A whole new slant to the end of the film.On another matter, this film could have been called Scent of a Woman. I don't recall another film, certainly not American, that treats the scent of a woman in such a frank and open manner, much like the nose of a fine Bordeaux. "},{"Title":"A Trio of drifters roam around France creating mischief","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I originally saw this film years ago during Cinemax Friday after dark series(back when the cable box was built like a keyboard),and it intrigued me. Even though there is a pointless aspect to the film it is well acted.The performances of Depardieu & Dewaere are very enjoyable.They have a good chemistry together & Miou-Miou makes a pink fur look breathtaking.A movie like this probably wouldn't be made in these politically correct times(at least not in the US), since it seems to sensationalize things like violence,robbery,& casual sex. This movie proves that with a talented cast & also talented directing a good movie is a good movie no matter the subject.It saddened me to find out Patrick Dewaere committed suicide & in the near future I,ll will check him out with Depardieu & Miou-Miou in Get Out Your Hankerchief. "},{"Title":"Only women bleed........","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I originally saw this film over 20 years and quite recently I had the misfortune to see it again. What a misogynistic, puerile, lousy excuse for a film it is.Bertrand Blier wasn't an enfant terrible when he made this film he was 35 and so these weren't the rape fantasies of some pathetic teen they represent the fully formed world-view of a man approaching middle age. At the time of its release the film was something of a cause celebre and to have criticised it I'm sure would have resulted in a person being criticised for having petite bourgeois and reactionary tendencies. Yet it is this film which is extremely reactionary in its treatment and depiction of women. The story concerns the bullying, cowardice, theft, rape, assault, vandalism and petty crime spree of two aimless low life's played by Gerard Depardieu Patrick Dewaere. The main female character, played by Miou Miou, is subjected to slaps, near drowning and rape and discovers that she can only achieve an orgasm herself after providing some young virgin with an orgasm, as if the true source of woman's pleasure is to please men. From there is gets even more offensive. The great Jean Moreau - what on earth is she doing in this garbage? &#x96; plays a character who is depicted as a post menopausal woman, grateful for the sexual gratification provided by the two charmless nit wits and who, because she can no longer bleed, decides to end her life in a final act of bleeding. An act of cheap shock tactics designed to boost Blier's controversial reputation but in reality an act that says that all post menopausal serve no purpose when they can no longer have babies. After all what else are woman for in Blier's sad little mind other than to have babies or be sexually abused? And whilst we are on the subject of babies, let's not forget the scene where the two heroes molest a mother who is breast feeding a baby on a train and obviously her response is to be so grateful to the two idiots for abusing her in this way that she becomes lost in a sexual frenzy. What does Blier offer to explain this behaviour? Well obviously it is all the fault of tedious society as depicted, oh so obviously, by some out of season seaside resort. As for those who claim that the film is funny, well humour is a personal thing and I can find humour in a film like Man Bites Dog because of its satirical elements but if you think this is funny then you really must have a very condescending view of the working class and a primitive view of women in general. I did not find this film offensive because I am a prude and I can fully appreciate the power of controversial films like Salo or Irreversible. But this has none of the technical virtuosity of Noe's film or the political charge of Pasolini. This is just old fashioned and woman hating. Throughout his career Blier continued to peddle this sort of idiotic nonsense, his view of a more enlightened approach to depict women was to provide his female characters with similar roles to those provided to the two male leads in this film. Yes Blier thought that equality for women meant that women could behave just as hideously as his male characters. Fortunately with the passing of time Blier's catalogue, basically the mindless drivel of a man who is scared of women, is now being consigned to the trash can of history where it deserves to be placed. Once thought of as a startling new talent with the passage of time Blier can be seen for the minor talent and even smaller intellect that he truly is. "},{"Title":"Charming Thugs Humiliate Women, a Lot","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'd give it a ten for atmosphere and performances, but the misogyny of the characters (and, by implication, that of the author, who both wrote the story and filmed it) is too sickening, reaching truly horrifying proportions in the end chosen for Jeanne Moreau's character. Yep, we women should ALL commit suicide at forty, or whenever we stop being able to breed. Yep, there's nothing wrong with us, or the world at large, that a good shag won't cure. I thought growing up female in the eighties/nineties was tough; now I can only be thankful I wasn't around before then. Still, I'd recommend it to intelligent people; unfortunately, this is exactly the sort of movie that attracts most strongly the knuckle-dragging stupid. There's naked breasts (and more) in it, after all! "}{"Title":"LES VALSEUSES (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Bertrand Blier is indeed l'enfant terrible of French cinema and in the seventies he always could shock the public. Filmed with his fave duo (Depardieu and Dewaere) and the usual dose of sex (Miou-Miou plays her typical role, at least the one from the seventies as little could we know that a decade later she would be the best French actress ever). In first Les Valseuses is also one of the first roadmovies as the viewer is just taken to some journeys of two little criminals. Those who only are satisfied with family life, or simply know nothing more, the movie would be quite a shocker but this movie is more than just that, it just let you think of all the usual things in life (working for the car, being bounded at work etc.). It's a sort of critic towards the hypocrite society we're living in. Great job and it just makes you wish two things  Dewaere died just too young as he was a topactor and of course Depardieu, he'd better should have stuck with French movies as he proves here that no one can beat him. Timeless classic and 20 years later it will still shock some... "},{"Title":"I felt like throwing up","Date":"19 March 2015","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Pathetic. Repulsive. Stupid. Worthless. Pointless. It filled me with a strong urge for pissing on the director and defecating on the script writer. And no, I'm not particularly proud of that feeling.This is a movie for people who find pleasure in watching women getting beaten and raped, breast-feeding mothers getting molested, 16-year old girls getting their virginity taken and women's vaginas and underwear getting sniffed. And the perpetrators getting away with all of that with a flamboyant charm and not a trace of reflection.Oh, did I mention people keen on watching suicides committed by pistol shots to the vaginas? Yes, this is a movie for you, guys. Bon appétit.Yes, I have seen a lot of movies, where even more distasteful things were shown. But those movies had actual plots. They were filmed to tell some story or to send some message. Showing those awful things had some purpose. The purpose other than filming sick fantasies of the perverted script writer.I believe this was the most disgusting movie I have ever seen. I'd like to warn especially those people that are now thinking Great, I love disgusting things, I love shocking value, I love Tarantino - this is a movie for me. Trust me - it is not. I was thinking the same and now I'm filled with disgust. I'm disgusted with the creators of this turd, I'm disgusted with people that praise this movie but also I'm disgusted with myself - for not being able to predict how terrible it is and for wasting two hours watching it till the end. Don't duplicate my mistake. "},{"Title":"Les Valseuses (1974)","Date":"22 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Les Valseuses (aka Going Places) is part road movie, part buddy movie (Depardieu and Dewaere). They play a pair of morally bankrupt petty crooks and car thieves who go from place to place displaying misogyny at every turn with remarkably compliant women. These include Jeanne Moreau who is on screen less than 20 minutes, Brigitte Fossey and a very young Isabelle Huppert. The only recurring female character is played by Miou-Miou who is subjected routinely to physical and sexual abuse. Sex comedies of the 1970s &#x96; in any language &#x96; seem crass and unfunny now, and this is no exception. Some comfort is offered by soundtrack music featuring the late Stéphane Grappelli, French jazz violinist extraordinaire. "},{"Title":"Misogynistic, aimless, dated","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I admit I didn't watch this movie to the end. In fact, I made it to 30 minutes, and even that was a struggle. The fact is, this is perhaps the most misogynistic movie I've ever seen.The only real theme that emerges, with four scenes involving three different women and an unseen teenage girl in those 30 minutes, is a strongly anti-women message. I'm a male, by the way. Aside from this misogyny, the acting is mediocre, the script and plot are thin (a road trip to nowhere, except excuses to sexually assault more women perhaps?), the characters so convincingly unlikable that perhaps they aren't really acting, etc.As for the relatively high rating on IMDb, I guess this is something of a cult movie. But is isn't artistic in any way, not really. There's nothing thoughtful about the cinematography or the score, and as I said, the script and plot are weak. These characters aren't beatniks or hippies looking for some meaning in their lives. Instead, I rather imagine them voting for the Front National.Perhaps I didn't understand the movie. But then again, after watching those 30 minutes, I don't want to understand the movie. It is irredeemable, and Depardieu is a huge disappointment for agreeing to make it. "},{"Title":"Save two hours/whatever of your life...","Date":"23 November 2011","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A few reviewers have mentioned the word 'misogynist' in connection with this film. I'd say the makers don't just hate women, but all humankind. It's hard to understand why most of the reviews laud this, but as another reviewer pointed out, it is the kind that attracts those who drag their knuckles when they walk.It's obvious that the creator of this film not only hates but fears women.It is one of the sickest fantasies made, and if that attracts some sickos, let me add that it is not very well made. (Think of a spotty adolescent with an 8mm camera.)Please. Don't. waste. your. time. "},{"Title":"Les ValseusesA Bertrand Blier film which sees a constant rise in its shock value.","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a film which challenges the limits of roguishness, Les Valseuses is based on the eponymous best selling book written by Bertrand Blier which sold over 75,000 copies in France. This film makes a lot of sense as it shocked audiences beyond belief at the time of its initial release and would continue to shock many generations to come. As the film is rather disquieting and not exactly vulgar, a lot of questions would be asked regarding the general bad behavior of its protagonists who don't have a clue as to why there are times when fun loving goes out of control ? Bertrand Blier, one of French cinema's most innovative directors, was influential in furthering his actors' careers as French actresses Isabelle Huppert and Mio Miou saw their careers advance as a result of this film's success. Some other actors associated with this film too saw a veritable advancement of their respective careers. Actress Jeanne Moreau, who is considered as one of French cinema's most vivacious chatterboxes, was revealed by him in the best silent role of her acting career. Actress Brigitte Fossey made her presence vital to the story although she had a minor role with hints of sexual aggression. For Gérard Depardieu, playing a hooligan came naturally as he had experienced hooliganism as a youngster in his native town Châteauroux. For Patrick Dewaere,Les Valseuses was a good opportunity to excel alongside Depardieu in a role where he became good friends with Miou Miou too. Lastly, Les Valseuses would be remembered as a film wherein Bertrand Blier imposed his anti conformist stance against French society and its false values. "},{"Title":"A weird romp across France","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Going Places is the English title of a 1974 French film with two of the famous actors of the era, Gérard Depardieu and Patrick Dewaere, as freewheeling hoodlums of highly questionable morality. The episodic movie follows their adventures as they try to, among other things, live without working and give pleasure to frigid to women. The latter endeavor includes seducing a soldier's bride on a train, literally chasing a woman through the streets, picking up a woman randomly as she leaves prison, and what becomes their ultimate challenge, giving pleasure to Marie-Ange, who is all too willing to have sex but has never had an orgasm.No one would ever accuse this movie of being politically correct. It is sexist, the heroes are brutish criminals, but the point isn't really that they're doing anything noble or should be forgiven for their sins. It is more of a meditation on self destruction, although I think the fun of this movie is just the tragic black comedy of their hopeless adventures, not analyzing it for some deeper meaning.I enjoyed the soundtrack a lot, well the main theme that kept being repeated, and the credit music was a perfect coda. This is a great French film from the 70s, check it out. "},{"Title":"Good for Cinema Vampires, Not for the General Public","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this film when it first played in 1974 and hated it. The lead characters were stupid and violent, and I thought it was mean spirited and not funny at all.Seeing it some 38 years later, I have a much more mixed opinion about it. I can now see many things in the film I didn't understand before.First, it is clear that Blier is heavily influenced by Godard and the Nouvelle Vague. Notice that the violence is generally off-screen and the story generally jumps over these scenes. For example the wounding of Pierrot is not shown, just as the shooting of the cop is not shown in Breathless. The brutal homosexual rape scene is also off-screen with just a scream to indicate it. Likewise, as in Breathless, there are long seemingly improvised, almost existentialist, talking scenes where the action comes completely to a stop.Second, the violence and psychotic behavior of the leads is mainly in the first half of the film. In the second half, they are mostly charming and often sweet. For example, Jean-Claude offers all the money he has just stolen to a complete stranger, Jeanne Pirolle (Jeanne Moreau), a 40 year old destitute woman just released from prison after 10 years. Jean Claude does not ask anything in return. He seems to just want to help her. At another point, after Jean-Claude and Pierrot are connected with a murder, they try to get rid of Marie-Ange, so that she will not be connected. It is clear that these hoodlums who have mistreated Marie-Ange very badly have learned to care about her and even want to protect her.While there are still any number of objectionable things that the lead characters do, there are really only two scenes, where they do things that are unforgivably mean-spirited. First, Jean Claude threatens the children of a doctor who is helping Pierrot. This seems entirely unnecessary and vicious. Second, Jean Claude shoots Marie-Ange in the knee when she starts to get angry during a robbery. The previous mistreatment of Marie-Ange, giving her as a present to a friend and forcing her to have sex together do not seem so bad, because she herself doesn't object and seems use to sexual mistreatment. It is at the moment that Marie-Ange has started to think and express herself and her feelings of anger that Jean Claude shoots her and that is why this incident seems so unpardonable.It is put down as a goof in the film that later we see Marie-Ange and the wound from the gunshot has disappeared. I am not sure if it is a goof. Rather, the shooting itself and not the disappearance of the effects seems to be the mistake. Since they didn't bother to show the effects of the gunshot later on, I assume the shooting was a quickly improvised part of the film that was done before the later part of the plot was written. It is almost as if the shooting is from a first draft of the movie and only mistakenly found its way into the finished film. In any case, the shooting is the most repulsive part of the film and weakens it considerably.People have described this as a road movie. I think it more of a coming of age movie, where the three main characters are learning about sex. They don't come from virginity to sex as in most coming of age movies, but they come from seeing sex as something brutal and frightening to something tender and liberating.The film includes three great performances by three great French film actresses, Miou-Miou, Isabel Huppert and Jeanne Moreau. This is probably the best reason to see the film. It is also a must for Gerald Depardieu and Bertrand Blier fans. "},{"Title":"Close to the INTENSE LIFE","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember hitch hiking to Spain at 25, getting a lift from, what turned out to be, two fleeing Italian small crooks. They were doing a lot outside the law, but from the other side carrying a little portrait of Jesus in the pocket for their protection...Just and unjust, good and bad, criminal and correct where here in a new combination, outside of the categories I used to know. 'Les Valseuses' gives me, although a film and not real life, a picture close to my own experiences the intenseness of each moment as soon as you leave 'all behind' and go for the momentous, whatever comes your way, it's another state of mind and also 'dangerous' form of life, because, as we all know, there are people who are not ready for this and willing to persecute you for 'stealing' and so on...This film touches 'values', it's a story about 'what's right and wrong' morals. It's resurrection of the individual fighting him/ herself free against the 'false morals' and conformism...There's danger all the way, because, how far can you go with your own 'freedom' and crossing your own moral borders and that of other people? What to do with people who are willing to hurt you, put you in jail or even shoot at you for the things that you do, like stealing some petrol from a multinational oil company for you fifth hand car? Les Valseuses re-awakens these questions in me, because morality, in contradiction to the usual 'media message', is quite complex... "},{"Title":"Flat footed waltz","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I loved Dewaere in Series Noir. His talent is trivialized in The Waltzers aka Going Places. Okay, it's a couple of guys flaunting convention in the most absurd and irredeemable ways; many folks find such behavior amusing. This was a boring, pointless exercise designed to shock. I find the smirk on Blier's face, the face behind the camera, annoying. Series Noir was a valid expression of personal liberty and licentious behavior. From the first moment when we see Patric Dewaere prancing in the abandoned lot we get an idea of the bewilderingly beautiful anti-hero we'll be spending time with for the next couple of hours. When we see him chasing the hapless middle aged female with his buddy Depardieu in Going Places we have fair warning that two hours spent with these chaps will be soul-draining. I have trouble eking even a 3 for this annoying distraction. "}{"Title":"A must-see for any Depardieu fan","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is a stunning piece that will convince even the most skeptical viewer that Gerard Depardieu is one of the finest film actors of the last 50 years.   His performance shocks, entertains, disgusts and charms you while leaving you breathless.  This film was shot in the very early days of his film career and is very raw, but still is able to convey the mastery of Depardieu.  A must-see for any Depardieu fan and by far his best early work. "},{"Title":"A male inversion of Celine and Julie go Boating?","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As with that film we follow the implausible if always engaging adventures of the 2 lead characters. But whilst C + J eschew sex for a girly trip back into childhood, this pair revel in their carnality even to the point of exploring homoeroticism. Most of the sex they acquire from grudging or unwilling partners and yet, despite their deeply un-PC behaviour, everyone emerges smiling. Like C + G, through it all they remain innocents at heart, rebels against the quotidien, the bourgeois, the restrictive. As someone else has commented, I wouldn't want to know these 2 and it's a minor miracle that their trip brings scenes of mostly comedy and very little tragedy (and what there is of that cannot be laid at their door) and thus for that reason, it left me beguiled but with a sweet taste in the mouth. Dare I say that only the French can get away with films like this. And that is part of their genius. "},{"Title":"French Hippy Classic","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Depardieu's most notorious film is this (1974)groundbreaker from Bertrand Blier. It features many highly sexual scenes verging on an X-rating, including one of Jeanne Moreau doing a hot 1970s version of her Jules and Jim menage a trois with the two hairy French hippies (Depardieu and Deware). There is no such thing as a sacred territory in this film; everything is fair game.It's very odd that Americans tend to not like this film very much while many French people I've met consider it a classic. Something about it goes against what Americans have been programmed to 'like.'Gerard and the late Patrick Deware are two bitch-slapping, hippy drifters with many sexual insecurities, going around molesting women and committing petty crimes. They're out for kicks and anti-capitalist, Euro-commie, slacker 'freedom.' Blier satirizes the hell out of these two guys while at the same time making bourgeois society itself look ultimately much more ridiculous.  Best of all though, is the way the wonderful Stephane Grappelli score conveys the restless soul of the drifters, the deeper subconscious awareness or 'higher ideal' that motivates all the follies they engage in. "},{"Title":"Going Nowhere","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's easy to see what made Bertrand Blier's 1974 feature so controversial his serio-comic portrait of two amoral drifters dares the viewer to laugh while they steal cars, break into houses, terrorize strangers, and share all the women they can lay their hands on. It might have been a Crosby/Hope adventure (The Road to Depravity?) with the two comedians playing a pair of grubby, sex-obsessed delinquents, but the irony of the title is obvious these boys are going nowhere. The elliptical structure of the film is far more noteworthy than its episodic non-plot (and far less dated than the French fashion trends of the mid 1970s), but Bertrand Blier's typically aloof direction makes it difficult to become involved in the hijinks of two such unsympathetic characters. No one can fault Blier's talent for casting, however the film made Gerard Depardieu an unlikely international sex symbol, and the obliging bedmate in one of the more disturbing scenes is veteran actress Jeanne Moreau. Elsewhere, the traveling companions also include newcomers Isabelle Huppert and Miou-Miou. "},{"Title":"Garbage Cinema At Its Best !!!!","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I had to stop viewing Bertrand Biller's Going Places (1974) about half way through it. I just couldn't take any more of this POOR excuse for a film.If you Google Robert Hare you can read what this preeminent authority in the field has to say about psychopathy. I'm certain that before too long you'll agree that Dr Hare's descriptions of the classic psychopath almost perfectly match the two main characters in this SAD excuse for a film. That's all this film is, just a blatant display of psychopathic, criminal behavior. Psychopaths On Parade would be a better title for this film, because the thrust of this film seems to actually applaud and even admire the narcissistic, remorseless behavior of these two low lifes. I myself find no value, either as a film fanatic, or as just a human being, in a cinematic celebration of psychopathy.Hey!!! I make no pretenses about being the smartest guy in the world, OK?, but I'm certainly smart enough to know the difference between right and wrong. This film, on the other hand, seems to be equating, or even deliberately confusing right and wrong, and even asking me to somehow buy into that. In short, this film carries a morally, and socially corruptive message that there is no difference between right and wrong, or that perhaps doing wrong is acceptable if you're young, and cute, and come across as charming, and somewhat daring when you're doing wrong. Sorry, but I just don't buy it.I could go on about how blatantly sexist this film is, but what's the point? It's not like the two criminal low lifes in this film actually treat women worse than men in this film. Hey, these guys are hip, and enlightened!!! They're equal opportunity psychopathic predators.There was no storyline whatsoever at the point where I turned off this piece of garbage cinema. It was an endless stream of disassociated scenes of two social perverts romping gleefully through their criminal, and exploitive deeds, without a cop in sight. I don't know whose fantasies this so called film panders to, but it's certainly not mine. In fact, the only purpose that I can see in viewing this so called film is for the viewer to vicariously live out his secret sexual, and violent fantasies through the two low life, psychopathic characters in this so called film. But, sorry, I myself don't indulge in such walks on the dark side because, frankly, I see myself as a better human being than that.Gerard Depardieu has had a long, and storied, and brilliant career as an actor, cranking out some pretty incredible performances. It's just so sad for me to think that he was forced to act in a piece of garbage cinema like this as a preliminary stepping stone to that wonderful acting career. "},{"Title":"As deliriously cynical today as ever, this is one of the most masterful dark comedies ever filmed.","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This mean-spirited French comedy from the mid-seventies retains all it's freshness, even by today's standards.  In fact, it's aimless structure and cynical wit would probably be more distressing to audiences now, more than ever (as vacuously preoccupied with good taste as most movies are these days).  This is one of many Bertrand Blier films that tackles some of the more obtuse viewpoints on the male's pursuit of happiness. Courageous and effective filmmaking, and a very nice introduction from Gerard Depardieu.  No small mention should be made of Stephane Grappelli's spare but brilliant music score.  GET OUT YOUR HANDKERCHIEFS and TOO BEAUTIFUL FOR YOU will follow this gem.   "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Pointless is a critique and summery of Going Places a film that tells the misadventures of two twentysomthing guys in the seventies who basically go around harrassing, stealing and raping everyone and everything in sight. The film does have some good scenes, here and there, and all the performances are effective.  However the film is laid out like a series of sketches and it leads nowhere in particular.  The characters don't seem to have much arc, and after a while it becomes obvious that Blier is just using shock tactics to carry our interest.  The film was a huge hit in France and jumpstarted the career of its stars, it is watchable and fast paced just lacking in substance or theme.   "},{"Title":"Meandering Road Trip","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Gerard Depardieu and Patrick Dewaere are two small time criminals who spend each day stealing cars, bicycles, and money, seemingly without remorse. Right from the start, we see the pair of misfits following a woman down a street carrying a bag of groceries. At her doorway, they get intimate while eating her food and stealing purse.They next proceed to take a car for a joy ride and then bring it back to the owner, who pulls a gun and threatens to call the police. He shoots Dewaere in the groin but they manage to get the gun from him and take off with his girlfriend, a young blonde named Marie, who later explains that the guy is her boss at a beauty salon. The trio go to another place and Marie gets it on with a third guy who complains that she just lies there with no emotion during sex. The first two have the same experience with her. They come upon a middle aged woman walking alone carrying a suitcase. They convince her to tag along with them to a store where she buys clothes with money they provide to her. Next up is a three way at a hotel, after which she kills herself. They find letters in her suitcase from her son who is getting out of prison. They introduce him to their blonde friend, Marie for more sexual escapades. They join him for a supposed robbery which turns into a shootout. Back to Marie in yet another stolen car which breaks down near a lake. They see a family at a picnic and leave with their car and also take the teenage daughter for a ride. She provides more fun for the boys and Going Places doesn't really have a conventional ending. "},{"Title":"Perhaps offensive..definitely disturbing...","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" About 1986 I saw this movie by accident on TV one night. I was 6 years old. It was similar to my accidental viewing of the terrifying ending to Don't Look Now in 1987. I went to Venice on holiday the next year in silent terror, hoping to god that my parents wouldn't find out I'd watched it! Would I have minded if my parents knew I'd watched Les Valseuses when I was a kid? I'd probably avoid the subject with my dad even nowadays, and my mum's probably disapproving in the afterlife. I don't know if they'd want to see it anyway. From the stalking and trapping of a woman at the block of flats in the first scene to sliding down the mountain roads with glazed satiated eyes I'm never sure whether this film is an insensitive piece of trash that disregards the sexual revolution or if it's a sexy liberating movie to watch as it dawns on you that you could never be so offensive yourself. It's definitely violent. It has a violent view of sex, virtually no acknowledgement of love. Even suckling a young baby mutates into a greedy sexual act of exploitation. But the scenario IS very erotic and (god I'm so British) arousing! Do they suck her breasts for her own good? That is exploitation. So why am I getting a woody?The fellows go in search of an experienced older woman, find an ex-con, mother-figure? I don't know. It ends in a truly gruesome suicide. I described it to my friend JB Nelson, who has Cannibal Holocaust-guts, and he went eeuurrgghh! No motherly love for this movie, quite the opposite. Mutilation of where the boys began. Why do they shoot the girl in the leg? Why does she come back to them? Do women need to be punished so that they learn what is right from men?I'm thinking of two movies, one of which I wish I'd never seen, the other makes me wish it wasn't such a harsh world. Swept Away/Madonna what a pile of insanity doesn't compute never been so offended that a woman punished for being a woman becomes slave to man and its maybe madonna saying everybody respect guy ritchie im so enraged i cant use punctuation! Once Upon A Time In America/Leone god why does Noodles do it? Destroys the path to joy we've been following him on his whole life. So close to finally finding love with Deborah. Now they are both destroyed. Why Sergio? Why?There is no rape in Les Valseuses but lots of sex and nakedness in abundance, of both sexes. Very honest, no titillation. No fantasy shags, no perfect Hollywood smooth moves. Jokes, yes. But there's too much darkness and jealousy and trickery in here to call it a sex comedy. Forget Carry On Shooting A Naked Hairdresser In The Leg Cos She'll Come Back & You'll Hook Her Up With Your Ex-con Lover's Vengeant Son & She'll Learn How To Cum From Him.Two things I can't stand are rape movies and prison movies. Les Valseuses isn't a rape movie! God nobody's going to want to watch it now! It is a brilliant movie! "},{"Title":"Empty","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I only lasted through fifteen minutes of this. The first scene has the two main characters - big strong guys - chasing a middle-aged woman around a block of flats and finally cornering her. The woman is prim and prissy and no-one I'd want to know. Her behaviour is as childish as theirs. But there's two of them and only one of her, and they're stronger than her. It really disturbs me that so many people seem to find this scene, and the ones that follow, funny. I think there's a big difference between being bourgeois and having some basic compassion for the human condition. In fact the emptiness of the main characters strikes me as at least as bourgeois in its way as the people who are into glossy cars and so on. Too bad, since I love Stephane Grappelli. "}{"Title":"Generally effective","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This moderately entertaining film runs a little too long considering the sometimes slow pace, but it is still worth watching.  There were a number of scenes that seemed dragged out or even needless, but fortunately, things got more consistently entertaining as the film progressed.  Probably the best part was when the two young hoodlums meet up with Jeanne Moreau, for it was oddly compelling, but several of the scenes with Miou-Miou worked rather well, too.  It was occasionally funny and frequently interesting, and for all the flaws, I still have to recommend it, especially if you're a fan of any of the stars.  "}]