[{"Title":"Pollack Does Hitchcock","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"104 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Three Days of the Condor is a classic spy thriller with a bit of a twist, it takes place inside the U.S.A. There are no flashy locales, no super-hero types, and no ultra-menacing bad guys who spew cheesy dialogue; instead, we have a common man (Robert Redford) battling for his life in an uncommon situation.  This is similar to Alfred Hitchcock's North By Northwest in its theme and intensity and Sydney Pollack pulls it off to perfection.Robert Redford stars as Joseph Turner a reader for the CIA who finds himself on the run after everyone in his office is assassinated.  Pollack wisely allows us to share in Turner's horror and confusion upon finding his dead co-workers.  We witness his scramble for protection and his shaky call to the CIA Headquarters, as he demands to be brought in. The wheels start turning and it seems that all will be resolved, safely and quickly, but things don't go as planned.  After a shoot out in an alley, Turner is seen as a possible rogue agent sending him into greater peril.  Now everyone is out to get him.  Only through quick, imaginative thinking and survival instincts can Turner stay ahead of those who are out to kill him. In a moment of desperate improvisation, Turner kidnaps Faye Dunaway to elude his pursuers.  This turn allows us to have someone else view Redford's character for us and provide a different intensity, a sexual intensity, to the film. Again, this is somewhat reminiscent of Cary Grant meeting Eva Marie Saint on the train in North by Northwest.  But this story has more of an edge to it and Dunaway's character has greater depth and purpose than we imagine possible.  She acquiesces to her captor's demands as she tries to understand him and learns quickly to appreciate him and the situation he's in.  Through Dunaway's help, Redford is allowed to meet up with the man (Cliff Robertson) who he believes is pulling the strings inside the CIA.  The story turns more cerebral as we learn why Turner's office was hit and who was behind it.  Furthermore, we understand how truly alone Redford's character really is.  The audience is kept guessing through to the very end as to whether or not Redford's character will survive.This is one movie that provides action and excitement coupled with a strong plot and solid characters.  Max Von Sydow is excellent as a Joubert, a sophisticated, calculating, even-keeled assassin who is only doing what he is paid to do.  Redford shines as a man whose entire world is thrown into violent disarray forcing him to fight for his survival.  His ability to project his thoughts and concerns through his actions and facial expressions holds the audience to him.  While this movie does not have the overwhelming paranoid feel to it that a movie like The Parallax View had, it is stylish, convincing, and an intriguing movie.  Sydney Pollack doesn't fill the scenes with deep shadows and hard camera angles, as some would do.  Instead, most of this story takes place in broad daylight, which actually increases the tension.  There's no easy place to hide, no dark doorways to duck into, no characters stepping out of the fog when we least expect it.  Like Hitchcock, Pollack knows that exposing his hero to the light of day is to abandon him to his pursuers.  The audience is pulled in right along with the Redford's character and we can't let go until we know we're safe.  "},{"Title":"One of Redford's Best, a 70s Suspense Classic!","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"78 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A cold, rainy day in New York City...a small, cramped office building where a friendly, diverse group of CIA administrative types do research...one employee, a young 'reader' (Robert Redford), is assigned to pick up sandwiches, and takes a short cut through back alleys to a local deli...a van pulls up in front of the building, a group of disguised, armed assassins disembark, enter...and brutally kill every person in the building, leaving just before the 'reader' returns, to face the carnage...With this visually gripping sequence, the stage is set for one of the best suspense films of the 1970s, Sydney Pollack's classic THREE DAYS OF THE CONDOR. In a novel twist of the Hitchcock 'Man Who Knew Too Much' theme, Redford's 'Joseph Turner' (code name 'Condor'), whose employment consists of reading novels and publications for any reference to the CIA, develops an 'imaginary' scenario of an agency 'inside' the agency, working independently, which his boss forwards to Washington for review. Unfortunately, the scenario is true, and Turner and his co-workers must be eliminated, to keep the secret intact. By sheer luck, Turner survives the 'hit', and the bookish 'admin type' must now run for his life, utilizing survival skills he didn't know he possessed, while trying to discover the reason for his 'death sentence'...The tension never lets up in this grim, exciting tale, as Turner discovers he can trust no one, and barely survives assassination attempts, again and again. Forced to kidnap a young woman (Faye Dunaway, more vulnerable than usual) to aid him, it takes a death attempt to convince her to believe him, but Turner refuses to allow her to continue to risk her life protecting him, so, ultimately, it becomes a 'David and Goliath' struggle between Turner and the 'outlaw' CIA and it's hired assassins. Featuring Max von Sydow as a sophisticated 'hit man', John Houseman as a mysterious CIA senior official, and Cliff Robertson as an agent with an agenda, THREE DAYS OF THE CONDOR influenced a generation of similar-themed thrillers, including Mel Gibson's CONSPIRACY THEORY, and Will Smith's ENEMY OF THE STATE.The Robert Redford film is the best of the crop, by far! "},{"Title":"Terrific tension","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"68 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film was very effective in maintaining the tension not only of the Condor's life and death mission to discover the reasons for the massacre of his colleagues but also the relationship between him and Kathy. The cast is uniformly good though Redford obviously carries the film. Von Sydow is again great as the strictly professional assassin. The entire film had an aura of authenticity that had me entirely engrossed. Recommended, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Classic 70's Film","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"56 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Loved this film. One of the best from the golden age of cinema (1970's). Robert Reford was as his peak. Faye Dunaway's best role since Thomas Crown Affair. Not to be missed for those fans of 70's cinema... Really touches on Big Brother and the threat that a secret government entity lived and breathed within the CIA. Robert Reford's character embodied the unsuspecting paranoia that characterized that time. A very non-Hollywood ending will surprise you. The cinematography was top-noch (Owen Roizman). Nothing has come close to this film. This film has intrigue, suspense, and above all a moral conscience. It presents the idea that what does our government do, and at what cost? "},{"Title":"A lesson in what to do with filmmaking.","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"49 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Being someone who wants to tell his stories for a living this movie was a revelation. I saw it when I was not quite 18. Over ten years ago.I came across it on one of the movie channels. It opens so quietly. Just everyday life going on. A guy late for work. Coming in by bike and in the rain no less. His workplace is comprised of superiors he wont conform to please and those he works alongside that apprciate that quality in him. He has the air of a man that knows who he is. Gently he sets the tone for his corner of the world and those around him are much the better for it.He goes out for lunch and returns to find everyone in his office cut down like they were nothing. Even though we saw it happening. We still feel his horror at returning to find his sanctuary torn asunder.When he finds his feet again he calls in and in a panic tells his superiors. Everyone's dead! When they try to run him through the usual protocols he reponds. I'm not a field agent I just read books! He doesn't go charging off for revenge like so many action heroes. This guy just wants out. He's seen his world demolished and he just wants to survive the day. He's panicked and alone. But when his saviours turn out to be, if not in league with the devil at least working the same side of the street. He has to fend for himself. Having run out of options and with nowhere to turn this CIA reader realizes if there's any saving to be done he'll have to do it himself. And as John Houseman's Big Guy at the CIA asks Cliff Robertson's Director Higgins how is he doing this Higgins replies He reads. He reads... everything Houseman nods knowingly. The message here? Knowledge is power. And while these men have their offices and expense accounts Joseph Turner is a man who knows things. He borrows some equipment from the back of a Telephone repairman's truck and taps a telephone line in a NY city Hotel. Another character we might think this an unlikely skill to just happen to come in handy but it's been established. The guy is brilliant and has a job reading and analyzing books all day every day five days a week. He isn't everyman. He's just the hero any one of us COULD be. He is believable which makes all that he achieves all the more impressive.The moments of tension between Turner and Joubert the Assassin are beautifully done. From the initial scene where the hit on his office goes down we know that this hitman knows he is standing next to the only one of his targets that is still running free. Joseph it seemshas a sense of it. As you watch the scene play out as they move between floors. You feel trapped there with them. Joubert is like a force of nature. He harbours no personal motives and so it's difficult to harbour any against him.As to whether Joseph knows it was he that personally killed the people at his office. Its unsure. But I feel like at the final interaction between them one thing is clear. Turner is at least at that moment unable to switch gears from the natural gratitude he must feel at being saved by this man and however coincidentally aided by his actions. He feels safe enough to talk comfortable with him.I could write pages more but time escapes me.  "},{"Title":"As effective now as it was then, but only more so.","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"44 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" How many movies about events that were happening at the time that they were released stand the test of time, in this case almost 30 years after the movie was made. Three Days of the Condor wasn't a major blockbuster in 1975 and didn't win any Academy Awards the next spring, But if it were remade today it would hold up as good as any film about government secret covert policies and behind the scenes action as any movie about the same subject would now. The movie Three Days of the Condor eerily as well as accurately predicts the very situation that the US has got itself into now,in 2003,in the oil-rich Middle and Near East some twenty eight years ago back in in 1975! Robert Redford, Joe Turner, works for the CIA and is doing his job like he's done it for years. He reads and interprets books, without the slightest suspicion of how he, as well as his co-workers, is looked upon when it comes to the real scheme of things to what his bosses think about what's going on in the world.Turner takes his employment in the CIA, which is one that he obviously needed to get a very high government clearance, like most working people would;a 9 to 5 job with a months vacation and a good government pension waiting for him when he retires. One day when it, unknowing at the time to Turner, luckily comes his turn get lunch for his co-workers that he finds out that working for an outfit like the CIA is a lot more dangerous then him getting mugged or having his motor bike stolen on his way to work. From then on until the end of the movie and even beyond Turner is a marked man, not marked by the enemies of the US but by his CIA bosses themselves.Three Days of the Condor is a true Man without a Country movie when Turner as well as those that he worked with, who were loyal to their country and the agency that employed them, were deemed expendable because of a slight case of paranoia from a top administrator in the agency. The CIA outfit that Turner was in were checking out a book, that seemed to be some kind of secret blueprint, written in a number of unlikely and foreign languages about a Western-type country plotting to, and taking over, an or a number of oil-rich Middle-East nations! This is exactly what's happening in Iraq today! I doubt that A movie like Three Days of the Condor would be made today given the climate of the September 11, 2001 attacks and the War on Terrorism in both Afghanistan & Iraq that quickly followed. But back in 1975 when we here in the USA were living in a more peaceful and secure time and with the Frank Church Commission investigating in public the accesses of the US intelligence agencies it could.I especially liked the cast of Cliff Robertson, Higgens, Max Von Saydo, Jobert, and Faye Dunaway, Kathy, besides of course Robert Redford's Joe Turner. I liked the contrast between Higgens and Jobert in the fact that Higgens was a career man working for the government and Jobert was a contract killer only working for whoever paid him. Even though Jobert should have been the heavy in the film he was by far more sympathetic because what he did was only a job, and that all it was, to him and his encounter with Turner towards the end of the movie, who's job it was for him to kill, wasn't that threatening and not at all as personal as Turners scenes with Higgens were. Higgens always came across as a con-man who would shoot you, or have someone shoot you, in the back as soon as you turned around. This contrast goes to show you that a person who hires a killer to kill someone is far more guilty then the one that does the killing himself. Charles Manson didn't kill anyone, he had others do the killing for him, but he's more responsible for those murders back in 1969 then the ones that did the killings themselves.Faye Dunaway as Kathy was great as the innocent bystander who's life was turned upside down, by all these events that she had no knowledge or control of. She showed fear and outrage at first and then later realizing that Turner was telling the truth and that she ,like him, had no choice in the matter because she knew too much but to risk her life, what else could she do. Kathy ended up helping him because helping Turner or not she was also targeted like he was so she might as well do what was right.I'm surprised that I didn't read or hear anyone talk about, not all these years after Three Days of the Condor was released, the fact that a good part of the movie as shot in and around the ill-faded World Trade Center in NYC. In fact I think that Three Days of the Condor was the first major motion picture that was filmed there. The WTC was opened to the public in 1974 and the movie was made in late 1974 and early 1975. Even more ironic about the film is that Higgens, who was undoubtedly the villain in it, had his CIA offices located in of all places, you guessed it, the World Trade Center. "},{"Title":"The Definitive Political Thriller","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"40 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This had everything a political thriller should have - excellent acting by Redford and Dunaway and a well-written internally-consistent plot.  Robert Redford plays a CIA agent who read books - that's all, just read books.  He gets involved with a CIA plot when all of his coworkers are assassinated.I like this movie on several levels.  The thing that stands out is that Redford isn't an action hero.  He stays ahead of the game - just barely - by using his intelligence.  This make for a much more interesting movie than the simple-minded shoot 'em up of the current action heros.  "},{"Title":"A classic spy thriller that still does the trick after so many years","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Sidney Pollack is a great admirer of Alfred Hitchcock, which he also proved with The Interpreter. Apparently he loves suspenseful thrillers and I sure hope for him that his movies will age as well as those that Hitchcock made. And I guess they do. Even though it was made thirty years ago, Three Days of the Condor still hasn't lost any of its power. Sure, you could call it a typical product of the seventies, but even today this movie feels up-to-date and believable.Turner works for the American Literary Historical Society, or at least so it seems. In reality he is a CIA researcher, with the code name Condor, who gets paid to read books, in which he has to find possible scenarios that could be used in intelligence work. When he returns to his office after he went out to get lunch, he finds all his colleagues dead and he doesn't know who shot them. He immediately calls a superior who sends his section chief to get him out of there. But when the man arrives, he immediately opens fire on Turner. In an act of pure desperation - he no longer knows who he can trust - Turner kidnaps a woman he has never seen before and forces her to hide him. He will stay in her house until he can find out what exactly is going on. But even there he isn't save. He is discovered and attacked in the woman's house, but is able to kill the man. Now he knows one thing for sure the man too had a connection to the CIA, which means that someone in the CIA must be behind all this...I guess the best thing about this movie is the fact that it doesn't give away all its information at once. At first Turner appears to be an ordinary guy who arrives late for work. Nothing special there. But because he gradually builds up tension by slightly releasing more information, the writer knows how to keep you focused and interested. I guess the best way to describe this movie is calling it a classic spy thriller without James Bond-like locations or bad guys and and no super hero who can beat all the bad guys with a blink of an eye. No, this is a normal man who was at the wrong place at the wrong time and who now has to face an unusual and life threatening situation. I guess that's where this movie gets its strength you can easily identify with him, even though he is a spy.And yes, the whole concept of the movie is very seventies the paranoia towards the government, the insecurity of not knowing who your enemies or your friends are... all give it that typical feeling. but even today this movie hasn't lost any of its power or relevance. All in all this is a very good and stylish thriller that offers plenty of tension and some very nice acting. Especially Robert Redford and Faye Dunaway were very nice to watch, but the other actors did a fine job too. Thanks to the combination of the acting, a good story and some nice camera-work, Pollack has created a movie Hitchcock might have been proud of if he had done it. That's why I give this movie a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"The best thriller I've ever seen","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"38 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  10 out of 10. And it took about 5 seconds to decide on that. This is simply a brilliant film. It's so smart, it doesn't feel like it has to explain everything that happens over and over again. And the story here is so deep and well-structured that it's possible to find several alternate movies inside the main one that could all work almost as well as the final product.There might not be perfect films, but THREE DAYS OF THE CONDOR is as close to perfect as any film of the modern era. "},{"Title":"   You think that not getting caught, is the same as telling the truth? ","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Every now and then a film emerges which illuminates our government and all it's secret covert operations. Sometimes, government official are very embarrassed with just how close the movies are to their real life escapades. In this story a small group of government researchers are working at their daily humdrum jobs, when without notice, an assassin enters their building and murders them. Did I say all? Well unfortunately for the assassin, one employee Joseph Turner (Robert Redford) was literally 'out to lunch.' When he returns and finds everyone murdered, he keeps his cool and with a logical approach, must discover the who and why, his entire team was eliminated. It's a real-life cat-and-mouse game which if not played correctly, will end with the last member of the team code name Condor, dead with the outside world never knowing why. As Condor seeks those who ordered the murders and cover-up, he also discovers a professional killer is after him. Further, his immediate superiors do not want his coming in from the cold, they would prefer him dead. Condor learns quickly not to trust anyone and therefore takes steps to stay away from making 'predictable' mistakes. With the superior cast of Cliff Robertson as Higgins, John Houseman as Mr. Wabash, the international star, Max Von Sydow as Joubert and Faye Dunaway as Kathy. this film easily generates enough platitudes to support it as a Classic. **** "}{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this film back in 1976. The next time was in 2002. Both viewings had me captivated from start to finish even though, second time around, there were parts which I remembered from the first time. Robert Redford (Condor) works for the CIA as a reader/researcher. His job, along with others, is look for new ideas or plots published in books or journals around the world in all languages. He turns up a well authored scheme in a journal printed in a variety of strange languages and reports to his superiors. Unfortunately, someone doesn't agree with his report and his colleagues turn up dead when he returns from lunch one day. Whoever is behind these killings hasn't finished yet as Condor was on the hit-list. The hide and seek game begins with Condor trying to stay one step ahead of his assassins. He resorts to kidnapping a beautiful woman (Faye Dunaway) who, possibly through the Stockholm Syndrome, eventually becomes his ally. The film has an unpredictable ending for all involved. There are many stories about the cloak and dagger world of the intelligence communities but few have a storyline which is believable. This is one of those few and it is as relevant today as it was back in '75. If you like films which depict the sinister and dark side of the CIA and provide plenty of suspense with the obligatory victimized female, this is the film for you. I guess the modern day version of this film is Borne Identity. What Robert Redford pulled off over 30 years ago, Matt Damon is doing today. "},{"Title":"Great, Great, Great!","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"27 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of Senor Sock's favorite movies ever. A taunt suspense thriller starring Robert Redford as a low level CIA agent. He works as a reader of foreign novels and publications when suddenly his world is turned upside down and he is embroiled in a web of suspense and intrigue. Excellent direction and a great script. Faye Dunaway has never looked better! "},{"Title":"One day a limousine will drive up and a friend will be inside....","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is possibly the only first rate spy thriller, whose most classic set of dialog lines (spoken by Max Von Sydow) became the basis of a very funny moment in a Seinfeld Episode.Originally published as SIX DAYS OF THE CONDOR, the film title took a reduction of days to three. Robert Redford is working in what we would call a CIA think tank in Manhattan in an old brownstone. He reads there, and makes reports of what he reads. It is a pleasant enough job. One day he goes to work, not realizing that he and his fellow workers are all being watched and counted as they enter the building. They start working, but Redford goes out a back door to get some coffee. Soon the men outside come in, and shoot down all the people in the building. They note that Redford is not there, and that the back door is not locked, so they realize he stepped out. But time is of the essence, as the NYC police may be on the scene soon. So they leave before Redford returns. The film then follows what happens to Redford. He is horrified at the murder of all his colleagues, and tries to get some guidance from his contact (Cliff Robertson) but soon he is beginning to wonder if Robertson is really being so very helpful. He seems hesitant to assist Redford in figuring who committed this set of killings. And one attempt at a safe surrender ends in the murder of a close friend.The film is dated in one ironic manner - the meetings of Robertson and his C.I.A. boss (John Houseman, at his most cynical weary) are in the agency offices in the World Trade Center. But we see slowly what is at the base of this. There appears to be a rogue C.I.A. group acting here, and for patriotic motives (in their own eyes). Von Sydow is a freelance assassin used by the C.I.A., who has been involved in the massacre.Redford, realizing he can't trust Robertson or the latter's bosses, becomes his own protector, hiding out in Brooklyn Heights at the apartment of Faye Dunaway, and using a stolen port - o - phone used by telephone workers to telephone Robertson without being traceable. We follow the rest of this splendid thriller as Redford slowly finds out who did the dirty work, why, and gets his own back at the Agency.Oh yeah, SEINFELD. Remember the episode where Cosmo Kramer tried to start a movement to get people to drop all use of the U.S. Post Office. His pal Newman, realizing what Kramer is bucking, tries to warn him, while driving a postal truck (Kramer is standing in the street), that one day a friendly face will offer him a ride in a postal truck. Do not take that offer! warns Newman. But a moment later, Newman sees that two of the Postal police have seen him and Kramer together, and Newman tries to get Kramer into the truck. Unfortunately for both, Kramer has learned not to trust such offers. So both are caught. Kramer is then intimidated by a smooth as silk Postmaster General (a splendid Wilford Brimley - whose golf game was just spoiled by all this). As a crestfallen Kramer leaves, he sees Newman brought in for his punishment tied up with a bucket over his head. Tell my story to the world!, the postman squeals. A perfect comic salute to a first rate thriller. "},{"Title":"Nice suspense thriller about  spy world and an international conspiracy","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Good intrigue yarn about a CIA agent whose code name is Condor who is forced to flee for his life when his cover operation (called American Literature History Society) is blown and becomes into man-on-the-run . In the next seventy-two hours almost everyone he trusts will attempt to murder him ( by an organization undercover called Five Continents Import Inc. ). The bookish CIA information reader (Robert Redford) aware more than he should and he finds all of his co-workers cruelly killed. He must outwit those responsible until he figures out who he can really trust and he suddenly himself as hunted man , being only helped by a stranger woman (Faye Dunaway) .This exciting mystery contains thrills , action , shootouts , suspense and is quite entertaining . Good performance from Robert Redford as bookish researcher working for US Intelligence office and Faye Dunaway as the innocent who Condor uses to avoid capture and shelter him . Excellent support cast as Cliff Robertson with special mention to veteran John Houseman and of course Max Von Sydow who expertly handles a vignette as cold murderer . Very good cinematography , well filmed in New York City and Washington D.C. by Owen Roizman- The exorcist- and atmospheric musical score by Dave Grusin. The motion picture is stunningly directed by the recently deceased Sydney Pollack . Sydney was an excellent director , producer and secondary actor with several hits on all kind of genres as ¨The Interpreter¨ , ¨The firm¨ , ¨Out of Africa¨ , ¨Tootsie¨, ¨Yakuza¨ and many others . Rating  Good , better than average and worthwhile watching . The flick will appeal to Robert Redford fans and thriller buffs . "},{"Title":"Classic Paranoia ( That Still Stand's Out )From Sydney Pollack,","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Robert Redford, Stars As Joe Turner(The 'Condor' Of The Title, Turner work's for the 'American Literary Society'Which actually is a front for the CIA(Central Intellegiance Agency) Turner is a 'Reader' his plum job is to look at various publication's be it paperback novel's and even comic book's to look for any type of details's that could of been leaked out,Turner come's across a strange correspondence, about a certain plot in which catapult's turner in to a deadly conspiracy that see's turner,Become the only survivor in a bloody massacre, that see's all of his co-worker's brutally gunned down(in the film's key scene it's Redford's turn to buy lunch down town, upon his departure a group of 'Mailmen' led by the mysterious Joubert(Max Von Sydow,wipe out the entire staff, When Redford return's to the murder scene, he panic's and 'Call's in' to his superior's who attempt to silence him at all cost's,Outnumbered and no where to run, he kidnaps at gunpoint the beautiful Kathy Hale, played by Faye Dunaway, who play's a new's reporter, who Redford beckon's to help him evade and unravel the mysterious and massive conspiracy, Cliff Robertson, Also star's as Redford's Gruff superior, Three Days of the Condor (1975) Has aged perfectly, all though some of the 'Computer's' featured in the opening are undeniably 'prehistoric' by today's hi tech standard's! Three Days of the Condor (1975) Still stand's out as one of the great film's of the 70's, Be sure to watch it in it's True WIDESCREEN aspect ratio of 2.351 As it certainly capture's the almost visceral feel of paranoia, "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Three Days of Condor was a very entertaining movie. Robert Redford has a way of drawing in the audience. he performs the role very well in this film. I love the lack of special effects because it makes the movie rely on plot and acting. This is a quality movie, unlike a lot of new action and spy films that substitute good acting directing and plot for big sets, budgets and special effects. The government corruption theme is very well scripted. The way the story unfolds is complex and interesting.Overall the movie is a little less Hollywood and a little more real life. At times it reminds you of The Day Of The Jackel. A little slower and calmer but all the sweeter. "},{"Title":"Simmer against the machine...at the beginnings of a new kind of CIA genre","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Three Days of the Condor (1975)This is looking more and more like a period piece, dated and curious like one of those great Cold War films looks today (Failsafe or Seven Days in May). And yet it also feels like the beginnings of spy/counterspy films that are going on today, way beyond the pizazz of the early Bond films of the 1960s, and presaging the dozens since, including recent ones like the Bourne films or Syriana. It plays straight up as a suspense film, one where an almost innocent man is caught up in something huge and perplexing and awful, and we all identify with the individual against the powers of evil. Robert Redford plays the role of Joe Turner well, with the usual Redford stiffness, but believably--he reads books, after all--and sympathetically. Putting yourself back to 1975 you have to remember that everyone was talking about, and reacting to, Watergate, and a U.S. president who had to resign from office because of it. Watergate, more than anything, started the current public roar (blossoming on the internet) about government conspiracy. Three Days of the Condor makes the government, and the CIA in particular, an almost unassailable and invisible force of spying and mistrust. Turner, by circumstance at first and then by admirable determination, fights back. He's clever as much as he is worried. He falls in love. He feels isolated but never gives up. He has close calls, and lucky escapes, and unlikely friends. He thinks of other people first. In other words, he's a hero against the machine, and if the movie is sometimes slow, it creates a nice pace for the end, which is beautifully thought out. Director Sydney Pollack is hampered by a screenplay that alternates between awkward (Faye Dunaway's scenes) and brilliant (Redford's anti-spy character has a conversation with a hit man played by Max Von Sydow that shines), but he patches it together with an editing job that was nominated for an Oscar. And the cinematography by Owen Roizman is really nice (he shot a dozen great films from the French Connection to the Exorcist to Network). Condor is not just an entertainment, which is a saving grace, but it does also, slowly and beautifully, entertain. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie - High level of acting performances","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Great film -Robert Redford has a way of drawing in the audience and Faye Dunaway is more vulnerable than ever, her best role since Thomas Crown. No vulgarity in the love scene just a great sensuality. Both stars have shown an outstanding performance ! Top-notch screenplay - 70's films are definitely the best ones in terms of storytelling and screenplays. Sidney Pollack does also a great job as a director and delivers an efficient thriller that you can watch over and over again.I agree with some reviewers who think that it is one of the Redford's best. The supporting cast is also excellent. Maybe the directors nowadays should watch more often 70's films to be more inspired. "},{"Title":"Entertaining...Fun.....But An Insult To One's Intelligence","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"23 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Let me emphasize that I really enjoy watching this film. It has first-rate suspense and is definitely entertaining. I have seen it multiple times and will continue to watch it.Having said that, I have to admit I laugh when I see people writing about how intelligent this movie is. Intelligent? Yeah, right.Let's see. A man goes out to lunch and comes back to discover (after walking into an open front door that previously shuts and locks automatically) that all his co-workers have been murdered. Shortly afterward, he is shot at by a professional killer, who, conveniently, misses! OK. Now on the run, our hero (Robert Redford) kidnaps a woman at random in broad daylight and forces her at gunpoint back to her apartment. (Nobody sees any of this.) About two hours later, the woman is making love to the man and is instantly in love with him!!It gets better. The man - a professional reader, a bookworm, instantly turns into James Bond and the woman is instantly transformed from a lonely, shrinking violet into an international spy, boldly breaking into the CIA and talking tough to an agent. Wow, yes, that sure sounds plausible to me! Together they fight a renegade CIA wing until he convinces her to leave town and then he finishes up, surviving the whole affair. All that from a mousy guy who just reads books for a living. Wow.Well, I''ll repeat one thing, for the readers here who forgot my opening paragraph and think I am panning the film. I am not. I like the movie. it's entertaining. It's fun to watch, and that's the name of the game........but if you think this is intelligent storytelling, well, I have this swampland in New Jersey I'd like to sell you that...... "},{"Title":"Still fresh after thirty five years","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This thriller from 1975 has maintained its freshness; sure the technology is old fashioned but the story is still gripping without relying on non-stop action, explosions and shaky camera work one would expect today. Robert Redford plays a CIA employee who returns from lunch to find his entire section has been killed; why is a mystery, they aren't investigating anything serious; they just analyse books. Realising he is in danger he leaves the scene and phones his superior from a phone box; he is given instructions about how to come in safely but when he follows them he is ambushed. He manages to escape but now he realises that he can't trust anybody inside the CIA. He makes his escape by kidnapping a woman and eventually persuading her that he is actually one of the good guys and that he needs her help. In order to survive he must find out just what it was that his section discovered that was so serious that people would kill to keep secret.It was refreshing to watch a thriller that didn't rely on constant action; in fact the tensest scenes often involved just two people talking where there was a feeling that something could happen at any moment. Robert Redford did a good job as man on the run Joseph Turner and Max von Sydow was particularly menacing as the soft spoken assassin. Director Sydney Pollack kept things tense throughout without things getting melodramatic. I liked how the viewer is kept unsure about who if anybody within the CIA can be trusted without making everybody out to be monsters&#x85; and when we do learn the motive it feels just as topical as it was back in the seventies. "}{"Title":"re These lines will become a famous lines will become as famous as...","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 1. What we have here is a failure to communicate - 1967 - Cool Hand Luke 2. My name is Bond, James Bond£ - 1962 Doctor No 3. My name is Caine....(Kung Fu) 1972 TV movie seriesIt will take time but these lines will become as famous as the ones mentioned above.Three days of the Condor - 1975Turner Do we have plans to invade the Middle East? Higgins Are you crazy? Turner Am I? Higgins Look, Turner&#133; Turner Do we have plans? Higgins No. Absolutely not. We have games. That's all. We play games. What if? How many men? What would it take? Is there a cheaper way to destabilize a regime? That's what we're paid to do. . . . Higgins Fact is, there was nothing wrong with the plan. Oh, the plan was alright, the plan would've worked. Turner Boy, what is it with you people? You think not getting caught in a lie is the same thing as telling the truth? Higgins No. It's simple economics. Today it's oil, right? In ten or fifteen years, food. Plutonium. And maybe even sooner. Now, what do you think the people are gonna want us to do then? Turner Ask them. Higgins Not now &#151; then! Ask 'em when they're running out. Ask 'em when there's no heat in their homes and they're cold. Ask 'em when their engines stop. Ask 'em when people who have never known hunger start going hungry. You wanna know something? They won't want us to ask 'em. They'll just want us to get it for 'em! This is at the end of the film, and the last exchange between von Sydow and Redford. This film came out just after the first oil crisis of the '70s! 30 years on, and people are even more brainwashed then ever before...I think that this film should be re-made, and probably the only man that could do this justice would be Denzel Washington. The only man at the moment that has the quality called Screen Presence. Hat can make stay interested in a film with him saying anything for 5 minutes or more.I feel that Hollywood should really go for this film and re-make it. But touching this up to make it more relevant for todays generation. If Possible.Please think about it Hollywood.If you haven't seen the original please do so. Its something that you shouldn't miss! "},{"Title":"He Does Read","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm sure that Robert Redford thought he had the greatest job in the world in Three Days Of The Condor. He's a reader for the Central Intelligence Agency. His job along with several other associates is to read various books, fiction and non-fiction, in a comfortable old Upper East Side of New York brownstone and glean ideas for the agency.Except that one fine day an innocuous report gets turned in from his brownstone that panics someone in a high place. A hit team is sent out and Redford by dint of going out for lunch orders through a back entrance misses a massacre. After he calls it in and then escapes another murder attempt in which a friend in the agency is killed, he doesn't know who to trust.Three Days Of The Condor is a finely tuned spy thriller which will keep you guessing right up to the end. You will be inside Robert Redford's head totally, you won't know what to believe either. Eventually the only one he does trust is a woman whom he forces at gunpoint to help him escape. The woman is Faye Dunaway who goes Stockholm and enlists in helping Redford try and sort things out.Redford proves to be quite resourceful even winning the admiration of Max Von Sydow, the contract killer hired to get him. After all he's not a field agent, but as Von Sydow points out, 'he does read'.Sydney Pollack kept things going at a Hitchcock like level of tension with great performances from his cast. That would also include Cliff Robertson as the CIA station chief whose motives are mixed to say the least.If your taste tends to espionage thrillers, don't miss Three Days Of The Condor. "},{"Title":"Very topical in today's world","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" So much for those who said this was a 'paranoid' movie... After not just one but three middle eastern wars related to oil supplies (and as prices currently approach $3 per gallon) this movie is VERY topical. The speech by Higgins (Cliff Robertson) at the end of the movie could be taken straight from the present-day appeals of 'Peak Oil' activists who are warning that declining supply and increasing demand for oil will result in a worsening crisis and bring on catastrophic shortages just like Higgins predicted. Ironically, taking over middle-east oil will not provide a long-term (or even short-term, some say) solution, since their supply has reached (or soon will reach) its peak as well.I'm amazed at Redford's (and Pollack's) prescience of this crisis now that it seems to have arrived some 25 years later. It seems he was trying to warn us, but true to form, most people simply responded to the movie as a great thriller and clucked about their being paranoid (!) about the world situation.Redford and Dunaway are great, and I thought Robertson, Houseman, and Von Sydow were very good also. and for a movie, Condor was way, waaay better than Chinatown. And Sneakers or Spygames???? This is a GREAT movie! It should be re-released, in my opinion!! "},{"Title":"Work, lunch, conspiracy, death at the office.","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Having now seen four of Sydney Pollack's films, it is amazing to me how subdued they are in tone and style. Only the bare essentials are used to tell the story, which is itself quite simple. Yet, there is a certain charm to some of his films, particularly Jeremiah Johnson and Three Days of the Condor, each of which are most unusual examples of their particular genre. Continuing their blossoming work relationship, Pollack and Robert Redford team up again here and the result is perhaps their finest work. Redford seems completely at ease as the star here, playing a book analyst working for the CIA who is inadvertently drawn into action when his co-workers are murdered. As he follows leads and attempts to uncover the truth behind the assassination attempts, he stumbles upon a woman seemingly by chance, who just happens to look like Faye Dunaway. Needless to say, things happen but the real meat of this story is government conspiracy and the cover-up attempts of rather seedy-looking situations.As mentioned before, Pollack's task is to play it as simple as possible. He maintains strong direction while Redford provides the heroics and Dunaway gives us some very dark and ironically funny line readings. Viewing it as a precursor to other spy films like The Bourne trilogy, this is a well-made and interesting, if simple-minded, spy film. "},{"Title":"They don't make movies like this anymore!","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I look back at films like Three Days of Condor with a nice twinkle in the eyes due to the fact that Hollywood and even world cinema don't make films like this anymore. Where's the excitement in seeing a ordinary guy fighting against the odds facing powerful and dangerous people behind him without being a James Bond or a Jason Bourne type? Where did the intelligent and high standard plots go? And who said that a suspense film must have a haunting score or fast action scenes? Sydney Pollack made a wonderful thriller, with delightful dramatic scenes and a interesting plot that new directors of our recent times would be ashamed of what they're doing with plenty of money but no good script in hands.And you gotta love when Robert Redford plays someone related to spies and intelligence services, after all he gave us notable and memorable performances not only in this but also in Sneakers and Spy Game, outstanding spy thrillers. Here, he plays a bookish CIA researcher named Joseph Turner, codename 'The Condor', involved in a mysterious and dangerous incident after the murder of all his colleagues. The strange fact is that they only deliver messages to the headquarters, under secret memos, nothing harmful but for some reason the only member of this team who survived is followed by a sinister man (the great Max von Sydow), and also by some of his bosses at CIA (one of them played by Cliff Robertson). Trying to figure out what happened and who is trying to kill him, Turner takes a hostage (Faye Dunaway) that might help him out and also might be a next victim of these people.Intelligent without being complicated or fuzzy, breathtaking without making the audience feel dizzy with some innovating shaky camera, Three Days of Condor might look dated or not much demanding in terms of surprise, but it certainly it's a serious and thrilling experience, with lots of action and effective and well balanced dramatic moments between Dunaway and Redford, and it has many things that lack in today's movies it makes us feel good and it makes us really scared for the sake of these characters, we can relate to them and to their dangerous moments fighting the bad guys. The performances are brilliant most notably the villain played by Max von Sydow, working with a efficiency in such a sinister and dark character that gets our attention from the first moment he's on the screen to the very last (and surprising!) scene. My favorite part with him was when he explained why he does what he does, explaining in very reasonable terms for his line of work as sort of a high class mercenary. Sydney Pollack makes of Three Days of Condor a rare great thriller that still can make our hearts beat fast, with enormous qualities in terms of acting, screenplay, direction, cinematography, editing and music, and he only would made a similar interesting work in the also thrilling The Firm. No wonder that David Rayfiel wrote both films and they were both amazing. We need more of those now! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Absolutely incredible.","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of the most compelling films I've ever seen. Sydney Pollack expertly directs this engaging espionage thriller about Joseph Turner (Robert Redford), a man who walks into work and finds every one of his co-workers dead. He works for the CIA developing codes and the majority of the film deals with him trying to figure out what is happening and why somebody would attack a place with no field agents, just a bunch of bookworms. He kidnaps a woman (Faye Dunaway) in order to escape and is constantly on the run, trying to stay alive and put all of the pieces together. When he finally realizes what is happening and starts going after those who are trying to kill him, the story kicks up a whole new level of intrigue with massive government conspiracy in the places you'd least expect it. Possibly the most remarkable aspect of the film is the chemistry between Redford and Dunaway. Obviously they are an absurdly attractive couple based only on looks, but when they get close to one another they create an eroticism that has rarely been matched. Max von Sydow shows up and gives a superb performance as a hit-man working for anyone who pays. His final scene with Redford, where he discusses what it's like living the life of a hit-man, is absolutely marvelous. The film ends up being incredibly ironic and a foreshadow for the future of the American government when Redford puts everything together and realizes that everything that's happened is due to oil. It's one of the best films I've seen in quite a while. "},{"Title":"2 hours of the condor","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Towards the end of this film - two of the main protagonists engage in a conversation that is so telling - it could have been written yesterday and not thirty years ago.The West has long looked to the east and its oil fields as potential targets and this film just reinforces the fact that what we think of as a new war has in fact been a raging cold war for decades. It is not and never has been about freedom &#150;it is now and always has been a war of economic necessity. Although this film is not as renowned as many of the other paranoid spy thrillers of the 70's such as the Conversation or the Parallax View it is still a very watchable and intriguing film.Redford is well cast as a fish out of water having to adapt his talents from the page to real life. The central relationship between Dunaway and Redford doesn't work as well as it should. She is too keen to fall for his charms and were it not Redford but a more charmless man like Hackman for example I doubt it would have worked at all.The film is not as complex as has suggested. It is neat and easy enough to follow. It has a beguiling character that is better for my money than harder hitting films like Parallax. Redfords fight in the middle of the film is copied in a many ways by the new Bourne movie fight scenes. Indeed the double talk spy will appeal to fans of this genre. Bourne today is the nearest thing to Condor in the movies.And Von Sydow is as always untouchable. Worth a remake but I still have a very dear place in my big movie heart for well made 70s films like this. "},{"Title":"a brilliant movie","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have watched this movie several times & it remains a personal favourite. It unravels itself with such innocence. Well-acted & with an outstanding cast. The everyday reality of so many city streets gently gives way in bad weather, in gloomy scenes so many of us can identify with. Suddenly, it comes apart at the seams. Till nothing is left but a dramatic plot, revealing itself layer upon layer. Out of the ordinary, comes the treachery. And so to the substance of the drama. The corrupt come & go. So do the incidental heroes or heroines as may be. Turn one way & there is assassination plots or death! To the opposite, ongoing life & phone calls pledging loyalty or a new beginning at least, a new opportunity or a new escape, however temporary, however much the target may look over one's shoulder! It reverberates upon all who it binds or threatens, all who it questions or exposes. It is brilliant in its unfolding mastery of craft, clever but not offensive, eerie in its isolation but not leaving the viewer less than rivetted amidst it all.The Max von Sydow character is charismatic, extreme in his detached life & its components & decisionmaking, full of insights beyond the norm, yet threatening & sinister. Faye Dunaway likewise puts in an intriguing performance, not sure of her companion's explanations & truthfulness, but too, curious even attracted by the possibility of the protagonist's precarious situation & ongoing struggles towards perceived justice. More than 20 years on, the CIA & US government are still embroiled in controversial dealings, much of a dubious nature. Cruelty & brutality have been evidenced on television screens across the world! Unjust killings have been alleged & not investigated! So the plot of this movie dated though it be, is not to be dismissed as without merit or relevance to modern life! Three Days of the Condor is an entralling movie to be enjoyed & too, a portrayal of the ongoing battle of the individual unjustly persecuted against the elements. Not the weather but the climate of vested interests who he ingeniously learns to play against itself. And Robert Redford's empathetic portrayal as the hero of the situation completes the bill, though the menacing forces are never far away. One of my top 10 movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Tense Thriller really Delivers!","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Director Sidney Pollack delivers a taut thriller that you can watch over and over again. You can't go wrong with Robert Redford, Faye Dunaway and Max Von Sydow. This is one of those innocent man on the run films; shades of North by Northwest. It begins with a massacre at a library like facility in which all but one employee is gunned down. The massacre occurred while the survivor (Redford) was out getting fellow employees their lunch. The survivor is as stunned as his fellow employees. Who did this and why? He soon learns that he cannot trust the people he works for, so suddenly he's on the run and, just spontaneously, he recruits the aid of a woman photographer he encounters in a shop. From there he must determine what is going on and who's behind it all. There are many tense scenes of Redford on the run. Plot turns and twists enhance this fine film. This is one you'll remember! "},{"Title":"Cloak And Dagger Stuff","Date":"9 November 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Three Days of the Condor certainly manages to give a pretty good depiction of cloak and dagger intelligence activity. Robert Redford played Joe Turner, a CIA analyst who finds himself in a desperate situation when he returns to the office from lunch and discovers all of his co-workers murdered and realizes that he must surely be the next target. The movie follows Turner as he tries to put together the pieces and figure out exactly what's happening.Redford's performance was all right, but in all honesty this wasn't the strongest performance of his career. I frankly thought he was overshadowed by Faye Dunaway, who played Kathy - a woman Turner kidnaps as part of his desperate attempt to escape those out to get him, and with whom he eventually develops a connection - emotionally and sexually. Unfortunately, neither character was particularly believable. Turner - self-described as no spy but rather simply as a guy who reads books, nevertheless seemed to come across as a pretty accomplished cloak and dagger type. The relatively quick development of the relationship between Turner and Kathy detracted from the latter character's credibility, as did her apparently quick and easy entrance into Turner's activity.This isn't especially an action movie - although it has action moments. It's more of a behind the scenes look at the intelligence community and its ways. It has some mildly effective twists, and a resolution to the mystery of why Turner's colleagues were killed, although the movie ended on a bit of an open ended note, with a great deal of uncertainty about what Turner's ultimate fate would be. "}{"Title":"Good","Date":"20 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The blend of strong acting, a strong story and some inventive camera-work earns this Redford vehicle a rating of 7/10. This suspenseful thriller sees the characters struggle against a system that has perpetuated many falsehoods. The trains of righteousness can't be stopped and their movement brings about reactive forces in the people they affect. Even though it was made almost 40 years ago, Three Days of the Condor hasn't lost any of its power. The best thing about this spy thriller it doesn't give away all its information at once. After reading some of the negative reviews on here, I just have to say that some people really don't get it. I finished this film wondering, Are we being watched? "},{"Title":"Redford owned the '70s conspiracy flick","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Three Days of the Condor just oozes paranoia, in just the way that handful of '70s movies can. What I really like about this movie is just how everyman Robert Redford is. He's a bookworm who's trying to outwit the preying gunmen while just rugged enough to sex up Fay Dunaway. Max Von Sydow, for his part lays on the sinister pretty thick with his alternating menacing/sort of affectionate bad guy. And the oil angle probably hit a lot harder back in 1975, what with that being the reason for everything, these days. But these shadow guys within the C.I.A. are still willing to kill their own to control such a commodity. It's still scary stuff. And the utterly ambiguous note that the movie ends on is just a killer way to go out. Will they print the story? The whole movie's so cynical, you just never know. Great dialog, great tense direction, and just an all-around winner of a movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking for its time","Date":"12 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I recently watched this again and was reminded how much I enjoyed many aspects of the movie.Despite some dialog-heavy scenes, the movie's pace is fairly quick. It's an effective blend of excitement and depth of storytelling. The movie is set in a difficult era for the U.S., where cynicism about who we are and what is important to us is on the rise. This movie taps into that part of U.S. culture very effectively, with Condor depicted as caught in the middle of that nationalism/cynicism tug of war. In that way, the film is groundbreaking. It questions core American values the way Coming Home does a few years later, but this movie does it in a spy thriller wrapper, rather as a direct social commentary.The emotional tension between Redford and Dunaway is excellent. As much as I like his performance, hers is even better. Great supporting efforts by Cliff Roberts and John Houseman. But Max von Sedow steals the show. He's so effective, both verbally and physically, that he manages to be both menacing and reassuring at the same time.Some aspects of the movie feel dated (the computer technology, in particular), but that's unavoidable. You just have to remind yourself that is what they had in those days, and to everyone back then, it seemed miraculous.The movie's ending is a subtle cliffhanger that works well. What does happen to Joe Turner? Higgins says You can walk away now, but how far if they don't print it? That sentence sums up the menacing antagonism of the film. "},{"Title":"Near Perfection!","Date":"10 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Adapted from the novel Six Days of the Condor by James Grady, Sydney Pollack's 'Three Days of the Condor' is Near Perfection! A Terrific Political-Thriller, that's solidly executed & superbly acted. 'Three Days of the Condor' Synopsis A bookish CIA researcher finds all his co-workers dead, and must outwit those responsible until he figures out who he can really trust.'Three Days of the Condor' is arresting & insanely entertaining. The pace never dips, sure, the running time could've been trimmed by 10 minutes, but that's barely a massive hiccup. Lorenzo Semple Jr.& David Rayfiel's Adapted Screenplay is terrific. Pollack's Direction is tense, unpredictable & grasping. Cinematography is top-notch. Editing is proper. Art Design is perfect.Performance-Wise Robert Redford is fantastic as the protagonist. The Legend gets into the skin of the character & delivers wonderfully. Faye Dunaway never disappoints. The Great Max von Sydow is amazing, he's chilling in his portrayal. Cliff Robertson is superb. John Houseman is quite good.On the whole, 'Three Days of the Condor' is a Knockout! "},{"Title":"Have I refused you anything, yet?","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Maybe the most amazing thing about the whole story is the movie is only two hours(1 hour, 55 minutes, actually). Kindly remastered, as the classics are in the hands of artisans. If one watches that many older movies, it's evident that the movie was made awhile back. Now, the Paramount movie is clean, but the lines are still soft.A small office in NYC is terrorized. Not exactly an act of terrorism, to be more accurate the shooting is an act of executing every employee except two. One that got away, and in that case he didn't get away actually. He was on an errand. Then later another employee is found dead in his apartment.Telephone systems were more honest then. To prove that, let's just say that phone systems were 99 percent lines. Now the phone systems are 39 percent lines and the other 61 percent of the communications are carried out with radio waves and digital conversion systems. Imagine half the people in Brooklyn, NY being tied in on the same circuits by one guy who knew how the phone system worked. I buy the idea---I think it's totally realistic, during the time the movie was made.Condor is in flight, because he knows something is up. He knows that he knows too much. It's become a cliché over the years, that phrase about knowing too much, but the fear of the operations(code Five Continents Imports) is that by saving his own skin, Condor will find out much more than the company wants him to know. Therefore he becomes more afraid. The book reader has not only a vast personal warehouse of knowledge, he has an acute instinct of danger.Miss Dunaway is a great girl Friday. She needs to be.-- "},{"Title":"masterful thriller","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A modest CIA officer (Robert Redford) works by reading books in order to detect that allow encrypted messages reveal secret operations that might upset the country's stability. One day, when he returns to work, all his companions are dead. Aware that chance alone saved him from certain death, flees trying to save, but also to find an explanation for what happened. In their flight is forced to kidnap a woman (Faye Dunaway), with which, in addition to sharing his adventure, he lives an intense love story Three Days of the Condor is a masterful thriller that has all the virtues that elevated Pollack as one of the most promising directors of the 70 thanks to films as bright as Yakuza, Jeremiah Johnson, Tootsie or 3 Days of the Condor. In this case the director shows extraordinary skill in the genre that the story maintains interest without fail at any time, creating a substantial atmosphere of intrigue and giving a moderate pace but relentless. The treatment of the fabric is exemplary, dosing the action and creating great tension scenes. But if the film successful shows in the intrigue of the plot, where it really shines is in the treatment of the characters that make the story gains in depth and interest. Both Robert Redford's character like Max Von Sydow, both splendid actors are full of edges and subtleties, getting the attention of the audience take over the plot. Equally splendid is Faye Dunaway, who at that time had starred the magnificent film The Thomas Crown Affair with Steve McQueen, making an accurate portrayal of an unstable woman dissatisfied with her life. In fact, part of the plot between Redford and Dunaway is becoming one of the focuses of the film, based on the intelligent and insightful dialogues and the tremendous chemistry between them, which nevertheless remains grateful tone likelihood, is very unusual in this genre. All intimate scenes reveal extraordinary character, making the best of Pollack and getting a quality set, with a great soundtrack of 70's Jazz by Dave Grusin. "},{"Title":"Top-Notch Thriller","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" No need to echo consensus views on the movie's overall excellence. I can see why the editing won an Oscar. The many wordless sequences articulate the story as swiftly and effectively as dialog, thanks to a shrewd cutter's eye. Those wordless sequences also emphasize Condor's isolation at the same time he must stay moving against unseen forces. This is very much a post-Vietnam spy thriller. Nothing like the story's basic cynicism could have emerged in the pre period. But following Watergate, the Pentagon Papers, My Lai, etc., the public was ready to accept dirty truths about our side of the Cold War. The ending refuses to compromise that crucial point and is all to the movie makers' credit in sticking with it.My one reservation is with the sex scene that appears a gratuitous and distractive interruption. Neither, for that matter, does it make much psychological sense given all the murder and mayhem surrounding the two characters. It's like someone in production said, Okay, stop the mayhem; Time for a sex scene. I may exaggerate, but not much.However, catch that great last scene with Joubert (Von Sydow) and Condor, with its various twists and undercurrents, as the icy hit-man appears to offer the disillusioned CIA man more than a job. It's a beautifully shaded scene.Anyway, the movie remains a first-rate thriller, one of Redford's best. "},{"Title":"Except for an unsatisfying ending, one of the best of the genre","Date":"17 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Having not seen this film in 27 years, I was quite surprised how many scenes I remembered. So, I guess the film made an impression on me back in 1975 during its theatrical release.I think this may have been the first time I became aware of director Sydney Pollack, who long impressed me in the years since.The suspense drama questions the motives and actions of the American government (in this case the CIA) in the post-Watergate/Vietnam era. And it does so in a way that is thought provoking, yet not in your face.Robert Redford (code name Condor), still in his peak, is excellent as an employee of the CIA, who is the only one in his office not assassinated...since he is out to lunch. He struggles to piece together what is going on, finally to realize there is a turf war going on.Along the way, he meets Faye Dunaway. whom he first forces to help him, but who later helps him willingly. I've never cared for Dunaway, but she does fine here. And, of course, considering the era, there is the obligatory sex scene. Redford begins playing a cat-and-mouse game with CIA deputy director Cliff Robertson, who is also baffled by what is going on. Robertson does very nicely here, as well, although this time he was well past his prime in movies. A Frenchman named Joubert turns out to be an assassin, whose loyalties are difficult to comprehend. Max von Sydow gives that role some unexpected depth, and I really enjoyed him here. It's also nice to see John Houseman in a key role, although we don't really see enough of him here.In the end, it all comes down to what else -- oil. That's fine, and Cliff Robertson gives a nice soliloquy about the difference between how Americans might look at oil at the time, and might look at it when it's truly scare. Interesting how the theme of oil continue to plague us nearly 40 years later.It's difficult to criticize anything in this film...except the ending. I am NEVER a fan of movies whose endings are left open. Will the newspaper print Redford's story (as he assumes they will), or will it get covered up (as Robertson suggests). That ambiguity made me feel really let down, and I'm deducting a whole star because of it.Nevertheless, this is a taut drama well worth watching, and perhaps having on your DVD shelf. "},{"Title":"Mystery/Action/Politics/Intellect/Drama","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is definitely one worth watching by anyone. It boasts a great cast, incredible acting, a suspenseful, intelligent, and coherent plot, and is probably one of the highest points in Sidney Pollack's career.The plot focuses on a low-level CIA agent by the name of Joseph Turner, who basically reads books and compiles reports. What exactly this accomplishes is never specified perhaps Turner is looking for CIA leaks and accidental revealing of techniques... whatever.Turner's life turns upside-down when he sends one of his usual reports to his superiors, and then goes out to lunch. When he returns, he finds that all 6 of his colleagues have been murdered and the office in shambles. Now Turner does not know who to trust (when he attempts to trust the CIA, it costs the life of one of his best friends, and his superior tries to kill him. Pleasant), and has only two advantages. One of these is the fact that his voracious reading has given him a large array of amateur tricks which actually work against the government agency. The other is the help of a random woman that he, in desperation, kidnapped from the street and later began a romantic relationship with.The whole movie focuses on how Turner attempts to find out what is going on. While in itself, this is far from a prize-winning subject, it is presented in a way which makes the viewer pay attention throughout the 1.5 hour + movie. True, there are some slight gaps in the plot, there are a few boring points, but they are more than redeemed by Redford, Dunaway, and Von Sydow's acting, the intellectual turns the plot takes, and (for me) the final talk between Joubert and Turner.Is this movie worth watching? As said before, yes. This movie is witty, enthralling, and should be afforded the title of 'Classic'. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Little Dated, Interesting Story Line, Decent Action, Ambiguous End","Date":"17 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As others have pointed out, there are some good things about this movie, and some things that drag it down a little. I have always enjoyed it, but when I saw it in first release, at the time, it meant a lot more.One thing I would like to add to the reviews is a note on the final dialog between Turner (Redford) and Higgins (Robertson). It's like this is the real climax of the movie and we are (supposedly) given both sides to choose from - Robertson's Hobson's choice sign a pact with devil and you'll survive, or Redford's the lone hero can still stand up against the government and win.We don't know who will win here, but we are supposed to hope for Redford's side.Just remember that Higgnes was only a mid-level CIA functionary who had been routinely passed over for promotion. Even Houseman's character (Wabash as one of the head CIA officers) wonders why. Think on this as you watch the ending - who exactly does Higgins speak for? The Agency? The Government? His own altruistic (and most likely mistaken) belief in the Agency? Do you think Wabash actually believes this scenario? Or is this the Company line? And how many other Atwoods are there? I'm sure the conspiracy theorists loved (and still love) this movie. "}{"Title":"Sharp, Concise Dialogue  and Von Sydow Elevate This Film","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of the most intriguing elements of this film is trying to answer the question Is it dated, of the era entertainment or is it remarkably prescient film-making. If you're familiar with the film and any of its valid criticisms, you've heard that it's an uneven, Watergate-paranoia, evil-government piece; over-romanticized with music score and untenable heroic behaviors on the part of the characters.However far the film strays from one's own vision of the caper at hand, the crisp singular dialogue and character exchanges have a directness and authenticity to them that keeps you emotionally interested.There too innumerable to list here (check out the Quotes section) but I think you can make a short film of the last 25 minutes of this movie and it could stand on it's own. Truly.Lastly, Max Von Sydow - he might have 20 minutes total of camera time, but he gives an award-worthy supporting performance. Stoic, frightening and honest, the classic actor also manages to milk some humanity out of the role of a ruthless assassin. His final foreboding soliloquy is made all the more so with the almost sunny and benign delivery of his warning to Redford's Condor that he will never be safe and perhaps they will meet again. "},{"Title":"Nice spy film that keeps moving","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a decent mid-seventies paranoia film. Robert Redford plays a small-time researcher for the CIA, and his research leads into an area that gets his entire office executed while he's out - oops, they meant to get him, too, so he goes on the lam. He has no idea who did the hit, and he can't trust anyone, not even his supervisors.Max von Sydow plays a contract killer, and it's interesting to contrast von Sydow and Redford in their scenes together. Von Sydow is having a conversation just like you and I would. Redford, though, is acting. There are lots of plot twists and turns, and director Sydney Pollack keeps things moving on track. The plot turns out to have been semi-unbelievable in the 70s, but watching it today gives surprising credibility to what's going on undercover at the Agency. "},{"Title":"Great post-Watergate thriller","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In The Day of the Condor, Robert Redford is a hapless guy who reads books for the CIA under the code name 'Condor' until his office, for some reason, is wiped out by assassins while he is literally out to lunch. He relies on his book knowledge (he reads everything, his dismayed superiors report as explanation for his feats) and his good looks to get a woman (Faye Dunaway) to help him as he desperately tries to figure out who he can trust, who's trying to kill him, and why.This was one of the first post-Watergate thrillers, and other than of course All The President's Men it seems the most directly in response to the unprecedented betrayals of trust by the government that people were overwhelmed with in the mid-1970s. Redford's Condor is appalled to discover the government will murder innocent people and topple foreign regimes for America's benefit because they imagine it's what the American people want. While this discovery might seem a trifle unsurprising to modern audiences, prior to Watergate and the Pentagon Papers, these ideas were fringe ones at best that most people simply wouldn't have given much credence to. In many ways, this movie mirrors the death of the American public's blind faith in the government.As a film, it's got its issues. The goofy and halfhearted jazzy score is a relic of the mid-70s that doesn't benefit the film nearly as well the other 70s potpourri the movie contains. Much of the movie involves the idea that a woman will, within a few hours, fall in love with a man who abducted her off the street and will, the next day, gleefully help him kidnap CIA officials. This is frankly hard to believe even if the guy's as handsome as Robert Redford, and the entire romantic subplot of the movie is clumsy at best.This movie is definitely part of a turning point in the spy thriller, where the enemy could very well be one's own government. It also seems to have become an archetype for how Hollywood does spy thrillers, many 90s and 2000s films are variations on the theme of one guy against the CIA and there are clearly shadows of Condor in them. Aside from being an interesting part of film history, it's pretty entertaining even if Condor's revelations are a bit passe nowadays. "},{"Title":"The Prototypical American Political Thriller with a Shiny Cast and a Silly Dave Grusin Score","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This, director Sydney Pollack's ninth film, is a well-made thriller, taut and engrossing, and all too persuasive. Conspiracies including murder by federal agencies used to be found in arcane writings of who were deemed extremely radical. Months after Watergate, Three Days of the Condor went from a thrifty page-turner to a classy thriller starring Robert Redford and Faye Dunaway. How soon we seem to have always become used to the most discouraging contingencies about our governments, and how soon, too, we market them. But back then, we did it better. Now we're just too obvious.Redford brings a becoming, persevering rigor to his role He would very much like to survive, so he's got to revise all of his assurances about the CIA. The Edgar-winning script is naturally the thread of how he stays alive and haphazardly unearths a conspiracy within the agency. In the film's weakest element, he's assisted by Faye Dunaway, playing a woman who is the express personification of nerve. He kidnaps her for the sake of using her apartment as a refuge, but something about him, maybe his astonishing likeness to Robert Redford, persuades her that she'd rather help him all the sudden than meet her fiancé on a ski trip.Pollack continuously unravels the entanglements around Redford's character. It's comprised of business types, and the most disparaging thing about them to be sure is their detachment as they talk about murder and other breakage. One of them is a contract killer, played with uncommon persuasion by the enormously brilliant and powerful Max von Sydow. One is the unexcitable functionary played by chiseled retro star Cliff Robertson. And one, veteran actor John Houseman, is a deranged result of Cold War double-reverse strategy.This prototypical American political thriller never pushes their several mazelike conspiracies too far. We can believe that the CIA might behave in this way, and that it has. The ending, when it comes and when it's translated with such distressing rationality by von Sydow, has, as von Sydow's voice always does, a fitting pitch. Quite a cynical one at that. "},{"Title":"I don't remember yesterday. Today it rained.","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one of Robert Redford's best films. It is the one I remember most when thinking of Redford. All of the glory went to Faye Dunaway and Max von Sydow however. That is not to say that they didn't put in fine performances, but Redford's was superior and I cannot understand how he was ignored.Remembering Sydney Pollack, who died last month, this is also one of his best films, and one of several he did with Redford.Cliff Robertson was also good, and I always like to see the late John Houseman. who I will always remember as Professor Charles W. Kingsfield Jr.If you like tight suspense thriller, then this is a great one, and the message in 1975 is ever so poignant today. "},{"Title":"If you want to see a film that mirrors the moral ambiguity of  modern society along with some wonder cinematography, this film is it.","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a wonderful thriller shot in color but you come away feeling that it has been mostly a black and white film. Or maybe gray is a better color because, similar to a LeCarre novel, there is much gray and little black and white in terms of who the 'good guys' are and who the 'bad guys' are. Some great actors in John Houseman, Max Von Sydow, Faye Dunaway and Redford who plays the role of a confused man who is confounded by what he discovers as he fights to avoid detection and ultimate murder by a shadowy figure. There are some great lines such as Faye Dunaway who is kidnapped and tied up by Redford in his desperate effort to get away from the scene of a near murder (of himself) when asked for help by Redford says Have I ever denied you anything? Another great quote is by John Houseman, who plays the role of a management person in the CIA. His past includes a similar role during World War II and who sighs at some point when asked what he misses from those days and says, in world weary voice something to the effect that he missed the clarity . What a great film. There is no 'happy' ending and at the end of the film, only moral ambiguity . "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My congratulations to Robert Redford and Faye Dunaway. I have seen the movie a couple of times, and my impression gets even better and better. Both stars have shown an outstanding performance!!! It is a pity that this movie has never become so famous like some other and by far poorer movies.  "},{"Title":"Quiet, intermittently gripping political thriller","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Grimy, romantic, mid-1970s New York. Redford, von Sydow and Faye Dunaway. An intelligent, sparely scored and under-scripted (i.e. no superfluous explanation) spy thriller. It should be brilliant.Hmm. Well I think Pollack trusts too much to a non-interventionist directing approach. There's dead air in the gaps of the script there's just not enough to help one to join the dots of the dialogue and the suspense keeps getting sapped. Indeed, there's further deflation by Dave Grusin's score which is more soft porn than urban intrigue, or cool. And the romance doesn't quite dovetail.That said there's plenty to enjoy and disturb. The principals' performances are good, particularly Redford and von Sydow and the film has the same elusive but pessimistic outcome that is characteristic of films of this period (like The Conversation (1974) and the British TV series Tinker Tailor, Soldier, Spy, (1979)). I just couldn't shift the feeling that the conclusion was left as loose ends for disingenuous reasons. 5/10 "},{"Title":"An okay time-passer if you don't examine the story too closely.","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a so-so film that is rather loosely based on the novel Six Days Of The Condor. If you're worried about the missing days don't bother - our hero spends them in bed with strep throat in the novel so the film wisely cut the time period down to just three days. The star appeal of Robert Redford and Faye Dunaway is what makes this so watchable. The story is far-fetched even for a spy film and is changed considerably from the novel. The novel's villains are like the bad guys from the film Lethal Weapon - former Air America operatives who are running drugs. The movie's villains are gung-ho CIA types who take a contingency invasion plan way too seriously and plan to actually launch it. Those villains are so stupid that just because Redford's character zeroes in on their code book they stupidly wipe out his entire section of CIA bookworms rather than simply change code books. It gives the film a nice body count but makes little sense.This film gets a lot of attention now since people like to read a little too much contemporary meaning into the whole CIA gentry plotting an invasion of an oil-rich nation in the Middle East angle. The story isn't as political as some reviews would have you believe but it has a wonderful ending in which Redford's character goes to the press with what his CIA superiors are trying to cover up. If you check your history books there was a lot of that sort of thing from conscience-stricken CIA employees in the 1970's so that is pretty cool and must have really impressed audiences when the film first came out. Max Von Sydow is terrific as the type of mercenary whose straight-forward way of pursuing his deadly business seems downright honest when compared with the convoluted machinations of the upper level intelligence planners.If you just sit back and enjoy the flow of the story without trying to make the film deeper than it really is this is a pretty good way to pass an evening. There are some nice action bits including a scene that will redefine the term going postal. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, sexy and quite brilliant conspiracy thriller nof topical interest","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" With this movie I must say Im quite bias. I ve loved it since I first saw it, somewhere when I was just a kid. Maybe the reasons have changed or deepened. I don't know. I don't think I understood it then, just caught a glimpse of an atmosphere or something.Anyway, it is sublimely acted by all actors involved Robert Redford, Faye Dunaway, Cliff Roberson John Houseman and many more. And by Max von Sydow...one of Swedens best actors who here shows just a little bit of his enormous talent as an actor. He very human portrait of a hired killer is among the the most complex I've seen. See his part and forget all other crappy you've seen through the times.A standing ovation to Sidney Pollack for the direction.Three days of Condor together with Bonnie and Clyde made me love the 70s in American cinema and for that I'm deeply in debt. "}{"Title":"An exciting, intelligent thriller","Date":"26 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There was once a time that paranoid thrillers such as Sydney Pollack's magnificent Three Days of the Condor would have seemed like the mad ramblings of an extreme lefty. The government were not made up of powerful men with our best interests at heart, but a bunch of powerful men plotting, scheming and murdering their way to further themselves or whatever organisation-within-an-organisation they were working for. After the Watergate scandal, such cynicism didn't seem so out-there. It inspired a wave of great films, some of the finest in American history, with director Sydney Pollack and actor Robert Redford very much at the forefront.Here Redford plays Joseph Turner, a CIA bookworm tasked with reading everything - books, newspapers, magazines - in the search for hidden codes and revolutionary ideas, operating from a small office with a close assortment of colleagues. After he pops out for lunch one day, he returns to find all of his co-workers murdered, and is plunged into a world of deep paranoia. When he seeks protection from the 'Company', he is almost murdered as he meets the man he thinks is bringing him in. With no-one to turn to, he kidnaps an artist named Kathy (Faye Dunaway) at gunpoint and shacks up with her, gradually bringing her to his side as his situation becomes utterly desperate.Turner, now lumped with the knowledge that he can trust nobody, is forced to re-evaluate everything he knows about how his employees operate. The CIA are summed up in the film by two characters - the seemingly emotionless killer Joubert (Max von Sydow) and slick- talking suit Higgins (Cliff Robertson). It's a terrifying thought to think that someone may be listening to every phone call or reporting your whereabouts, and that every time there's a knock at the door it may be the delivery man with a machine-gun. It is Joubert's chilling monologue towards the end of the film that really speaks volumes about the men Turner is fleeing from. Pollack's direction is tight and clinical, effortlessly building suspense through Redford's increasingly rugged performance. An exciting, intelligent thriller from the greatest period in American cinema. "},{"Title":"It has not aged very well .....","Date":"7 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dear Sydney Pollack, Three Days of Condor was thrilling for the most part. The plot reminded me of the Tony Scott film The Enemy of the State. I am sure that film was inspired to a great extent by Three Days of the Condor. A bookish CIA employee (Robert Redford) working for a unit that reads novels (to find out if someone is using CIA missions as plots for novels and also to mine ideas from novels for actual missions) goes on the run after everyone in his office is murdered. Really interesting idea. I liked the way the film was edited with various phone conversations synced to images of New York and often overlapping into other scenes. The first thirty minutes were pretty exciting. The scene at the cafe with Redford ribbing the sandwich maker and the working glass guy had some very good writing. The love making scene between Redford and Dunaway was also very well edited with those photographs interwoven with the semi-nude scenes. Dunaway's needy and lonely character was interesting. The action scene inside the closed space of Dunaway's apartment must be one of the best short hands on action scenes. But the film sort of fell apart in the second half when Redford begins to turn the tables around. It was pretty hard to believe. I guess commercial considerations forced you to make Redford's character suddenly turn into a master at spying. Though to be fair to you, it was revealed earlier that he was quite experienced. But the plot developments and resolutions after a certain point were completely uninspired. Like when Redford used Dunaway's character as a decoy to kidnap the CIA chief. Wtf? Redford sort of sleepwalks through his role, I guess he was like a less intense Tom Cruise of the 70s. Dunaway looked very beautiful and beguiling. Max Von Syndow as the cold CIA enforcer looked very creepy and menacing. I'm sure the film would look pretty good on Blu-Ray. Best Regards, Pimpin. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Classic thriller","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Political thrillers were hot in the '70s, I guess because the nation was recovering from Watergate in '72 and wondering what else the government might be keeping from them. This one is even eerily prescient and not a mere time capsule in that the conspiracy it entails involves a plan - floated as a possibility in 1975 - to invade Arabic states on the pretense of warfare when really seeking oil. One day, the mastermind explains, oil shortages will cause a crisis for the American economy.One day...The movie is also a classic thriller. The tension is tangible in many places, Redford is ideally cast as the bookish but resourceful CIA office worker and Max Von Sydow is terrifying.The only misstep is Dunaway, who just doesn't look that comfortable in her role. She doesn't look like a lonely photographer she looks like a movie star playing a lonely photographer.For more classic thrillers of this time period, see the also underrated Parallax View, and of course the jewel in the crown, All the President's Men, which also starred Robert Redford. "},{"Title":"Horrible depiction of women!","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I would under normal circumstances give this movie 8 - 9 out of 10 if it weren't for the horrible out-dated (albeit 'soft-porn-ish') violence against Faye Dunaway's character. It shows how far we've come that we no longer view the kidnapping of a woman in a film by the primary protagonist as a 'sexy' opportunity. EWWW! I'm really surprised that the 70s weren't more enlightened than this. Also quite surprised by Robert Redford agreeing to play such a creepy misogynist. It really spoils what would have been a near-perfect political thriller. I would under normal circumstances give this movie 8 - 9 out of 10 if it weren't for the horrible out-dated (albeit 'soft-porn-ish') violence against Faye Dunaway's character. It shows how far we've come that we no longer view the kidnapping of a woman in a film by the primary protagonist as a 'sexy' opportunity. EWWW! I'm really surprised that the 70s weren't more enlightened than this. Also quite surprised by Robert Redford agreeing to play such a creepy misogynist. It really spoils what would have been a near-perfect political thriller. "},{"Title":"Who says that you can't learn anything from reading books?","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Joseph Turner (Robert Redford) reads books within a covert department of the CIA. Turner leaves the building to get lunch for his colleagues and upon his return he finds that they have all been assassinated. Turner initially turns to the CIA and goes into hiding, but when he learns that someone in the CIA may be involved in the hit on his team he sets about trying to find out who killed his colleagues and why....I remember watching All The President's Men earlier this year and thoroughly enjoying it. Therefore I was really interested in seeing this Robert Redford based conspiracy thriller and thankfully it's every bit as good as All The President's Men....Like a lot of conspiracy thrillers Three Days Of The Condor does have a complex narrative and therefore it isn't a film you can watch casually (you do need to pay attention in order to understand it properly). Some conspiracy thrillers have overcomplicated narratives that tie themselves in knots through over-plotting, but Three Days Of The Condor gets the balance right by keeping you thinking throughout without showing off with a series of mind-boggling twists. Redford is good here and I liked the fact that his character has a certain vulnerability about him - yes he works for the CIA, but he's a book reader and therefore he's practically a civilian. He isn't a tough-as-nails kick ass guy - he's a normal guy who basically has to put a lot of theory into practice and this makes us fear for him. Pollack also works well with Redford getting a terrific performance from him that easily enables us to get swept up in his paranoia. Dunaway is Redford's initially unwilling assistant and the two do work very well together (Dunaway gives a very intense performance which makes a lot of the dramatic scenes exceptionally good). My only criticism with her character is that it felt as though she was only really there to move things along and the writers didn't give her much of a character to work with. Dunaway does give a great performance though so this isn't a major issue.As well as all of the above the story itself is engaging and has enough suspense and intrigue to guarantee audience involvement. The performances are excellent, Pollack's directing is superb - very atmospheric and tense throughout.A film like Three Days Of The Condor probably won't feel that special to a lot of people today (with all of the CIA related conspiracy thrillers that have followed), but as an early example of the genre it's probably fair to say that it has proved influential on projects that have followed. Not only that but in its own right it's a solid film that is suspenseful, atmospheric, and very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"This Film Has Aged Well Over 40 Years","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I remember seeing this as a kid when it was first released in the full dread of the Watergate fallout, a scandal that changed Hollywood which released a torrent of paranoid films with anti-government themes. These movies shaped my teens and early twenties and by the time I had begun to have some faith in our leaders we were stuck with Reagan for eight long years. This was one of the better examples of this genre about a pawn who works for the American Literary Historical Society, a CIA front employing bookish nerds who only had read about spies and intrigue and are suddenly thrust into the conspiracy of conspiracies.Faye Dunaway isn't much of an actress in my opinion but, damn, she is gorgeous beyond description so queue the jazzy love scene obligatory of all films of this era. He could have just as easily kidnapped a fat chick but that wouldn't have been as cinematic. 1970's sex was all about the one night stand.After that we have a 1970's fight scene complete with really bad martial arts. I probably had an orgasm watching this as I grew up on crappy Kung Fu movies, and this was just after my orgasm of seeing Faye Dunaway partially undressed. So far so good.I'm writing this 40 years later but I have to say that the movie has aged well. You can't blame a movie for lousy trade-craft, like the Redford character using the phone at every whim because phone tracing was lousy back then. "},{"Title":"You play games, I told them a story.","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film was a stunner and really grabbed me when I first saw it almost forty years ago. The principal player Joe Turner (Robert Redford) is put on immediate defensive when as a 'reader' for the CIA, his entire department is wiped out in a well coordinated hit because one of his theories came too close to identifying a rogue agency within the agency. It's the sort of movie that triggers a reaction in the viewer to question whether the government really operates in the clandestine manner portrayed on screen, and then when that recognition sinks in, one realizes that there are no good guys.Redford makes his character about as believable as one might expect given the story line, though his partner in crime so to speak, Faye Dunaway, requires a bit of suspension of disbelief to carry out her role. The part that mystified me was the competent way she managed to lure Higgins (Cliff Robertson) into a meet with Turner. This was accomplished after basically being kidnapped by Turner, hogtied in her own apartment and kept wondering if she was going to get out of the situation alive. The kicker of course was the sudden turn by Max von Sydow's character Joubert. When he takes out Atwood (Addison Powell), it's with such shocking effect that one jumps right along with Turner as you can't believe what just happened.Watching today, one can't help but note the glaring sense of the Seventies throughout the entire picture. It's there in the filming, the music, the fashion and the hair styles, and even the New York City street scenes have a certain sanitized look to them. Of course if you're paying attention, the handful of scenes with the Twin Towers on prominent display serve as a reminder that real life circumstances can often intrude on the flow of a fictional movie, and jolt us even more than the story elements we're watching on screen. "},{"Title":"Tense, Paranoid & Memorable","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In the 1970s, following the Watergate scandal and the unconvincing official explanations that had been published about the assassinations of President John Kennedy and his brother Robert, many people started to believe that high-level conspiracies and cover-ups were being practised routinely by powerful groups who seemed to be above the law and unaccountable to the general public. The mistrust and paranoia that these beliefs engendered were palpable and duly reflected in some of the most successful political thrillers of the time which included Three Days Of The Condor.Joe Turner (Robert Redford) is employed as a reader by the American Literary Historical Society which is a cover for the CIA. He's part of a team that spends their time reading everything that's published in the world and feeding data into a computer to identify any possible secret or coded communications. Recently, he'd flagged-up interest in a mystery novel that had been translated into an unusual combination of languages.One morning, after leaving the office to buy lunch, he returns to find that all his co-workers have been shot dead. In a state of disbelief and panic, he phones his superiors from a call box to apprise them of what's happened and an arrangement is made for him to meet a couple of his colleagues who'll take him to a safe location. Turner attends the meeting but when an attempt is made on his life, realizes that the killings at his office must've been ordered by someone within the CIA. Now labelled as a rogue agent, he goes on the run and in his desperation to hide somewhere, kidnaps a lonely photographer called Kathy Hale (Faye Dunaway) so that he can lay low in her apartment.At Kathy's apartment, he survives another attempt on his life by a hit-man who masquerades as a mailman and as the couple start to trust each other, they pursue Turner's boss Higgins (Cliff Robertson). Eventually, it becomes clear to Turner that an autonomous group within the CIA had devised a plot to invade some oil fields in the Middle East to avoid any future disruption to supplies to the United States and his report on the suspicious novel had been the catalyst for the massacre at his office.This movie starts off brilliantly with the shocking events at Turner's office and quickly establishes the strong sense of anxiety and mistrust that's maintained all the way through to its tremendous conclusion which does nothing to alleviate the tension. Robert Redford does a great job of portraying Turner as a very ordinary guy who's bewildered by what's going on but is also sharply aware of how high the stakes are. Faye Dunaway gives a sensitive performance as the woman whose photographs reflect her feelings of loneliness and isolation and who, after being held captive by Turner, becomes his lover and helper. Cliff Robertson and Max von Sydow (as a very cold, business-driven assassin) also stand out in their supporting roles.Three Days Of The Condor was understandably a great box office success at the time of its release and remains tense, intriguing and gripping throughout. Inevitably, however, it's the paranoid atmosphere of the piece and the final freeze-frame shot of Robert Redford that remain so powerful and memorable. "},{"Title":"A forty year old film that still puts most modern day espionage movies to shame","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this film on CBS' Sunday Night Movie when I was a senior in high school. Because it was edited for TV, it was kind of choppy and maybe a bit over a seventeen year-old's head. I watched it recently and I it came back to me quickly, like meeting a long-lost friend. The cast is amazing and at that time, had to have been one of the most difficult ensembles to assemble. Almost every actor gave a performance that is a highlight in his/her career. Faye Dunaway and Robert Redford were probably the highest paid performers in their respective genders at that time.The plot is prophetic in a sense; especially since the our familiarity with PNAC and the Iraq/Afghan wars. There are some great, yet subtle comebacks from Redford and Dunaway, such as' You know you can count on the spyfu**er. Before going out to blow 10 bucks for some high production, crappy dialogue movie, settle in and watch this. It will make you appreciate what great film-making is all about. "},{"Title":"Nothing is what it looks like, everything is what it seems","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's somber like the doubt Higgins raises up at last Hey Turner! How do you know they'll print it?. Here it is the pulsanting heart of a movie Sidney Pollack shot in 1975, after Watergate scandal, when the environment was full of suspects, suspicion, double- crossing typical of secret services' murky labor.Joseph Turner (Robert Redford) is the only alive to a slaughter committed in the premises of the American Literary Historical Society He was out to take away meals when killer Joubert (Max Von Sydow) gets in on with two others hit men They slay all Turner's colleagues despite they aren't spies, they are nothing but Cia employees with the duty to find codes and tracks in literary books spreading all over the world.It's a wicked game which crumbles seven lives instantaneously in obedience to Company's logics and in order to maintain a presumed balance among Nations. But Turner's life-and-death struggle is unpredictable It's a getaway in which he accidentally involves the beautiful Kathy Hale (Faye Dunaway); She is a stranger yet the only refuge for Turner, the only who believes him and CIA willpower to lay to rest him and to hide out to the Company itself sleazy governmental palimpsests.And like no-leaves trees, like empty benches, like desert boulevards Kathy has photographed and hanged into her home, she and Joe understand one another in their solitudes, and they can find a point of contact lingering in a fleeting dim-light, a place where to solve the muddle of subterfuges surrounding Condor (that's Turner's codename). As the biggest diurnal bird of prey he observes from afar his quarry and he surprisingly transforms into an operating secret agent ready to unmask the conspiracy that's devouring Cia from the inside.It's a Company completely fallen apart from secrets as deep as melancholy included in Kathy's black-and-white shots, which are glares of a vague Middle Eastern mosaic that came out from Lorenzo Semple Jr. & David Rayfiel's pen A script sunk in the black of oil that connects dishonest officials just ready to play with human lives as they were cards. Unfortunately they didn't deal with the joker Condor-faced that all want to crash with meanness Mr. Wicks (Michael Kane), Mr. Wabash (John Houseman), treacherous Higgins (Cliff Robertson) and the puppeteer Leonard Atwood (Addison Powell).At last Atwood will be victim of his trick, killed &#x96; in front of an astonished Turner &#x96; by Joubert obeying only to the how-much-law and never asking the reason why. Turner is safe (at this time). Puzzle tiles seems to fix up, lights can be switch off. Anyway sordid Higgins is yet at the helm as a cruel experimenter in the secrets rooms of a Power providing for people's longings with necessary sacrifices. On the other side stands straight as an arrow Turner with a dossier delivered to The New York Times Every dirty detail is on the way to rotaries, black ink with which clean consciences up by showing off the clarity of facts. But in the end a doubtful question lingers and it makes everything opaque, elusive, uncontrollable So it is for all the Turners in the world and for a society handled by invisible plots. "}{"Title":"took off 1 star for New York Times denouement","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A passable even enjoyable bit of Hollywood boilerplate from 40 years ago when Redford still looked good (before his face became a lined road map) he was 39 at the time and of course Faye Dunaway was good as a won over hostage.The Plot is silly....apparently Redford is a good natured duffus working for a Bond 007 style CIA office in New York reading books. He apparently reads books looking for new ideas of intrigue for the CIA. While submitting ideas from some book he comes too close to one actually being used by CIA (or inner even more secretive part of CIA) so....they have to eliminate him and any one who might know about this.It has a kind of an eerie prelude to the Charlie Hebdo murder with gunmen storming a office killing all these innocent people. Redford in desperation takes Dunawaye hostage in a wonderful beat up original Ford Bronco with windshield wipers from roof down. Redford figures most of it all out by tapping phones and identifying keys to hotel rooms. All OK...(Redford's 5' 4 height is cleverly concealed throughout--you never see a full length shot of him and actors working close with him are even shorter).... It was stupidly unbelievably evil US wants foreign oil (this was made right after the first oil embargo) kind of the leftie thing Obama believes--the US has always been up to no good. But all this was OK until the very end when Redford reveals he told all to the New York Times...tying it all in with Watergate and making me barf and take off 1 star.Still a good way to spend a couple hours. Recommend "},{"Title":"New York Times schlock makes it lose 1 star....","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I wanted some easy to digest entertainment and got it. Redford at 40 still looks good (before he gets the road map face from drugs or sun) Dunaway a nice female lead at 35. Big Oil (this was right after the first oil embargo 1974) CIA within the CIA anyway somehow Redford stumbles on a plan by evil people in the US government to invade the middle east from reading plots in novels??---this is the story Redford as Joe Blow is hired to read books to identify creative ideas in espionage and national policy??? But he stumbles on one that is a live plan and he must be shot Charlie Hebro style with everyone in the office. Then he randomly hook up with Dunaway and they figure it out. I would have given this a 7 except for the last scene where Redford tries to cash in on Watergate etc..by saying he's told everything to the New York Times. This politicized the whole thing as a Lefty Hollywood schlock. By the way they did a good job of concealing Redfords 5' 4 height mainly by never showing whole body shots and using people even shorter than him. Still not a bad way to pass a couple hours. "},{"Title":"Redford Nails It","Date":"18 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A bookish CIA researcher (Robert Redford) finds all his co-workers dead, and must outwit those responsible until he figures out who he can really trust.My biggest problem with this film is that a CIA researcher had to ask an operator what the area code for Washington, DC is. I know the area code and I have probably never even called there. (This may have been an excuse to have the character say out loud where he was calling, but still seemed odd.) But then you have a spy thriller, with all the action and twists and turns. And Max von Sydow, one of the greatest actors in any country (and quite the screen presence). This is everything that I wish Captain America Winter Soldier could have been. Hail Hydra! "},{"Title":"A terrific, snappy conspiracy film.","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Always blows me away when a novice 'reviewer' does the following; Either tells you - step-by-step the entire plot (??), and, or they say something like 'it was good, except the part where so-and-so happens was unbelievable,' and then, they go off babbling (with their 'expertise'), about (almost ALWAYS) weapons, i.e., guns, etc.Just the case here.Several 'reviews' would take to task such nonsense and say how it makes the film 'unwatchable,' or some such rot.The point of movies - ALL movies - to different extents - is they're 'escapist.'It reminds me of what someone I know did after seeing The Spy Who Loved Me.They loved the movie, but, one thing 'ruined' it for them.''They said they loved the scene where the Lotus Espirit drove off the pier, went in to the water, turns in2 a sub, and then after a battle, drives up the beachWhat did they hate? What did they find 'unbelievable'?The car - going underwater? No.The car 'emerging unscathed? No.They seriously said the film was 'ruined' for them when the Lotus/sub sprung a leak, and still managed to come out victorious.There's many of those (idiotic) types who really think this way, and then in their 'reviews' give you, their 'expertise' about the subject, and tell you how the movie logic isn't logic.It's like humour; when you start to direct ANY humour, it falls apart.Just enjoy it for what it IS.So - with this out of the way (sorry, I can't stand those idiots who do this), let me give a brief review;Sidney Lumet made 3 mid-70's pictures, his 'conspiracy trilogy' (The Parallax View, Three Days..., and All The President's Men), which each explore the idea, in slightly different ways,but -this being the 70's, the public devoured them.An aside; everything is - to a certain extent - 'dated,' but, if you're going to go into any film with this mindset, you're going to limit yourself severely.It also says you have a very limited view - only able to relate to, and enjoy something 'immediate.'The Maltese Falcon from the 40's is 'dated.'Citizen Kane is 'dated.'Rebel W/out A Cause is 'dated.'And on, and on.&#x85;.I was a kid when this came out, and went with my mom - who, like a lot of women of the time, loved Robert Redford.Both he and Ms. Dunaway look absolutely gorgeous - I personally think this time, is when they both were bigger then just 'stars,' they were magic on-screen..I read somewhere that when asked about the scene in which Ms. Dunaway's character has sex with Mr. Redford, she laughed, and said (I'm paraphrasing) 'I don't know a woman who wouldn't have been thrilled.Growing up in New York, all the sites are very familiar, and Lumet (who lived and worked here), captures NYC during that time beautifully.I love watching this film and the (original) Taking Of Pelham, 1, 2, 3, both for their stories, but, for the NYC location film-work as well.We were still an individualistic city, not over-run with chain stores and (ugh!) tourists).The tension - both in terms of national politics, as well as the dire financial situation of the city, made it a very gritty time.Rather than say 'dated,' I think it more accurate to say the things that we fear don't change, just the players, and their methods, but, as Shakespeare's story - written hundreds of years ago attest, other than the 'window dressing,' humanity is still the same.I recommend TDoTC to anyone who loves conspiracy films, period.To me, a good movie is one I can watch over and over - and, even though I might know the dialogue, the outcome, it's what I SEE that holds me.It's the talent which made this picture which makes me come back to it.Yes, I know how it'll end, but, that takes nothing away - if story's well-written, well-acted, directed, photographed, etc., I can watch it and love it all the more. "},{"Title":"some good paranoid spy thriller stuff","Date":"28 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Joe Turner (Robert Redford) is a CIA analyst code name Condor who spends his days in a NY office reading material from around the world to find hidden meaning and undiscovered plots. Assassins led by Joubert (Max von Sydow) attack killing everyone while Turner is away unnoticed getting lunch. Turner has nowhere to turn to and doesn't trust his superiors. After an ambush at a rendezvous, he goes on the run and kidnaps shopgirl Kathy Hale (Faye Dunaway). They hide out in her Brooklyn Heights apartment. He kills an assassin and ends up contacting deputy director of New York CIA Higgins (Cliff Robertson).This starts with good intensity. The middle of the movie turns into a romance. I'm not saying that the combination of Redford and Stockholm syndrome can't explain Faye Dunaway. However the tension in the movie loses a little bit of steam. The romance keeps slowing down the movie. There is a good sense of paranoia but the conspiracy is a bit too convoluted. I'm not sure all of it makes sense. More clarity earlier would be helpful. "},{"Title":"The Condor Must Flee.","Date":"17 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Robert Redford plays CIA researcher Joseph Turner(codename Condor), who(while literally being out to lunch) comes back to his office to find all his colleagues dead. Deeply alarmed, he follows procedure and leaves, knowing that the assassin will be after him. He reports the massacre to his superior(played by Cliff Robertson)but then finds out he has been betrayed, so he then forcibly enlists the help of a woman(played by Faye Dunaway) in order to hide him in her apartment, for temporary shelter. Max Von Sydow plays the smooth and ruthless assassin, who tries to cox Condor out into the open, while Condor tries desperately to get to the bottom of the conspiracy.Sydney Pollock directs this intriguing and smart film that keeps the viewer involved with Condor's plight, as it unfolds many interesting twists and turns until its ending, which is both cynical yet ambiguous. You'll wonder how Condor's life will turn out after the haunting final fade-out. "},{"Title":"Brilliant political thriller.","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Truly scary film in that it could so easily be real. Recent history only reinforces the story line, making it even more relevant today than when it was made in 1975. Great performances by Redford, Dunaway, Robertson and the amazing and mesmerizing Max Von Sydow bring the complex screenplay to life. Redford plays a CIA analyst that innocently uncovers a secret plot which immediately puts his life in danger. By way of wits and luck, he avoids assassination at the hands of Sydow, enlisting the reluctant help of Dunaway. Their unlikely alliance is made believable only by the talents of the the two actors. A classic in the tradition of the British cinema of the every-man fighting against unknown evil. Will he survive to expose the plot? Will anyone believe him? Will he survive if he can expose the plot? An edge of the seat roller coaster ride of a film, worth watching again. "},{"Title":"Three Days of the Condor","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Very tight little spy thriller. It's not hard to see where things are going, but the fun is in getting there. Lots of clever details and neato intelligence stuff. The cast is all good -- Redford, Dunaway, Robertson, and of course my main man Von Sydow in a juicy role that I wish was larger. I'm not one to complain about romantic subplots on principle, but this one is rather forced. There isn't much reason for our attractive heroes to suddenly fall into bed together, but they do, and to the sweet sounds of smooth jazz, no less. Oh well, it was the 70's. Other than that, it's solid entertainment.Three Days of the Condor - 8/10 "},{"Title":"Visionary movie","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have seen that movie in the late 70-ties while I was studying physics and computer science. I was very impressed by the PDP-8 computer reading book and analysing the text accordingly. But now, after viewing the movie again I came to the conclusion, that it was absolutely visionary. When Condor asks Higgins - Are there plans to attack Middle East? And when Higgins says No, And I realise, it already happened. The last sequence when Higgins says that the other side is doing that too and when the oil will run out and people will ask us what we did to prevent it, you'll have your answer, Condor. Visionary movie, no question about it. I liked Kathy's photos too. Very much. "},{"Title":"Prescience","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" (Set as spoiler for safety - eds, please cut this line if not)Check out those comments listed at the end about contrasting how much citizens care about the government's methods with other countries, versus delivering the American dream. This script predates US MidEast activity by over 20 years. Wow for prescience on US foreign / energy policy - maybe?The last 15 minutes of this film stands with Kane (Welles) speech to Mr Thatcher that he can only tell the truth for 'what, 60 years', Burt Lancaster's (Birdman of Alcatraz) closing speech to Karl Malden about robbing a man of his greatest asset, his individuality, and Michael Moore's global statistics list on gun deaths in Bowling for Columbine as the finest political truths of all fictional cinema.Whilst being opinionated, the greatest ever quote in all fiction, all media, is Tolstoy's opening line in Anna Karenina. For families, read individuals. The deepest philosophical statement ever made, and the reason for all evil. "}{"Title":"Solidly entertaining old-school conspiracy thriller","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Joseph Turner is a CIA researcher who works in an office with many others reading things from all round the world and running the scenarios through the computer. He is about as far from a field agent as one can get but when he returns from lunch to find his colleagues cleanly and efficiently murdered he flees the scene and calls his superiors to bring him in. When he is himself targeted he quickly figures out that he cannot trust anyone and starts trying to piece it all together to find a way out from under.It was by chance that I ended up watching this film and I wasn't sure what it was going to be about or what to expect from it. Unmistakably from the 1970's the film cuts to the chase pretty quickly with a cold-hearted massacre of non-threatening people which leaves the main character on the run. It is a tough opening but sets the stakes high for the remainder of the film. And this does help because after this it is not as urgent and desperate as I would have liked and at times it seems to be doing its best to suck the tension out of it (specifically some of the scenes shared with Dunaway). Mostly though it does keep enough about it to hold the viewer with Turner and I did enjoy the flow even if I didn't totally get it the whole way through.Redford cuts a strong leading man &#150; not totally convincing as a bookish type by any means but he does do the job here if you push that out of your mind. Dunaway I didn't think worked that well as a part of the lasting narrative but her performance is fine. Von Sydow is a dark figure and his calm silence just makes his character more imposing on the story. Support from Robertson and others in key CIA roles help drive the main story alone. Pollack's direction is roundly good &#150; respecting the story and not pushing gimmicks to create tension so much as drawing it from the dialogue and characters.Condor is not a brilliant film but it is a solidly entertaining one. It could have done with more of a kick in the final third and at times it lacks the feel of danger, urgency and desperation that it has in its strongest moments but it is still a good film and worth seeing if you're in the mood for an old-school conspiracy thriller. "},{"Title":"Back when the spy/espionage genre required thinking and film-making.","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Whatever meek fondness I had for the Bourne films prior to seeing Three Days of the Condor has almost all but vaporised and this is due to the engrossing and engaging film that is Three Days of the Condor, an espionage film made at a time when espionage was at the peak of its existence and when film-making was, arguably, film-making. It's easy to see the film now and recognise with the added aid of history what it was trying to say. It's also easy now to point out more recent films that have been influenced by it. But I feel Three Days of the Condor is one of those films that most people should see for this reason alone; for the reason that you don't need a cut a second approach to get across the feeling of urgency and it is possible to write a film that doesn't have its protagonists always rely on technology.The 'Condor' of the title refers to Robert Redford's character and how earlier examples of the wrong man in the wrong place at the wrong time can still seem afresh. Joseph Turner (Redford) leaves his post at a CIA run building which scans and analyses most written texts in the world for secret, encrypted clues. Here is the film setting up its predominant theme of suspicion. At a time when the East and the West were at loggerheads, the CIA must recruit people to read and scan seemingly random books in order to uncover clues and conspiracies, most of which will not even be present. It's this sort of paranoid, 'reading too much into something' atmosphere and situation the film carries the entire time. This is aided by the films constant air of ambiguity shown toward who Turner's character can trust and who he cannot. But the film establishes this hero as a problem solver, albeit a solver for problems and equations that perhaps don't exist before placing him in this situation where a massive problem has erupted and he must deal with it &#150; we as an audience feel he is up to the task.Then there are the little things you notice thanks to viewing it in the 21st Century. Back in the day when narratives and screenplays actually needed brains and couldn't rely on technology and modernity, films like this were made. When Turner discovers the initial incident in his office building, he cannot use a cell phone so runs to the nearest phone booth. He has to actually get a grip of the situation, leave the establishment without giving anything away and then calmly find a public phone. Likewise later on, when he catches up Kathy Hale (Dunaway) he must wait for the news to start at a certain time. At this point, she doesn't trust him and he has to use his brain to devise a way to keep her from escaping while he can rest and wait for the news. In today's post-modern environment, a 24 Hour News Channel would've cured the problem in a second and we would've been robbed of a scene that not only furthers the forced intimacy of Turner and Hale but one that also enhances Turner's intellectual qualities as he thinks up a solution to his problem of resting/waiting.These sorts of things are a far cry to the junk we have produced today when technology and gadgets do it for the characters. Take Michael Mann's 2006 stinker 'Miami Vice' and look at how cell phones and laptops do most of the work as the two lead stars strut about with blank expressions on their faces. Then there are the times when you realise this film has been done more recently but with lesser success. The CIA chase idea; the not knowing who's your enemy and who's your friend and more noticeably the character of Hale in this film who's character later resurfaces in The Bourne Identity under the guise of Franka Potente's German character Marie. But Three Days of the Condor retains a certain mysterious atmosphere, it cuts back on itself but when it does so, it never feels like a gimmick and nor do you feel cheated out of an action set piece or a character's death. The primary strand the film has going is its USA vs. USA ideas, especially brave during The Cold War. As a hero, Turner is a blonde haired, upstanding guy who doesn't seem as if he'd hurt anyone and he battles a massive organisation on his own. Then there is the secondary strand running parallel with this involving Dunaway's character and her relationship with Turner which covers all the areas you'd expect it to but it never becomes the primary focus. There is dialogue, there are scene involving just the two of them and they do make love on one occasion but it never overtakes the espionage they are here, this is what happens, this is how they feel and then 'bang', we move on.Furthermore, I think the film's other theme as opposed to hunting and looking for things that elude certain individuals is that of watching and point of view. Hale comments that Turner has the sort of eyes which 'don't look away'. They are 'kind' eyes and this scenes while furthering the feeling between the two once again highlights the film's primary ideas about point of view and the constant looking, searching and finding of someone or something. The scene seems unnecessary bar to further the relationship but as I said, the film never gets distracted with the romance and thus even the scenes that seem most obvious in doing so are actually linked with strand one. With a brooding atmosphere, good performances from talent you'll recognise and a series of themes, Three Days of the Condor is a winner. "},{"Title":"Man on The Run","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I like Redford, and Sydney Pollack is capable of putting out a good film(I'm looking at you Jeremiah Johnson. So I was looking forward to this.It's the classic man on the run story, this time the man is a CIA researcher that has spent no time in the field but instead reads books for a living. One day while out to lunch his whole office is murdered and he comes back to find them dead, thus setting up the run aspect of the film.An attempt on his life is made when he is meant to come in for debriefing so He then Takes a women Hostage(Faye Dunaway) and sets out to find out what the hell is going on. I must say there's is a very generic love scene involved.The first half of the film is rather good and then it kind of comes apart. The whole reason for the murders isn't all that interesting though I must say it still very relevant in the modern world and the ending didn't really do it for me nor does it seem very likely. "},{"Title":"Great Movie -- Timely Story","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. I thought the story was compelling, the directing tight, and the acting very good. It was also interesting to see so many shots of NYC circa 1975. But, above all, I was struck by how timely the story is -- political intrigue, CIA dirty tricks, and political cover-ups! The difference, though, is that while Joe Turner (Redford) is disdainful of the CIA tactics depicted in the movie, reflecting, in my opinion, general post-Watergate skepticism towards the government, public sentiment today seems to generally support similar intrusive acts (i.e NSA secret surveillance program), at least as long as they are done in connection with the so-called war on terror. Meet the new boss, same as the old boss. "},{"Title":"High Quality, But Dated","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Post Vietnam, post Watergate, this film fits right in with a slew of other 1970s political thrillers that depict dark, shadowy government intelligence entities that hover over innocent individuals ready to pounce. In Three Days Of The Condor, the individual is Joe Turner, a.k.a. The Condor (Robert Redford), a good-looking geek reader who works for the CIA.After his work associates take a hit from some shadowy hit men, Joe fights to escape the same fate, and in the process goes in search of the killers. Along the way he happens on to a young woman named Kathy (Faye Dunaway), whose apartment Joe commandeers as a hideout from the villains.The plot seems contrived. The political paranoia motif does not require the Kathy character, included only to provide Joe with a convenient romantic interest. The villains are poorly defined. Even after the explanation at the film's end, I'm not clear on the relationship between some of the background characters. And the Joe Turner character is not believable. Given his smarts as the plot moves along, his job as a reader seriously underrates him, compared to his adversaries.To its credit, the film does not use a lot of razzle-dazzle technology. This is largely a personal story, focusing on Joe's resourcefulness in staying alive and his ability to find answers to his questions about the original hit. Redford (and his heavy-duty sideburns) makes a believable Joe Turner. The best that can be said of Dunaway is that she doesn't try to upstage Redford, mercifully. Both Cliff Robertson and John Houseman add credible support.The film can provide viewers with good tension and suspense if they're in the proper mood. On technical points, the script aside, it's a high-quality, well-made film.But the idea that powerful unseen government forces lurk in the background, ready to strike you down for the flimsiest of reasons, seems terribly egocentric. That kind of fear and paranoia, sans pertinent politics, lacks credibility. And that reduces the tension. As a story, Three Days Of The Condor thus seems dated, time-bound to the 1970s, incongruous with more recent political reality. "},{"Title":"Do we have plans to invade the Middle East? Are you Crazy? Am I?","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Released with the tagline His name is Condor. In the next 24 hours, everyone he trusts will try to kill him. Three Days of the Condor (dir, Sidney Pollack) is a political suspense thriller first released in 1975. It is a fine example of the genre and a prominent precursor for the many similar films that have littered cinema for the past 30 years. Additionally it inspired Robert Ludlum's 1980 novel The Bourne Identity, the film is also an eerie harbinger for the world in which we now live as the final few reels reveal. The film centres on Joseph Turner (Robert Redford) code name Condor. The sign on the side of the building in which he works reads American Literary Historical Society. This is not strictly true as he is an employee of the CIA for whom looks for codes and foreign intelligence by reading books. One day Joseph leaves the building to get some lunch, upon his return he finds that every one of his work colleagues has been gunned down. He leaves the office and contacts his superiors asking to be brought in. Joseph arranges to meet his boss Higgins (Cliff Robertson) only to be shot at, he flees and kidnaps Kathy Hale (Faye Dunaway) who becomes his only ally on his quest to discover the truth.At its heart Three Days of The Condor explores the possibilities of the moral and ethical motives of an American government post Vietnam and Watergate. It attempts to show that one man can take on the might of the government and discover and expose the truth. It is an extremely familiar premise and one that has been employed a great deal throughout this genre. Various political films of the 1970's employ similar narratives including The Parallax View (1974), The Conversation (1974), All the Presidents Men (1976) and Marathon Man (1976). As mentioned Three Days of the Condor is directed by Oscar winner Sidney Pollack (They Shoot Horses Don't they, 1969; Jeremiah Johnson, 1972; Tootsie, 1982; Out of Africa, 1985; The Firm, 1993 etc), it is for this reason and the timely nature of Three Days of the Condor that I believe it to be the best political thriller of the 1970's.The manner in which the film is directed conveys a sense of suspense that surpasses that of its contemporary offerings. Intriguingly the film is shot mostly during the day and for the vast majority of its running time is very well lit, when trying to illicit suspense I find this a bold move by the director as daytime and well lit scenes can be very unforgiving i.e. there are no dark passages, rooms or alleyways for the protagonist to hide. This choice of film-making leaves Joseph vulnerable and perceptible and whilst many directors would probably fail at employing this method , Pollack utilizes an array of tightly framed shots, moving pans and intelligently edited action sequences to create the tension that superbly complements the films narrative. The techniques utlised by Pollack established a benchmark for the many similar films that followed over the next three decades.The narrative is both intelligent and well structured as it never resorts to cheap tricks or conventions to further its story and because it plays out in a few days the pace is perfectly apt. The acting on show is brilliant, which should be unsurprising given that Redford is at the peak of his career. His portrayal of the isolated everyman is captivating - aiding the films ability at tapping into audiences. Faye Dunaway incorporates a sense of anguish and hesitancy that doesn't detract from her impetus as a character, but rather helps the viewer to empathise and understand her motives. Max von Sydow as Joubert, the sly and devious assassin is also brilliant. If this film was made today, this type of character would seem very old-hat, but during the 1970s it was very much in vogue, as it had me thinking of Laurence Olivier in Marathon Man and Gregory peck in The Boys from Brazil (1978). It would be unsurprising to me if other actors have drawn on Sydow's assassin for their inspiration when playing similar roles.Finally, I would recommend Three Days of the Condor to all those that enjoy a good political thriller. If you are expecting an earlier Bourne Identity, you will be disappointed. This film is not an all out explosion action fest and nor does it depict its lead as a man of unseemly abilities; it is far better and cleverer than that. In fact, if you liked last year's Oscar nominated Michael Clayton, which interestingly stars Sydney Pollack, then you should revisit Three Days of Condor and watch the film that inspired it. "},{"Title":"Clever, crafty C.I.A. drama, sometimes a bit too convoluted for comfort...","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It starts out on a typically rainy day in New York with a rather pleasant looking fellow (ROBERT REDFORD) getting off his motorcycle and entering what looks like a fashionable brownstone apartment house in the heart of Manhattan. It soon becomes evident that this is going to be no simple story of espionage which, by the way, is adapted from an even more complex novel by James Grady called SIX DAYS OF THE CONDOR.Apparently, they cut down on the days to avoid some of the book's clutter but they haven't trimmed it enough to avoid the complexities that always abound in a story about spies, counter-spies, reality vs. unreality, daring missions, spectacular fight scenes, and surprise twists. It's all very cleverly written and acted by a first-rate cast, but in the end you're somewhat exhausted after following the deceptions of an almost too clever spy story.ROBERT REDFORD as the casually dressed C.I.A. agent, FAYE DUNAWAY as a woman who inadvertently becomes romantically involved with him, and sinister characterizations from CLIFF ROBERTSON, MAX VON SYDOW and JOHN HOUSEMAN are all highly effective in maintaining a good amount of taut suspense.If espionage tales are your thing, this one is so well directed by Sydney Pollack and elegantly photographed in splendid color, that you'll no doubt warm up to it before the first five minutes have passed--although there are weaknesses. For example, if you examine the plot closely, there's plenty of nitpicking to do. Redford plays a mousy reader of books but turns into an action hero like James Bond on a moment's notice when he has to face a murderous mailman. Dunaway's quiet, unassuming character turns into a bold-faced woman able to stare down a CIA operative and issue what sounds like a warning threat without blinking an eye. Not to mention the why of the killings at the American Literary Museum or why Max Von Sydow doesn't choose to kill Redford in the final encounter when he tried so hard at the beginning. Just a change of mind??? No explanation is even attempted except that Von Sydow has perhaps come to admire Redford's ingenuity. "},{"Title":"Original, Complex Thriller","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Original, complex thriller stars Robert Redford as a CIA researcher who returns from picking up lunch to find all of his coworkers shot dead. Who did it and why? Over the next 72 hours he will try to answer those questions while dodging bullets, tapping phone lines and learning not to trust anyone -- not even his own government.Three Days of the Condor is well-directed and generally well-paced. Like Redford, viewers are in a constant state of wondering what's really going on. This helps build suspense for several memorable moments, including a classic scene that puts Redford on an elevator with a hit man trying to kill him (a subdued Max von Sydow in a spectacular performance).On the down side, the film moves slowly at times and is hampered by a romantic subplot involving Redford and Faye Dunaway, the woman he abducts as a last resort to find cover. Some may also find it convoluted, if not downright confusing. Still, Three Days of the Condor remains a strong effort that holds up well more than three decades later. "},{"Title":"The theme of Three Days of the Condor is as relevant today as it was in 1975. As a conspiracy film, it is almost flawless and the acting is uniformly convincing.","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Some of the most entertaining films are directed around a conspiracy. Three Days of the Condor is one of the best, for several reasons. The opening is so ordinary, so well paced; normal people going about their business. Into this scene assassins descend to murder the entire staff. It is quick & efficient. Robert Redford, breaks protocol & uses a rear exit to fetch lunch and survives the slaughter. The film follows his horror, his girl friend is one of the victims; his confusion; why has this happened? We discover he works for an obscure section of the CIA and the film moves into a new gear as Condor (Redford) tries to survive in a world where life is cheap & a contract assassin (Max von Sydow - at his grim best) is hired to eliminate him. Redford's evasive action - he kidnaps Faye Dunaway - is clever & believable. She is brilliant - conveying the fear & vulnerability of a woman confronted by a gun & brutally tied up in her own apartment. The use of her bleak photography is a brilliant counterpoint in the development of her character and Redford's reaction to them is telling. I have never seen Redford act as well. It is not a glamorous part. He is cruel in his treatment of Dunaway and her fear and sense of being abused is conveyed in a simple understated way. This is acting of a very high quality and the use of the various technical skills in tracing the telephone connections - properly signalled by an earlier overview by his superiors - is gripping in its authenticity. John Houseman provides a stunning cameo role as Mr. Wabash, the CIA professional. When he says of The Great War, that there was a clarity then, we can understand that open warfare was a different scenario to the games being played between the CIA and their perceived enemies. This is, in many ways, the raison d'etre of this story. The Games played to gain advantage. In this film, the game is Oil. We are made aware that some time, in the future, it could be water.Some of the other commentators found this a dated story, lacking weight & credibility. I found it scary. In the very ordinariness of the people, the conflicts, just getting on with their lives - and the spooks - also ordinary, in their suits, creating artificial mayhem.Three Days of the Condor ranks with North By Northwest; The Spy Who Came in from The Cold; All the President's Men.it is one of the best and I rate it 10 out of ten. "},{"Title":"Simply the best","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Still the cold war thriller that all others are measured against.The acting is super,the plot,scary,the ending even more so(smile). My only small complaint is it seems a little dated in dress. Still just how dark and unforgiving can the CIA unworld be?See this flick for one view.Oh and Max Van Sydow is the most chilling hit man this side of the Godfather. "}{"Title":"The best thriller ever made","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  3 DAYS OF THE CONDOR is, simply put, the best thriller ever made. That includes the films of Alfred Hitchcock too. It is brilliantly constructed and designed; each time I watch it, I notice things that were there all along and it feels like I'm seeing a new movie. This film couldn't be smarter or more subtle. And it has a great basic story that deals with a lot of themes that are revelant today (the nature of Intelligence work, personal morality vs. realism, trust and suspicion). I don't believe in perfect movies but in this case, I'd say it's as close to perfect as you can get. The only qualifier is that I could not watch this film right now because it has several scenes set around the World Trade Center, and it would be painful to see that. "},{"Title":"Books, Binding","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Sidney Pollack recently died, and I dredged this up to watch. It is a strange relic of a time when we really liked these spy stories &#151; and the stories were allowed to be simple. The characters had no life outside the confined story. The story dynamics are simple. Its the migration of the noir plot to the spy world average guy has the world unexpectedly conspire against him, and he deals with it cleverly. The novelty here isn't the spy-ness; the CIA would later be exchangeable for any secret conspirator who has god-like powers.The novelty &#151; at least in the book &#151; is that the character played by Redford was a professional reader of books. Its what he did as an obsession and what he was employed to do for the Agency. He looks for sense, hidden clues to a larger sense in the world. While the reader of the spy book is reading, trying to explain the incomprehensible forces, trying to chart cause, the character in the book is doing the same thing. Its what I call narrative folding.Naturally, his wide reading gives him esoteric knowledge about things and techniques which he employs, supplementing his own solitary resourcefulness. There is a love story of sorts. His real girlfriend has been killed and he randomly picks a woman to hide with. This is Faye Dunaway whose makeup, acting skills and lines are sadly inadequate.So, its an interesting construction. By today's standards it is slow, offensively simplistic and overall poorly made. But I think even in its day, it lacked the sort of polish and effectiveness that would elude Pollack his entire career. The one thing he could do &#151; it seems &#151; was sometimes help an actor find a place in a story. He would do that at least twice that I know, perhaps more. But as a long form filmmaker, he dies without achievement.There is invading the middle east on bogus CIA intelligence for the purposes of oil, purportedly for the well-being of US citizens. There's a pang there, as well as seeing the New York office of the CIA in the World Trade Center (which was true at the time).Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Paranoia, the psychiatric kind","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"20 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I cannot get past the message of this movie. It's laid out much too clearly to ignore, and it is obscene because it has lost its sense of what it's about. I haven't read the novel, but Pollack's film opens with a scene at a CIA-front organization in New York, which is broken into by two professional assassins, headed by Max von Sydow, who proceed to brutally slaughter the half dozen quirky staff members we've come to know and understand. The staff include an elderly female receptionist, a fussy elderly professorial guy who's toupee falls off when he is machine-gunned (is that a joke?), and, last, the beautiful Tina Chen who looks up from the copier, realizes she is about to be murdered, and says, pitifully brave, I won't scream. Von Sydow replies sympathetically, I know. These murders are completely unexpected, savage, unmotivated by anything that we are aware of, and graphic. It is a brutal scene. There is absolutely no way in which von Sydow and his henchman can be redeemed. And yet that is exactly what Pollack tries to do towards the end.After having killed these innocent good guys, von Sydow switches sides (because the other side is willing to pay him) and assassinates the evil mastermind behind a complicated intramural CIA plot. The script then turns him into a perfectly reasonable, sensitive human being. It is better to live in Europe. Things are not so rushed. Or whatever. I swear I'm not making this up. Pollack wants us to believe that it is better to be an honest mass murderer than a crooked bureaucrat. That's the message. You should write it down in case you forget. Just exactly what kind of psychiatric shambles do you have to be in order to turn ordinary values, not to mention common sense, upside-down like that? I understand that there are thoughtful adults who dislike the government of the United States, even hate it, and who see conspiracies just about everywhere, providing a knee-jerk explanation for otherwise unexplainable events. I know that people who think this way exist because I number some of them among my closer friends. Nevertheless, at some point this dislike, this hatred, if it increases in intensity, must pass beyond politics or ethics and into the realm of the psychiatric. I don't for a moment believe that a man who murders people for money is better than a sinister government official. I don't care how suave and cultured the murderer is or whether he knows how to reach the Louvre on the Metro. Whoever is purveying that message needs either medication or meditation.I'd like to be able to argue that the production is as thoroughly rotten as its message, but I can't. It's quite well done. (In some ways that's worse, because it makes the film less dismissable.) Even New York City looks photogenic on the screen. And it's been a long time since I've thought of New York as photogenic. Robert Redford does an admirable job of projecting his character's initial shock and confusion, but then turns into a telecommunicational semi-genius. And, man, he looks just fine! His wardrobe is just right. Even his rimless glasses are becoming. And his peacoat. It's not everyone who can make a navy pea jacket look glamorous. He seems extremely handsome too, the swine. I want to look like that. I want to wear a denim shirt and a tie with such panache. Faye Dunaway is alright in her role but it's not too believable a role. Would anybody eagerly sleep with a guy who has just kidnapped her and is holding her at gunpoint? Even if he did look like Redford? Would anyone be emotionally wounded if, when this ambivalent relationship is about to end, Redford asked her not to tell anybody about what happened? Cliff Robertson is surprisingly good. He does one or two extremely good double-takes. The mailman is superb. The fight between him and Redford in a crowded apartment is exquisitely choreographed and, for once, we really don't know for sure how it will turn out, because Redford (a book reader after all) seems mismatched against the brute cunning of this hired assassin. This is one of John Housemann's final roles. A shame. He's a magnet on screen. And what an end to his life a friend finds him lost, wandering the streets of New York, in a neighborhood he'd been familiar with for most of his life. Yes, the movie is very well executed, but I can't ignore that vicious, paranoid message. I have the same problem with Leni Riefenstahl's Triumph of the Will. Or her Olympic documentary in which the announcer is watching a foot race in which Jesse Owens is pulling into the lead and says ominously, This Negro is dangerous. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best of the 1970s paranoia thrillers","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" So many resonant moments in this classic little picture.References to 1122 just before the killings, the creepily prognosticative use of the World Trade Center as the site of the CIA's offices, to say nothing of the plot to invade the middle east over oil.Some viewers' complaints to the contrary, the soundtrack is, for my money, a great addition to the film. Yes, sure, there's a light, jazzy, slightly disco-y element to it, but its of a '70s melancholia which is completely inseparable from the film.That '70s melancholia in the score taps into the disillusioned, romantic sadness of the era. And the film is right in the middle of that.And then there's that love scene people cringe at. But one has to remember that from the early-'70s into the early-'80s, most dramatic films were virtually required to have one explicit -- and usually contrived -- sex scene, just because movies now could.Sometimes they were quite nauseating and didn't fit.I'm just grateful that Redford's and Dunaway's wasn't all that bad. And done a little more artfully than many were at that time.Anyway...These types of movies rarely get made anymore, and any discussion of conspiracy in the media is dismissed as tin foil hat lunacy.But in the post-'60s disillusionment of the '70s, there was a brief period where you could, on occasion, bring this kind of material to the screen (a la THE PARALLAX VIEW or ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN, etc.). And while I'm not fond of Alex Jones-style bluster, anyone who knows anything about U.S. covert actions since the '40s realizes that outrageous movies with ridiculous plots like this are in some cases tame in comparison to reality.As the old saying goes Mankind is a little better than its reputation and a little bit worse.In other words, the truth is often stranger -- and sometimes more horrendous -- than fiction. "},{"Title":"Justifiable Cold War Paranoia","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A tension filled Film with an opening setup that is both surprising and violent. It is this that manipulates the momentum for the rest. Because the rest is mostly a cerebral cat and mouse game of espionage.A non-field C.I.A. Agent is forced to flee from, he doesn't really know. It could be anyone. Robert Redford is Turner (as in page turner)...he reads books. Now he is forced to uncover murderous plots and International War Plans.This is a riveting Man on the run show with its only weakness the middle romance that seems unlikely and out of place. This aside it is a truly gripping case of uncovering more than one hopes. It is a revelation of Cold War paranoia that is, for once, justified. A chilling ending that is believable and could be pulled from today's Headlines. "},{"Title":"His code name is Condor. In the next 24 hours, everyone he trusts will try to kill him.","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Three Days of the Condor is a US political thriller film directed by Sydney Pollack and starring Robert Redford, Faye Dunaway, Cliff Robertson, and Max von Sydow. The screenplay by Lorenzo Semple Jr. and David Rayfiel was adapted from the novel Six Days of the Condor by James Grady.Set mainly in New York City and Washington DC, the film is about a bookish CIA researcher who discovers all his co-workers dead, and must outwit those responsible until he figures out whom he can really trust. The film addresses the perceived moral ambiguity of the actions of elements within the United States government during the early 1970s.CIA researcher Joe Turner (Redford) returns from lunch to find the entire staff of his small New York office assassinated. When he meets his boss (Robertson) at another location to tell him what happened, someone tries to shoot Turner as well. On the run from the cops and his agency, a desperate Turner resorts to holing up with innocent civilian Kathy (Dunaway), who becomes his only ally. Joe decides to save himself the only way possible -- by going to The New York Times. But will it work?Three Days of the Condor is a well-made thriller, tense and involving, and the scary thing, in these months after Watergate, is that it's all too believable.At its best this spy thriller is tense, engaging and good fodder for paranoids with conspiracy theory fever.One of a cycle of conspiracy films from the 1970s that also included The Parallax View (1974) and Redford's All the President's Men (1976), Three Days of the Condor pits a working everyman (albeit a CIA everyman) against a far-reaching conspiracy, as it also criticizes the CIA during a period of increasing publicity about federal wrongdoing, from the Pentagon Papers through Watergate and other congressional investigations. With its timely subject matter, taut suspense, and sympathetic Redford hero, Three Days of the Condor became a substantial hit. Balancing the conspiracy cycle's pessimism with a margin of attenuated hope, Three Days of the Condor suggests that one man can still discover the truth, but whether it helps him remains to be seen.Overall,it is one of the best post-Watergate films ever made. "},{"Title":"Believable now as in 1975 !","Date":"17 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I think that the overall concept of the film plot was believable in 1975 and, strangely, even more so in 2012. In the film it depicts the C.I.A. doing virtually anything to ensure the control of the world's oil supply. The start of the film shows Redford (Turner /Condor) and his co- workers as a generally happy go lucky team of book reviewers in a covert government establishment. The few people in the Book S0tore review books for secret plots being published within them. Turner believes he has uncovered a plot in a book. He is waiting for confirmation from C.I.A. Headquarters at Langley. Then Condor has a lucky escape from the death squad sent to eliminate everyone at the Book Store. He returns from collecting the lunch and finds everyone dead. At this point Condor must use his wits to outsmart and outrun the assassins whilst attempting to be rescued by his C.I.A. overlords. There are no super human feats of physical excellence taking place, just a little luck and a lot of thought. Turner aka Condor starts to see everyone as a potential assassin and as the tone of the film changes you can feel the anxiety within Condor. His background reading books makes his survival behaviour, quite believable. The film introduces characters very well and the background to them is also injected well into the plot. The film has a few twists and turns but never slides into farce. The physical side of the film is handled well and the few action scenes are well portrayed. Faye Dunaway and Max Von Sydow play their major roles, very well, in the pursuit phase of the film. Cliff Robertson's role, as Higgins, is a typical solid performance by a seasoned professional. The end of the film is managed well, considering the vagaries of all the possible outcomes. When the film ends I think most people of normal intelligence will have questions regarding the USA's role in world politics, such is the power of this well produced film. "},{"Title":"Unique classic seminal thriller that I re-watch at least every year","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Puzzled by a remark elsewhere that Higgins is undoubtedly the villain - though I gave that review a helpful vote, for making me think about this. Surely Attwood is the only specifically identified villain? Higgins comes across as a sympathetic desk man with a conscience.His boss, inured to hard decisions after the stark necessity of two world wars, even questions whether Higgins is tough enough to take such decisions (you ARE perfect for it, aren't you, Mr Higgins?). Higgins duly delivers on that toughness ... but by arranging the killing of Attwood, not of Redford's character.Higgins (along with the audience) is then left to contemplate whether he would have been equally ruthless in an unsanctioned cause such as Attwood's own. Or indeed, as it may turn out, will he be that ruthless when he IS now shortly directed to have Condor finally assassinated? (That last thought only just occurred explicitly to me, after 20+ watchings).But, what a movie that it contains not one, but many, such thought-provoking points in a thriller that works 110% as a thriller. Try finding that today, and there is the greatness of Three Days of the Condor! "},{"Title":"But will they print it?  Freeze....","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I loved this movie when I saw it in the theater and all these years later, I still do. It stands the test of time, though my wife insists that the you take pictures of trees with no leaves line is just a bit over the top. Maybe so, but I'll take the rest of it. The pacing of this film is intense, but, unlike so many films, where quick edits are done just because we can, the snappy cutting of Condor works to its advantage.Redford is spot on, too. His combination of intelligence and MacGyver-smarts works beautifully and he never misses a beat. I think it may be his best, most nuanced performance, aside from Sundance, though I think this film demands more of him.And what can I say? Faye Dunaway had not yet reached the point where she looked (and acted) like a caricature of herself. Her snippy vulnerability is delightful, as is her faith in Condor when she decides to join the fun.What Condor does best is balance a complex spy plot with a Hitchkokian wrong man concept and it never stops moving from the first scene. This is one of those films I'd bring with me to an island... "},{"Title":"A film of yesterday relevant to today","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While film buffs may critique the cinematic elements of this movie it has incredible relevance to today's geo-political reality. The culmination is a brutal conversation between Robert Redford's character (Turner) and Cliff Robertson's character (CIA Officer Higgins)over the deaths of 7 of Turners co-workers and friends caused by a rogue operation. Redford challenges Robertson by asking Do we have plans to invade a country in the middle-east? The film moves along at a brisk pace taking the viewer on a who-done-it romp while examining the personalities of the characters and their motives and focuses on Turner's resourcefulness in evading his own assassination. The ending of the conversation is worth the price of the movie. Appropriately Sydney Pollak edits the final scene so the last lines of the movie are a Salvation Army band singing God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen which freezes the end note on the line when we were gone astray...  "}{"Title":"a movie about a little talked about division of the us government","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is about a man who looks for hidden mesages, codes, in written works like books and plays that could be used by subsversive groups etc. There is even one for film and tv I have read. The film is the story of him and his team stumbling onto somethign and they all get wasted except for him and a friend named kathy. The tale is arealistic and came in the fallout of watergate and was well recieved by the viewing public. A good movie. "},{"Title":"sorry, don't get it","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  **********  SPOILER WARNING  ***************the first spy-movie i saw was the spy who came in from the cold. never got the point. since then, i have never understood the point of any spy-movie, but i keep trying..but i do follow the usual sequence man goes on dangerous mission--only he and his boss knows of it; having begun, he feels he is being followed, and strange things happen en route to the job, you know i can't quite put my finger on it, but something's wrong? the first person he meets on assignment is friendly, but tries to kill him; now he is on the run, but still on-the-job..he meets other people who are o.k., but he doesn't know who they are..he meets a girl who he believes is on his side, but she isn't..he meets a man who is one of the bad guys, but for some reason (who knows?) is now trying to help him..he finds out his own people are out to get him before or after he completes his assignment (does it matter?)..in the end, he is getting help from the bad guys to help him stay away from the good guys..he either kills the girl who is against him and finds another woman, or converts the bad girl to be a good girl..right? *** so, in the end, mr. joubert, who it seems was out to kill robert ends up killing another guy who was out to kill robert, and helps robert to stay free, because robert found out the cia was trying to protect (?) global oil supplies..so, robert spills the beans to the press, and everybody goes home happy..NOT!! why were robert's friends killed? why the big deal about calling the cia for help? why do they say, don't hang up the phone, let it drop? why do they make it sound like he's trying to land a plane without instruments? code words, double-talk, secret codes..bull! ..'nuff said! "},{"Title":"Robert Redford tangles with bad apples in the CIA.","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Redford plays a CIA Intelligence aggregator and analyst who stumbles on some mysterious goings on in the CIA.  His discovery leads to the assassination of his entire CIA reading room (intelligence gathering group.) He finds himeslf on the run from unknown persons who are trying to kill him.  He has to find out who they are before they get him. "},{"Title":"Unreal city...Under the brown fog of a winter dawn TS Eliot","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Those having nothing directly to do with TS Eliot's poem the Wasteland TDOTC has that same dreamlike, surreal quality.  One of my all-time favorite films.  The story is very Hitchcockian in the way takes an ordinary guy on an ordinary day and sucks him into a life-threatening situation where reality becomes twisted beyond recognition.  My favorite scene is when Joe Turner is going through Higgins B&W photographs.  We see the NY cityscape through those photos, dreamlike, lonely.  all this wrapped up in a first class suspense thriller.  One to add to the permanent DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Adventure, mystery, sure-fire spy hit.","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, this is one of the good ones.One reason is this  one of the most intense hand-to-hand combat scenes in any movie, any time, any genre.  HANK GARRETT, as the Mailman vs. Robert Redford, really put himself on the map with this role, and this fight. WOW! "},{"Title":"If Condor isn't paranoid ... he will be","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Condor works for the CIA, always reading to look for leaks in U.S. security.  He finds a spy agency the CIA does not know about.  Next all of his co-workers are murdered (while he was literally out-to-lunch).  The hitmen follow him to finish their contract. As Condor barely stays one step ahead of death, he (and I) become more paranoid.  With the CIA, who is good?  Do they look out for their own, or are they more politically operated than Condor hopes? This is an excellent movie. "},{"Title":"What a thriller should be","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Three Days of the Condor is a taut suspense tale that pushes all the right buttons. Redford and Dunaway are excellent as the  endangered low-level CIA worker and his hostage. The script, acting and direction is sharp, and we're expertly guided through the various twists and turns of the plot. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"70s classic","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There seems to be quite a divided opinion on this movie. True, it is a kitsch 70s spy thriller which stretches credulity at times, but you have to watch it for what it is, recognising it as the product of it's own time.The weird thing watching this today is that it seems eerily prophetic, what with its talk of secret schemes to invade the middle east for oil. The location shoot at the World Trade Centre seems to add to this uneasy feeling, all of which would have had no meaning at the time the movie was made. It doesn't offer the viewer answers on a plate, which is something I like in a movie. The script and story credits you with the intelligence to piece things together yourself, while still leaving a few mysteries at the end.It's hard to pin down exactly. Some parts strike you as being a bit 'low budget' movie, while others are classic. It does have something, despite the flaws. Redford does a good job and carries it; Max Von Sydow is great as the clinical assassin and Faye Dunaway does well to lend credibility to her character who has a slightly awkward place in the story.Watch it through your 70s glasses. Enjoy the funky soundtrack. Great 70s movie. "},{"Title":"I was at the edge of my seat, with my eyes consistently glued to the screen","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Let me start off by saying that I have not read the novel. It would appear they cut the amount of occurrences in half, which doesn't mean it isn't still an amazing piece of work. This holds up incredibly well. It's over thirty years old, and beyond possibly some of the music, I really didn't feel that this was particularly dated. This takes off almost immediately, and from then on, it keeps a solid grip on the viewer. The suspense and intensity is immense, and it is pushed to just before it becomes overwhelming, an impressive achievement in that it doesn't actually go over the line. The editing is excellent, throughout. The cinematography is inspiring. The direction is masterful. Nothing is too much or insufficient. It never gets to be crude, and there are many marvelous underplayed moments. This is one of the examples that can help prove that an action scene does not have to be big, loud, dumb and/or obnoxious, but can be sophisticated. I found all of this rather effective. The writing is magnificent, and the script still has relevance today. The plot is well-told and develops perfectly. The acting is quite simply spot-on, not a single performance is off. Redford, Dunaway and von Sydow are fantastic. There is a sequence where sexuality is hinted at, in the same subtle manner as the majority of the piece. There is language, though rare, and only twice is it harsh. This is only the third film(the other two being They Shoot Horses, Don't They? and The Interpreter) I've seen with Sydney at the helm, and I do not intend it to be the last, although I can imagine it to be the most exciting. I recommend this warmly to any fan of spy-thrillers and/or those who made this, Mr. Pollack in particular. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Very watchable, very entertaining...","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Immensely watchable. Not quite as dark as other conspiracy thrillers of the 1970s (CHINATOWN, THE CONVERSATION, THE PARALLAX VIEW), but certainly just as worthy. Robert Redford is a low level CIA employee who returns from lunch to discover his co-workers have all been killed. He's pursued by silent assassin Max von Sydow and takes refuge with a very unwilling Faye Dunaway. Part chase film, part romance, it's all very entertaining. Director Sydney Pollack keeps the pace moving and Redford is perfect. It helps to be supported by a very classy cast, including John Houseman, Walter McGuinn and a very good Cliff Robertson as Redford's shady boss. The witty script is by Lorenzo Semple Jr. A real triumph. "}{"Title":"He Reads...","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my top 5 movies of all time. I just loved the way the suspense builds as you try to figure out who are the good guys and are the not so good ones.The story starts out with Redford (codenamed Condor) who goes out to get lunch for his co-workers and comes back to an office filled with freshly killed coworkers having been the victims of a professional hit. The rest of the movie is about him avoiding being captured or killed and figuring out why this hit was carried out.Along the way he manages to get help from Faye Dunaway's character.Max Von Snydow plays the foreign hit-man that has Condor's contract. They have a very tense scene in a elevator as Condor comes face to face with his pursuer.It is a thought provoking movie that has superb acting, with an excellent cast, a great story, and a plausible, non-predictable ending. "},{"Title":"A great spy thriller that really stood the test of time","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Redford plays a CIA researcher Joseph Turner Code Name Condor who is caught up in a deadly situation when all his work mates are slaughtered on one rainy morning when he was out for lunch. The film is a sort of a cat and mouse game between turner and the CIA operators who are after him. Despite Redford's strong performance it is Faye Danaway who steals the show as the woman picked up randomly by The Condor to help him. Also in top form is Max Von Sydow as the cold blooded assassin for hire who is after the condor. The film's photography is marvelously shot on New York cold winter. The perfectly executed action sequences and the smart story makes for a memorable film experience. Highly Recommended 10/10. "},{"Title":"Condor still has wings...","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" **spoilers below**More films should work so well to ensnare the viewer right at the start. Redford is inviting as the kindly know-it-all who can predict the weather, but has no idea what sort of political storm is about to hit him.We meet an engaging ensemble of Redford's co-workers and moments later they are all killed off. Not only was I surprised by the lack of even a  straggler left behind (Pollack plays with this idea and us very well), but the fact that he took the time to introduce them with some detail helped us to share the shock Redford's character receives.Then we find out how little that character knows about what he is doing, and where he fits in. This suspense is outstanding, but it dissipates to a degree in a love affair and later in Redford finding his inner Bond. That sort of forces us into a different film than where we began; a taut political mystery is gone and in its place we've been slipped a good-guys/bad-guys action thriller.While the mandatory love interlude is dated, the grist and twists of this film are holding up surprisingly well nearly 30 years after its release. The pacing of the film is excellent, and some little touches go along way (we see the names Heidegger and Argento on mailboxes at one point). The cast excels at all parts, small and large. Cliff Robertson I thought was fine...others here have balked at him a bit.Concerns voiced here in a fiction about America's oil  addiction and the actual freedom of the US press are still all too troubling in light of the facts of today. As does the worry that while we do our jobs, what are our jobs doing to us...and to U.S.Keep an eye out for this one on cable...we'll let you know when to watch it in the usual manner. Burn this review now.6/10 "},{"Title":"Post Watergate/CIA paranoia in this intriguing Pollack movie","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The mid 70s was a crazy time for America's Government agencies especially with regards how Hollywood portrayed them. Three Days of the Condor, All the Presidents Men and The Parallax View all appeared within a few years of each other and gave us, the viewing democratic public, our own sense of growing paranoia as to whether these so-called friendly Government agencies are really on our side after all!Pollack's story is nicely paced and never overburdens itself with too much talky liberalism/commie bashing. What we do have is the CIA mistrusting itself and its own citizens rather than from anyone outside the US.Redford is perhaps just a little too beautiful & superficial for the role of a humdrum CIA agent doing nothing more than bookworm theories, plots & investigations from simply reading paperback novels. When he returns to the office after collecting lunch he finds his entire team gunned down. He contacts his CIA boss only to find that the contract is still incomplete and they want him dead if  only because another CIA department thinks he knows too much about one particular venture that they want to carry forward into a practical project.So he spends sometime hopping between shadows until he finally kidnaps some unhappy middle class woman who also, just happens, to be quite strikingly beautiful.So far so good, but this is where Pollack's firm handling of the story falls a little flat because Redford then forces Dunaway into trusting him before they cement this newfound relationship by finally make love (oh yeah!?). After that, of course, she is putty in his hands and they both decide to nail the CIA together (as you do!)The rest of the film returns to form with the best performance of all coming from Sydow as a hitman who sorts out these petty little internicine squabbles with a silencer. But Sydow is also a very patient, calculating man with a very soothing Austrian voice & demeanour yet oozes the threat of instant death should you ever cross him.The ending is perhaps a little camp and doesn't totally convince, its as if Pollack has somehow lost the real last 20 pages of the story and has hastily rewritten his own.John Houseman is totally redundant as the CIA chief, blathering on about nothing while Robertson tries hard to be another tough CIA spook but again fails to deliver perhaps its his blue eyes that tells us he really should be on a beach somewhere on the West coast rather than roughing it with all the East Coast bad guys.Redford is good but not entirely convincing as I said earlier. Just like in most of his 70s films its seems to be written into his contract that somehow a script must bend a little so that he gets to bed a woman or two, and this film is no exception.Dunaway is good as the stunned bystander but we are asked to take a giant leap of faith into believing that she should so readily support this total stranger so relatively quickly, personal problems or not - I suspect it would have been a different story if our hero was somewhat shorter, stouter and thinner on top,and wasn't called Robert Redford!However, Pollack does just enough to pull the film through, making it a rather entertaining caper although it still lacks the same kind of gravitas as either Parallax or Presidents'***/***** "},{"Title":"Go to lunch early ...","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ... because it could save your butt and all your other body parts.  Then call your employer (the CIA), id yourself as Condor, and start running because everybody you know in the agency wants more than your sorry butt.Why for crying out loud? Your division only reads books,looking for subversion, secret codes & plans, and find out who wants to overthrow our government.  It's an easy thing to do .. NOT!So, until you find out why everyone in your division was killed, you will need to kidnap Faye Dunnaway and hold her hostage in her own apartment.The answers do come, little by little, with the assistance of your not-really-kidnapped only friend in the world.Max von Sydow is perfect for this movie, as is the late John Houseman in a cameo appearance.  These are not your typical friends.  Neither is Cliff Robertson, so tell him to read the New York Times. "},{"Title":"Before the Bourne movies.","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This could have been a great film. But because of the not very thrilling or enthralling directing, it kinda falls flat. Still I can see why this film was a stand out film for it's time. For one it's Robert Redford's trademark film. He plays a character that uses his brains more than his brawn. While also being cool and suave about it. It's just cool how his character is this resourceful guy that uses his surroundings in order to get to the core of the matter. When it comes to the message of and the theme of the story, it's really ahead of it's time. The romantic elements, is kinda necessarily but isn't all that believable. But than again, it's Robert Redford slightly past his prime. I am sure just about any woman would like to be kidnapped by him. This film is about politics and conspiracies, that is ahead of it's time. Again though, watching it now it seems to lack in the thrilling and enthralling department. It's still however a cool film that made wave and inspired other thrillers to come after. This is a slick film that I appreciate for what it did for it's time and still somewhat holds up today.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Almost Perfect!","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Three Days of the Condor is pretty entertaining with a stellar cast featuring Oscar winners like Robert Redford, Faye Dunaway, John Houseman and Cliff Robertson. Redford pays Joe Turner a.k.a. Condor who is the lone survivor of a major killing spree where his colleagues including his Asian girlfriend Janice are shot to death in New York City offices. The movie is based on the book but I haven't read it. Redford does his best as a man on the run like Tom Cruise in Mission Impossible. He doesn't know why they were murdered and all he does is read for the CIA. He kidnaps an unwilling woman played by Faye Dunaway. Their relationship gets complicated by their mutual attraction to each other. Carlin Glynn plays the small supporting role as Sam's wife. I love the New York City locations especially seeing the twin towers where they once proudly stood. "},{"Title":"Mid 70's political intriguer...","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Probably an example of the kind of movie George Clooney was extolling the virtues of when he said recently that the period from the late 60's to the early 80's represented a cinematic peak for US movies. It's certainly not difficult to see this Sydney Pollack feature alongside the likes of Serpico, Klute, Network The Candidate and my personal favourite The Parallax View amongst other contemporary, what I would term starry / lo-fi thrillers, all of them in their own ways depictions of different aspects of disillusionment and corruption within and cynicism with the US way of life particularly those we supposedly look up to, like the police, politicians, television and here the largely ungoverned CIA. I found much to savour but with some pretty major caveats too. Best of the former was certainly the cinematography, Pollack capturing excellently the mundaneness of an average rainy day at what appears on the face of it a run-of-the-mill literary society, only to deftly but shockingly explode the facade (the office is actually a front for a CIA intelligence gathering unit) with the ruthless execution of all its inhabitants, which fate Redford's character fortuitously escapes by ducking out to the local deli. So far so very good. Redford (the 70's Clooney or vice-versa, depending on your preference) is very good in a slummed-down, almost Bohemian characterisation, his vulnerability enhanced by his wearing of glasses, a million miles from the confident characters from his recent past, the Sundance Kid being the best known example. Uncertain, edgy, not knowing who to trust, he's left in the end to fend for himself as his paymasters turn on him. I was less convinced however with the encounter with Faye Dunaway's character, to me, an apparent sop to those who say that every film needs some male / female frisson. Fair enough, I suppose, but having strained for everyday realism up to that point, the way that her character, after being kidnapped, tied up and imprisoned in her own home by a desperate (if undeniably handsome) gun-toting Redford, almost naturally ends up that very night in bed with him, comes over as patronising to these eyes and ears. Some of their dialogue is poorly written too during these scenes of mutual discovery and detract from the narrative thrust. Clooney's recent Michael Clayton was the better for eschewing such an obvious plot device. The bedroom scene between the stars too, with cutaways to Dunaway's bleak gallery of black and white photography seemed to lack imagination; contrast it for example with Nicolas Roeg's similarly depicted but altogether electric scene between Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie in Don't Look Now. I also had a problem with Max Von Sydow as a cold clinical assassin (just too avuncular, even down to his clothes) although I got the in-joke Fellini reference as he admires his chess-pieces. I could also have done without Dave Grusin's dull jazz-funk soundtrack. The ending is reasonably well-rounded, the bad guy gets his (surprisingly) and the final scene suitably enigmatic as you realise that the system will probably win and that Redford will likely stay permanently on the run and probably not survive too long either. Overall then, while a little overlong and lacking some dramatic tension at key points, a good example of top US cinema from the 70's. "},{"Title":"Daft story, but intelligence lies behind","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The best feature of 1970s C.I.A.-set thriller 'Three Days of the Condor' is the downbeat, but believable ending-cum-explanation, which raises issues as pertinent as ever in the modern world. But the story has some weaknesses. It doesn't feel as if it really takes place in only three days (the book, from which the film was derived, was actually called 'Six Days of the Condor'); and, especially in the context of the reduced time-frame, some aspects of the story seem a bit far-fetched (like the speed with which Robert Redford's character develops both a love interest and espionage skills). The necessity of departing from a single point of view could also be seen as a weakness, puncturing the atmosphere of paranoid suspicion that builds around Redford. But in spite of these limitations, the film remains watchable and the sense of ambiguity and uncertainty resembles other similar movies from this era, such as 'The Parellax View'. Certain aspects of the film do appear dated (such as its interest in what was then new-fangled technology); and a more modern movie would probably feature more sex and violence; but would not necessarily be better for it, for there's an intelligence here behind the plot not often found in the thrillers of today. "},{"Title":"Not dated at all - VAGUE SPOILERS","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If we have to be objective, the movie is not dated at all. Otherwise, the looking has to be necessarily pure 70s (clothing, technology, music...), but they are just secondary things against a suspenseful and clever plot and great acting. Disagreeing with some detractors, I like the ending in a hand, the dark and no-mistakes assasin turns to be a sensitive simple guy and a gentleman in some sense. Anyway Von Sydow inside a spy plot is like sugar in coffee. In the other hand, the doubt about Turner's fate is diffuse, but it's also diffuse what the CIA will do the next, and even if Turner really talked to the newspapers this is just a way of stretching the suspense beyond the movie ending, without neither innocent happy endings nor over-worn drastical actions. I love the casting as well, the only one I can't fully catch is Robertson, who I can't fit anywhere, to be true. Redford is perfect; for any reading lover it's easy to feel identified with his role, just a self-taught rookie against the whole system with the only input of his books. Dunaway gray and secretive personallity is really seducting, and even Turner short-lived pals are really nice. I just want to mention other similar titles for anyone interested in this witness-chase and/or conspiration movies -The Bourne Identity (both versions for very different approachings) -Conspiracy Theory (Mel Gibson) -Witness (Harrison Ford, with Peter Weir direction as an added bonus)Different plot but also similar groove (say North By Northwest) -All The President's Men (obvious) -The Prize (Paul Newman) -Silver Streak (Pryor and Wilder)Wish I could get the book soon. "}{"Title":"Solid Period Piece Movie that's an Old Friend!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One of my favorites since I saw it in the theater in 1975 as a high school senior. A very interesting and timely plot  considering the then-current energy crisis and Arab oil embargo, and Redford in another politically-oriented flick pre-dating All the President's Men by one year, so he must have been in the mood!Notice the detail paid to the capturing of touch tones on a tape recorder for later feed through the telephone company's automated reverse phone book and subsequent phone call to get the name for the number. Can be done by pretty much anyone today but in 1975 this was a pretty cool and impressive trick.Also note the 1975 calendar on the back of Redford's sister-in-law's door.Still trying to triangulate on the location of the restaurant Robertson and Dunaway meet for lunch!This film has a very attractive New York City November feel to it...cold and damp but no snow.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining Watergate era thriller","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I admit I have a soft spot for the best of Sydney Pollack'swork. If ever there was an inheritor of the best of old worldHollywood studio filmmaking, it's Pollack. In a way he remindsme of Michael Curtiz. This is not damning Pollack with faintpraise, but admiring him for the craftsmanship he brings to hismotion pictures, and wishing there were more like him. ThreeDays of the Condor is a very effective, moody thriller thatbenefits from its cool melancholy tone and very good  performances from leads Robert Redford, Faye Dunaway and Max VonSydow. I remember seeing this film two or three times when itcame out in 1975 and thinking of it as the perfect Watergate erathriller. You have read postings decrying the film's slow pace(?????) and the dated technology presented within the film(?!?!?!?!?!) as if every motion picture of value was made at 2o'clock yesterday afternoon. View Three Days of the Condor andfollow it with Enemy of the State and judge for yourself whichis the more absorbing film. "},{"Title":"One of my top ten favorite movies.","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The stunningly choreographed fight scene with Turner and the mailman made me breathless on my first-time viewing. The proficient movements of both combatants gives you an insight into their intellect, skill, conditioning and professionalism which serves to create greater tension, where you realize that the smallest mistake of either will cost him his life. By contrast, but with equal tension and realism, I'm reminded of that great fight scene in FX with Bryan Brown, where his character gets the jump on a highly-trained special agent but almost falls short of the mark through incompetence.Additionally, it's reminiscent of the fight scenes contained in Jeremiah Johnson, also directed by the great Sydney Pollack. "},{"Title":"Subtle Government Redford & Mid-'70s!","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Robert Redford (undervalued actor) is perfectly cast as a computer-drone-geek (good at his job) who stumbles onto the lovely Tina Chen and workmates post-Max Von Sydow with Woody Allen glasses and strange mustache. Faye Dunaway, elegant and lost, falls into this menagerie of jigsaw machinery until it's too far gone.A 7 out of 10. Best performance = Faye Dunaway & Max Von Sydow. Resembles THE PARALLAX VIEW (with Warren Beatty), but not quite as global. Under-rated serious film that hits the mark all the way down the line (plot-wise) where great acting doesn't have to come in to play. The ending is sublime. Watch this by yourself and you'll understand Watergate paranoia of the mid-1970's. "},{"Title":"Entertaining 70's thriller","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is an entertaining conspiracy thriller that has the 70's written all over it.  I dont know if its that porno style music at the opening credits, or the orange carpets in the office, but this really made me feel like I was back in the 70's, even though I wasnt even born then!! This is one Sydney Pollock's(Out Of Africa, Do They Really Shoot Horses, and Sabrina) few films that didnt put me to sleep.  Also, it has an excellent cast.  I dont know if this was a box office hit or not, but its a good one to watch on a rainy day.  *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Dated but somewhat worthwhile","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Robert Redford plays a reference assistant for the CIA in New York. While he's out getting lunch the entire staff are brutally shot to death. He comes back, discovers the bodies, calls the CIA...and soon discovers that they want him dead too. He has nowhere to turn to and the CIA after him...The technology in this film is laughably dated (the dial phones and the computer search made me giggle) but, that aside, this is reasonably entertaining. It's extremely well shot--NYC looks just great. There's also some good acting--Faye Dunaway is just great as a woman Redford kidnaps; Max von Sydow is very good (and scary) as a killer; Cliff Robertson is just so-so as a CIA head and John Houseman is very commanding in his small role. I was entertained for 2 hours, but I can only give it a 7. The problems the film was too long; Robert Redford gives another lousy performance; the dialogue is occasionally very bad (especially in the scenes between Redford and Dunaway) and there's a very silly, needless romance and sex scene between Dunaway and Redford. Still, the film has its moments and might have had more with a better leading man.The R rating on this film should be lowered to a PG-13. By todays standards the violence is pretty tame and there's only fairly mild swearing. "},{"Title":"Terrific thriller with strong acting and storyline.","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Redford is a CIA reader (a worker who reads all possible published information of the world and feeds it to a computer for processing) who finds himself in some major trouble when every one of his co-workers is slaughtered and the killers are now after him! This is a classic set up for suspense and director Pollack is quite effective at generating it, along with intrigue, unease and especially paranoia. During Redford's flight for life, he becomes involved with a sensitive, emotionally fragile woman (Dunaway) who winds up feeling sympathy for his plight and attempts to aid him. The film has one of the most memorable openings in thriller history. The clinically savage destruction of the CIA readers burns the memory. This creates a nauseous feeling of despair which lasts pretty much throughout the film except for an obligatory and unrealistic love scene. Nonetheless, Redford is strong (in between his clean cut, golden boy years and his weathered, leathery look) and looks cute in his blue jeans. Dunaway is perfect in a difficult role to essay. She's allowed to show a wide range of emotions and displays what has to be one of Hollywood's all-time greatest shrieks (when Redford shoots an assailant.) Also on board are Von Sydow as an ice cold assassin and slick Robertson in the type of slimy role that Hal Holbrook plays to perfection. Both do extremely well in their parts (though Robertson's hair is often ridiculous--especially near the end--and could've gotten billing on it's own!) The film is almost peerless in it's ability to create fear of government, all the while remaining entertaining and believable and sprinkling little bits of humor in every so often (notably in Dunaway's remarks.) The New York City locations add a great deal to the flavor and authenticity of the film. The music score is a detraction. It's dated, occasionally inappropriate and sometimes even annoying. "},{"Title":"8/10 Questions of the near extinction of the rare Condor","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Could have been a bonafide masterpiece if it wasn't for the lazy final act. As it is, Three Days of the Condor comes off as a better then average thriller.  Redford gives it his usual, but the film is treated with a customary nifty performance by Dunaway, and Max von Sydow ends up stealing the show as the dangerous assassin.  It's just too bad it had to end on such a dry note. "},{"Title":"Faye Dunaway is a diva and she shows it again and again! This film is just great! A great cast and a perfect story.","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Faye Dunaway is certainly one of the best actress of the 60's and 70's and she is still popular with her recent performances in 'The Messenger of Joan of Arc' and in the film 'The Yards' with James Caan.Well near 25 years before this film she made an absolute thriller. But it is Robert Redford who is the principal actor in this thriller from Sydney Pollack. It was always so easy to understand the story but on the whole I understood it. It was important that you pay attention on everything.This is probably one of the best thrillers of the 70's but 'Chinatown' is still better. But this film is also very good, you won't regret when you saw this film!Rating 9/10 or ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Great spy out-in-the-cold drama with attractive stars","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Great spy flick starring Robert Redford and Faye Dunaway.  Redford, low-level staff member for metropolitan U.S. spy office, becomes top suspect when office is wiped out.  Of course he's innocent, but that doesn't really matter, because he knows too much anyway.  Film focuses on Redford's own investigation into what happened and why, while running from  his own agency.  Dunaway plays stunning hostage turned friend;  Cliff Robertson is outstanding as amoral agency official trying to reel Redford in one way or another.  If you like your spy flicks in familiar locations with attractive stars, this one's for you. "}{"Title":"Subtle thriller, with intense rather than explosive action...","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" They couldn't make a film like this today, it would be considered boring. However, director Sydney Pollack really pulls off a gripping suspense drama here, with mild-mannered researcher for the CIA caught up in dirty doings within the operation after all his colleagues are murdered. Pollack doesn't go in for flashy, bombastic thrills--he seems to realize this is a personal story and he gets right down to business setting up the intricate plot. How convincing the explanations are at the finish-line will depend entirely upon the viewer's point of view, but I never felt the screenplay, adapted from James Grady's book Six Days of the Condor, cheated the audience or played loose with the facts (only in two scenes does credibility become stretched one involving an intricate wiring of the telephone lines, another concerning Robert Redford's journey to--and entrance into--a CIA operative's house in the middle of the night). Faye Dunaway has a potentially woebegone role as a kidnap victim/love-interest who takes photos of barren parks and streets, but she is admirably low-keyed in the part and never resorts to scene-stealing or being obtrusive. This is Redford and Pollack's film, and together they score a home-run. *** from **** "},{"Title":"It's not paranoia, when there really out to get you.","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie was very a head of it's time. I think this film partial inspired The Pelican Brief and The Bourne Identity. It begins with Joseph Turner codename Condor(Robert Redford) who is a book reader for the CIA, goes to work like any other day, goes out on his lunch break, but when he comes back he finds the whole office has been murdered. He soon goes on the run for his life. Really not knowing who to trust, he takes captive photographer Kathy Hale(Faye Dunaway), in hopes to feel safe. Has he tries to dig for answers, to find out what is it really all about, he wonders will he make it out alive. You really feel the terror that the character feels. Robert Redford really did a job in bringing such realism. Faye Dunaway was also good in her performance. Sydney Pollack is quite the amazing director. It's a suspenseful classic. "},{"Title":"Stylish fun","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In real life, Robert Redford is the perfect useful idiot--and his big, meanie right-wing government paranoia is evident here, with a band of murderous conspirators plotting to wage a clandestine war against oil-rich Arab states--but, damned if this isn't a good flick! From the smooth-as-silk Dave Grusin score to the flawless cinematography to the best short, claustrophobic fight scene since Sean Connery/Robert Shaw in From Russia With Love (honorable mention Frank Sinatra/Henry Silva in The Manchurian Candidate), the story of a book-reader for the CIA unwittingly uncovering a rogue operation to take the oil fields of Arabia, and the lengths of deception and murder the baddies take to shut him up fit the time and the place of the post-Vietnam-but-before-Reagan 70's. Director Sydney Pollack--who teamed with Redford for Jeremiah Johnson--is at the top of his game, and the only flaw in the ointment is Faye Dunaway. The movie is the equivalent of comfort food, say spaghetti, and Dunaway's performance is the menstrual cramps that threaten to spoil the sauce. "},{"Title":"Muddled and Middling","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While he's out to lunch (literlly), a CIA agent's coworkers are brutally murdered, and he becomes a hunted man for reasons unknown to him. There are fine performances from Redford, Dunaway, and von Sydow in this middling thriller. It gets off to an interesting start but runs out of steam as it gets bogged down in CIA-speak and too many scenes at various command centers. The plot is rather muddled. It's never quite clear why Redford's outfit is being targeted and who's doing what to whom within the CIA. Pollack actually uses this murkiness as a device to build up tension, but ultimately it proves to be less than satisfying. "},{"Title":"decent enough 70s flick","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Murders, Shady government agencies and a plan to invade the middle east for oil to call Three Days of the Condor a foreshadow would be a gross understatement.Book-keeper Joseph Turner (Redford) returns to work one day to discover all of his co-workers murdered, assassins attempt to track Turner down while men in suits sit around talking in codes. Imagine Marathon Man crossed with Dr. Strangelove.Redford is good in the role and is backed up by an excellent supporting cast, particularly Von Sydow's deliciously sinister Joubert. The tension is consistently high and the action sequences are satisfying enough, but the film is ultimately let down by its plot holes and inconsistencies in realism. It's also too long, at almost two hours the twists and turns lose their appeal and the tagged-on love story grows tedious.While some of its themes are relevant today the film just isn't as important as it thinks it is and could easily lose 30 minutes. But there is still much enjoyment to be extracted from its twists and frequent gunfights. "},{"Title":"Very Good spy thriller","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Admittedly I had to watch this movie a couple of times before truly understanding it, although I was quite young the first time. I found it a tense, intelligent and believable spy thriller. Redford was top-notch as always, as was Houseman. Cliff Robertson was so-so as the man simply doing his job and Dunaway was good, though a distraction. The sex scene seems gratuitous and was possibly necessary in the 70's to attract more of an audience, but doesn't quite fit with the story of a man in the wrong place at the wrong time. The musical score added to the bleak frightening feeling of the story and the photography was superb. The story of a CIA employee who only read books stumbling upon a plot to invade the Middle East makes you think and wonder if you aren't as naive as he is. Max Von Sydow (as an assassin) was great as always as well. Of course, being this was made in 1975, the technology is now laughable, but replace it with more high tech gadgets and the rest is timeless. I highly recommend this movie to Redford fans, spy movie fans, Pollack fans, New York City fans, and anyone with a couple of hours on a rainy day. Hint pay close attention to all those names they mention. "},{"Title":"American spy drama classic.","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Three days of the Condor is a riveting CIA suspense flick that will keep you glued to the edge of your seat. The plot is believable and satisfying but the relationship between Redford and Dunaway's character is more difficult to accept (at least initially). The main appeal of this title is the story line and the Redford character. Condor (Redford's code name) is naive, amusing yet clever and resourceful. If you are a fan of the Jack Ryan series or cold war spy thrillers (Russia House, Gorky Park, etc) then you will certainly enjoy three days of the condor.  "},{"Title":"Great scipt, time piece.","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with Angry Arguer that hipnness dates movies, but prefer to think of those with exceptional qualities as conveying the feeling of the time, ie. American Grafitti.  The exceptional quality in this case is that the script is topnotch, every word counts, almost a cold war poem.  I also think Sneakers and Spygames could be viewed as sequels. "},{"Title":"This has always been one of my favorites.","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie in a theater when it was released originally.  I remember quite well being impressed by the story, the suspense and the fact that it was difficult to separate the good guys from the bad guys.   I've watched it several times over the ensuing twenty-eight years and have come to be impressed with the craftsmanship of the actors, the director and the editor. What has prompted me to write a review is the occasion that, after twenty-eight years, I've finally found a copy of the book (Six Days Of The Condor).  Was I ever disappointed.  I can now credit the screenwriters.  I can honestly say that, in my humble opinion, this is one time that the movie is better than the book.   "},{"Title":"Why don't they shoot such films today?","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great movie. It builds perfectly, has great atmosphere, solid plot and vivid characters. While Redford has proved many times he's such a nice actor, this film is one of the most prominent performances of Faye Dunaway. I would contrast this fabulous performance with The Thomas Crown Affair, where she might look more impressive but her acting is much less convincing. "}{"Title":"A thriller with less-than-expected thrills.","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Paranoid dramatic thriller offers good actors doing very well in a story that unfolds with promise but winds up with a whimper.  Robert Redford, Faye Dunaway and Max Van Sydow are excellent, but the story is too slow and the twists too few and far-between to keep the momentum from lagging.  And that ending (or lack thereof) really sucks. "},{"Title":"The relationship of Dunaway and Redford complicates and deepens the political message of the film.","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is on the surface a well executed, intelligent, hollywood liberal thriller about the inner workings of the CIA. However the depth of characterization offered by the wonderful cast deepens and complicates the politics offering a far more radical statement than the obvious one of the CIA as a corrupt tool of an imperialist government. I think the complexity of the film comes in its willingness to be resolutely honest about the leading character played by Robert Redford in what surely is his richest screen performance. Redford plays a lower level literary analyst who works with a team of other intellectuals analyzing global works of contemporary literature for the CIA. One day Redford returns from lunch to find all his co-workers dead and thus the story begins. Redford tries to uncover the reasons for the assassinations of his co-workers and stay alive himself- generally learning that he cannot trust anyone or anything connected to this government. What really works for the story is that Redford's charcter does not follow the classical liberal format of the innocent American who really, really believes in this wonderful government and then has a brutal awakening. We see Redford as an all too human opportunist who already has a critique of what the CIA might be doing with his analysis, but, chooses to keep doing it because on the materialistic plane it is a great job. The stories deeper political currents really take off when, in desperation, Redford kidnaps a middle class artist magnificently played by Faye Dunaway. Dunaway here gives a rich, quirky, understated performance that creates a context for some of the stranger motivations the script puts her character through. Dunaway plays a woman totally alienated from her own life and social milieu - she is in what seems a difficult abstract relationship with a man, chooses to hide her best artistic work away from the public, and seems desperate for a sense of adventure or release. The relationship between Redford and Dunaway is a miniature Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down scenario in and of itself and some may feel it is a pointless and overwhelming (based on the sex appeal and charisma of the two leading performers) plot diversion. I think it is deeply connected to the overall message of the film (which by the way actually predicts Desert Storm type antics by the United States) the distillation of a particular time when many middle and working class American's seemed to be awakening to the imperialist and capitalist nature of their country and the implications of this to their own sense of ethics. "},{"Title":"Should have been better","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While not a total loss, THREE DAYS OF THE CONDOR should have been much better. As others have noted, the beginning is quite interesting and exciting. Then all hell breaks loose. As the movie progresses it becomes more and more implausible. The actors are good enough, but no stand outs. The relationship between the REDFORD character and the DUNNAWAY character does not work at ALL. It's a terrible mess and doesn't make any sense what so ever. Relationships like that could only happen in the movies. Oh, this IS a movie!! SPOILER ALERT Something that is not addressed or talked about is when the mailman comes to Dunaways apartment. A fight insures, gunshots all over the place, everything in knocked over. A total mess. Then Redford kills the mailman and off Dunaway and Redford go. What? What happens to the apartment? How is it cleaned up and fixed. What about the land lord? Most important, what about the damn body??? Does it just lay there forever. Who gets rid of it. What would Dunnaway say to the police? Does she just take off to Vermont to be with her boyfriend? What's going to be her explanation? Again, what about that BODY? The plot is so convoluted you can't tell the players without a program. Why were the people in the office killed? Never satisfactory explained, unless I missed something. Was the Cliff Robertson character good or bad? WHO was good and bad exactly? Terrible ending with too much left in the air.Having said all this, it's still a watchable film, expertly photogrpahed with real locations and some interesting scenes. Worth a look, but not worth much praise. "},{"Title":"1,998","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is an excellent suspense drama. I escaped with my popcorn and Pepsi form the theater and upon convexing my TV I overheard Pr. Margaret Tatcher commenting on the film The punks, they want Margaret Tatcher. The plot is simple, basic, exuberant, exiting an agent is caught in a reel of negatives and they cannot decide which one is the good positive. The denouement is I am the son of -MARTIN HEIDEGGER-. The inscription on the board, erased by the agent at central quarters of the C.I.A. is privileged by central-computer in a brilliant tour de force the .3 minutes left for the audience to capture the -moving image- and its significance, makes this film a classic XXeth Century movie. If you like -THE ADAMS FAMILY- originals, you will love the voltage of this one Canadian counter-intelligence at its best! The sub-drama focuses on ghetto issues, such as prostitution, exposure, secret trade, harassment, interstate-pricking, pinking, winking, chuckling, inter-mingling with -IMPOSTORS- of the infamous C.I.A. Did you know that the -HOUSE THAT DADDY BUILT- is a sugardaddy, -MILKY WAY- lookalike installation in the State of New York, at the Cornell University it is the house of Carl Sagan. "},{"Title":"I've seen worse","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Fairly straightforward spy story with some farfetched plot twists.Worth watching though.Somewhat eerie film footage from within and outside of then new Twin Towers more moving. "},{"Title":"Good, but dated","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have to agree with the Clooney/Lopez dialogue from the trunk scene in Out of Sight.  The relationship that develops between Redford and Dunaway in this Three Days of the Condor seemed totally unbelievable.  Also, the technology shown is this fill dates it quite badly.Having said that, I enjoyed this movie on an overall basis.  Redford and Von Sydow are brilliant as always.  Cliff Robinson is pretty good as well.  On its own, Dunaway's acting is excellent (not to mention the fact that she is one damn good looking woman), its just when her and Redford get together that things get goofy.Pollack keeps the pace and tension up (except for a slightly lagging middle act), and the plot twists keep things from getting predictable.  Thumbs up from me.  "},{"Title":"Conspiracy theory stuff!","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I searched high and low to find this on DVD! So don't get me wrong, please! It was superbly well done and it held my attention throughout.BUT! The earnest Political Correctness of it all finally put me off.I have seen so many flicks like this, where we are asked to believe that government is just an evil conspiracy against the rest of us. Rubbish! By all means sit back and enjoy this as a bit of sheer fantasy. But NEVER! I repeat NEVER! even begin to think about taking it seriously!Robert Redford is a Right on Liberal, taken straight out of Hollywood Central Casting - and one of the very worst kind! And this ultimately robs him of all right to be taken even half way seriously as a pukka human being. Good actor, though! You can't take that away from him. Thank God for Charlton Heston, John Wayne and - above all - Ronald Reagan! "},{"Title":"A convenient lunch..","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This was a pretty good 1970's film that sort of hooked me at the start but sort of lost me in the end. Robert Redford stars as a 'reader' for the C.I.A. On a convenient lunch break, all his office mates are gunned down, and fearing for his life, he calls in to the C.I.A. only to find out the hard way that the C.I.A. don't really want him alive either, so now he's running from two different factions, and soon, don't ask, he gets Faye Dunaway mixed up in all of this too. In all honesty, this was just okay, I just felt this got bogged down somewhat.. More talk less action, that really could have made this film a lot better. Redford is his 70's smoking hot best, and Von Sydow is nice as his counter-foil. All in all, not a 1970's defining film, but good for a view. "},{"Title":"Dated as far as conspiracy thrillers go","Date":"31 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Some movies withstand the test of time better than others. In terms of politically driven content and quiet suspense, Three Days of the Condor holds up well, but as a gripping conspiracy thriller, it can't quite compete with the films of today.Maybe that's unfair given the technology of now and the way the C.I.A. appears as a much more unshakable fortress of know-how in modern films such as The Bourne Identity, but that doesn't mean Condor wasn't a good fit for the times or that director Sydney Pollack wasn't one of the all-time greats. Quite simply, the way conspiracy thrillers are fleshed out these days at the script level with most of the loopholes plugged up and pulse-pounding climaxes trumps what Lorenzo Semple Jr. and David Rayfiel concocted in the early '70s.Condor stars Robert Redford as Joe Turner, a reader/analyst for a small division of the C.I.A. After leaving to grab lunch, he comes to back to find all his colleagues murdered. He reports to Langley and they tell him to meet him in an alley where he can be taken into safety. When that results in an attempt on his life, Turner tries to get off the grid and find out what's going on.I've read Pollack was an Alfred Hitchcock fan and wanted to give Condor the same legendary suspense, the kind that draws everything out slowly and drives you mad with anticipation. The execution isn't wrong, but it overestimates the script. A thriller cannot be quiet and brooding if the tensions aren't expertly crafted at the most basic level. Pollack wanted less is more, but the script needed more. The beginning needed to have a bigger impact (like some blood spatter for greater effect) and a better score would have helped make the key scenes feel bigger. At one point Joe fights hand to hand with a guy out to kill him to the tune of complete silence.The best scene in the whole film comes when Turner mistakenly goes back to his apartment and the assassin Joubert (Max Von Sydow), who we recognize from the opening, follows him into the elevator and we're never sure what the next move will be though we know it's coming. There's not enough of this at all.Unfortunately, other elements drag the film out more in boring ways. In order to get somewhere no one will expect him to be, Joe holds a complete stranger, Kathy (Faye Dunaway), at gunpoint. He stays with her and their relationship evolves to be more than captor and prisoner, an ultimately irrelevant and completely unbelievable subplot. Redford, however, proves yet again to be as infinitely watchable as a fish tank (that's a compliment, though I admit a weird one). Watching his character go from clueless to a cunning pest that the government can't exterminate ranks among the films highlights. Certainly, for 1975, a time when Vietnam was more so the focus than Cold War intelligence, Condor was doing something different and from that perspective I cannot criticize. But in terms of gripping entertainment and espionage films, Three Days of the Condor will likely not find itself among the all-time great conversations -- and more and more so as time wears on.~Steven CVisit my site at http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"It seemed like this movie did last three days.","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie on DVD.  It just goes to show that an intense thriller in 1975 = boring and dated in 2003.  The DVD has no special features either. Snore, snore, snore.Of Redford's 70s works, the Great Gatsby and the Sting are much better. "}{"Title":"Well made- but lack-lusting '70's genre movie.","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is another fine example of typical '70's movie making. The movie is however far from a '70's classic. The story is too poor for that and the movie overall lacks some action.It's not that the pace of the movie is kept low. The movie is fast enough and its well directed and constructed. It however is a rare '70's lack-lusting genre movie, in which you're just waiting for a chase of gunfight to happen, that just never comes. It's of course not that I feel that every single movie needs to have some action in it but some action wouldn't had been out of place in this one. It's fitting and sort of needed for a typical '70's genre thriller movie such as this one.The story is actually a pretty odd one once you really start thinking about it. It's rather simplistic, which also makes it far from credible and perhaps even makes it a bit laughable.Yet the movie is perfectly watchable. Everything about it is very professional and its a well crafted movie. It isn't Sydney Pollack's best work but he knows how to deal with the genre. The movie has a perfect sense of realism, despite its weaker unbelievable story. Also nothing wrong with the cinematography from '70's big-man Owen Roizman. Also refreshing to see a '70's genre movie for a chance that isn't stuck in one place or city.Robert Redford plays the main role of the movie well and he truly carries the movie. Also Max von Sydow plays a good and interesting role.Really no must-see but it's a well made movie that's worth seeing.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The fun goes away with the decades","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Although this film is one the greatest of Redford's, watching it in 2005 is not that fun at all. It seems to me that those movies which were great back those times are not so entertaining now. Somehow my level of expectation has raised and that there are movies which stand up against the time, and there are those that don't. Three days of the Condor belongs to the latter category, unfortunately.The movie is exciting, but there is way much less action then I'd expect in a CIA drama, the romantic role is nice, but too sentimentalist for my liking, and the storyline is quite jumpy for me. And the ending just left me really hungry in front of the screen.If you want to watch this movie for excitement and tension, skip it, if you watch it for Redford's performance, it is better good bet 7/10 on my scale. "},{"Title":"Outdated Balony","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is over 25 years old...and my goodness it shows its'age! Not only is the plot ludicrous and preposterous the acting is boring and unrealistic and... expecting the viewer to find any credibility in the story is ridiculous....put briefly a secret agent avoids a mass killing takes a beutifull damsel hostage by a violent kidnapping who immediately thereafter falls madly in love with him...blah blah blah....Oh what a load of nonsense!!! The scenes between the lead male and female actress are tedious, out-dated, politically incorrect..and totally nonsensical....but I suppose in 1975 as today many film makers believe..... perhaps rightly.. that the viewing public will drool over these celebrities no matter what drivel is put on celluloid..... but count me out......at least if you watch this film at night it is guaranteed to get you snoring. "},{"Title":"Because filmmaker, main character and viewer are all male, Faye Dunaway distracts us all from the espionage plot, and somehow the movie gets lost.","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Redford is in some serious danger - all his undercover code-reading pals have been killed. But, true to the genre, that doesn't stop him from falling in love with the girl he takes hostage (for no particular reason).Dunaway, in her Chinatown prime, radiates sexuality - and its good.But like in all movies which followed in 007's footsteps, her presence ends up distracting us all from the espionage plot. Main reason is because its filmmaker, main character and viewer are all male - and all basically more interested in Faye Dunaway than in whether we live or die.This movie is no more guilty of this crime than every other of its brand, which is the fault of James Bond. Its not necessarily a fault, i suppose - but the espionage plot really gets lost when it appears, at great lengths. All of a sudden it loses its sense of purpose.The nail in the coffin in this regard was when a nicely lit extended sex scene appeared at 1h 5mins, intercut with closeups of the camera zooming slowly into holes and contours in Dunaway's characters's photographs, all this accompanied by a softcore 70's saxophone.2/5. Plus, its so strange seeing the great von Sydow doing grunt work as a 2D bad guy. "},{"Title":"Not dated, but dull","Date":"16 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Despite a tense opening and decent premise, this Watergate-era romantic thriller lapses into talk and irrelevance. The people involved seem to be marking time. Thanks to Dunaway and Redford who were major stars at the time of the film's release, it was a box office hit, but the star pairing doesn't pay off; both actors are low key. Sydney Pollack whose films Tootsie and They Shoot Horses, Don't They? are notable achievements, doesn't exhibit talent for suspense or tension and the screenplay is lacking. Unfortunately, 3 Days of the Condor is less than gripping. If you looking for a compelling thriller mixing politics and justifiable paranoia watch Dunaway in Chinatown or Redford in All the President's Men instead "},{"Title":"This film has aged poorly","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I recently saw Three Days of the Condor and Marathon Man (a long-time favourite) back to back. Direct comparison does not flatter TDOTC.TDOTC relies too heavily on the paranoia associated with the cold war for its atmosphere. After starting with a bang, the plot gradually slows until it is motionless by the final act. Events simply don't sustain the intended mood. And there are several eyebrow-raisers in the plot. The romance is so implausible as to be farcical, and we are apparently supposed to believe that a bookish non-agent could successfully sprint around disarming assassins, rewiring phone grids, and generally making James Bond look pedestrian.Avoid. If you're interested in paranoid thrillers, watch The Parallax View or Capricorn One instead. And although their themes are a bit different, The Conversation and Marathon Man are far, far superior to this movie. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review nothing special","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Three Days of the Condor is a secret intelligence thriller. I like an intelligent plot, but the film, especially the ending, includes some leaps of reasoning that I didn't buy at all. And the romantic chemistry didn't work for me. Action and suspense have come a long way since 1975. I could not compare the film favorably to Sum of All Fears or even the original Day of the Jackal. It's more like an outdated version of Spy Game, a great Robert Redford thriller. Despite all that, the film still packs a punch, with some great acting by Robert Redford.Who should see this film-- Robert Redford fans, or thriller fans, but only on a rainy day when you've nothing better to do. See Spy Game and The Spy Who Came In From the Cold instead.-- Nobody elseSince I believe in rating a film for its impact today, not thirty years ago, I'll have to give Three Days of the Condor a nothing special 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Spy thriller from 1975, great back then, not so in 2008","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I always wanted to watch this film and tonight I did just that. These many years later and in a world so utterly changed from the mid 70's my take on this movie is going to disappoint many others who have written many pages of glowing reviews here.Some films, like good wines, age very well. I know it is a cliché, but in this case, true. This film would have been viewed in 1975 as spine tingling, sensational and would have given movie goers the sense that the world really is filled with scheming crackpots who do the dirty work for faceless government agencies. I have not read the book that this movie is based on but I'll bet it is quite good. Seen right now towards the end of 2008, this film looks quite laughable to me. Compare if you would the enormous resources to hunt down one man on the loose in Enemy of the State. Now that is how an agency chases a wanted asset. Condor was on a small list of people who were to be eliminated but one gets the impression in the movie that it was farmed out to second rate hacks who were something akin to rent-an-agent-hit-man. I don't know if it was director Pollack's failure to deliver a sense of urgency or it was budget constraints at the time of filming or weakness of script.People comment about the tension in the movie and yes there is tension. It all leads up to a head scratching what???? at the end with almost no probable resolution to go home with. The work of spies and counter/double spies is the fertile material that the best novelist of the genre entertain us with. One of the most superb examples of this type of theme is in the film The Conversation shot by F.F. Coppola. Consider if you would that that film came out one year earlier than this one. The comparisons are very valid. Coppola's is a small masterpiece with Gene Hackman in one his very best roles. The script, story, acting and editing is mesmerizing. Consider then this film, the Three days of the condor and for me it is running on half as much horsepower. The plot had potential but got lost in confusing twists and turns. You never want to loose the audience in too much complexity because they have to walk away with an idea of a story that goes from point 1 to point 2. Even if the bad guys win or something dire happens at the end, you at least have to have an idea of what happened. Coherence counts because at our primal selves, we are rational beings who enjoy order. Three days of the Condor is too nebulous and does not clarify enough; ambiguity hangs over the resolution like a fog. If this was deliberate I did not enjoy the ride.The actors are all professionals and while not given as much to work with that could provide material to shine with, they all get by. Faye Dunaway was hamstrung by the handling of her character development. As implausible as her relationship is with Condor she succumbs to his story through a sympathy that is only hinted at maybe she's a lonely soul looking for something to hang on to? Her best work was with Chinatown and Network. She is not miscast but seen now is wasted in the role. John Houseman was wasted in his small role but of course was used because he added gravitas. This was a great actor who could read from the phone book and give you chills up your spine.Cliff Robertson looks throughout the whole film like he is wearing a terrible toupee. Maybe I'm wrong and that was just his too long hair but I kept wondering when it would fall off his head. He is a very fine actor but I found his persona too remote and disinterested. I would have better enjoyed someone like Charles Durning, who always delivers power. Robert Redford has had one shadow over his whole acting career his incredible good looks. Unfortunately for him, this film accentuates those good looks and seen from my time, it distracts from a mediocre role. He is a fine actor and a terrific director. His character as Condor has much potential and given to a younger actor today would deliver more edge. Speaking of which, his character remains too confused and immobilized for too long. I can imagine that if Colin Farell or Russell Crowe had this role that they could develop a much more gritty and edgy performance. I agree with some that this is a film that begs to be remade.The music of David Grusin drips of 70's television idiom and really creeped me out. It has not aged well; it is not his fault but that type of music just sounds awful in the present time. Last but not least, I was given quite a jolt several times when I saw something in this film the Twin Towers feature front and center in several shots; I suppose it is something in the New York City skyline that has graced many films. Seen these short years after 9/11, it still chills.This is not a great film by our standards today and if remade I am sure can go that extra mile. Compared to The Conversation, which appears even now a timeless classic, The Three days of the Condor is very dated. "},{"Title":"The book was better","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" You can tell that this was made in the cynical seventies after Watergate (and I'm a liberal).I really disliked the change in the plot from a rogue smuggling operation to something that ended in an expose in the New York Times. The book had a sort of CIA Internal Affairs assisting the Condor. The movie just becomes a chase. The book had a lot of humor in it, that doesn't come through in the movie.The poor author wrote a sequel in which the Condor flies again for the Company. No way that it will be made into a movie considering how they ended this one. "},{"Title":"Hopelessly naive...","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Do we have plans to invade the middle east? I watched 3DotC not long ago. (In glorious widescreen, the ONLY way to watch pre-homevideo era movies.) I had to sit through nearly two hours of movie to get to this question. When I was a young, liberal, almost radical college student, I thought this was the deepest, most meaningful cinematic question since Scarlett asked Rhett wherever would she go and whatever would she do. One grows up.Events of the last few years have shown that the question is as naive as I was back then. OF COURSE the CIA has plans to invade the middle east. Plans on top of plans. Hell, the CIA probably has a plan to invade Norway. (Confidential to the CIA As a patriotic American of Swedish descent, I'll be glad to help that operation in any way I can, assuming you'll find a use for a 33 year old sofa spud with a bad back and astigmatism.)In any event, the point of having plans to invade countries is to take them out as quickly and with as few lives lost as possible. We proved this in Afghanistan in 2001 and in Iraq in 2003. (Too bad there aren't any plans for what to do AFTER you've invaded, but that's another topic that has little to do with the movie at hand.)This point is lost on Redford and Pollack. Their little spy movie tries to portray the CIA bureaucrat (Cliff Robertson), whose job is to safeguard those plans, as less moral than the assassin who just does it for the money. As Joubert (Max Von Sydow) said, I don't interest myself in 'why'. I think more often in terms of 'when', sometimes 'where', always 'how much'. That's morality according to Hollywood, a town where the question is ALWAYS how much.The filmmakers' heartbreaking naiveté is on full display in the scenes that actually take place /inside/ the World Trade Center. I can't watch this movie without wondering who may have jumped from the window of Cliff Robertson's office. I can't watch Robert Redford standing on the 2nd level balcony without seeing people fleeing on that same balcony in Jules and Gedeon Naudet's amazing film, 9/11. (That was the only camera crew to not only capture footage INSIDE the towers after the attack, but they caught the first plane's impact.) And I can't watch the movie without realizing that Redford and Pollack's political allies spent the 26 intervening years doing everything they could to hamstring the CIA and the FBI.I don't fault the talents of anyone involved in 3DotC. As has been noted here before, the fight between Redford and The Postman is one of the best choreographed scenes in filmdom. This is especially true in these days of The Matrix, its knockoffs, or any Jackie Chan movie you wish to name. The fault, dear Brutus, really does lie in the stars. In this case, the stars are those people we presume to know more than us because they are flickering images on a screen. Three Days of the Condor is more than ample proof that they know more about entertainment than they know about reality. "}{"Title":"Puts the lie to the idea that the 70's was the golden age of US cinema","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" For some reason the 70's has the reputation for being the high point of American movie-making. Sure you have classics like Chinatown, The Godfather, Dog Day Afternoon and The French Connection, but then you have run-of-the-mill clunkers like Three Days of the Condor. This movie is the 70's equivalent of a modern day Tom Cruise vehicle like Mission Impossible 2 complete with poor acting by Robert Redford, plot holes aplenty, a silly premise and unconvincing action sequences.This movie starts off interestingly enough as Redford plays a CIA analyst named Joe Turner (codenamed Condor) who's job is to read books, magazines, etc.. and glean ideas and intelligence from the material. When the operation Turner is part of gets wiped out by assassins while he is out getting lunch (resulting in the deaths of all of Turner's co-workers), Turner has to fight to stay alive while solving the mystery.While the beginning is good, the movie rapidly loses any believability as Redford's bookworm character instantly morphs into an action-hero super-spy. Redford doesn't even bother acting like a non-hero forced by events to go beyond his abilities; no just he transforms into James Bond as soon as the action starts. Faye Dunaway plays a woman kidnapped by Turner who, in the space of a day, ends up falling for Turner and sleeping with him while being held hostage at gunpoint by Turner in her own home. And then she helps Turner in his plan to find out what's going on. To her credit, Dunaway plays her character as slightly damaged and a little crazy, which is the only way that scenario makes any sense.Going forward, the plot holes are gigantic and the mystery behind the destruction of Turner's operation is just plain idiotic. In the post-Watergate era, this kind of paranoid stupidity might have made sense, but now, it's utterly ridiculous. Lastly, much of the music was inappropriate and annoying; thankfully there wasn't too much of it.Ultimately this is a very average movie with nothing to recommend it. "},{"Title":"An unrewarding experience.","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"10 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Generally I don't like films directed by Sydney Pollack (The Firm being somewhat of an exception) and I've never been a Robert Redford fan either. Still, I thought Three Days of the Condor must be good because of the number of praising comments it has received.Although the widescreen cinematography is quite pleasing for the eye and Max von Sydow does a nice job as the sinister professional killer, I found the whole affair tremendously disappointing. The film undeniably radiates paranoid atmosphere, but everything is ruined by the muddled plot which doesn't seem to make any sense.The film also contains one of the most unsatisfying endings I have ever seen which really leaves the viewer hanging in the air. And what can one say about that absurd romance between Redford and Dunaway? I'd much rather watch any of Hitchcock's films five times in succession than to sit through this piece of waste once more. "},{"Title":"Pollack Joke","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I noticed when watching this and 'Point Break' that when directors try making their work hip and cool by using the fads and trends of the time, they date their work much quicker than conventional techniques.This is your only spoiler warning...Pollack here isn't the smart director he was for 'Tootsie' and he proves it by using a predictable person like Redford in the lead.  You can quickly draw similarities to 'Sneakers' and 'WarGames' by the end.Furthermore, due to the simplicity of the plot, this movie has seen many progressions since its release CIA analyst Jack Ryan from Tom Clancy, Mission Impossible from Brian DePalma, GoldenEye from Martin Campbell, and The Bourne Identity from Robert Ludlum all stem from this one event.While Pollack doesn't have the frame of the TV studio in 'Tootsie', he does have Faye Dunaway's photographer.  Notice the combination of sex and B&W photos, the point is pretty obvious.  Emptiness--that sums up this movie.The assassin is making miniature samurai figures.  Frankenheimer would pick up on that over 20 years later.Overall, more competent versions of this story have been made.  Check them out instead.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"So so CIA drama full of laid-back performances...","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 1st watched 2/28/2006 - 4 out of 10(Dir-Sydney Pollack)-DVD version I watched titled 3 Days of the Condor- So so CIA drama full of laid-back performances making for a very laid-back movie. The premise of the story revolves around 7 out of 8 members of a CIA research group being killed with Robert Redford's character, codename = Condor, being the one that was left. Who killed them and why? That's what Redford tries to find out while trying to not be the 8th victim at the same time. Along the way, he gets Faye Dunaway's character involved involved, originally because he needs a place to hide, and then she eventually helps him out after a little lovey-dovey time. This is one of a handful of innocent guy on the run stories but this one doesn't have a lot of suspense. The flat performances don't help and the finish doesn't seal the deal for the audience enough either. Despite having a good director in Sydney Pollack and a group of classic performers, the story and the performances are not what they should be and therefore the movie is not what it should be. "}]