[{"Title":"This story is about a real place!","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"144 out of 205 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  What most viewers do not realize about The Man Who Would Be King (1975) is that it is not about a legendary place, although Rudyard Kipling may have thought so when he wrote the story, because no white man had ever been there and returned to tell about it.The place was then known as Kafiristan and is now known as Nuristan. It is in Eastern Afghanistan next to Chitral, which is in Northwest Pakistan.Place names in the movie, such as Kamdesh and Bashgal, are real places in Nuristan. The explorer Robertson, whom Billy Fish reports has having died, did not die in real life but was rescued by a British military force in 1895, after Kipling wrote his story.The people of Nuristan are believed to be descendants of Alexander the Great, who came there in 328 BC, just as the movie states. They had a pagan religion as the movie describes until they were forcibly converted to Islam in 1892. There are still some believers of the old religion in the Kalash Valleys of Pakistan.For more about these people see http//www.samsloan.com/damik.htmI know about all this because I have been there and I married a woman named Honzagool there. She did not bite me as did the wife of Sean Connery in the movie, however.Sam Sloan  "},{"Title":"No film is closer to perfect","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"101 out of 122 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Take the story from a master like Kipling, give it to a director of classics like THE AFRICAN QUEEN, add a superb script that crackles with wit and cast two of the greatest modern day screen actors in roles that fit them like gloves. The result comes as near to the perfect action-adventure film as you will ever find. Kipling's rousing tale of two British soldiers in the days of high Empire keeps a tight hold of the viewer throughout. The twists of the tale are fascinating, the characters mesmerizing, the whole concept is so ingenious and full of potential that with such a team it simply cannot miss! Caine & Connery are superb together, oozing charisma and obviously enjoying themselves greatly as the two British NCOs.It's possible that neither has ever produced work to match what you will see here, it's wonderful to watch. Huston's direction is top drawer and the feeling of claustrophobic Indian market places and dusty railways stations is so strong it's a relief when the two heroes of the story make their ways into the wilderness to conquer a territory and be kings. Billie Fish, the stranded Ghurka soldier that the pair encounter high in the mountains produces a fine characterisation by Jaffery . His eye-rolling expressions and comic timing are inch perfect in his performance throughout. Perfect too is Christopher Plummer as Kipling himself. Indeed so convincing is he as this most archetypal Englishman that one is reminded how Huston considered casting to be the most important element of his job - to paraphrase, if you find the right actor for the role, he needs no direction! I can't think of a film that more consistantly proves how right he was!Through battles, politics, greed and jealousy the two would-be kings gallop untill the final memorable explosive showdown. The last scene is perhaps the most effective and memorable of all. True pathos which tugs strongly at the heartstrings. A fitting end to a marvelous film.  "},{"Title":"Unforgettable.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"87 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  The greatest buddy film of all time. What makes this so? First off, casting two real life friends, Sean Connery and Michael Caine. Second, all other buddy films are simply comedies. And while the Man Who Would Be King has some laughs in it, and Connery and Caine bounce off of each other almost as good as Abbott and Costello, the story itself is a drama. And what a drama it is. Two English soldiers set out to be the rulers of a country, but can anyone who was a grunt one day, and a king the next, become a King without getting an inflated ego? The answer is no and that becomes the ultimate test for these two friends. Terrific performances by Caine, Connery and even Christopher Plummer, who gives a brief, but good performance as Rudyard Kipling, the man who wrote the short story this film was based on. This film features perhaps the greatest ending to a movie ever made. You will never forget it, and you will wish that you had a friendship as strong as these two individuals. "},{"Title":"Exactly the kind of movie that they don't make anymore","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"68 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Truly, truly brilliant.  It is so rare that I see a film that I wouldn't change, and I honestly can't think of a thing.  Huston's films so often include that quintessential scene -- the one where his characters realize that they've lost everything, and respond with unbridled true character.  Those who cry or bemoan the loss are beyond redemption.  But those who can laugh in the face of disaster, who can ask forgiveness for the patently unforgivable -- they are the greatest of Huston's figures, and perhaps the greatest characters of cinema.  Just as Bogart and Hepburn laugh while they lie in the bottom of a boat awaiting death, Michael Caine and Sean Connery face certain death in this film and respond with complete honesty and complete honor.  For all of their lies and arrogant ambitions, they are still a pair of b*****ds you would love to know.Which brings me to the two incredible performances.  It is nearly impossible for such recognizable actors to fade into the guise of their characters.  But Caine and Connery manage it, and with perfect aplomb.  As best friends, they are perfectly inseparable, and their innate connection makes for one of the most affecting male friendships in history.  Surrounded, with no reasonable hope in the world, Danny asks Peachy to forgive him for being so bleeding high and so bloody mighty. And, of course, Peachy forgives him.  These are men who sing boldly in the last moments of life.  God bless John Huston. "},{"Title":"Not the recognition it deserves","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"72 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  For some reason, every time they decide to show this movie on a Swedish TV channel, they do so in the middle of the night, when everyone's asleep. I'm getting angry everytime I see that because this is a great movie that hasn't really got much recognition (maybe it's like this only here in Sweden). You shouldn't have to miss out a movie this good just because you haven't heard of it.That said, I will concentrate more on the movie. It's based on a short story by Rudyard Kipling, but this is one of the few occurances where I find the film better. It's an amazing story set in India from when it was under British rule. As the main characters we see Sean Connery and Michael Caine, and they do great roles. I'd always known Sean Connery was a great actor, but I hadn't seen Caine's potential until I saw this movie. Their characters' friendship makes this a warming movie, but at moments it's also quite sad. Besides Connery and Caine, it has many memorable characters, like Christopher Plumming as Kipling.Stan Huston directs, and I think it shows. The environments for example, really are outstanding; the icy mountains, the crowded market and the Pakistan deserts. When I had finished watching I was overwhelmed, it felt like one of the greatest stories ever told, much like the feeling I had after watching Lawrence of Arabia and Dersu Uzala. There's really nothing that goes against this movie, and needless to say I gave it 10/10. "},{"Title":"Grand Adventure, Huston-style!","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"52 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  No director ever personalized a genre the way John Huston could. While some critics have claimed his style was a 'lack' of style, the opposite is actually true; his sense of irony, love of the absurd, respect for personal codes of honor, and twist endings that always remind us that the true value of a journey is not arriving at a destination, but in the 'getting there' all set apart his best work from that of his contemporaries. Even his lesser work has value, and his best films, which certainly includes THE MAN WHO WOULD BE KING, are unforgettable.The tragicomic tale of two ex-Sergeants turned confidence men with a grand scheme to fleece a near-legendary kingdom had been a 'pet' project of Huston's since the forties, and he'd spent years tinkering with the script, planning to film it with Clark Gable and Humphrey Bogart in the leads. With Bogart's death in 1957, he'd considered various other match-ups (including Richard Burton and Peter O'Toole), until he found the ideal pair, in Sean Connery and Michael Caine. Connery had just finished the spectacular THE WIND AND THE LION (in which Huston played a small, but memorable role), and the Scot had often been compared to Gable with his dark good looks, machismo, and lack of pretense. Michael Caine, a long-time friend of Connery, was one of the industry's busiest actors, and had already proved himself adept at playing both soldiers and con men. Together, Connery and Caine had a camaraderie and chemistry that even Gable and Bogart couldn't have equaled, and Huston was quite pleased.Christopher Plummer was another inspired piece of casting, as the legendary author Rudyard Kipling. Bookish, with a keen intellect and rich sense of humor, Plummer's Kipling, sharing Masonic ties with the future 'Kings', is the perfect foil for the duo, offering sound advice which they totally disregard, with a wink and a smile. As Dravot (Connery) tells him, We are not little men, and India, bound up in British bureaucracy (as well as becoming too 'hot' for them) could never provide the immensity of riches they dreamed of.Huston eschewed the 'traditional' approach to adventure films, with cardboard heroes performing near-impossible deeds until the inevitable 'happy ending', and grounded his story in reality, which disappointed any viewers hoping KING would simply be a variation of GUNGA DIN. But in not romanticizing the story, he gives it a sense of immensity and the exotic, a richness of character, and an understanding of human frailties that far surpasses a typical Hollywood product. While Dravot orchestrates the pair's ultimate ruin by taking his 'godhood' too seriously (as he turns 'noble', trying to bring order to his 'kingdom', and decides to start a dynasty by taking a wife), you can understand why Carnehan (Caine), seeing their 'get rich' scheme disintegrate, would be anxious to leave, but also why he would forgive his friend, when they face torture and certain death. Loyalty, to Huston, is not lip service, but a true measure of a man. While Dravot and Carnehan are certainly not role models, their love and respect for each other transcends their faults, even their lives, putting the film's final scene, as a physically crushed Carnehan leaves his 'bundle' for Kipling, into perspective. It is a moment you won't soon forget.THE MAN WHO WOULD BE KING proves, yet again, why John Huston, as he once described his friend, Humphrey Bogart, is irreplaceable. "},{"Title":"Adventure! Excitement! Exotic Locales! You too can experience these in the Queen's Army!","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"44 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" My friend threw this DVD at my head one night while we were arguing about film. I said all adventure movies left me feeling a little hollow - adventure movies tended to abandon story, really, in favor of plot (important distinction stories are interesting, plots boring; consequently a film with a story to tell is better than a movie with a plot to move forward). I think he hurled the disc at me out of pure frustration with my point of view. In doing so, he also won the argument.The Man Who Would Be King is the single greatest adventure film I've ever seen. It's a story - It's a tale - It's not a series of plot developments (to me, to go further with this plot/story dichotomy, a plot is mechanical (and sometimes that machine is well-oiled) while a story is organic and feels less contrived (though the story, as organic matter sometimes is, can be rotten)). It's a very good story at that. The Man Who Would Be King (I believe as a result of its derivation from Kipling) has a depth and development of character that is foreign to most adventure tales. Few films are as rousing as this and few films that are this rousing have nearly as much to say about mankind.John Huston, of course, is a master of instilling greatness into traditionally tedious genres. He transformed the mystery, the western, the swashbuckler. Why not the adventure story too? As evidenced in The Maltese Falcon and Treasure of the Sierra Madre, Huston can take what might wind up a plot and transform it into a story. He understands that characters - human, conflicted, devious characters - are essential to creating genre pictures that transcend their genre. Without Huston, this film would have undoubtedly faltered; his steady and determined hand guides this film from the hazards of superficiality without sacrificing entertainment and adventure.He does not create a great film single-handedly though, as Connery and Caine, who both give tremendous performances, bestow upon Peachy and Daniel immense likability despite their scoundrel airs. Caine proves again why he may be the greatest living British actor and Connery reminds us that there's more to him than 007.As I said, this is one of the greatest adventure tales brought to the screen. Though some may disagree, in particular my friend who threw the DVD at my head, it's better than any of the late 30s swashbucklers and better than most shoot-em-ups made since. "},{"Title":"Great story, great acting and great fun","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"31 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Danny and Peaches are two officers in the British army who find themselves at a loss when their services are no longer required in Asia.  While blackmailing a local Raj, the pair are exposed by author Rudyard Kipling and brought before an officer.  They are warned but released.  Later the visit Kipling to get him to witness a contract for their latest plan &#150; to become kings of a small country by training a village to conquer the rest of the villages and then leave months later with riches.  The conquest begins in earnest, but when Danny's vigour in battle makes him appear to be a god to the villagers new dangers are introduced.I have seen two interviews recently with the two leads (separately) and both time clips of this film were shown that made me think `I must watch that again'.  Come Christmas and the repeats on all channels gave me the chance to see it.  I had forgotten just how funny the film is and it really helps the film to be an enjoyable adventure to add to the dark edges.  The plot is from a Kipling story so it is of a good stock and stands up well.  The addition of humour is well pitched and really helps.It is a great adventure story, with a cautionary twist in the tale and can be enjoyed on all levels.  The directing is as good as you'd hope from Huston but what really made the film for me was the two leads on top form.  Both Connery and Caine have a great chemistry and totally convince as the old school military types.  They bring the roles to life and make them enjoyable and get us behind them effortlessly.  Admittedly most of the support cast are only jabbering natives who aren't allowed characters with the odd exception.  Plummer is good in a minor role but this is the Connery/Caine show all the way.Overall this is a great story that is well told by director Huston.  The film is made even better by the gentle camaraderie between Connery and Caine and the good vein of humour that underpins the strong story and quite downbeat climax to Caine's story. "},{"Title":"A work of genius","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"34 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Outside of the obvious reflections on the immoral and absurdly hypocritical nature of early British colonialism, it's just a damn entertaining movie.But you have to think that Rudyard Kipling, who grew up under British rule in India, was certainly trying to shake some sensibilities when he first wrote the story as part of an 1890 package called The Man Who Would Be King and Other Stories, nearly a century before it was made into a film and during an era when the British Empire was still very much a reality.From the perceptive realization that even the staunchly important Masonic Lodge -- which had infilitrated every aspect of Britain's upper classes -- could be easily corrupted; to the arrogance as Sean Connery's character Daniel Dravot, who elevates what he sees as mere social superiority into a god-like status; to the inevitable humbling of both men at the hands of the 'savages' they profess to rule, the film is ultimately about the humility all men should exhude, particularly in the face of the unfamiliar.Kipling's tale also preached tolerance, though you might not consider that to be the case based on the film's climax   consider that if Daniel and Peachy had shown an iota of respect for the religion that they instead decided to fleece, how differently the tale might have played out.The film owes much of its success to the chemistry between Caine and Connery, who regardless of later plaudits, gave the finest performances of their careers. Connery is particularly nuanced, with Daniel Dravot starting the tale as a somewhat lackwitted second fiddle to the scheming Peachy but later seeing his limited vision help him surpass his friend in terms of villainy with an equally heavy price. Caine plays, to some degree or another, the same charming British sheyster/teddy boy he popularized in the Harry Palmer films. But without a backdrop of similarly disaffected cockney bad guys, it's stunningly effective.John Huston's direction is among the best of his career, and in terms of his ability to use both sprawling vistas and tight, almost claustrophobic photography, owes a nod to his earlier work, including The African Queen, Night of the Iguana and the Treasure of the Sierra Madre. As examples, witness the zenith of Peachy and Daniel's hazardous trek through the mountains played out in full panoramic detail, only to be followed 90 minutes later by the tight shot of Kipling's face, the revulsion fairly etched into every crease as we reach the climax.But perhaps the true hero of this film was Boaty Boatright, who also cast Connery's classic The Wind and The Lion. He managed to take some of the most strident, forceful personalities in the film industries, threw them together and came up with a film about humility. Magic. "},{"Title":"Superb cinematography... Sweeping score... Great acting...","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" 'The Man Who Would Be King' takes us back to Queen Victoria's India and the ambitions of two former sergeants in Her Majesty's army to set up their own empire... The story begins as a crippled old beggar gets into Kipling's editorial office at the Northern Star in Lahore late one night and unfolds an incredible story...The pitiful beggar is actually Peachy Carnehan (Michael Caine), or rather, what is left of Peachy, now so disfigured and a little insane...Rudyard Kipling (Christopher Plummer), after the shock of recognition, recalls their first meeting, when Peachy stole his watch several years earlier on a crowded train station... He introduces his friend Daniel Dravot (Sean Connery) to him and explains their plans to conquer the primitive areas of northern India and set themselves up as rulers...Later, the two likable Army buddies tell Kipling something of themselves The less said about our professions, the better, for we have been most things in our time. We have been all over India. We know her cities and her jungles, her palaces and her jails. To which Peachy adds Therefore we're going away to another place where a man isn't crowded and can come into his own. We're not little men and there's nothing we're afraid of.'The Man Who Would Be King' is an ambitious fable, with superb cinematography, a sweeping score, an Oscar-nominated script and great acting... Caine's wife, Shakira, makes her screen debut, playing a beautiful maiden who turns the head of Connery... "}{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" This is an excellent adaptation of one of the most exciting and interesting Kipling stories. There are some modifications to the original but, in this case, I actually think that they improve the story, make a little more sense, or at least are beneficial for turning the book into a film. One example that comes to mind is the decision to have Billy Fish be a lost soldier, which makes his ability to act as interpreter and his loyalty to Danny and Peachy more understandable. The makers also decided to throw in a few references to other Kipling stories and while these are unrelated, and probably meaningless to those not familiar with Kipling, Kipling fans should get a kick out of this.Kipling fans should also thoroughly enjoy how Huston and the rest successfully bring to life the wild, colourful, larger-than-life characters of Peachy and Danny, and their amazing, exciting, and appropriately tragic adventure. For those who are not Kipling fans, the fun, wonderful, yet heart-moving story that goes beyond a mere adventure into an exploration of finding one's place in the world, friendship, and death, should provide rich entertainment that is both fun and meaningful.The cast is simply wonderful. The roles of Danny and Peachy are among the greatest roles, in my opinion, that Sean Connery and Michael Caine have ever played and they do the job beautifully here. Christopher Plummer is outstanding as the cerebral, literate Kipling while Saeed Jaffrey and Doghmi Larbi, among others, also put in strong performances.The directing, costumes, settings, etc., also are excellent. The end result is a complete success that has been one of my favourite films for over 25 years. In fact, I have watched this movie well over 20 times, more than any other film. Although that is due in part to the fact that it is the first film I ever owned on tape, I truly never tire of it and am mesmerized every time. "},{"Title":"John Huston A Man Who Was King","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" It took John Huston more than 20 years to bring one of his favorite stories, The Man Who Would Be King, to the big screen. Originally, he had Humphrey Bogart and Clark Gable in mind for the lead roles. Sean Connery and Michael Caine would end up in the roles. Overall, it was worth the wait.Based on Rudyard Kipling's short story, The Man Who Would Be King is a tale set in the 1880s at the height of the British empire's rule in India. Daniel Dravot and Peachy Carnehan (Connery and Caine respectfully) are two soldiers turned con men who decide to conquer Kafiristan, a remote section of Afghanistan. Once there, the two men plan to train the natives into an army, become rulers, and steal the country's treasure left behind by Alexander the Great. However, due to a misunderstanding, Daniel is crowned king and is seen as a possible god and descent of Alexander. Peachy wants to stick with the plan, but Daniel soon becomes consumed by his new power.In a decade that evolved around the 'New Hollywood,' Huston was one of the very few filmmakers from the Studiio-era to be able to continue his craftsmanship and turn out some fine stories. In a way, The Man Who Would Be King is a big screen epic presented on a smaller scale. Despite all the breathtaking scenery and fine set pieces, it ultimately is a character driven story about two friends staying together until the end. The performances of Connery and Caine rank among the best work from their distinguished careers. Christopher Plummer also gives a fine performance as Kipling himself. Huston, who always seemed to adapt other's materials successfully, achieved one of his most personal projects into fine perfection. With beautiful locations and a wonderful musical score by Maurice Jarre, The Man Who Would Be King is not only one of Huston's best, but is also one of the best films to come out from the 70s that still had a certain feel of stories that had a feel of a time long gone when film audiences were able to enjoy films that had everything. Adventure, comedy, drama, suspense, and so forth. I guess you could say 'They don't make them like they use to' after viewing this film from one of the great film mavericks of all time. "},{"Title":"Is it possible EVERYONE missed the point?","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"41 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Top of my list of 10 films. But I cannot believe ALL the user comments to date have completely missed the emotional foundation of the film. Read Kipling's Tommy aloud if you don't understand why Peachy and Daniel (NOT Danny) seemed so desperate for a new place in life. Otherwise, the best movie all the participants (except Saied Jaffery...you really need to explore his Bollywood career) have ever worked. Although Zulu is a close near-miss for Caine. The Man Who Would Be King is (as has been noted by others) one of the very rare occasions of a motion picture improving upon brilliant literature. My A Complete Kipling, dog-eared as each volume is, has not been as often read as my VHS and then DVD of THIS film. Should a writer/director of John Houston's capacity (demonstrated, of course) appear on the scene, I'm willing to suggest a dozen other projects. "},{"Title":"Will reconcile anybody with mankind","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  ***SPOILER***I'm not one to go into ecstasies about historic adventure/action movies, although I appreciate them when they are well made. But TMWWBK is not simply well made and it's not just an adventure/action movie. It's an amazing, gut-wrenching journey into human soul, which contains everything one needs to know about human strengths and weaknesses. One of the reasons why this movie works so well is that it doesn't try to elude the dark side of the heroes. They are greedy, rough, sometimes selfish. But the film suggests that this dark side has no importance because they have an incredible capacity of redemption. At the end of the film, when Caine and Connery are about to be slaughtered by the monks, Connery says he's been a fool for having played with their lives and he asks Caine if he forgives him. Caine says he forgives totally and with no restriction. A few seconds later, Connery falls into the precipice. Caine, whose eyes have been put out by the monks, goes down the ravine, retrieves his skull and leaves with it. Wow.In my opinion, you can't make stronger than that. This is a guy who's just been beaten to death and whose eyes have been enucleated because his friend played God and who searches his corpse to bring it back home - just because he's his friend. Man, you would have to be a rock not to be a little concerned about that.I hope all the people who took a part in the making of these 2 hours of pure magic and who are still alive are proud of their work, because they can.If you've never seen TMWWBK, do it. It will give you the best you can expect from a movie. An unrestricted 10/10. "},{"Title":"amazing screen presence, sure-fire direction, and a tragic-comic action script - a classic for all involved","Date":"16 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" John Huston must know, equally, how great and how damn flawed man can be. A lot of his films- some might say the bulk of his oeuvre- focuses on this, from The Treasure of the Sierra Madre to Moby Dick. Sometimes, it might seem, a man has both the writhing worm of ambition and promise and the potential for complete failure in a single bound. He excels at this, not because he has to but because he needs to tell these stories of men like this - his heroes were manly male stories by the likes of Melville, Kipling, Hemingway and Hammett, but one can also sense the spark of criticism, of questioning what makes such men the way they are. The Man Who Would be King is no exception, and may be the pinnacle of such a tale, where we see two men, formerly failed soldiers, make themselves into the rulers of a nothing country right off of Afghanistan in the 19th century - one of them becomes a God by luck (or destiny) - and how it eventually ruins them. Whether Huston's film, by way of Kipling's story, is meant as a cautionary tale or a wicked satire (or maybe both), it's still tremendous storytelling, acting, direction and musical composition, etc. In the film, two ex-soldiers of the Royal English Army are in India, Daniel Dravot (Sean Connery) and Peachy Carnahan (Michael Caine). They both tell the impressed if a little doubtful Rudyard Kipling himself, merely a journalist at the time (Christopher Plummer by the way), that they, being pretty much without any real place to go or things to do as disgraced soldiers (lots of crimes such as theft and blackmail), have a plan to go to Kafiristan, which is a country few know exists and hasn't been inhabited by any kind of real ruler since Alexander the Great. In short, a great place to rule and take charge with their skills as soldiers.After braving the terrain, in some brief but effective scenes showing how much of a duo Draven and Peachy are in battling the weather and a few stray wanderers, they arrive at the country, which is in shambles, and they train some of the locals to fight their way against their rules (the one guy who is sort of, kinda ruling things wants Terrible to follow his name, not Great as it were). But somehow Draven stands out - first when he is hit by an arrow and it doesn't hurt him or draw blood (since, yeah, it struck a part of his shield), since this shows that he is automatically King. Next, when the High Priest calls him out, he happens to have around his neck a Free-Mason symbol, which sets off the High Priest to declare him a God (since, well, it's the same image as on a tablet or something). For all of the riches now at Draven's disposal, over a short period of time - that is, he really starts to like the idea of this God thing, when before he was on par with Peachy, a tough and smart and witty entrepreneur. No Guts, No Glory, I guess.This is the sort of story that reads interesting and raises questions about Colonialization and worship in general. On the screen, when delivered by a director who lets the backdrops of the mountains and hordes of middle-eastern mountain people, and the glorious acting of Connery (I might say at a career high here) and Caine (who is no slacker either, certainly when he realizes how crazy Draven has become), it becomes something to behold. The dialog is one thing that sticks out as particularly clever and intelligent; the script could easily fall into some kind of delirious or ridiculous swashbuckler story, or even something that praises what they're doing. But Huston and his co- writer's script give these characters smart things to say, things that people like these British officers with carte blanche, as well as their go-between guy who translates for them, would say in this unlikely cinematic situation. Like other Huston films ala 'Falcon' and 'Sierra Madre', it's very quotable.The themes are very potent, and not dumbed down or so sensational that they become incredulous. Huston and Kipling draw upon the history of man's ability to overcome obstacles, be it climbing a mountain or training a small army or becoming enamored with the responsibility of a God, what the outcome of adventure and ambition does to people. It's significant, for example, that Draven is told about how Alexander the Great picked his wife from this region when he ruled, and so he decides he must take a wife and bear a son for future rulers, even as it's spoken that women fear being chosen to become the wife of a God since they'll burn up in flames. Things like that, or how simple a small group of monks can stop an entire battle with everyone bowing in heed. It's remarkable how astute the commentary is in the film, while at the same time not detracting from the action or the power of the performances.The Man Who Would be King is elegant and harsh, with a beautiful and harrowing Maurice Jarre score (if not as iconic still as fantastic as Lawrence of Arabia for him), and memorable for its star power and how its story is really about something. It's also a grandly British story, of guys who sing traditional songs when they're bored or near death) and joke when they can and are so likable for how they just go for broke. That's one other thing these guys are never so distasteful as to be hated, and even their 'scheme' is sort of endearing because of everything they go through to get to Kafiristan. There's a reason at the end Kipling stands mouth agape instead of reaching for his gun; in spite of everything these guys are truly, painfully human. "},{"Title":"How could I have overlooked this film for so long?","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Why is this film not given more recognition?  It was one of those films that I had always heard about but had never seen.  Well, I saw it the other day and I am shocked that I wasn't forced to watch this years ago.  It is an amazing film.  I have a hard time coming up with something that was wrong with it.  The highlights, of course, were the performances of Caine and Connery.  Nearly every user comment for this film has said how good their chemistry was, well I read all these comments before seeing the film and was still blown away by how good the chemistry was.  Connery in particular was a surprise to me, even though Caine probably gave the better performance of the two.As a Brit living in the US, it is hard to get Americans to really understand subtle aspects of British life (the optimism, the humour, the strength of character)... so I now have three movies that I tell people to watch in order to get a better idea of what it means to be British The Bridge on the River Kwai, Zulu, and The Man Who Would Be King. "},{"Title":"Huston Gets It Right, Again","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Sometimes Huston seems to have fallen asleep at the wheel. It's hard to believe that he made a movie like Annie for any reasons other than financial. But his winners are first-rate. I'll only mention The Maltese Falcon, The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, and The African Queen in passing. Hardly anybody seems to be turning out well-crafted work like this anymore, pieces in which plot, character, and atmosphere cohere.The Man Who Would Be King is a fine example of Huston at or near his best. It is completely without pretense -- a kind of blustering, masculine, tragicomedy with two superb actors in the leads and fine support by Christopher Plummer as Brother Kipling. Nothing that Caine or Connery feel seems to be more than an inch deep. Stranded on a snowy mountaintop in the Hindu Kush, they sit around a dying campfire discussing how they're going to kill themselves, since they will otherwise slowly freeze to death. Let's wait till the fire goes out, suggests Caine, and I'll do the necessary. Connery muses, Peachy, do you think our lives have been misspent? Well, replies Caine, I wouldn't say the world is a better place for our having been IN it. They start laughing as they reminisce, provoking a life-saving snow avalanche.They are clever, treacherous, greedy, and very human. They've taken a serious vow against the use of women or liquor until they've completed their plan of robbing some remote tribe of natives six ways from Sunday. Learning that they have no interest in sleeping with his daughters, a friendly chieftain suggests that maybe some boys would do the trick, sending the heroes into a Victorian dudgeon.I can't carry on much more about the jokes or about the underlying theme, which is pretty sad. Hubris, the Greeks would have called it, defying the gods and presuming to rise above your station. The lawyers might have called it lex loci. Having been proclaimed king, Connery tells Caine, I'll be going now. You mortals remain outside. Connery breaks his vow where women are concerned and marries the lusciously exotic Roxanne (Caine's wife at the time). The spirit grew ever weaker and the flesh was all too willing.Neither Caine nor Connery has ever disgraced or damaged a movie they've been in, although the reverse hasn't always been the case. They're not exactly heroes here, either. Huston and his writers were unsentimental. The two are racists. Caine throws an affable Indian gentleman off the train -- Outside, Baboo! -- and Huston treats it as a comic incident. That unapologetic lack of political correctness also spares us any nonsense about noble savages. Each of the isolated mountain tribes complains about the next tribe living upstream that they wait until the local women are bathing or doing laundry in the river, then they pee into the river. Offered the title of Ootah The Great, one chief grumbles and says he'd prefer to be known as Ootah the Terrible. It would have been easy to sentimentalize these people, a bit of teaching of Oriental Wisdom, a man's reach should not exceed his grasp, or all things in moderation, or some such nonsense, but we don't get it here. These are pretty rough dudes who play ball with the heads of their enemies.In trying to capitalize on the success of this movie, the company brought out a novelization, which turned the screenplay into a novel, as if Kipling had never lived to write the original story. (Talk about barbarism!)I could watch this a hundred times and still marvel at Connery's mastery of the military style of speech when he says lines like, There'll be no summary executions in THIS ah-my! And, Sorry about that. Blood was up. Won't happen again. He does it at least as well as Nigel Greene, Harry Andrews, or Jack Hawkins -- those mess hall terminal contours.Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated, and best movies I've ever seen!","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" This, my friends, is one of my favorite movies of all time. This is the type of film that you do not hear from many critics or many best movies list, but this is one of those films that is vastly underrated and is incredibly worthy to be considered one of the best. The story is a great adaption of Ruddy R Kipling's short story of the same name, and the main plot of the film flows fantastically throughout the spectacular cinematography, landscape, and musical score. Considering that this film is from one of Hollywood's top directors, John Hutson, you might not believe that this film has all the glory, and amazement to have the consideration to be among Hutson's other masterpieces, like the African Queen, but the film amazes with having the key elements of adventure and moral value that any great film should have. Seeing Sean Connery and Michael Caine playing two veteran British soldiers, that have become friends over the past several years is truly astonishing. These characters are not that strong on their own, but when they're together they seem like they were made for each other, and the other acting performances in the film are equally impressive, especially Christopher Plummer playing Rudyard Kipling himself. What the man who would be King does most effectively though, is that it really has a great element of moral value in it. Themes like perseverance, cleverness, loyalty, trust, and most importantly friendship, are all themes that are displayed incredibly well in this movie. This is a film for the ages, and I hope in the future that it will get more and more recognition from critics, filmmakers, and audiences alike.10 out of 10 stars, or five out of five stars A truly moving and incredible adventure for everyone to see. "},{"Title":"A powerful gem","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  From the casting to the cinematography to the sweeping story, this film is genuinely a classic. Connery and Caine have chemistry that is real on the screen. They are so believable that I cared about these scoundrels throughout the film. Amazing tale that has to be seen and dwelt upon before watching adventure movies set in the exotic unknown.One of my favorite adventure films. Please see it. "},{"Title":"MY FAVOURITE FILM AND WHY","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  This film has something on every level. Yes it has it's faults but they are by far out numbered by it's brilliance.Comedy paired with greed and it,s effect on what becomes a strained friendship combine to make an all round complete story. Who could forget Michael Caine's attempts to instil weapons drill in to a group of uneducated tribesmen or his tuneless singing of the line Who followed in his trail  as Connery falls to his death from the rope bridge.Performances from both leads are a delight,both seem to have their tongues firmly in their cheeks,which makes for a most enjoyable watch.Huston's direction is for my money spot on and it would have been interesting to see his first choice actors (Gable and Bogart)taking the leads . They probably wouldn't have given the material the same treatment but who knows ?As for support it has an all round cast and a polished finish.I only wish it could be shown in its full length on British T V as there are always scenes missing usually cut for length rather than content.  "}{"Title":"Brilliantly adventurous with a poignant end","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" I love this film, it's a perfect rainy Sunday afternoon film to put your feet up to.There are two reasons that make this such a memorable film. Firstly, it's the sense of adventure and discovering unknown lands along with the two leading adventurers. The madness and chaos of Indian markets leading to vast, unforgiving and exotic regions of northern Afghanistan and eventually Kafiristan was almost a documentary at times. The director's ability to capture the essence and atmosphere with each scene was a joy to watch.Secondly, this was probably the best performances from Connery and Caine I've seen. They fit their roles like a glove. The chemistry and genuine sense of inseparable friendship was evident throughout. The light hearted manner in which they approach their goal of trying to conquer a mysterious, far away land by themselves makes it a far more fun film to watch. They don't take themselves too seriously yet their razor sharp humour and intelligence caries them throughout.The two friends may have prepared themselves for all challenges along the way and overcome everything with humour and quick thinking. But can they prepare themselves for the eerie paganism of their destination and their own reaction to the huge responsibilities? It's one of those films that the term They don't make them like that anymore is applicable in every sense, without the cliché. Brilliantly ambitious film that should not be missed. "},{"Title":"Wonderful adventure film with breathtaking outdoors , unforgettable dialogs and sensational performances","Date":"19 November 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Ruyard Kipling's epic of splendor , spectacle and high adventure at the top of a legendary world. It begins with some words which Rudyard Kipling pens in the opening scene are the opening lines to an actual Kipling poem, The Ballad of Boh da Thone that contains several elements which feature in the movie . The flick tells the tale of Daniel Dravot (Sean Connery's favorite film character , though John Huston also considered Richard Burton) and Peachy Carnahan (Michael Caine , though also was deemed Peter O'Toole) , two ex-soldiers in India when it was under British rule. Kipling (Christopher Plummer would have been dismissed early on by the producers but for Sean Connery's insistence that Plummer stay) who is seen as an important role that was there at the beginning and the ending , he advised about a dangerous journey . They decide to resign from the Army and set themselves up as deities in Kafiristan , a land where no white man has set foot since Alexander . There Daniel becomes a king and attempts to marry a princess (Shakira Caine, this is the only feature film to co-star Michael Caine and wife) under High Priest Kafu Selim (Karroom Ben Bouih was 103 years old when he made his first and only film appearance , when he saw some of the footage he declared that now he would live on forever.Long live and spectacular adventure with an extraordinary duo , Connery and Caine , they form the best pair of all time . A glorious tale with two heroes who head off to Kafiristan in order to become Kings in their own right . John Huston tried to launch the film version of The Man Who Would Be King many times before completing it . It was originally conceived as a vehicle for Clark Gable and Humphrey Bogart in the fifties, and later as a vehicle for Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas. When it was considered as a vehicle for Robert Redford and Paul Newman, Newman suggested Sean Connery and Michael Caine . Colorful and evocative cinematography by Oswald Morris filmed in Pinewood studios with magnificent production design by Alexandre Trauner and shot on location Glen Canyon, Utah, USA , Grande Montée, Mont-Blanc, Chamonix , France ,Atlas Mountains, Morocco and at the Kasbah of Ait Benhaddou, just north of the southern Moroccan city of Ouarzazate ; this site was used in Gladiator as the North-African arena where Maximus first fights. Ouarzazate is known as Morocco's Hollywood since many international productions - such as Kingdom of Heaven and The Hills Have Eyes - were shot in the area. Imaginative as well as sensitive musical score composed and conducted by Maurice Jarre .The motion picture well produced by John Foreman was stunningly by the great John Huston at his best . The picture was made in a good time of the 70s and 80s when Huston resurged as a director of quality films with Fat City, (1972), The man who would be king (1975) and Wise blood (1979). He ended his career on a high note with Under volcano (1984), the afore-mentioned Honor of Prizzi (1985) and Dublineses (1987). Rating  Above average , this is one of John Huston's best films , a model of his kind , definitely a must see if you are aficionado to adventure film . Huston broke a new ground with this landmark movie , providing classic scenes and unforgettable dialogs . "},{"Title":"A breathtaking adventure","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  A sarcastic comment on European colonialism, but most of all an absolutely magnificent adventure about the two adventurers Daniel Dravot (Sean Connery) and Peachy Carnehan (Michael Caine), with ambitions of becoming kings of whatever country that may want them. Breathtaking scenery, witty dialogue, excellent acting, sarcastic humour and an absorbing story. This movie has it all.The Indiana Jones and LOTR movies are great adventures, but simply can't be compared to this masterpiece. It's doesn't get better than this, and therefore it's one of five movies I've given the rating 10/10. "},{"Title":"Those Minstrel Boys","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Using the old Irish folk tune, the Minstrel Boy for background, John Huston made himself one old fashioned movie of adventure and romance like we rarely see today.Of course this film rises and falls on the charm and chemistry of its two leads, Sean Connery and Michael Caine. They're a pair of lovable con artists who nearly pull off one big old swindle and take over an ancient inaccessible kingdom in the Afghan mountains.This was a labor of love for John Huston. As a kid he read Rudyard Kipling's famous short story and it became his favorite work of fiction. Huston as far back as the Fifties wanted to film this first with Clark Gable and Humphrey Bogart and then later on with Richard Burton and Peter O'Toole. Try and picture this story done with either of those combinations.Huston even worked Kipling himself into the act with a fine small cameo by Christopher Plummer. Kipling who was a newspaper correspondent covering the British in India, is told this wild tale about what these two did in the forbidden land of Kaffiristan.These are the kind of people Kipling himself knew well from the British army in India which back in the day was its own entity and a great tradition of military glory albeit in an imperialist cause. For American audiences just think of Connery and Caine as a couple of GIs recently finished with their service.I think I understand their characters. What would Connery and Caine be back in civilian life if they returned to the United Kingdom? No one terribly important no doubt. They've spent time in India, learned a lot about the language and customs and want to turn some profit in it, doing something really big. It's a dream we can all identify with, but few of us have the gumption to see it through.Connery and Caine give some of their best screen performances in The Man Who Would Be king. This film became both a critical and box office success for John Huston, his first really big smash hit in a long time. It holds up well today and will for all time to come. "},{"Title":"The World's Worst Ambassadors","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Spoilers AheadDespite the tragic ending, this movie is firmly tongue in cheek from the first frame. Beginning with Peachy throwing a friendly Indian, who has no idea what a violent racist Peachy is, gets ejected, holding his piece of watermelon, from the train. Utterly convinced that the British Empire and themselves are one and the same, these two arrogant buffoons are weapons of mass destruction. One of the funniest scenes is at the very beginning when they present their clicking, heel saluting selves to their officer. He reads the havoc they have caused in the past. They take great umbrage, again, declaring how the British Empire owes them a debt beyond any possible repayment. They explain to the incredulous Kipling how they intend to supply weapons and take over a small country. He tries, futilely, warning them how dangerous and ignorant this is; they will have none of it. They have a religious devotion to their imagined Machiavellian talents and set off for the distant country. As they finally set upon the group they intend to use as their spearhead into their imagined, future hegemony, a fortuitous miracle occurs. An arrow lodges in Daniel's armor and the natives are now convinced he is the reincarnation of Alexander The Great; he is a god that cannot die. This works wonders with everyone falling over each other to follow the deity Daniel. Unfortunately, Daniel gets lost in the role never to return. Even worse, the local holy men arrive to take him to their secret city where all of Alexander's treasure is secreted away. Even more life threatening trials await but Daniel's Mason's badge looks just like the symbol of their one eyed god. Well, readers, this does it for Daniel; Peachy can talk until he is blue in the face, he is certain these serendipitous events prove he is, truthfully, the reincarnation of Alexander. The instrument of destruction is when Daniel cannot keep it in his pants and wants a beautiful native woman. The priests are immediately suspicious; what does a god want with a woman? You can imagine what happens next. Peachy tries but Daniel has disappeared in his charade never to return. The movie is full of great dialog, with a plethora of piquant, witty lines. Everywhere they go, the local villagers accuse the people upstream of coming out, when they are bathing, and P'ing in the river. Their poor guide gets caught up in the maelstrom never to return also. Honestly, it has the ending you imagine, but the humor lightens this so much.The by-play between Caine and Connery is worth owning the movie for they see themselves as the personification of the British Empire. Nobody, even their own officer, who has nothing but disgust and contempt for them, can disabuse these two fools of their idiocy. The two performances are another reason to own the movie both are at the top of their form here. The sense of Manifest Destiny that Americans suffered from in the 18th Century is here replicated in these two dummies. They are so lovable in their lunacy you will enjoy just watching them together. Kipling is obviously not endeared with this delineation of English soldiers convinced of the divinity of their Empire and commensurately filled with disdain and contempt for native peoples. Kipling was one of the greatest English writers and the dialog shows it. Full of hilarious exchanges and constant posturing / posing by our protagonists, it is a singular joy. I own it for the two performances, the comedy and the great dialog. Sometimes, just the lines the deluded Daniel utters, evokes looks of worry on poor Peachy's face. Trust me, don't send this two out representing your country. A Very Good Movie. Q.E.D. "},{"Title":"A Great Adventure before the Genre was a Common Occurrence,","Date":"3 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" The Man Who Would Be King is a great movie with a very well developed storyline and a terrific cast. It's a very entertaining adventure film that was made in a time when these type of films were rare, it was a risky at the time and required serious effort from the film makers, and it all shows here, it looks beautiful, the cinematography is stunning even for today's standards and it was clearly a very expensive production. The biggest flaw is that it's predictable, once the two main characters make it to India, everything from their can be told twenty minutes in advance, we knew what would end up happening to each character, there isn't any unexpected twist that takes the audience away, and it's predictability is the reason why I'm giving this an eight instead of a nine that it easily could have received. The cast is terrific, particularly Sean Connery and Michael Caine, of course, the chemistry between them is spectacular, they seemed very comfortable performing together and it's a pleasant experience to see these two movie icons in the same film. A swashbuckling adventure with stunning scenery and great acting, the Man Who Would Be King is worth the watch for anyone looking for a good adventure film. Two British soldiers in colonial India venture to uncharted realms in search of wealth and power. Best Performance Michael Caine Worst Performance Albert Moses "},{"Title":"Tales from the British Raj!","Date":"4 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" One of the best movies I recently watched.. and I watched it again the week after because I couldn't get enough.From being a lover of historic movie settings; I assumed this movie had great potential by reading the synopsis and damn well I was right !A strong story of friendship, loyalty, ambition, and the will to seek out the Greater... Sean Connery & Michael Caine performed this film very well. I could vouch that this is the best movie they had done together.The entire setting of British Raj era India is terrific. Back then, India wasn't too population, and the whole setting appeared as beautiful as any overseas colony. (That coming from someone who adores colonial era settings).Apart from that, the long hours you will watch will fill you with absolute entertainment as it did to me! "},{"Title":"The Adventure is the Thing","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Huston, once again, takes his protagonists and his audience on a quest for riches and glory and, as he did with The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, leaves of them deflated but undefeated. The physically ruined yet indomitable Peachy is off to the same junction that served as a starting point for his grand adventure with Danny. Danny's grotesquely shriveled head still wears a hollow king's crown but Peachy leaves it as a reminder that it is not the destination but the shared journey that makes life worth living. Friendship, loyalty, exercising and improving upon your skills and pushing the limits of your endurance is what Huston himself seemed to enjoy and are key to his adventure films. "},{"Title":"The story of our war in Afghanistan","Date":"19 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Plot Two Victorian British soldiers desert and go to Kafirstan in Afghanistan to make their fortune and end up ruling their own kingdom and masquerading as gods.Combining the talents of two great creative men, Kipling and John Huston, makes for a rollicking old fashioned adventure of the sort that men ought to watch with their sons. Caine and Connery make a superb duo whilst Saeed Jaffrey is an excellent Gurkha even though he looks nothing like a Nepalese. The visuals are terrific, although it is sometimes possible to tell that this has been shot in Morocco rather than Afghanistan. The story provides an interesting look at colonialism. Caine's character wants to go in fast, make a bundle of loot and peg it for the border. At first Connery agrees but after making himself King and being mistaken for a god he grows to develop feeling of paternalism and tries to create a European style state involving religious and social reform. Predictably the natives discover that he bleeds, hence is not a god, hence is a deceiver and promptly decide to butcher him (leading to one of the best and bravest death scenes in cinema). Kipling is much excoriated these days but he was no mere jingo but a clear sighted man with no illusions about imperialism. This fable is not just an adventure but also a warning.A warning that has not been heeded by ISAF in Afghanistan. As the film tells us, in a land of mountains each valley will fight the next. Yet Connery and ISAF have tried to make a centralised state out of disparate and often hostile peoples whose terrain defies such attempts. Furthermore these are people with their own beliefs and attempts to change them are almost certainly doomed to failure. Thus Connery's abortive efforts to marry a local woman in defiance of tradition and ISAF's promotion of causes, particularly women's rights, that are not only inimical to much of the native population but which promote resentment. The British Empire learned this after the loss of her American colonies. With the conquest of her second, non-American, empire, they would learn to rule through the locals rather than over them. Connery, like ISAF, can win the battles because, spurning the indecisive raids an Afghan chief urges them to fight, they can organise men, drill them, equip them and bring them to one decisive battle. But winning the battle is only half the war, for you need a political solution to go with your military one. In the end Connery dies, Caine is mutilated and ISAF will return home, leaving a sorry state of affairs. "},{"Title":"  When Alexander the Great left to the East, he promised he'd send his son, You're him ","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Alexander the Masadonian left many a temple to his followers in the hopes they would remember him. That in fact, is what happened as modern people have sought his legacies in many of the countries he conquered. In our modern time, Director John Huston, using his own script, did just that with this incredible movie, entitled  The Man who would be King.  Using Rudyard Kipling (Christopher Plummer) as the capstone of this tale, he relates how Two English ex-soldiers, (Sean Connery and Michael Caine and a guide, named Billy Fish (Saeed Jaffrey) journey to far off Kafiristan, to establish their own kingdom. Traveling across the treacherous, snowy mountainous terrain of Afghanistan, they enter the country of Kafiristan. There, they ply their trade as experienced British soldiers and slowly work their way to the riches of Alexander. All goes well, until they are discovered not to be Alexander's children and must now face the wrath of the local peoples. The movie is impressive with wondrous scenes and exciting action scenes. For an audience, this movie contains all the elements of a good dramatic story and the cast is there to insure that it does so right up to the ending of the film. This movie is recommended to anyone seeking an adventurous tale as only Kipling could tell it. One will expect it to become a Classic in due time. **** "}{"Title":"A terrific adventure film feature two of filmdom's finest actors and directed by one of the best","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" The Man Who Would Be King was a bit of an anachronism when it was released in 1975. The swashbuckling adventure stories of Errol Flynn and Tyrone Power were considered outdated by that point and rather old hat. They'd been replaced by more realistic epics (such as Lawrence of Arabia) and straight-up action flicks with more brutal violence on display (The French Connection and Dirty Harry). That may be why it isn't as fondly remembered as either its contemporaries or its influences. No matter however. Everything that made the adventure films of the 30s and 40s so enjoyable to watch is on full display here. Two irascible yet likable characters, a sense of humor, and a general sense of excitement permeate this film like none other at the time.In addition to an exciting story and screenplay, the technical aspects of this production are superb as well. The direction by John Huston is, as always, simply superb. He keeps everything engrossing and moving at a lightning quick pace. After seeing this and his earlier masterpieces, he's becoming one of my favorite directors. Plus, the casting of Sean Connery and Michael Caine in the lead roles couldn't have been any more perfect. Both men have loads of screen appeal and were movie stars for a reason, but they were fantastic actors as well. The Man Who Would Be King remains one of the most purely entertaining bits of cinematic escapism ever made. (9/10) "},{"Title":"The ultimate buddy movie.","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Sean Connery shines - matured beyond his James Bond adolescence, not yet in his Elder Statesman roles. Michael Caine serves as the ideal sidekick eager for adventures, wanting to be the voice of conscience without being a wet blanket.Two of Her Majesty's foot soldiers in India during the Raj go AWOL, over the mountains into what is now Afghanistan. Nineteenth century Afghani tribes fought amongst themselves as much as today, it seems, but when Alexander the Great returns two millennia after his first visit, waring tribes unite under his divine rule. The question is, how long can a common infantryman pull of a charade as the greatest military leader in history, and a god, to boot, without exposing his mortality? And do the results say more about the dangers of hubris or the glory and rewards of going after it and living your dream?Maybe that's adding more profundity than needed, but the movie is much more than a simple buddy adventure, and throughout it remains a whole lot of fun. Peachy Callahan teaching the primitives how to be soldiers in Her Majesty's army says everything you need to know about the military mindset and gives me a good laugh every time I think about it.  "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  safe for non-arty types, hasn't aged, still great!","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" I believe that ratings should reflect how a film is doing in the modern day, because largely I use the IMDb reviews to select which movies I might like to rent. And I suspect that a lot of old classics have been overrated because reviewers are giving in to nostalgia.Well, I've seen The Man Who Would be King recently, and it stands the test of time. There's quite a bit of drama and art in the film, but even though I'm an action movie guy (and I usually dislike dramas) I found it to be accessible and wonderful. And of course, it stars can't-fail actors Michael Caine and Sean Connery, who do a fine job of balancing comedy with a social commentary on the white man's burden that made the British Empire great but awful too.Who should see this film-- action movie buffs this one's safe for you-- drama / art buffs a must-seeI'll give The Man Who Would be King a stands-the-test-of-time 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It simply triumphs on every level","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  I first saw The Man Who Would Be King years ago when I was about 10 years old and in many ways it was the first 5 star, 10 out of 10 film I ever saw, regardless that it contains little fighting or action. After seeing it again a few weeks ago, it has not only lost non-of its appeal, but it rewards occasional, repeated viewings. I also realize that its credentials in terms of acting, script, direction, photography are impeccable, but unlike many films that the critics rave about, these are matched by its entertainment value. Connery and Caine play two ex-British army sergeants who attempt to become kings of a small, unknown Asian country, but are eventually betrayed by their own greed and convey a strong sense of vanity to human endeavor as a whole. Yet these weighty themes are perfectly treated by Huston and Hill's script that makes the audience like and admire these two men, in spite of their deep immoralities. Their relationship is comic, but is not just a case of one-liner swapping, but a believable and ultimately moving bond that is enhanced but the perfect casting of Connery and Caine. The result is one the most memorable male screen partnerships ever. Huston as director keeps things moving along at an enjoyable pace and his camera work and visuals create a beautiful and epic scope to the story. In the end film succeeds on every conceivable level as entertainment, as a comedy, as an epic and as a tragic fable. "},{"Title":"unquestioned masterpiece","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Four things combine to ensure this movie's greatness - the literary craftsmanship of Rudyard Kipling, the directorial stature of John Huston, and the incandescent chemistry of acting greats Sean Connery and Michael Caine. The broad, sweeping vistas of south central Asia, magically photographed, add to the allure. This is a morality tale of human greed and ambition run amock, but Kipling's light touch keeps it at the level of a black comedy, not a tragedy. Huston did not change the dramatic viewpoint, and he includes ample touches of comedy. Though the movie is a grand lark, a gripping adventure, and a rollicking good yarn, at the end we feel both emotionally drained and wiser than we were. Largely overlooked, this movie aspires to level of some of David Lean's masterpieces, and, if not quite entirely making it, comes damn near close enough. A must-see. "},{"Title":"Conceivably, John Huston at his very best.","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  The Man Who Would be King, which came together with an ideal cast and script based on a Rudyard Kipling story is perhaps John Huston's best film.  Some would argue in defense of African Queen, or the visually eloquent Moulin Rouge, which is my second favorite Huston product, but give me a rousing, escapist tale, well conceived, written and produced with a shining cast, and I am there.Huston was not a William Wyler, nor a Billy Wilder or Frank Capra, whose films soar, but here, with the conjunction of Kipling, Michael Caine and Sean Connery as two British sergeants in the Victorian days of old India and British empire he fired off a keeper.  Of course, this is a man's film but for men, if any movie was meant for video, DVD and repeated enjoyment it is this one.  "},{"Title":"Not gods &#x96; Englishmen! The next best thing!","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" I think it's one of the greatest adventure stories ever written! &#x96; John Huston (on Rudyard Kipling's short story, The Man Who Would Be King) A glorious tall tale by director John Huston, The Man Who Would Be King stars Michael Caine and Sean Connery as Peachy and Danny, a pair of ex-British Army Sergeants. Realizing that 19th century Imperialism is not designed to benefit the lowly foot-soldiers who enact the policies and mandates of the Empire, Peachy and Danny decide to become private Imperialists; they resolve to conquer territory for their own personal gain.Huston made many films about rugged adventurers and affable scoundrels. Few of his rapscallions, though, are as much fun as Peachy and Danny who, in typical John Huston fashion, are seeking fame, fortune and adventures in exotic faraway lands. We're not little men, they say with a smirk, and there's nothing we're afraid of! Fittingly, Huston's film is structured as a tale within a tale, our heroes recounting a story to Rudyard Kipling (Christopher Plummer), the legendary writer upon whose novel the film is based. This technique allows Huston to adopt a very farcical tone we're always aware that The Man Who Would be King is a very TALL TALE, falsified and made larger than life by both the narrator (Michael Caine) and the man who in turn narrates the narrator's narration to us (Rudyard Kipling/John Huston).The film thus unfolds like a ridiculously embellished adventure, our heroes travelling over mountains, through Afghanistan and into the desert nation of Kafiristan. Their journey is absolutely preposterous (Nobody's done that before! Kipling growls in the film), but it's only the beginning.Once in Kafiristan, Danny and Peachy defeat a local army, conquer a castle, raise a militia and proceed to conquer yet more territory. By the film's end, our duo has an entire monastery believing that Danny's an ancient god and so deserving of their riches, women and adulation.Of course, like Huston's The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, the good times eventually come crashing down. If King's first half offers camaraderie, wit, and funny banter, its second half offers madness, egomania and eventually defeat; the natives of Kafiristan figure out that our rogues are con-artists, and promptly kick their butts out of Afghanistan. But even this defeat is taken with good cheer by our two rascals. They really are an infectious bunch.All adventurers need a side kick, and so Huston provides an ex-Burkha soldier called Billy Fish (Saeed Jaffery), a funny guy who serves as the interpreter and friend of our rogues. Fish spouts a ridiculous accent &#x96; a merger of British and Indian &#x96; and is constantly spewing an array of silly one liners.It's not all fun and games, though. Though the film can be enjoyed as a bouncy adventure, it can equally be viewed as a story of two men battling convention, naysayers and nature, as a comment on colonialism, as a psychological parable about greed and ambition and as a study of religion and the role it plays in certain cultures (as well as the way the very same faith which enables heroes to move mountains can quickly and easily lead to self delusion).Like many of Kipling's works, the film also critiques White Imperialism. This was, after-all, an Empire which stretched across the planet and which would be directly and indirectly responsible for billions of deaths. In Huston's hands, Danny and Peachy thus become a metaphor for the Empire's arrogance, brashly conquering territory, promoting itself as a saviour/god, misunderstanding customs, acting racist and pitting one tribe against the next, all in an attempt to wrestle away more wealth and control. Furthermore, the fact that our heroes are exposed as frauds and chased out of Kafiristan, strongly resembles the various revolutions that rocketed across the British Empire during the decade in which Kipling's tale was written (late 1880s). ie - the Empire came, saw, conquered, and then deservedly got kicked out of town.What's remarkable, though, is how sophisticated The Man Who Would be King is compared to other similar films of the era. One must remember, the 1950s-70s were packed with films which attempted to rehabilitate the Age of Empire, and which attempted to white-wash and glorify British Imperialism (Khartoum, Zulu, King of the Khyber Rifles, The Planter's Wife, Safari, North West Frontier, East of Sudan etc). Countering these films were serious directors like David Lean, Satyajit Ray, and straight-faced fare like Gandhi and Guns at Batasi. Huston, though, has made an anti-Imperialist adventure with the bounce of a 1930s-50s Imperialist lark. He pulls this off thanks largely to Michael Caine's performance and a subtly tongue-in-cheek script.8.9/10 &#x96; One of Huston's greatest films. See Pontecorvo's Burn, Herzog's Wrath of God, Goodbye Uncle Tom, Passage to India, Full Metal Jacket and The Quiet American. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"Great Adventure","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Two former British soldiers in colonial India (Michael Caine and Sean Connery) set out for unconquered Kafiristan to con the locals into crowning them kings and plunder their richess. At first their plan seems to succeed but soon hubris gets the better of them. Rudyard Kipling's parable on colonialism, about Westerners invading a remote corner of Afghanistan and being brought down by a culture they neither understand nor respect is, sadly, more relevant today than it was in 1975, but that's not what makes this movie great.   It's one of those rare movies that can truly be called perfect Huston's witty script and his assured direction, Alexander Trauner's brilliant production design (succesfully recreating India in Morocco and inventing a fictitious but believable remote civilisation ), the impressive scope-cinematography of Oswald Morris, the interplay of Caine and Connery,... Not only are all of these elements great in their own right, they fuse together to make a movie where the sum is even greater than the parts. Strangely, this movie seems all but forgotten now, but it belongs with The Maltese Falcon, The Treasure of the Sierra Madre and Under the Volcano on the list of John Huston's best movies. ****   "},{"Title":"A privilege to watch","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  I have just seen this film for what must be the fifth time. This production must be elevated to the ranks of the all time time classics. Connery and Caine play the two lovable rogues who attempt to seek their fortune in the mythical land of Kafiristan. Their portrayal of the two ex-British Army sergeants is masterful. Only someone who had served in the British armed forces could have achieved such an accurate characterisation of a British NCO teaching drill to raw recruits. Caine himself had served in the British Army during the Korean War, and he appeared to be reliving his army experiences with relish. We are indeed fortunate to have been spared the original partnership of Bogart and Gable, or the other, later planned partnerships of Kirk Douglas and Burt Lancaster, or Paul Newman and Robert Redford. Fine actors that these all are, they simply wouldn't have been able to play the roles of Peachey or Dravant with the understated humour that sustained British soldiers abroad through thick and thin. Only Newman and Redford could have come close, but their version would more likely have turned out to be Butch and Sundance Go to India. Saeed Jaffrey is also magnificent and infinitely believeable. The whole film makes those with a spirit of adventure yearn for the lost days of Empire. The film's depiction of naivete and brutality encapsulate human nature without any of the political correctness that would encumber such a film today. Superb. "},{"Title":"An epic masterpiece","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Based on a short story by Rudyard Kipling, The Man Who Would Be King tells the story of two friends; Peachy Carnehan (Michael Caine) and Daniel Dravot (Sean Connery) that go to Kafiristan in order to rule the country as kings and become rich in the process. The tale itself if relatively simple, but through great storytelling, the film is lifted into the realms of the masterpiece. The Man Who Would Be King tells a story on two levels; on the one hand, it's an epic masterpiece, spanning across Asia and embracing the Eastern culture, but on the other hand; it's a simple tale of two friends that are out for all they can get. The film switches between the two sides of it's story with great ease, and the smaller, more intimate side of the story is actually complimented by the epic battle sequences that run alongside it.This movie is headed by two of the very finest actors of all time - Sean Connery and Michael Caine (both British too, I might add). The two have a great chemistry, and seeing them on screen together is an absolute treat. Both actors have a very defined style as to how they act and how their lines are delivered; in fact, they're perhaps two of the most defined styles ever, and they play off each brilliantly to give fantastic performances in this movie. Michael Caine always seems to be more willing to give a better performance when he is on screen with another fine actor, and they don't come much finer than Sean Connery. The great John Huston directs the movie, and this is easily one of his best movies. In fact, I rate it as his number one colour film. He's got a good story to work with, and he makes the best of it, not to mention that he gets the best from his cast. Many of the locations are fabulous and the battle sequences, although not on the same scale as some other films of the same nature, are well choreographed and an epic sense is captured through the utilisation of many extras.This film is a masterpiece. All the players have come together to create a film that is both intimate, intelligent, interesting and on a massive scale all at the same time. A must see. "}{"Title":"King Huston","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  This movie seems to have been made by a young man.It took the adventure genre to its peak ( it was to be cheapened by Spielberg in the eighties with I.Jones and co).The screenplay is marvelous,now funny ,now dramatic,now parodic ,now epic.John Huston runs the whole gamut of emotion,suspense and humor.Abetted by two peerless actors,he tells us a tale so weird that only a first-rate director could have pulled it off. A metaphor on the power,on man's conceit (wasn't it the case for such early gems as Sierra Madre or late masterpieces like the dead?),a conceit that knows no bounds.Actually,Connery's character doesn't want to be a king,he wants to be adored and worshipped as a God.(In a famous scene,he asks Caine to bow low before him;it's comic admittedly,but it's a dark spooky humorin a nutshell,the Divinity is losing His mind) Comedy and tragedy walk hand in hand is this subtile work.See how Connery's imposture is being found.Then we have the sublime final confrontation Connery/Caine ,when the former is to be executed.It's difficult to hold back your tears! And as for the very end of the movie,when Caine returns,it's more terrifying than the whole of the exorcist.Vanity of vanities,all is vanity Huston seems to whisper in the gloom. "},{"Title":"Among my top 5 choices for best film!","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  I beg to differ with one of the comments about this being a man's film!  I would place this film among my top 5 favorite movies of all time, and I am definitely NOT a man!This film is the epitome of everything that is good in a film.  Great locations, great direction, great art direction, great story, great plotting and most especially, great acting.Michael Caine and Sean Connery have done bigger works, but together, they have made the biggest work they could ever do.  The spirit and life in their characters--the sheer optimism that they show, even in the final scenes of the film are heart wrenching and beautiful.  They make Daniel Dravot, Esquire and Peachy Carnehan come to beautiful life, embodying all that is innocent in two men who have been to war, conquered their demons, and now desire to fulfill the rest of their dreams.The underlying subplot of freemasonry is an interesting one as well.  For it would not have been out of character for men such as Danny and Peachy to have been masons, nor for Kipling to be one as well. (Did anyone ever note that this was Christopher Plummer's first of two roles that dealt quite a lot with freemasonry? Murder by Decree, four years later, is the other)I just love this movie for itself.  I've been a fan of H. Rider Haggard, and it's the same kind of thrill you get in reading his work.  I just HATED it when they started remaking the Haggard movies and putting women like Sharon Stone in them, when it's supposed to be a male adventure.  You would certainly never find a woman like that in The Man Who Would Be King--it is the TRUE essence of a film about MEN in a MAN'S era.Michael Caine and Sean Connery are, for lack of a better word, geniuses in the art of filmmaking.  They have become true ACTORS, because they love their craft so much, and know the difference between acting and faking it. They are not out to prove themselves stars because they don't need that--they know how to ACT and that is far more important.If any filmmaker now were to tackle a project such as The Man Who Would Be King, they would likely try to cast some big name star such as Tom Cruise, and ruin the story.  Let's hope this film is NOT remade--it would certainly taint what is perhaps one of the few masterpieces of modern day story telling. "},{"Title":"Huston does Kipling...Connery and Caine shine in this buddy flick...","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Telling a grim morality tale with a good amount of humor amidst settings of grandeur and a with sense of high adventure, THE MAN WHO WOULD BE KING reminds me of Kipling's more famous buddy tale of exotic adventure among dangerous natives--GUNGA DIN. But here the telling is more leisurely and for awhile we don't know where the story is going. First, it seems a comedy, then the more adventurous elements take over and finally it goes for a gripping climax in which all hell breaks loose when the two con men are about to get their comeuppance.As the decidedly shady characters, corrupt and acting out of a simple desire for riches, SEAN CONNERY and MICHAEL CAINE give probably the most skillful performances of their careers. My only complaint about Caine is that sometimes his Cockney accent (spoken in a hushed voice at a key moment in the film) is hard to understand. Some post-production dubbing would have been advisable.For all of its sense of adventure, the film often plods along at a snail's pace between its more colorful episodes and could have been more tightly edited to tell its story in far less running time.Frankly, I enjoyed the tongue-in-cheek GUNGA DIN infinitely more than this Huston film. That's not to say the film is a failure. The cinematography is great and all of the performances are extremely well done--with special mention of CHRISTOPHER PLUMMER who is highly effective as Rudyard Kipling himself. His final scene is a memorable close-up after Caine has told him the truth about the harrowing end of their adventure.Although highly entertaining at times, it's easy to see why this story of two con men is not considered to be one of John Huston's greatest. By no means a failure, it nevertheless has enough flaws and is just uneven enough to make you realize it could have been a truly great adventure film. "},{"Title":"The Best Adventure Film of all time!","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" I am amazed at how few people know this film. If you haven't seen it and you get the chance to watch it-I will almost envy you for being able to see this for the first time. A film about comradeship, audacious daring, loyalty and an incredible adventure. Of course it has a plot twist at the end-just to spoil the Kings most perfect plan-but this is a fantastic film and a real treat. Sean Connery and Michael Caine are perfectly cast, the Billy Fish character is acted by Saeed Jeffrey also hits the right chords. Probably not for the PC brigade, Afghans, trekkies, girls or girlies though.A most perfect 10 out of 10 even after the tenth viewing. "},{"Title":"An Adventure of a Lifetime!!!","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Maltese Falcon director John Huston's storybook adventure saga The Man Who Would Be King casts Sean Connery and Michael Caine as two former British Army soldiers in 19th century India. These two scoundrels aspire to become kings in their own right in a distant land of Kafristan. Despite its downbeat ending, this ambitious saga has some amusing moments early on as the roguish pair visit the famous writer Rudyard Kipling before they march off to glory. This is an old-fashioned melodrama about a pair of mercenaries who get everything that they deserve in the long run. Nevertheless, Connery and Caine have a field day as the Queen's own until they encounter tragedy. Our protagonists masquerade as natives and enter a land where no white man has been seen since Alexander the Great in 230 B.C. They raise an army from a small ruler's kingdom and march into battle against one tyrant after another until Connery's Daniel Dravot leads a reckless charge against the enemy in their first battle against the orders of his comrade-in-arms Peachy Carnehan (Michael Caine) who reprimands him for his amateurish behavior. During the charge, an arrow plunges into Daniel's chest, but lodges harmlessly in his bandoleer and he survives. However, everybody who witnessed his exploit believe that Daniel survived because he is nothing less than divine, a god, and they fall down on their knees and worship him. Predictably, our heroes amass a fortune in gold, but Daniel begins to believe in his own divinity and makes the mistake of taking a wife. When the dame bites him during their wedding ceremony, they realize that they have cooked their collective geese. Everybody realizes that Daniel isn't a god and they sent him to his death and crucify poor Peachy. Lensed on location in sunny, sand-swept Morocco, The Man Who Would Be King was a life-long dream of writer & director John Huston who initially sought to make it during the Golden Age of Hollywood with Clark Gable and Humphrey Bogart. "},{"Title":"Enhanced by the actors","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" What a peculiar story! It's almost a philosophical tale, and certainly not what I expected when I chose to watch this movie (I haven't read the original work). The Caine/Connery duo works terrifically well and is in my opinion the main attraction to The man who would be king. Although the story was thrilling enough for me never to be bored, I thought that the direction lacked rhythm, especially in the first two thirds of the movie. In fact, I thought that this movie suffered from the same problem as some other literary adaptations that give the impression that they rest too much on their source material and struggle to find their own unity.I've always enjoyed exotic adventure stories, written at a time where a big part of the world could still be a mystery, even if it means putting up with the condescending attitude of the westerners of the time. Of course, today, the Victorian Englishmen are hardly less exotic to us than their oriental contemporaries. I don't know what the tone of Kipling's short story was, but the movie, at least, seemed to me to be watching the protagonists with a distance appropriate for our time, without, however, cutting us completely from any identification or empathy (it would have lost much of its impact otherwise). In a few words, I had a lot of fun watching this movie, but I didn't find it memorable. The actors' performances, on the other hand, are (the actor playing Billy Fish was excellent, too!) and they're well worth the watch. "},{"Title":"a real classic","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" There's never a bad time to rent The Man Who Would Be King. I can think of few movies in all filmdom that tell a story so magnificently, even on a small screen. But these days when tales of Afghanistan are being told in thirty-second sound bites, The Man Who Would Be King seems especially wise and timeless. And while one must be careful drawing modern parallels to the adventures of two disenfranchised 19th Century British con artists, it's an intriguing exercise anyway. The visuals are epic. The narrative is tragedy. The dialogue is comedy. The subtext is religious parable. And still at it's very heart, The Man Who Would Be King is a buddy picture. Perhaps only Huston could have wrestled this all these elements into place. Huston had originally envisioned Clark Gable and Humphrey Bogart as his loyal rogues invading fictional Kafiristan. The years passed and he began lobbying for Robert Redford and Paul Newman as Danny and Peachy. Though he coveted both the role and the chance to work with Huston, Newman reportedly told the director that Kipling's story deserved British actors. With Caine and Connery and Christopher Plummer playing Kipling himself, Huston had a stalwart, if not quite superstar cast, and The Man Who Would Be King became an immediate classic, if not exactly a blockbuster. "},{"Title":"Friendship Survives, Glory Dies","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" So many people love this movie, and rightly so. As rugged adventurers who are also the best of friends, Sean Connery and Michael Caine reached their career peak as Daniel Dravot and Peachy Carnehan, respectively. But I think it's a mistake to call it an action movie or an epic. For all the laughs and glamor, and the feel-good friendship of the two buddies, this movie is really a tragedy in the classical sense.Don't watch this movie expecting RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK, where the good guys win and everybody leaves the story happy and alive. It's terribly important to remember that though this movie came out just one year before STAR WARS, John Huston is miles away from the infantile zap-zap action of children like George Lucas and Steven Spielberg.The movie charts the downfall of two men who try to rise too high, just like Icarus in Greek myth. Rudyard Kipling felt that men who serve in the ranks should not get above themselves and wrote this story to show what happens when such people get out of their place. At the same time, Kipling was trying to warn the English people that the British Empire would only last as long as the purpose was justice rather than greed.Watching the movie, it's hard not to be torn. The two heroes fail in terms of empire building and politics, because they break faith with their native subjects one time too many. But at the same time, they never break faith with each other. The movie asks the question, can any person really be a failure if he/she has sacrificed everything for friendship? The final defeat of the pair is also final victory in that they maintain the one thing in their lives that was always above corruption -- their friendship. The bittersweet ending is complex and ambiguous, and signals that this is truly a masterpiece by giants of a nobler age.John Huston is gone now, replace by pygmies like Spielberg and Lucas. They don't make movies like THE MAN WHO WOULD BE KING. "},{"Title":"Heavy is the head that wears the crown","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" John Huston's adaptation of Rudyard Kipling's 'The Man Who Would Be King', with its stereotypical natives and romanticized imperialism, certainly won't win any awards for political correctness, but Michael Caine and Sean Connery's jaunty and charming performances make you forget that their characters and their deeds are rather despicable.For much of its runtime 'The Man Who Would Be King' plays a bit like a Bing Crosby/Bob Hope road pic. It's not until the best laid plans go astray in the third act that we see the story more clearly for what it is; a tragedy of ego and greed and the brotherhood between deeply flawed men with a seemingly incongruous sense of honor. "},{"Title":"Man Who Would King - brief","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Big time, old fashioned adventure film based on Kipling. Caine and Connery perfect as greedy scoundrels who trek from India to Kafiristan. Intend to hoodwink the natives, seize the treasure, return to England dripping wealth. Oh, the best laid plans . . . Stunning photography (shot in Morocco's mountains), magical sense of time and place. Bit slow at times (Star Wars came out two years later, Raiders Lost Ark in '81.), and felt quaint when it came out. Noteworthy for the lack of gore or gratuitous violence.In the brief documentary, director John Huston commented that he had hoped to shoot this years earlier with Clark Gable and Humphrey Bogart, but both died. Thinking about it, this could have been made in the 40s with Errol Flynn and David Niven. "}{"Title":"A Good Representation of non-Shakespearean Tragedy","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" The man who would be king is yet another addition to the numbers of films that fall into the genera of tragedy. From the beginning of you story the viewer feels the set up to a tragedy seeing as a clearly distressed and pained second party to the main character recites the story. As typical of a tragedy the flaw in Dravot is either that he takes pure coincidence for fate or that he neglects the existence of a real god. Regardless of which view you as the viewer take this flaw leads him to abandon the advice of his friend and refuse twice his pleas to escape as planned. Dravot dooms himself when he remains in his place as a god when he is not a god. All in all the movie is very good, however i had never heard of it, and would never have if it had not been given to me as a present. This is a film which deserves a wider recognition and is in all a very good addition to works of tragedy. "},{"Title":"a real classic","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" this is truly a classic. You see a beautiful environment, filmed in the old style. Sean Connery is great in this movie. I like a lot of these old kind of filming. They take the time to take you into the story. The film is built up and you'll slowly go to the end. For some people this is to long ago, just for a example Gone With the Wind, or Ben Hur. But these are real classics. When they took really in to the movie. how the film begins is already really old school. I recommend everyone to go and see this movie. Even if it's just to honor Sean. Sean was great in these times and we need it to remember him like that. This film is one of his great achievements. "},{"Title":"Best Adventure Movie of All Time?","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" If you rate foremost by sheer entertainment, then yes, for me this John Huston gem is arguably the best adventure put on film, ever. I love Apocalypse Now, and Lawrence of Arabia, and several classic films perhaps even greater than this Caine/Connery collaboration, but this could best all the greats for sheer fun. I can understand that Huston's other masterpiece, The African Queen, might appeal more to women; the interplay between Hepburn and Bogart was incredible. The love interest in The Man Who Would Be King is deliberately cold and minimal, in part because it is the ultimate buddy movie, which might be pejorative, but not intended so. It's a transcendent buddy movie, part epic, part comic, part morality tale. It seems strange that 1% of critics were underwhelmed. When positive consensus is that close, one has to wonder how one or two experts could diverge so much from the glories piled on by the many critic worthies, like Roger Ebert, who adored it I trust him more than some half-baked know-it-all form Variety for appreciation of the art of film making.Based on a Rudyard Kipling short story, itself inspired by the true story of Josiah Harlan in mid-19th century Afghanistan, it is the rare film that is better than its own source material by any measure. Also, you can find dozens of great movies starring Michael Caine, but here is one of the handful of really great movies that did not squander the massive talents of Sean Connery. For this last reason alone, The Man Who Would Be King is a must- see. "},{"Title":"Glory days of the British Empire","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" This memorable story is based on a Rudyard Kipling tale and features Christopher Plummer in a bookended role as the author himself. However, the main thrust of the narrative concerns the exploits of two ex-army rogues and their efforts to rule a remote corner of a kingdom that lies in modern day Afghanistan.The film itself is an out and out comedy and both Michael Caine and Sean Connery play it to the hilt as the impossible to dislike scoundrels. Watching the story unfold, you're aware that it can only end in disaster but that doesn't make the telling of it any the less entertaining. It's refreshingly old-fashioned in that the story evolves from the nuances of the two leads and that they're far from the clear-cut heroes of many lesser adventure films.It's also worth singling out Saeed Jaffrey in his role as the loyal Billy Fish - an excellent supporting performance if ever there was one. "},{"Title":"God's holy trousers","Date":"5 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" The epic is one of several old-time genres to have all but died out in the new wave era of 1970s Hollywood. The Man who would Be King, a pet project of writer-producer-director John Huston, works by virtue of its having had a long gestation period, and its coming to fruition under the savvy guidance of Huston. It is an adventure epic in the style of a bygone era of filmmaking, but it has enough modern overlay to its adaptation to prevent it from appearing an anachronism.One of the big advantages of its being produced in the 70s and not a preceding decade is securing of the right cast. Originally the leads were to have been Humphrey Bogart and Clark Gable. Another time Paul Newman and Robert Redford were posited. While all these choices were great actors and would have no doubt been fun to watch, I can't imagine any more suitable duo than Michael Caine and Sean Connery. Caine in particular is adept at making the half-poetic, half-colloquial dialogue of Rudyard Kipling's original story sound, well, just that &#x96; poetic and colloquial, and very natural when it could easily have sounded bizarre. Caine also has the earnestness of a good storyteller, so makes an ideal narrator. Connery shows comedic touches totally at odds with his usual screen persona, with some great moments like his put-look expression when Christopher Plummer declines to see him foam at the mouth. But later Connery demonstrates the presence and charisma that made him James Bond. Saeed Jaffrey is perfectly cast as their Ghurka companion, and again he is an actor the like of whom we would not have got in a 1950s production. Jaffrey creates a very likable and mischievous caricature, showing some superb and gleeful comic delivery.Huston himself was a director with a long track record, having made his directorial debut in 1941, and writing screenplays as far back as the early 30s. However he had proved himself endlessly versatile and always able to remain fresh with the times. The Man who would Be King features a few nods to such de rigeur techniques as the zoom and hand-held camera, but these are used sensibly and not with the showy abandon of the many young sprouts that were grabbing cameras and calling themselves directors around this time. And Huston still has all his original expertise intact, unlike some of the older directors around who had begun to lose their touch. One of Huston's best assets was his ability to juggle multiple actors in the frame using depth (a large part of the contrack-signing scene is done in one take), avoiding the need to edit back and forth between characters in the shot, and giving more impact to the more functional or stylised cuts such as the attention-grabbing insert of Kipling's Masonic watch chain or the powerful montage of mountains.Another aspect of The Man who would Be King in relation to its being a 70s production is its reflection of the changing political climate. It was only by this point that having Asian people played by Asian actors became the norm, as oppose to the poorer blackface copies we would have likely got had this been produced in the 50s. Bear in mind too that practically every movie in the 70s had some kind of political agenda, and the left-leaning Huston here draws attention to the anti-colonialist interpretation of the story, for example in the marketplace montage which precedes the opening credits, which relates not at all to the plot, but seems designed to emphasise the power and durability of culture on the subcontinent. These things add to the richness of the picture, without once being overbearing enough to detract from its innocent adventuresome roots. "},{"Title":"Exceedingly good Kipling adaptation","Date":"6 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Hugely enjoyable epic based on Kipling's cautionary adventure tale in the only film to co-star probably Britain's two biggest stars of the 60's and 70's. Adapted and stirringly directed by the then veteran maverick director John Huston, this rags to riches to rags saga seems to anachronistically belong to a different era of film-making some ten or twenty years earlier.Not that you'd confuse it with a David Lean marathon, there's plenty of action within the detail and even if the unsavoury whiff of colonialist superiority taints somewhat the initial perception of our two heroes as hapless adventurers, by the end we're won over by their honourable and regret-free acceptance of their fate even if it means the fatal demise of Connery's Danny Dravot character and the reduction to penury of Caine's Peachy Carnehan character. A cautionary tale it may be about pride coming before a fall and the risk men take in setting themselves up as gods, but the film is more about the friendship which endures between Connery and Caine, not forgetting their devoted batman Billy Fish, enjoyably brought to life by Saeeed Jaffrey.In the days before CGI & SFX, Huston does a fine job with the cinematography, particularly on location, as well as marshaling his large cast around the convincing sets. I'm fine too with the utilisation of writer Kipling as a character, introduced no doubt to frame the story as well as pointing up veracity and reminding us of its origins, with Christopher Plummer a convincing look-a-like. Caine and Connery reflect their own real-life friendship with mutually deferential performances, neither hogging the lime-light and staying true to character throughout, although as ever Sean's English accent never moves south of Edinburgh! I've read somewhere that some critics believe the movie could have worked even better if they'd switched roles but I don't see this at all, Connery's character has a naturally lofty demeanour, leading to his god-like aspirations, while Caine's is that of the down-to-earth conscience and confidant, both just as they should be. I also liked the minor irony in Caine's new wife at the time (they're still together, even now) spurning Connery's advances and thus, in fact precipitating the Englishmen's fall from grace.This then was a film I've long anticipated watching and was delighted that it didn't let me down. No sex, little violence, a fine old-fashioned story well told, just the way they used to make them... "},{"Title":"A Gem","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Strangely, the film and the novel remind me of Hilton's Lost Horizon. The Man Who Would Be King is a smashing film that combines humour, adventure and the exotic. A perfect blend of elements.A variety of incredibly interesting themes are explored.This is a film that is perfectly suitable for history and cinema studies.I place this one on my love list, giving it a roaring 10!- Dominik (Siberius)  "},{"Title":"Excellent. Excellent.","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" I like to comment on His Divine Grace Mr. Saeed Jaffery andprofanity in Cinema.His Divine Grace Mr. Saeed Jaffery has worked in countlessmovies over his life time.The profanity he uses in Hindi makes all the differences.Please watch for the dialogue which makes me laugh till today.Thanks and Regards.Sam RupaniHouston, Texas, United States of America.  "},{"Title":"one of the best films ever made","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Great script, great cast, great director.Simply one of the best films ever made.High adventure with many layers of meaning.  There's elements of war, friendship, mythology, sexual politics, humor, greed, etc. etc.If you haven't already, then see it. "},{"Title":"Quite simply the best film ever made","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  A rip roaring adventure, perfectly paced with outstanding performances shot with an artists eye for location and direction. It fulfils my every movie loving need on every level. I pop it in the video recorder every 6 months and will do for the rest of my life. Anyone who ever wants to be involved in whatever capacity in the making of a movie should watch this.  "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  A treasure that I like to see again and again.  Great acting and beautiful locations, a story by Kipling, and eternal themes make this movie well worth seeing.  Among my all time top 20.Connery gives a very convincing performance as The Man Who Would Be King. "},{"Title":"27 years later it is still astonishing","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  What a movie! It just does not get better than this A top notch director, three of the finest actors, a great writer with a very good story and you have a truly sensational movie. Now, why can't Hollywood make a film like this nowadays? There still are good actors, good directors but somehow the stories are missing. Clearly the modern day political sensitivities with their obligatory self-censorship is quite different from those of Kipling or even that of Huston, still, this is just not enough to explain the paucity of good stories. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Fun","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  I first saw this film at the close of the Edinburgh Film Festival, with Michael Caine present discussing the film. His comment was that this film was one of the most enjoyable films to shoot that he had ever made. And it is this sense of enjoyment that ultimately permeates the film and makes it a joy to watch for the viewer. A true classic adventure. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever Made","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Seeing this film as a child in the darkness of mid-70's America, it was an epiphany.  As glorious and rich and unashamedly martial as Kipling himself. The rich red blood of the British Empire, warts and all flood out of this amazing story.  From the gurkhas to Alexander, history oozes from the pores, and the humor makes no apologies.  Layer after layer, this is a grand and beautiful film shed of any PC drippings.  It will warm a real man's soul like an 18 year old single malt.  This film has become so ingrained in the marrow, I can't help but reference it watching the current allied offensive against the Afghan Taliban -- I've seen this story before. "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  How can a film which has two of Britain's greatest actors possibly not be good? With a constantly flowing plot, perfectly linked by excellently scored musical landscapes it has got to be a superb watching experience. Its amazing settings and characters create an excellent foreground of relationships against an awe inspiring backdrop. "},{"Title":"One of the most under-appreciated movies ever!","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  I loved this movie - perhaps my favorite of all time.  For those who don't know Kipling or think they don't like him, give this one a try.  This is not Walt Disney's treatment of Jungle Book.  Great settings, wonderful acting. "},{"Title":"Old times´ sake","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Great, great, just an ole´ great and grand production like Hollywwod used to make once in a while. Witty script, sharp and wonderful actors (Connery and Caine are probably one of the greatest duos ever on the silver screen) and unbelievable direction from the great John Huston. The adaptation of Kipling´s story of the two troublemaking British officers in the 1880´s that travel to the East and get mistaken for gods provide a rich, deep soil for Huston to practice his magic storytelling. Like in most of his films, you get comedy, plenty of adventure and a gritty journey into the human heart. Without doubt, John Huston is the Rudyard Kipling of movies. Here, he meets his perfect match. I had´t had this much fun ever since Tom Jones. Watch it. "},{"Title":"THE Adventure Film of them all","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Considering that John Huston wanted to film this Rudyard-Kipling-yarn in the 50´s starring Humphrey Bogart and Clark Gable, one can only sigh in relief that this plan never materialized. Because when John Huston finally was able to make the movie the result was the most engaging, the most adventurous, the most suspensefull, the best looking, the most intriguing plotted and the best cast screen-adventure of all time (it´s only possible rival being David Lean´s Lawrence of Arabia). Everything starts and ends with the casting of Michael Caine and Sean Connery as the two treasure-hunters who happen to stumble over Alexander the Great´s long lost city of Gold, where Connery is thought of as a God, starts acting wise and respectful and becomes alienated from his pal Caine - until in the end they are united again. There is a lot of talk around about John Ford´s theme of glory in defeat. In the last sequences of The Man Who Would Be King you can actually see what this means at an highly emotional level. Caine and Connery are so good together that one tends to assume they´ve made a lot of films side by side. This is tragically wrong. The Man Who Would Be King is in fact the only one; not considering Richard Attenborough´s all-star-extravaganza A Bridge Too Far (1977)where they are not to be seen on the screen together. To praise the two stars doesn´t mean to underestimate the achievement of the then veteran director. Any sequence of the film shows that this was not an easy shoot and Huston being 68 at the time of shooting didn´t spare his stars, his team and least of all himself anything. The result being that The Man Who Would Be King, for all its air of adventure, its sense of mythical wonders, its eyeblinking exaggerations, hits the viewer with a strong feeling of honesty. This is the finest hour for anyone involved! "},{"Title":"A real guide for great movie making","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  This movie has it all. I can appreciate the loyalty, comedy, tragedy and beautiful scenery. It can easily be compared to the works of Shakespeare himself. While the plot of the movie goes off without a hitch, the viewer finds themselves actively taking part in the movie. We all know that Danny is going to botch it for both of them, but alas. I shed more than one tear while I watched Connery gyrating down, down, down into the abyss.Magic. "},{"Title":"They Don't Make 'Em Like They Used To...","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" THE FILM In the mid 1950's, John Huston picked up a copy of Rudyard Kipling's The Man Who Would Be King. Huston felt the story would make a great film. He approached both Humphrey Bogart and Clark Gable for the lead roles, and they accepted. Unfortunately, due to Bogart's death in 1957, the project stalled. Interest was regained during the making of The Misfits, when Clark Gable expressed his desire to do the film. Unfortunately, due to Gable's death in 1961, the film was once again shelved.It would be brought up in conversation now and then, with names like Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas attached. Nothing came of it, and the project was yet again shelved. Finally in 1973, during the making of The Mackintosh Man Huston approached Paul Newman about doing the film, with Robert Redford. Newman thought the film sounded excellent, but if the film was to be about British men, British actors should be cast. Newman mentioned Sean Connery and Michael Caine as possible leads.Huston thought the idea excellent, and immediately contacted the two. Both agreed, and the shooting commenced in Morocco. It would be the last large scale epic Huston would ever tackle.THE PLOT Rudyard Kipling is the author of a newspaper in Victorian era India, and one night as he types the next day's paper, a figure in rags approaches him. It comes with great shock to him when he realizes that this is a man he had befriended years prior. Indeed, it is Peachy Carnahan, whom Kipling had met when Peachy stole his watch. Carnahan begins to tell the story of his adventures, with fellow rogue Daniel Dravot.Years earlier, they had the idea to walk to the mystical land of Kafiristan, where no man has been since Alexander. The idea was to make peace with the warring tribes, and set themselves up as kings. After many sidesteps, they reach their destination and kick their plan into action. After Dravot is hit with an arrow, blocked by an ammunition belt, the local populace think him a god. After a great coincidence, he becomes the ruler of the land, and people worship him.Unfortunately, Dravot begins to think himself an actual god...THE CRITICISM If ever the phrase they don't make 'em like they used to is applicable, this is a shining example. This kind of epic, big budget swashbuckling adventure is distinctly old Hollywood, but also incredibly entertaining. The film balances drama with comedy, adventure and greed, and does it flawlessly. This film hits all the right buttons, and then even more. Caine and Connery have tremendous camaraderie and their friendship is one of the most believable of all time.Indeed, in their performances, they exude a remarkable charm and drama. Caine, as Peachy Carnahan is charming, dangerous and greedy, while the same can be said for Connery's Daniel Dravot. Those who know Connery only as James Bond will be in for a shock when they see this film. He proves that he can not only act, but act well. For those who know Caine as an old man, will be surprised to see that in his youth he was an excellent actor.Christopher Plummer, in the role of Kipling is absolutely excellent. He is the lens through which you observe the story. The many years, and drafts of the screenplay, definitely show. All of that time in pre-production result in a perfectly realized script, and film. The score, by Maurice Jarre can be too much at points, but is still quite moving, especially in the last scene. The cinematography is beautiful, although it might feel slightly old school at points, so is the film.Too many epics find that with a big budget, the film must be intense and brooding drama. As Huston realizes here, that is not the case at all. With a big budget, he manages to craft an excellent, drama that doesn't mind verging on the comic at points. This is but one of the many literary adaptations Huston would tackle throughout his long career. As is the case with almost all of those films, I have not read the source material. From my understanding Rudyard Kipling was an actual British writer, who at one point did live in India.I am once again bring light on Huston's direction. He brings a masterful touch to the proceedings, crafting what could even be considered satirical by some. The film comes together through his direction, and indeed I cannot think of many directors whose range extends as far as Huston. If there was ever a running theme throughout his films, it is greed. This is no exception.As I wrap up, I call attention to the last scene of the film. To those who have seen it, and those who haven't, I believe you might be able to sympathize with me when I call attention to the incredibly moving nature of the ending. The singing was an incredibly sad and fitting end to this, one of the greatest epics ever made.The Man Who Would Be King, 1975, Starring Michael Caine, Sean Connery and Christopher Plummer, Directed by John Huston, 9.5/10 (A) (This is part of an ongoing project to watch and review every John Huston film. You can view this and other reviews at http//everyjohnhustonmovie.blogspot.ca/) "}{"Title":"Connery and Caine in an adventure of a lifetime","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Rudyard Kipling is a correspondent at the offices of the Northern Star newspaper.Then unrecognizable Peachy Carnehan enters and tells his story.Kipling has met Peachy and his friend, Daniel Dravot in the past.He tells how they traveled to remote Kafiristan, how Danny became a god and how they lost everything.The Man Who Would Be King (1975) is a John Huston classic.It's based on Rudyard Kipling's short story.Sean Connery and Michael Caine are perfect as Danny and Peachy.They both represent the British gentleman type, and they both have an enormous amount of charisma.Christopher Plummer does great work as Kipling.Saeed Jaffrey is terrific as Billy Fish.Moroccan actor Doghmi Larbi is great as Ootah.Michael's wife Shakira Caine is amazing as Roxanne, the woman Danny wants.I saw the film two days ago on Tuesday.I had seen it once before.It's a great adventure movie, that has got some drama and some comedy as well.A great scene is where they're about to be robbed but they're wiser than them, and get their three mules.And their survival story in the cold mountains is amazing to watch.And the battle scenes look amazing.If you're looking for a perfect adventure movie, this is your pick. "},{"Title":"One of John Huston's best","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" The Man Who Would be King is simply wonderful in every sense of the word. John Huston is a terrific director, and his direction is masterly as he matches character to action in adept fashion. Sean Connery, Michael Caine and Christopher Plummer are all fine actors, and all three are superb with brilliantly written characters, Connery in particular gives one of his most charismatic performances here. The film looks wonderful, with evocative locations and stunning cinematography. Maurice Jarre's score is very stirring, and while not his best(Lawrence of Arabia) it is up there. The script is sly, the story is riveting, the pace is spot on and the ending gives another meaning to the word pathos. Overall, it is a superb film and one of the best films of a fine director. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The Best Buddy Movie ever made.","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Fans of Kippling will not be disappointed. Though entirely fanciful (particularly with respect to Alexander) The Man Who Would be King, through the relationship between the principal characters, presents a truer vision of the fraternity of Freemasons than is provided by more recent films or for that matter any other film. The interaction between Kippling (who appears as a character in his own fiction)and Brother Danny and Brother Peachy will bring a smile to the initiated as well as the voyeur.The movie begins and ends in the office of the fictitious Kippling where he is confronted by an apparent street beggar reveled to be Brother Peachey Carnehan. Pechey proceeds to relate the tale of his first and subsequent encounters with Brother Kippling during which Kippling is introduced to Brother Daniel Dravot. Kippling is called on to witness a pact between the two old friends Brothers Peachy and Danny to become Kings in Kafiristan.After witnessing the pact Brother Kippling see the two friends off equipped with twenty Martini-Henry rifles and gives Brother Danny his Masonic watch fob. As Brother Peachy relates the rest of the story to Brother Kippling years latter the two use the twenty Martini-Henry rifles to good effect and the gift of the watch fob to Brother Danny is central to their ultimate success and subsequent tragic fall. "},{"Title":"The son of God goes forth to war.","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" I love this movie. I don't think I'd put it as my favorite, but it definitely is in the top 10. Everything was superb. Director John Huston, actors Sean Connery, Michael Caine, and Christopher Plummer, the supporting cast, the story, everything.The story is that Peachy (Caine) has returned to India to tell Rudyard Kipling (Plummer) about his adventure with Danny (Connery). Kipling had earlier met Peachy when Peachy tried to return his watch after stealing it (All three men are Freemasons, so Peachy's theft was taboo). Peachy and Danny have hatched a plot to blackmail a local Rajah, which Kipling turns in to save them from punishment. Later, Peachy and Danny, who are ex-soldiers, ask Kipling to witness a contract between them that they will venture to become kings of Kafiristan (a then mysterious province in current day Afghanistan) rather than stay in India or return to Britian. Before leaving, Kipling gives Danny his watch charm (the masonic square and compasses) for good luck. The rest of the story, is told by Peachy as he recounts the journey he and Danny took to get to Kafiristan and their subsequent attempt to become rulers of that land.The cast certainly is strong. Some of the supporting cast are unknowns, such as Karroom Ben Bouih as the High Priest (his only film role at the age of 103), or Doghmi Larbi as Ootah, and the relatively unknown Shakira Caine (Mrs. Michael Caine) as Roxanne. Saeed Jaffrey who plays Gurkha Billy Fish is relatively unknown to the United States, but has a very strong acting resume (the first Asian to receive an OBE for services to drama). This is added to by a rich stable of stand-ins who look as close to the real thing as one can get. This adds to the already powerful performances by Connery and Caine.Director John Huston certainly did a fantastic job on this film. It may not be as well known as The Maltese Falcon or The Treasure of Sierra Madre, but it delivers as powerful of a performance as either of those two films. Huston shows in this that he never lost a step as a director or a story teller (he co-wrote the screenplay).What I really enjoy about this movie is that it has quite a few masonic overtones. Kipling was a Freemason and certainly put masonic content into all his stories (in this film it is a major plot point). However, this story is enjoyable and poignant regardless of whether you are a Mason. "},{"Title":"They truly do not make them like this anymore","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" With the exception of a silly moment from Connery impersonating a street busker near the beginning, and the reaction of a man being tossed from a train by Caine, this film dances with the word flawless, and some would say, takes the word home.Christopher Plummer, albeit in a small role, is amazing. Caine and Connery are fantastic. Everyone in this film just seems perfect. It flows seamlessly along every time I watch it.Power corrupts, but adventure inspires, and few, if any, have done it this well since. Raiders might be the only one.George Holmes Ottawa, Ontario "},{"Title":"What a movie!","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Having heard my father rave about this movie, I decided to give it a try. The story concerns three main characters, Rudyard Kipling, the author of the tale, and two ex British army sergeants who, with a bit of help from Kipling, set out for the adventure of a lifetime. At first, Peachy Carnahan (Michael Caine) and Daniel Dravot (Sean Connery) are played as somewhat unlikeable people, con men, blackmailers, thieves, but before long, you fall right under their spell as does Kipling, whose even been robbed by Peachy! The two military men devise a plan, witnessed by Kipling, to head to the nether regions of Afghanistan (Kifiristan I believe) and proceed to vanquish all the foes of the king there, depose him and Loot the place four ways from Sunday as Dravot puts it. I won't reveal too much, but suffice to say, this movie has many meanings and themes. Loyalty, friendship, humility, and sacrifice are chief among them. A real adventure story, with a decidedly human element. The two leads are superb, and they have the chemistry of two men that really HAVE been through the wars. Christopher Plummer really inherits Kipling, as he gets caught up in the magic, and charisma of Peachy and Daniel. A special movie, that everyone will enjoy. Highly Recommended "},{"Title":"It Has It All  Danger, Adventure, Religion, and Insanity","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" I love it when I chance upon a movie for which I've had no preparation. I had never heard of this when I went into a theater on a hot afternoon. This is a great story of a couple of men who have different motivations. Granted, at the beginning, they are basically con men. The world is their oyster and border controls being what they were at that time, they could move about freely. Well, we know a lot about Afghanistan now, but these guys go off half cocked, and get into the biggest trouble possible. Like The River Kwai they need to cut their losses, but one of them can't do that. He actually begins to be the person he set out to play that is a god. He doesn't see the danger he is in. One slip and everything comes tumbling down; it is inevitable. Then it become survival. The scene where the monks begin to move in on Connery, is overwhelming. We have people who are willing to die to right a wrong (sound familiar). We see the confusion in the face as he realizes his mistake, but he can't fathom it. It's like the snow blindness on the way in. It is now another version of snow blindness that must be faced. The plot is exquisite, based on the Kipling book. Michael Cain and Sean Connery. It doesn't get much better than that. Beautiful sets. Magnificent mountains. The whole move give me that uneasy feel in the pit of my stomach. You've got to get out of there. But they can't hear me. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie, the brilliance of Rudyard Kipling combined with good directing and fantastic acting.","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  The Man Who Would Be King is an outstanding movie. Naturally, most movies with Michael Caine and Sean Connery (who were probably perfect for the job) would be good just for the acting, and add to that Christopher Plummer. Being based on the short story by Rudyard Kipling it has brilliance and a unique touch to it. I loved this movie because it had this magical touch by Kipling, patriotism and a great adventure story all-round.The movie has adventure, politics, humor and psychology.My favorite line from the film God's holly trousers.  "},{"Title":"A Kipling classic","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  I have spent many hours joking with another British friend, quoting lines from this film whilst we were in the Indian Himalayas near a mountain village that claimed to be descendants of Alexander the Greats troops (echoes of the movie). The film includes some brilliant one liners such as Sean Connery saying Gentlemen, Welcome to the Himalayas, and countless other pearls that represent so well the romanticiced adventurous spirit of the British during those days.  Another favourite was Michael Caines comments about a court martial.. Detriments; detriments!...It's detriments like us that built this bloody Empire.  But don't listen to me just go out and watch it.  After all Rudyard Kipling was a facinating man and a brilliant author, and on that note, to hell with Disney, read the real Jungle Book too. "},{"Title":"Beautifully made movie","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  I'm surprised this movie has received such an honest ranking - I don't know anyone else who has seen it!The Man Who Would Be King is beautifully photograped. It's almost as sumptuous as a David Lean movie. The acting is first-rate. Sean Connery gives his typical un-selfconscious and low-key performance, and Michael Caine is a perfect foil. A fabulous movie. "}{"Title":"they don't make 'em like this anymore 10/10","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Sean Connery and Michael Caine star in this delightful epic which has almost everything going for it.  The charisma of the two stars is fantastic, especially the always charming Caine.  Like all John Huston films, The Man Who Would Be King has almost everything -- action; drama; comedy -- and it succeeds brilliantly as a wonderful epic that will not be forgotten. "},{"Title":"Just plain magnificent.","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" This movie is just a joy, a total joy.John Huston had his terrific ups and his catastrophic downs, but at his best he produced a handful of movies (The Maltese Falcon, The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, Wise Blood, The Dead and a few others) that rank among the very best narrative film-making ever made. (It is worth noting that all the above were based on novels or short stories; few if any succeeded in translating literature to film with the skill Huston had.)The two greatest parables of the downfall of colonialism are Heart of Darkness, by Joseph Conrad, and The Man Who Would Be King, by Rudyard Kipling. Kipling, of course, championed the British Empire right and left; I wonder, then, if he quite knew how deep he had plumbed with the cautionary fable he created. Huston catches the subtext instinctively, and produces a true gem. Without sacrificing Kipling's facility with language or his sense of high adventure, Huston nails the bloody arrogance of the colonial mind, and nails it DOWN. If we begin by laughing with Dravot and Carnehan at the simplicity of the savages they seek to rule, we end in shuddering awe of the depth of what we have stumbled onto; the truth of a life and belief that can blow our greedy, venal ambitions away like dust.Connery and Caine go over like fish and chips-- they've never been better as individuals and they score mightily as a team. (And they have the perfect voices for Kipling's cadences-- you could listen to them all day.) Great kudos to the wonderful Saeed Jaffrey, Christopher Plummer, and Doghmi Larbi, whose funny, sad Ootah just about steals the movie. The music brings tears to my eyes whenever I hear it. The movie is just improbable enough to be great adventure and just poetic enough to be more. With this movie it's unbearably tempting to give a little spoiler, so (SKIP THE REST) --***************SLIGHT SPOILER AHEAD******************I can't help it. Because the final shot is so wonderful; it is the reason, in fact, that I have watched this film so many times and been in awe of it each timeThe fable ends as fables must, with a moral, and this simple, eloquent final shot perfectly echoes Shakespeare...for within the hollow crown that rounds the mortal temples of the king keeps Death his court, and there the antic sits, scoffing at his state, grinning at his pomp, allowing him a breath, a little scene, to monarchize, be feared, and kill with looks; infusing him with self and vain conceit, as if this flesh which walls about our life were brass impregnable; and, humoured thus, comes at the last, and with a little pin, bores through the castle wall, and farewell King.Let us paint an inch thick, to this end we will come. "},{"Title":"i often put this DVD on instead of music","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  i absolutely adore this movie and often put it on instead of music. everything about it is perfect. the only possible flaw that i can see is that the kafiris (sp?) look too Morrocan/North African and not Central Asian.. this is a very minor criticism. "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  It is difficult to see how such an apparently pointless short story could be made into such an incredibly beautiful and poignant movie. Full marks to Huston for seeing the potential in Kipling's story; this was Huston's greatest achievement, a fitting climax to a long and illustrious career in movie-making. "},{"Title":"Sean Connery and Michael Caine at their Finest.","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  This movie is the perfect action/adventure movie. Where as Raiders of the Lost Ark is throwback of shorts. This is the real thing. Directed by John Houston from a Kipling story. You can't get much better than that for a foundation. The pairing of Michael Caine and Sean Connery is simply inspired. They work so well together you are with them at every step.  A chilling ending too. This movie sticks with you. You'll be thinking about this long after you're done watching it. And you can always pick out something new when you watch it again. I suggest getting it on DVD. There is a nice featurette on the making of the movie. With some great macho behind the scenes atmosphere.One of my favorites. If you liked Raiders of the Lost Ark check this one out. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  In some ways, it's like Butch & Sundance Go to India, but it stands up there as a great buddy film.Favorite line  Oh, yes, many troubles.  Enemies always be pissing upstream from village. "},{"Title":"A great film that most people have likely never heard of...","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  this is a sprawling adventure with a non-stop plot and outstanding performances by Sean Connery and Michael Caine....why this is not acclaimed as among the best adventure films ever made is beyond me.....simply a masterpiece.... "},{"Title":"One of the 5 most memorable films I have seen.","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  When Michael Caine said that this is the one film that he would be remembered for, the one film that would survive him, he was right. It is easily one of the 5 most memorable films that I have seen in my lifetime. And certainly one of the 5 or 10 best films that I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" This is a great film! It has action, drama and comedy and achieves a perfect blend. It's a story about 2 soldiers of fortune who go into the wilds of Kafaristan to conquer the land for themselves. They make the people believe that Connery is god and reincarnation of Alexander the Great. Of course this makes Connery over-confident and he tells Caine that he does not want to leave the land. The ending is truly great and ironic. Sad and full of hope at the same time.It almost made me cry. Connery and Caine have great chemistry and I wonder why they never had another pairing in a movie, which is a truly pitiful.This movie is a true classic worthy of being seen again again. I give it a 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Charming review, Daniel","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  The combined abilities of Sean Connery and Michael Caine add class and charm to a brilliant story of British courage and greed. It serves well to sum up what was and is good and bad about a tiny nation who once ruled the World. The film is very much a fairy tale deploying a great deal of both humour and action to spin a yarn about 2 ex-soldiers in colonial India who set off in search of treasure and fame and encounter their fair share of difficulties in trying to do so. An absolute classic. 9/10. "}{"Title":"Classic A Must see for any Caine and Connery fan","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Well told fairy tale, starring the best two British actors Michael Caine and Sean Connery. The two stars hit it off brilliantly and seeing as this is the only film I have seen them both in they definitely should have been paired more often. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great actors in a great landscape; very pleasant fairy tale.","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Really epic fairy tale, but it's disturbed by some pitiful oversights - like  singing & dancing Moroccan folk motives in (probably depicted) Afghani  mountains. And still great; Sean Connery - just as he is in every picture.  Long live Sean Connery! "},{"Title":"Absolutely entertaining from start to finish.","Date":"10 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" John Huston's impeccable buddy film, one of the great lost classics in American cinema, is more than just a great buddy film but also a mediation on the British place in India as well as the consequences of power and riches. Sean Connery and Michael Caine are perfectly cast as the gruff, fearless Daniel Dravot and the sneaky and thoughtful Peachy Carnehan, respectively. These are two of the finest actors based on their own credentials, but here they put all that aside and give us two characters that have been through a lot together and are willing to put it on the line in order to find their dream head for the mountains of Kafiristan and make themselves kings of the country.As the adventure starts out, we see the two friends meeting up with the famous British writer Rudyard Kipling (Christoper Plummer) who seems to have some important words for these two. They set out and face many obstacles and when they arrive they put their plan into action. I could go on as to what they do or what the outcome is, but that would spoil the outright fun of this wonderful tale of high-risk, action and adventure. As mentioned before, Connery and Caine are perfect in each of their roles, balancing each other and giving us a clear portrait of the British mindset at the height of their power. Huston directs with bold and outrageous shots of mountains, crowded marketplaces and vast kingdoms. In many ways, this reminded me of The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, perhaps Huston's masterpiece. Just like that tale of greed for gold in the mountains of Mexico, this is a cautionary tale of greed in the mountains of Afghanistan. I encourage anyone interested to see this film; as unappreciated as it is it is just as enjoyable. "},{"Title":"From the upper echelon of boys own adventures comes.....","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" The Man Who Would Be KingTwo ex servicemen are lolling around colonial India, it's just the start of a journey that will see them in Kafiristan. Here the mountain dwellers believe the rouge white fellows to be Gods, and thus things are about to get very interesting indeed.Written by master writer Rudyard Kipling, directed by behemoth John Huston, and starring British legends Sean Connery & Michael Caine, there really isn't any way this film could have failed, sure enough the picture exudes a classy structure that is coupled with deftly smart writing. The Man Who Would Be King was a project that John Huston had coveted for many a year decade, as far back as the 40s he was looking to adapt the Kipling short with Humphrey Bogart & Clark Gable in the leads, some time after it was mooted that he fancied Peter O'Toole & Richard Burton to play Messrs Dravot & Carnehan. Fast forward to 1975 and the eventual pairing of Caine & Connery now looks like a masterstroke of casting, and it really is impossible to imagine anyone else in the roles of the amoral scavenger duo of the piece, in short, the wait for the film was indeed worth it.That the film is known as an adventure genre staple is a given, but it should be noted that in amongst its delightful fusion of fantasy and swashbuckling values, lies wonderful characterisation, cheeky sly glances at the power crazy, imperialism, greed, and pulsing a political beat. It's a smashing, highly entertaining picture that stands up really well ever more today in this new millennium age, i mean it's got Caine & Connery playing rapscallions for GODS sake !.8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best male fantasies","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  One of the best films ever made, by a great director who knows the extent to which men will obsess and risk everything to fulfill their fantasies. And Sean Connery and Michael Caine are perfect in their roles as brash soldiers of fortune with a dream.  There is much to commend in this film.  Saeed Jaffrey (as Billy Fish) actually stole a couple of scenes ... as did Dodhmi Larbi (as Ootah) until he lost his head.  But the real treasure is the timeless Kipling story ... about fearlessness and greed.  "},{"Title":"Dangerous movie - makes you go to Kafiristan!","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" First time I saw it, it made me go to Pakistan directly with a bottle of Glenlivet. This says it all. I agree with all folks who swarmed about this movie, and being one of my few all-time favorites I rather dare to write about the only thing I didn't like and that's the flaw of location. Kafiristan scenes were shot in Morocco and although the makers did everything to create the atmosphere of the real place, there are some scenes which are as Moroccan as peppermint tea. First, the whole opening market sequence, then the dance and lu-lu-lu of Kafiri women, and later the Bashkai elders' talk which is clearly Arabic. Moroccan outfit also appears during shots of the marching army. But all this is obvious only if you have been to Morocco. Even a Pakistani friend of mine was convinced that the movie was shot in Ladakh, India! "},{"Title":"Connery and Caine at their best","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Got to be one of the best films ever made. Never makes it on any published top 100 film list but would be in my top 10. My favourite Sunday afternoon film after a Sunday roast and few pots settle down and prepare for adventure. A cross between Zulu and Indianna Jones with a great story line and a brilliant tune Son of God goes forth to war that the boys sing along to throughout. Connery and Caine meet up with Rudyard Kipling and make a contrac with one another to become kings of kafiristan. Off they trot with rifles and red coats to bring enlightenment to the savages. Rammed full of memorable quotes and makes you proud to be part of the Britiah Empire (as was)!!Fantastic, see it soon "},{"Title":"One of the best films of all time","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" One of my top 10 favorite films. I wish more stories could be told as well as this. You would think that more attention could be made to the classics for a source of movie making rather then the copying of 70s TV shows and the endless grasping for the tag-along audience with each sequel. The casting was perfect. It's as if Sean Connery was born to play this part and Caine does his wise-guy buddy bit perfect.The sense of the high and mighty English(Westerner) waltzing through the middle east as if they were Gods is strangely similar to what we see on the news each night. It seems like the English will never learn from the past and the Americans will continue to convince themselves that the rest of the world must suck without their benevolent control. "},{"Title":"A rousing colonial adventure which shrouds a very sombre tale of greed and lost dreams.","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" This is a first rate historical adventure film, which also succeeds as a grim morality tale with the addition of a clever framing story.Top British stars Sean Connery and Michael Caine team up as a pair of vagabond soldiers in India, who are out to scheme their way to fame and fortune. Their latest plan involves travelling to the remote kingdom of Kafiristan, where legend tells of vast treasures ripe for plundering.This is story-telling on a grand scale, with sweeping outside locations and cinematography. The two principles are perfectly cast, although maybe as a result of this both tend to go through the motions somewhat. Caine gets away with this just about, but Connery is often found wanting - the frequent reliance on humour in the first half of the film in both their performances adds little. Fortunately help is on hand from Christopher Plummer and Saeed Jaffrey, who take the acting honours in supporting roles.The reliance on action means the script plays a minor role and it's a shame there isn't more interplay between the characters - the storyline is very strong and would have accommodated more scenes with an emphasis on dialogue.These are minor quibbles though, and 'The Man Who Would be King' is still a very good film - potentially it could have been a classic though.Michael Caine's stunning wife Shakira plays Roxanne, the modern incarnation of the wife of Alexander the Great, and makes an impression despite having no dialogue.  "},{"Title":"What?  No Oscar?","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Nominated for 4 Oscars yet winning none it's shocking it didn't get nominated for more. Michael Caine's performance was stunning as a best friend who stays with his comrade no matter what. This is the ultimate of buddy, road-trip films similar to Easy Rider or Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. You're supposed to enjoy the ride even if there's foreshadowing that things don't end right. At the same time, there's a Doctor Zhivago aspect of a grand epic. The scenery is stunning as is the whole scope of the film. In Doctor Zhivago, you know from the beginning how the tale ends and you almost forget it because of 3 hours of grand (although sad) story. In this one, the two hours seem to fly by. The jokes and clever human insights are thrown out, at several levels (both vaudeville as well as more subtle) faster than than you can follow along or laugh. The material is wonderfully unPC by today's standards and consequently, a few (few) reviewers were turned off by it but simultaneously, it was a film of it's times (the 1960's, the late Victorian era, and even the cultures portrayed in the film) that you feel immersed and drawn in. This Is An Epic Film. Like life, sometimes we are too busy having a good time, or not, to stop and smell the roses. You can do that after a 2nd viewing which I guarantee you'll want to have. "}{"Title":"old fashion high adventure","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" It's based on the Rudyard Kipling tale. Rudyard Kipling (Christopher Plummer) is approached by a ragged Peachy Carnehan (Michael Caine) who three years ago traveled to present day Afghanistan. They had met on the train. Peachy is a disillusioned soldier and looking to get a fortune. With Danny Dravot (Sean Connery), they set off on a epic journey and wild adventures. They save villagers being attacked and find helpful Gurkha soldier Billy Fish (Saeed Jaffrey) who survived a previous expedition. Danny survives an arrow during a battle and the locals believe him to be a god.I would have prefer the movie skip the Kipling part and much of the beginning. There are some fun bits but the movie gets better after the Khyber Pass. That's when the fun high adventure begins. It's old fashion stuff from director John Huston. Michael Caine and Sean Connery are great for the roles. Caine may have had a bit too much fun but that's fine by me. "},{"Title":"No spoilers here","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" This is one of the most underrated movies of all time. The cinematography is amazing, the script is brilliant, and the two lead actors could not have been better cast. Connery and Caine have such great chemistry together, and their relationship with Billy Fish is wonderful. It's a beautiful illustration of power corrupts, but friendship wins out in the end. I've sen some comments here about Danny and Peachy being despicable but they were soldiers cut loose by the empire they'd fought for, with nothing to look forward to back home except poverty. Why not go for the big score? I loved this movie. John Huston's direction was beautiful....he got out of his actors' way and just let them do it. And they did. And Christopher Plumber's role, though small, was so important to the plot. "},{"Title":"What Happens When Men try to play God","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" I originally thought that this was a movie about Jesus, but it turned out that it was based on a Rudyard Kipling novel, which is just as good. Kipling is well known as the author of The Jungle Story (which I have not read) but he wrote many other books, this being one of them. Kipling grew up in India, where most of his books are based, and worked there as a journalist. Kipling appears at the beginning and the end of this movie, which brings some legitimacy to the story.The story is about two British Army sergeants who decide to cross the Hindu Kush and conquer Afghanistan. They meet up with Kipling at the beginning and their interaction with him demonstrate them as being quite sly and underhanded. This underhandedness is what they take over the mountains in Afghanistan however there is a lot of luck involved as well. Firstly they are saved in the Hindu Kush by an avalanche that enables them to continue on their journey. When they arrive at the first city they meet up with an Indian guide who is able to act as a translator, and when they are taken to the holy city, the priest finds a symbol on one of them that corresponds to a symbol carved on one of their stones.However, it is very clear that this movie is going to end badly for both of them. When one of them survives an arrow shot (namely because it hits a leather strap) they believe that he is a god and worship him as such. However, there is a catch. It quickly becomes clear that while he is a god (the son of Secunda, the name of Alexander the Great, who promised that his son will return to rule them) there are limits to his power, and the priesthood make this clear. Everything comes undone when he decides that he wants to marry one of the locals (a girl named Roxanne, after Alexander's love interest). Despite all of his rhetoric he is unable to convince the natives that it is his right to marry, and when Roxanne bites him, it becomes clear that he is not a god, and is thus executed. His companion manages to escape, and this is how the tale is returned to Kipling.I guess this story is a tragedy of those who go to seek power and in finding it, are encompassed by it. To us westerner's a king is a mortal (and was so when the book was written in the late 19th Century), but to the natives, he was a god. There is no playing god, especially around non-European cultures. Captain Cook found that out the hard way when he returned to Tahiti only to be killed by the people that originally worshiped him. The same happened here when he decided that he would overturn the natives' tradition and attempt to marry. It wasn't going to happen, and no amount of rhetoric is going to change that. As the bible says, 'what does it profit a man to gain the whole world only to lose his soul'. "},{"Title":"What if you were King?","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Here is a most excellent adventure movie that takes us right to the edge, then again, and once more again while thrilling, and chilling us and then... leaving us to ponder human nature, life and how no two stories are alike. Every one watching this can identify with it because it has Universal principals like greed, wealth, power, love and finally the cost of it all if you do not reign it under control. What shocks the viewer is that this can happen and makes one wonder if they practice something similar in their own life? Without saying too much, opportunity presents itself to two lucky pals who aren't afraid to take a risk or two or three to make a gain. They think out of the box and that thinking creates a wholesome, one of a kind adventure that takes us to far away places, people, circumstances and then...? Definitely gets some treats...popcorn, candy and something to wash it all down with as you join these boys having all that they want, then more than they could dream of.... to finally realizing something beyond their wildest dreams and then.... then the rude awakening of it all...Please enjoy "},{"Title":"Sean Connery and Michael Caine make a great couple in one of Huston's best movies","Date":"24 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" The Man Who Would Be King is a great adventure film from director John Huston. An adaptation of Rudyard Kipling's short story, the film stars Sean Connery as Daniel Dravot and Michael Caine as Peachy Carnehan, two ex-soldiers that seeking fortune and glory decide to embark on a journey to the remote province of Kafiristan in order to become the rulers of the land.In order for their plan to work, the two need to blackmail a local governor so that he would provide them with money to buy rifles. Their scheme nearly falls apart, but they are given an unexpected help from Rudyard Kipling (Christopher Plummer), a writer for the Northern Star whom Peachy had earlier met in the train. Along their way to Kafiristan the two encounter many perils and are nearly forced to give up when the difficulty of the terrain renders them unable to continue. Through either pure luck or divine intervention, they manage to make it to Kafiristan where they pose as Englishmen, the next best thing after gods.The film is beautifully shot and John Huston manages to create the right atmosphere and give the viewer the impression that the action really takes place in a land forgotten by time, with its own rules and values. The movie has the right amount of drama and action and the chemistry between Sean Connery and Michael Caine is nearly perfect. The two are at their very best here and one can tell that they had a great time filming this. The supporting cast is also good Christopher Plummer gives a decent performance as Rudyard Kipling while the rest of the supporting actors are equally good in their roles.This definitely ranks among John Huston's greatest work, but I would not consider it to be his best movie (The Maltese Falcon would probably deserve this honor). The Man Who Would Be King is nonetheless a highly entertaining tale of friendship and loyalty that manages to stand the test of time.My rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Caine and Connery the perfect mix as Huston hits the high notes","Date":"25 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Legendary director John Huston had kept the desire to make The Man Who Would Be King burning away for two decades before Sean Connery and Michael Caine finally brought it to life, and the result is a wonderful movie that, despite its quality, has often been overlooked when discussing the careers of the two leads. Caine and Connery play Peachy Carnehan and Daniel Dravot, two quick witted rogue soldiers who desert the army at the time when the British empire ruled the world. Based on the Rudyard Kipling story, Christopher Plummer plays the author who first encounters the two men when the decide to set themselves up as rulers of the tribal Kafiristan, and plunder fame and fortune along the way. Plummer is merely a foil for the central duo, and is used sparingly, only really appearing at the beginning and end of the movie. Probably because of his hideous Graeme Souness moustache. Huston's masterful direction brings the best out of Connery and Caine, and as a double act they sparkle and fire off each other in every scene, almost in a brotherly, telepathic way. Indeed, it's Caine's early scenes, where he delivers quick fire lines in his broadest Cockney, that work exceptionally well, and as mentioned earlier, I often think this is some of Caine's best work that gets scandalously overlooked. People do refer to this movie once in a while, but always seem to just mention Caine, Connery and Huston. View it objectively, and from a Caine point of view you will see he totally nails the part and perhaps the great friendship he has endured with Connery off screen brings the best out of his performance on it. The turning point of the story is when the native tribesmen mistake Connery for a God when a stray arrow strikes him but he does not bleed. In fact, the arrow gets embedded in his bandolier which the locals do not realise. There is a masterful change of direction in the movie when Connery begins to lap up the total worship that suddenly befalls him, and his character's ego becomes swept along with disastrous results. But at this stage, his relationship with Carnehan changes from equal partners to one of attempted superiority, and here as well the ability of Huston to so successfully convey this between the two men is seamless and masterful. The chemistry between Connery and Caine is as good as Newman and Redford at their best (Newman was allegedly approached for the role but recommended Caine) and the stunning location work in Morocco is simply beautiful, especially the backdrops when Connery is on his way to see the local high priest. And of course, no review of this picture would be complete without mentioning the one and only movie appearance of Caine's good lady wife Shakira. Despite the well documented story behind Shakira's role, she only has one line to deliver (in fact, actually just one word - 'Roxanne'), and for the record plays Connery's wife, who also famously refers to her (in the script of course) as a slut who has bitten him. That's one for the pub quiz champions of the future. "},{"Title":"A fun morality adventure tale with superb acting and directing","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" The credits of The Man Who Would Be King say it all John Huston, film's equivalent of a great landscape painter, directed; Sean Connery, Michael Caine, and Christopher Plummer, a triumvirate of actors more British (and maybe more famous) than the Queen, starred; the script was adapted from a story by Rudyard Kipling, the scribe laureate of the Pax Brittanica. Not since Lawrence of Arabia (1962) had an entry in the de facto genre of British Empire Adventure been so well-shot, well- acted, and well-written. The story is straightforward, at times even predictable, but this is not the same as being simplistic or unedifying. It is a morality tale, nearly identical in plot and tone to Huston's classic The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, but the morals here are more intricately expressed. There are perhaps different morals to glean from it, depending on which point of view you take. There is the viewpoint of Michael Caine's Peachy, a con man with a seemingly nihilistic view of life who would, however, never abandon a friend or break a contract. There is Sean Connery's Danny, brave and fair-minded but with perhaps more ambition than sense. And there is Rudyard Kipling himself, played by Plummer behind mustache and makeup that make him a near dead-ringer for the writer, who is envisioned here as a level- headed observer of spectacular people, events, and places who knows how not to go too far. The joy of the tale is in seeing these personalities play out the inevitable outcome of a mad trek into the Asian hinterland, and then pondering the political, religious, cultural, and historical messages that have been artfully and entertainingly conveyed. "},{"Title":"The Man Who Would Be King","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Hugely enjoyable adventure with two proper classic movie star performances from two proper classic movie stars.Sean Connery and Michael Caine have exquisite chemistry - it's a crying shame they didn't make more films together - although I can't help but wonder what Newman and Redford could have done with the material. I guess because I didn't grow up with this film I'm able to make such blasphemous statements - but still, they're clearly having a blast and are great fun to watch.The entire film is a feast for the eyes with stunning locations augmented by truly beautiful matte work, especially in the snowy mountain scenes. It's laugh-out-loud funny, tense, and tragic, filled with sublime moments - perfect Sunday afternoon fare. "},{"Title":"A King Even After Death...","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Rudyard Kipling's The Man Who Would Be King was one of the greatest roles of Sean Connery's career. The Man Who Would Be King told the story about two men who were very determined to visit where Alexander The Great conquered many centuries ago. These men had never worked an honest day's work in their lives they stole, robbed and used every trick in the book to gain profits by tricking people. At their arrival, they wasted no time introducing themselves to the people or the land by shooting some of their enemies. They quickly gained fame by teaching the men to fight and to conquer their enemies one at a time. During one the battles, Connery's character was shot with an arrow in the heart, but did not die or bleed. He quickly was deemed a God and was thought to be the Son of Alexander The Great. Connery's character used the ruse of the arrow to become king of all of the land. He had wealth, fame and fortune for the rest of his life, but wanted more a wife (this was forbidden by the priests because a God could not marry a mortal). On the day of the wedding, a simple bite proved to be the turning point in the story. The men now had to run for their lives and was quickly outnumbered. Connery's character took the punishment full of song and still with a crown on his head. This was a great film by John Huston and with Sean Connery and Michael Caine as the actors, a great film to watch and study. "},{"Title":"Amazing movie!  And here is some trivia.","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Other viewers have already sung the glories of this terrific film. The purpose of this review is to throw in a couple of pieces of trivia that I never knew about the film. I rented a DVD a few nights ago and they had a special features segment. Did you know that John Huston owned the rights to this film for -- get this -- 25 years!! And that he originally planned to have the characters of Peachey and Daniel played by Humphrey Bogart and Clark Gable!! In my notso humble opinion, I think the film did much better with the two British actors!!! And that except for the scenes in the mountain peaks, which were filmed in the French Alps, nearly all the outdoor scenes were filmed in Morocco!! The man who played the part of the high priest (sorry, I have forgotten his character's name) was 100 years old and was a shepherd!! After filming scenes in the daytime, he would return to his shepherd's job at night, with the result that for the duration of the filming he had practically no sleep! "}{"Title":"A welcome throw back to the Golden Age","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" I want to start off by saying that though this film was released in 1975, it has the fell of a film produced by earlier Hollywood. That of course is due to it being directed by HUston who was a product of Hollywoods Golden Age.That is one of my favorite things about the film. I love that it is filmed in a elegant manner straight out of the Hollywood of yesteryear and does not at all look or feel like most films that saw release in the mid 70s.That said, without a great story and great characters that wouldn't matter much. Luckily the film as both. The story of two soldiers who head of to take over a little known country out of greed is simple yet epic.The film is filled with excitement, drama, humor, and more. It constantly keeps you drawn in. The acting is also top notch, it is likely Conery's best and may very well be Cain's as well.On a side note, the women who plays Roxanne is Cain's actual wife, he's a lucky man lol. "},{"Title":"He wanted to be a king....but became a god","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" I saw this movie at a revival theater in Los Angeles, and was completely blown away. This movie is amongst my five all-time favorites. From the camaraderie between Michael Caine and Sean Connery, to the brilliant plot, this movie gripped me from start to finish. If you have never seen it, you MUST track it down on DVD (I assume it's on DVD by now).The characters simply jump off the screen. They are vibrant and real and alive in a way Hollywood just doesn't capture very well any more. In fact, the only recent character who has the same panache is Johnny Depp's Jack Sparrow. The fact is, the early 70's were the greatest era in American film history. There are so many forgotten or simply unknown movies from this period. This film is (criminally) off of most people's radar. Do yourself a favor, and check it out. "},{"Title":"An awesome combination of adventure, comedy, and Shakespearean tragedy","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" This movie is loosely based on the Kipling short story by the same title, but for once the adaptation is a big improvement. In the short story, there is much less character development, and the Daniel character is allowed to dominate; in the movie, the two main characters get a fairly balanced exposure.The result is one of the great adventure stories, and at the same time a great Shakespearean tragedy. In this respect, it can be compared to that other Huston masterpiece The Treasure of the Sierra Madre.Yet, even this high praise does not do full justice to the movie, because I have not yet mentioned the scenery, the music, and, most important, the two unforgettable main characters. Daniel and Peachy are crooks and megalomaniacs, but, on the whole, it is hard not to sympathize with them because it's only a movie, of course, but also because of their quiet self-confidence and dry sense of humor; because they do not lose dignity in failure; and because, for all their flaws, one can sense that they have lived interesting lives, and wishes to hear them tell their stories.Sometimes Daniel and Peachy treat the natives pretty shabbily, but only on one occasion I thought that they would behave differently to a white man. This occasion, unfortunately, is at the very beginning of the movie, in the train scene. You should not let this scene alienate you from the Peachy character, because you won't see him behave like that again.There are a few remarks that might offend the overly sensitive, such as (we are) not gods, but Englishmen, which is the next best thing!. (Incidentally, this might have been inspired by Cecil Rhodes.) But this remark should be seen in its context. It is pretty clear that Daniel and Peachy believe themselves to be close to gods, not because they are British, but because they are Daniel and Peachy. They are quite happy to make fun of their fellow Britons and of the entire colonial enterprise witness lines such as It was detriment like us that built this bloody Empire! or We are going to teach you (...) to slaughter your enemies like civilized men.From their talk to Kipling and to the District Commissioner, one gets pretty soon the picture of the individualistic, libertarian philosophy of Daniel and Peachy. Perhaps this is best encapsulated in their conversation when they are trapped at high altitude and expect to die from exposure. They consider whether their lives have been wasted, and decide that they would not go back even on the point of dying, if that means giving up on their memories. Without giving anything away, I can say that their best memories were yet to come. "},{"Title":"Waiting for the punch line","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  For some reason, this movie seemed like a slow-motion Monty Python film and I kept waiting for the punch line.  The section where the huge, multicultural army approaches the big city on the hill had me wondering if the guards on the wall would start shouting out something silly. Fortunately, that Monty Python moment never arrived.  The superior plot line forbade such a digression, thank goodness!  Not that there's anything wrong with Monty Python, but that kind of humor would have spoiled this whole mix. The humor that *is* there is dialog driven, you gotta listen to those two adventurers and their translator!  This is a good film, especially if you like character development and dialog rather than simple action and reaction.   "},{"Title":"Connery, Caine and Plummer rule!","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Apart from this movie being based on a great story by Rudyard Kipling, the actors, too, make this movie a treat to watch! Sean Connery and Michael Caine are extremely funny as well as convincing as Daniel Dravot and Peachy Carnehan, two friends and former army men, who intend to leave India and become kings of Kafiristan. They put out a contract to confirm a few rules for their journey through Afghanistan, a contract that is signed by Rudyard Kipling (Christopher Plummer) as a witness. Some years later, Carnehan returns to Kipling´s office and tells him the story of his journey with Dravot. Plummer´s character is less flamboyant than any of the other characters, but Rudyard Kipling is actually the most important person in this story what we are watching is his experience of Carnehan telling him about what happened to them.A great movie with splendid acting that makes you laugh as well as cry... "},{"Title":"Swashbuckling adventure of epic proportions","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  The Man who would be King is truly a joy to watch for fans of Sean Connery, Michael Caine, director John Huston, or just quality films of epic adventure. Man mixes masculine bravado with intellectual-based humor to produce an effective vehicle for it's action stars. Huston's work provides perhaps the best pre-cursor to the Indiana Jones movies of the early 80's, as British mercenaries Carnahan and Dravot travel the seeming ends of the earth in 1800's South Asia, getting in and out of as much trouble as Connery's Bond character could ever hope to.    Based on Runyard Kipling's novel,The movie is epic in it's adventure, but still deep enough to outline the philosophical roles of the king archetype as well as the absurdity of 19th century British imperialism. Connery (The man who longs to be king) climbs the traditional spire to monarchy through military prowess and the superstition of the masses, (not to mention a little luck!) Yet once king he suffers the same scrutiny that the pharaohs of Egypt and modern dictators face; a ruler's power rests with the people's contentment, when expected services are no longer delivered, the King will lose his mandate. Carnahan and Dravot are products of British imperialism, which operated on racial mandates of European supremecy. By the time Connery realizes the fallacy of his mindset(Like the tragic hero, when he begins to believe his own myth the downfall follows), it is too late. Still to the end the two men reaffirm the values of bravery, loyalty and brotherhood...The kind of things that make a man a true man. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest adventure Movies of all time.","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  A thrilling adventure involving two Brits (Michael Caine and Sean Connery) Who travel to Afganistan with 20 rifles and the knowlidge to put an army together.  Traveling they unite the tribes and engage in entertaining battle scenes.  Not too gory, witty,and exciting.Bravo   "},{"Title":"An incomparable adventure film. My number one of its genre.","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  An incomparable adventure film. My pick for number one of its genre. Connery's best film and Caine at his best. A vicarious thrill to watch, it has an enchanting quality that drew me in like very few films ever have the kind of feeling that I would rather not return to the mundane realities of life, having lived something far more fabulous for two hours. Stunning scenes of the mountains. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  One of the best films I have ever seen.  Certainly the best film Sean Connery has ever been in.  It's kind of like the impact of Lawrence of Arabia without the length.  There's something about this movie that uplifts me every time I see it.  The three main actors' performances are incredible. I would see it again if I were me.     "},{"Title":"Masons, Gods, Imperialism","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  There's action and humor in The Man Who Would Be King, as one expects from the director and cast.  It's a glorious over-the-top extravaganza, and still retains a sense of inevitable doom.  While the movie is describable, the emotional ups and downs, and the pleasures of watching two pros enjoy themselves are difficult to convey.See it and judge it for yourself "}{"Title":"Huston deserves more respect","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  John Huston deserves a whole hell of a lot more credit than he gets.  He consistently made great films that were not just technically proficient, but always had great acting, strong stories, and wonderful direction.  He truly is one of the forgotten masters who deserves to have his work studied with the likes of Hitchcock, Wilder, and Wells.  This movie is no exception.  Cain and Connery are wonderful as always, and the story of chance and luck is fun to watch unfold.  If you haven't seen this, or any other Huston film, you really should. "},{"Title":"A fine story, impeccably told","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  THe main thing to be said about this film can be said simply and briefly- It starts with a superb story, and tells it. No frills, no sermons, no trickery, nothing calling attention to the brilliance of the director or the actors. Just a superb teling of a story. "},{"Title":"Sean Connery and Micheal Caine equals a chemistry which can not be described with words","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" I saw this movie about two weeks ago. By being a movie where the lead actors are Sean Connery and Michael Caine it can't be bad, now can it? Well, it can't and it wasn't. To be honest the movie wasn't quite what I expected it to be, but it sure was a great movie. The movie tells about two men, Daniel Dravot and Peachy Carnehan, who decide to resign from the Army and travel to Kafiristan to become kings. No white man has set foot in Kafiristan since Alexander, but as ambitious as Daniel and Peachy are they decide to give it a go and leave on the adventure.Being a story by Rudyard Kipling it has all the right ingredients what an adventure movie requires. The film wisely uses those ingredients, but after I had seen the movie I honestly thought it could have been better. The film just has this certain style of telling the story, which can sometimes be a bit long-winded. It does seem that sometimes there isn't that much happening and it may be unbearable for some viewers. Well it is a movie from the 70's and movies were different even back then, though it isn't a long time ago at all. Despite that it's still a great adventure movie throughout and when it's directed by John Huston (who has also written the screenplay with Gladys Hill) it is indeed guaranteed quality. The cinematography's used how it's supposed to, when shooting in exotic locations you must shoot the beautiful landscapes as well to give the viewer that certain feeling of a real adventure. We see all kinds of astonishing sceneries throughout the movie and overall the movie is shot incredibly well by using every resource the milieu has to offer.What makes this movie so great, despite the already mentioned and complimented story, directing and cinematography, is undeniably the chemistry between Sean Connery and Michael Caine. If the movie doesn't interest you at all, try at least for god sakes watch it for Connery and Caine. There's just this unspeakable chemistry which can not be described with words, undeniably one of the best I've ever seen in a motion picture. Both, Connery and Caine, have this certain charisma which can only be accomplished by just a few actors. And by putting all that charisma together, uniting it, you see a charisma which is more than you expect it to be. Sean Connery as Daniel Dravot performs the role flawlessly and same goes with Michael Caine who plays Peachy Carnehan. Just perfect. There is also a clever dialog between Dravot and Carnehan, which is a real treat for the fans. And when there's written this familiar witty sarcasm throughout the screenplay there honestly couldn't be better lead actors doing it, Connery and Caine exceed it.The Man Who Would Be King is more than just an adventure movie. It also tells a story about a true friendship, how friends should help each other in tight situations and what a real friendship is all about. This evolves the movie into a beautiful story which also makes it surprisingly dramatic. Backed up by the fantastic music by Maurice Jarre it really makes you shed a tear, even tears. Despite the movie having an opportunity to be something much better it still hangs on to be a great movie by having such magnificent lead actors in it. When each other area works really well too the movie is much better than the ingredients given to it. Sean Connery and Michael Caine can't become kings, as they already are kings. If not actual kings, then at least kings in our hearts. My heart says they are. "},{"Title":"A Masonic film....","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" For the Freemason, The Man Who Would Be King is a wonderful story of Masonic brotherhood, filled with many Masonic references, symbols, tokens, and even a few secrets openly used as mantras and metaphors. All of the principal characters, the director, and the author himself were/are Freemasons John Huston Sean Connery Michael Caine Christopher PlummerFor more information about Freemasonry, check out www.geocities.com/amretif All the best, Steve Kujawa, Past Master Arthur M. Retif Lodge # 473 Jefferson, LA "},{"Title":"Friendship Between Two Rascally Rogues","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" What a treat to unearth this film, made around 30 years ago, and to think both male stars, Connery and Caine, are very much still in business, although dear Michael Caine seemed to have a bit of a limp in Bewitched. More power to them both. They are great actors and we lap them up on screen. Funny, though, I rented this because Saeed Jaffrey was in it playing Billy Fish. I enjoyed watching Saeed in the Merchant-Ivory pictures and in the British thriller Killing Kind, and in the new pyx w/ Burt Reynolds set in Amsterdam called Snapshots. These guys have such appealing chutzpah together and twinkle along with preposterous schemes and grandiose impulses, and they have a kind of honor about friendship and loyalty. Guided by a lot of luck, they do manage to take over leadership of a small, devout country that accepts the Masonic emblem as proof of Connery's Divinity! What a comedic romp this becomes. And Sean, at first Solomon-like in his wisdom,soon becomes tarnished and, with veiled lasciviousness, decides to wed. That sets off the old Dudes who were the Guiding Gurus before Connery got there. Michael Caine should not have stuck around for the wedding. Caine was ready to split because he couldn't stomach the direction Connery was going in, with the Kingship Routine and the hedonism. But Caine DID stick around and when the wedding day dawned, and when the bride BIT Connery and he BLED, well, the Old Dude Gurus gave the go-ahead for the mob of citizenry to give Connery 'what fer.' And they managed to do this. Caine lived thru it all to come back and regale Kipling (what a terrific, never-before-seen job of underplaying a role Chrisopher Plummer did here - he was simply magnificent and I did not recognize the actor in any way/shape/form as accustomed to him by his later roles)with the entire story. This is an original tale. The photography was luscious. It makes you appreciate John Huston's work all the more. Some movie people you just don't wanna see age. And that applies to Caine, Connery, Huston, Plummer, and certainly not the fine Saheed Jaffrey, whose cultured speaking intonations are thrilling to hear and who has aged to perfection, now around 76. I hope the movie-makers will utilize this gentleman in good roles of grace and meaning until he is too old to memorize dialogue! This is a great film for younger people to go back and see. It will remind them of their own fragile humanity and give them an idea of the passage of time and the parade of viable and gifted humans who inhabit our earth. "},{"Title":"Great yarn","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" For pure entertainment, this is one of the best movies ever made. Maybe the best performances of their careers by Caine and Connery and a gem by Plummer in the few minutes he's on screen. Plus cinematography that knocks your socks off. All wrapped around one of Kipling's ripping yarns.The idea of two sergeants setting off to seize a kingdom past the tallest mountains of the world in a land that may only be mythical is fantastic, but when you think of what the British accomplished in the 19th century with men just like this, it becomes plausible. Throw in the coincidences of Alexander the Great and the Masons, and it becomes a fabulous surprise.I've seen it about 20 times and I'll watch it again any time. "},{"Title":"A fine story, impeccably told","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  THe main thing to be said about this film can be said simply and briefly- It starts with a superb story, and tells it. No frills, no sermons, no trickery, nothing calling attention to the brilliance of the director or the actors. Just a superb telling of a story. "},{"Title":"The Meaning of Life","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  Anyone who says Kubrick is a film genius because he says life has no objective meaning is missing something, big time. Kubrick's best films were adventure stories, in some way or another. And since true adventure is of the spirit, the feeling you get from watching it IS the meaning.Since Kubrick's style and choice of subject matter can make that very difficult to appreciate, we need films like this to remind us that the path need not be obscure for the sake of obscurity. Because it's so straightforward and entertaining, the meaning is easily approached. And because the filmmaker is so good, the feeling is artfully nuanced. Along with Chinatown, this is arguably the best film of the seventies.Anyone who thinks Kubrick was THE master must watch this film, because Huston was a master in his own right. "},{"Title":"Almost a very good film","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  This film seems to have everything, great camerawork, an interesting and clever plot, a great chemistry between Michael Caine and Sean Connery, its funny, its sad, its exciting, its touching...So why do you get the feeling that it doesnt quite work? I think the problem is that it doesnt quite know what it wants to be, either an action comedy romp (Butch and Sundance go to India, as one reviewer on here described it), or a serious and quite dark psychological exploration of the idea of suddenly acheiving absolute power. It falls between two stools, and as a result is not as good as it could have been if they had taken one treatment or the other to its full extent. What we are left with feels like the mutant offspring of Heart of Darkness and It Aint 'Alf Hot, Mum (a British comedy tv show set in India).  If you liked the darker side of this, I suggest you read Heart of Darkness, and if you prefered the action, Butch Cassidy or The Sting would be a good choice. Caine and Connery clearly had a great time making this film, its just a pity the viewers cant quite share it. Still, it looks wonderful.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"An all time classic","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" I had heard of this movie for years before finally seeing it at the age of twenty four, just two years ago. Since then I have re-watched it several times, and never failed to get something new from each viewing.The camera-work, directing, script and story are all fantastic, as is the ensemble acting from all involved, but without doubt the thing that makes me vote 10 on this movie is the relationship between Daniel (Sean Connery) and Peachy (Michael Caine). Two powerhouse performances to create a friendship that leaps from the screen and reminds you of the people in your life you are closest to. A masterful display that raises this from just being a good action/adventure movie to being a piece of cinematic history to be watched again and again. No spoilers, but the ending is heart-wrenching and satisfying all at the same time.10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Epic Adventure for the shallowest and deepest amongst us","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" I was charged with entertaining my father-in-law one afternoon while my wife and female in-laws went out shopping together. I showed him this film to keep him from pestering me to death as I worked on the computer. After the story was finished he kept coming up to me and saying, That was some movie! This from a man who considers John Wayne the only great actor; the western and war story the only films worth watching; a man who cannot watch the simplest mystery without interrupting twenty times, What's going on? He must have told me a dozen times that afternoon and evening, That was some movie. Yeah, the old bird was right. The Man Who Would be King displays human nature in rawest form and human friendship at its most loyal in a timeless plot that spans perhaps one year and yet 2200 years at the same time. This is classic story-telling at its best for the most unsophisticated and most erudite among us. Michael Caine's wife Shakira plays Roxanne for you trivia buffs. A model from Guyana born from a Muslim-East Indian family she became Miss Guyana and was third in Miss World in 1967 at the age of 19. She co-starred in this film and gave up further film aspirations to raise their daughter Natasha. "},{"Title":"A rousing adventure tale","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" This is a cool movie. The film begins with a filthy and decrepit beggar stopping Rudyard Kipling and telling him his true tale of adventure. He (Michael Caine) and his buddy (Sean Connery) were soldiers in the British army but got badly separated from the rest of the troops. They wandered and wandered until they came upon an odd civilization that had never been exposed to the outside world. The two men's oddly colored skin and dress frightened the people and it looked like the two might be killed. However, Connery is able to convince them that he is a god and the people actually believe him! And, as a god, he is able to rule over the people and have his pick of any woman he wants. Suddenly, life is very good for the two men.However, I said that Caine was reduced to looking like a decrepit beggar. How this all came about and what happened in this magical land is just something you'll have to discover for yourself.The film has wonderful acting from the two leads, as well as terrific writing and locations. They just don't make adventure movies like this any more and that's a real shame! "},{"Title":"My favorite film","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" As two not-so-bright, adventure-loving British soldiers, Connery and Caine give fun performances in this adventure tale that takes them to the exotic interior of the Indian subcontinent. It is slyly humorous and makes a much better film than the Kipling story. A great buddy film where Connery shows his range after moving away from the Bond role, and Caine turns in one of his best performances. I love the scene where they march in to meet Kipling, as well as their efforts to train the natives in British style combat. While there is a serious adventure tale and commentary on the nature of British rule, almost every scene is amusing and played for a light-hearted effect. Connery and Caine cause you to grow to really like these two relatively shabby characters. John Huston's directing is masterful. "},{"Title":"An overlooked classic that belongs on everyone's must-see list!","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" This is one of those movies about which they say, they just don't make them like that anymore. Director John Huston, a legendary master who had had this film in his head for over 20 years when he finally made it, delivers a multi-layered masterpiece- it is a brilliant character study, a social commentary, a political allegory, a tragic comedy (or a comic tragedy, depending on your perspective), an exploration of the ironies of fate, and a thrilling adventure story. But Huston saw it as tale of the human spirit, and that is what comes through as we follow the misadventures of Danny and Peachy. In another film, a lesser film, these characters and their actions would be judged, especially in today's culturally sensitive world. Not so here, as Huston's gift for getting to the marrow combines with the top-grade acting skills of Sean Connery and Michael Caine to get us past the morally ambiguous details of the story and fill us with admiration for the heroism of these two deplorable rogues. Best of all, it is a rousing adventure yarn that truly makes you think- at moments when you least expect it. It is one of those rare films that imparts complex wisdom through simplicity. And although it is a 30-year old film of a 50-year old idea based on a 100-year old story, it is not dated- the underlying observations about imperialism are eerily relevant to our world today. "},{"Title":"God's Own Trousers","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Epic is as epic does, and this really is epic.It starts with a story by a man placed in the midst of empire defined by the notion of savage religion and uncivilized ignorance. Its written by a man who more or less accepted that truth while wondering about its human dynamics. The film is made by a man who is of the same mind as Victoria and not Kipling. There is no questioning at all in his approach the means to a competent movie is largely a matter of having enough confidence to appear consistent.And its presented by two untrained British actors whose acting technique depends on simply bulling their way personalitywise. (Actually, Connery is a Scot, a distinction he would consider significant now.) The pretty girl here who is the undoing (after signed pledges promising no sex), is Caine's wife. She's a Latin American beauty queen that he fell in love with by seeing her on TeeVee (made beautiful by Ridley Scott, then a director of commercials).So the thing is set up by an unbroken line of bold interlopers with only Kipling having any reflective reservations about the enterprise. It actually works insofar as that matters. I mean its coherent; few large movies are. But its broken in the same way that it portrays cultural brokenness, which I suppose is to be expected.The thing I liked about this was the depth in the images. Its not depth that actually matters, but it shows intent. The business about the compromised sanctity of the Freemasons and how ridiculous it is. Engineered superstitions.The bit about God's own Trousers as the epithet of choice from a person in whose culture trousers are a sign of civilization. The stuff about heads, both literally and as leaders. Even the simple business about temporary bridges. Its high school stuff, but fun to see. As much fun as knowing that Caine would offer his own dimwitted but lovely wife as the object of desire because of a chance glance.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"The Stuff That Dreams Are Made Of","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" A classy John Huston action yarn that melds high adventure with an abundance of belly laughs, The Man Who Would Be King stands high because of the brilliance of its two leads and Huston's undeniable craft.Peachy Carnehan (Michael Caine) and Danny Dravot (Sean Connery) are former soldiers in Her Majesty's army who dare to dream big on the Indian subcontinent. Making the acquaintance of a newspaper reporter named Rudyard Kipling, they hatch a plan to travel across forbidding mountains and appoint themselves rulers of a distant, fabled land - then rob the place four ways from Sunday. They expect it will be all in a day's work for two enterprising Britishers.We're not little men, so we're going away to become kings, Peachy tells Kipling.We hear they have two and thirty idols there, so we'll be the 33rd and 34th, adds Danny.Of course, it's Huston directing, and co-writing the script with Gladys Hill, so they may want to bone up on how Treasure Of Sierra Madre turned out before venturing forth.Watching Connery work here is a revelation. Gone is much of the suavity he made his name with playing James Bond. He presents us with Danny as a bit of a dunce, caught up as Danny is in the role he is playing until he literally plays out his string. Connery sings, he dances, he even forswears women, until meeting a beauty played by Caine's real-life wife who proves his undoing.You really shouldn't root for these guys, con-men that they are, except for the way they interact. Peachy's the brains of the outfit, the one who says they should pull stumps and run, but your heart is with Danny, who wanted to be another thieving king but gets caught up with bigger dreams.Caine's performance is every bit as good as Connery's, though he plays more in tune with his typical screen character. The banter between them, like that of Butch and Sundance in another film, really makes this work, and it's Caine who pushes most of the tension. His reaction shots throughout the film, especially as Danny begins to spin out of his control, are subtle but solid, giving Connery the room to carve out one of his greatest character performances.There's a wonderful moment, among many, when they find themselves in a treasure trove that's theirs to take away. The look in their eyes tells you this is no happy occasion, but a moment of real fear. Peachy licks one golden bauble and tells Danny, very tentatively, that it ain't brass.There ain't much brass to be seen here, with the amazing scenics and compositions on display. Making a film in the fabled age of the auteur, Huston nevertheless works from an older school that prizes storytelling over vision. The result is a film out of time, and one of the best in this great director's career.It does run long, and the story gets thin as it gets to the end, spun as it is from a Kipling short story. The Man Who Would Be King doesn't have the rewatchability of many great films. But it has its own kind of greatness, and may leave you at the end with a lump in your throat. "},{"Title":"Rudyard Kipling Story.","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" John Huston directed this classic film based on the Rudyard Kipling story. Christopher Plummer plays Kipling himself in the film, which sees him interviewing an older Peachy Carnehan(played by Michael Caine) who tells him how he came to his present circumstances when he and fellow British soldier and friend Daniel Dravot(played by Sean Connery) decide to travel to the Indian country of Kafristan to make their fortune among the primitive people there. They are held up as Gods, which ends up going to Danny's head as he forgets about the con, and decides to really become their leader! Things will go tragically wrong when the natives learn just how human they really are... Superb film with fine direction and performances, and a compelling story that takes the viewer to another time and place. Ending is also magnificent(though sad). "},{"Title":"Cast, Script & Locations Carry Film","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" This film was shot in France, Morocco, Utah and Pinewood Studios,UK. It does very realistically create the atmosphere of Asia which is where Kiplings story which is the basis of the script is set. It is a well done production.There are not many films where Sean Connery, Michael Caine, and Christopher Plummer are together. This film really benefits from all of them being here. The Kipling story of the land in East Afghanistan where no outsider has been since Alexander The Great is an interesting premise.The main weakness of the film is that Allied Artists who made it were on the verge of bankruptcy. In places that lack of money in the production shows very plainly. There are a few sequences which do not meld together well either and some special effects short cuts that are obvious.Still, the 3 pillars of the film that are strong carry the day. Connery and Caine play off each other quite well and the comic element written into the screen adaptation make the movie a good one. It is one of Alied Artists last film productions and it is rumored that the bankruptcy took any salary away from Connery and Caine and neither of them got paid for their work. If that legend is true, this might be some of the best free acting ever put on the screen. "},{"Title":"A classic adventure movie!... Great stuff from Connery and Caine&#x85;","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Based on a story by Rudyard Kipling, this is one of those films that I've always wanted to see but never managed to, until today. The gods of time were always against me with this one&#x85; I'd always turn over when it was half way through, or there would be something else I wanted to see on the other side, but I finally bagged & tagged it today! A film of great scope with a lot of action and adventure, it keeps you guessing until the end. I enjoyed it, with a few reservations, but more of that after this brief summary.Late one night, a shadowy figure visits reporter, Rudyard Kipling, in his office in India. The visitor is Peachy Carnehan, and he is there to tell Kipling a tale. He reminds Kipling that they had previously met three years ago when he had witnessed a contract between Peachy and his colleague, and friend, Daniel Dravot. The two men, latter-day confidence tricksters, had recently left the army in India and had decided to go and seek their fortune in the little-known land of Kafiristan. The contract stated that they would abstain from alcohol and women for the duration of their adventure&#x85; amongst other things. They set off and after a torturous journey they finally arrive. Having scared off some natives with their rifles, they are surprised to find a Ghurkha living in one of the villages. He was the only survivor of a geological expedition several years earlier. This man, known as 'Billy Fish' would act as interpreter for the pair. And so they begin their rise to power by persuading the leader of the village to let them train their men so they can defeat all his enemies. Things continue in a similar vein until Daniel is hit with an arrow that doesn't kill him in a battle. Word of this gets back to the holy city of the region and the pair is summoned. I won't say any more because what happens next is key to the whole plot & I don't want the Spoiler Police raising an army and chasing me down.Very well made a beautifully shot, but you wouldn't expect anything less from the likes of John Huston. Great performances all round, particularly from Sean Connery as Daniel Dravot and Michael Caine as Peachy Carnehan, they seemed to spark off each other really well. It's a shame they haven't made more films together on this evidence. Also worthy of note were Christopher Plummer as Rudyard Kipling and Saeed Jaffrey as Billy Fish.There is some great dialogue in this film and it is delivered with great aplomb by both leading actors. They are supposed to be common men; non-commissioned officers of her majesty's army, and that's just what they speak like. Very much an old-fashioned adventure film, it really delivers on that front. I mentioned there was a problem with it though, and it's that it's just too damn long, you could easily lose thirty minutes of the running time from the beginning and the film would be just as good, if not better (in my book). If it wasn't for this I would have definitely scored it higher, but even so, it still a great film and comes with my seal of approval&#x85; Recommended.My Score 7.8/10.IMDb Score 8.0/10 (based on 20,799 votes at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes Score 96/100 (based on 23 reviews counted at the time of going to press). "},{"Title":"An Interesting Tale","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Two British soldiers in India decide to resign from the Army and set themselves up as deities in Kafiristan -- a land where no white man has set foot since Alexander.Can you go wrong with Michael Caine or Sean Connery -- or both together? I imagine not. While I am hardly a fan of Rudyard Kipling's work, this makes me thing that perhaps there is a story of his I like. Or maybe I am just blinded by the Caine-Connery.What I find interesting is the story taking place in Kafiristan, a Hindu region on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. The story was written in the 1800s, and the film was made in 1975. The area probably was not well known in 1975, but soon became better known in 1979 when the Russians invaded. In 2001, the Americans also invaded the area... and as the film says, no one has held it since Alexander the Great.So, the film's appeal for me is the tie to modern history and current events, though the factuality of the story is quite questionable. "}{"Title":"A memorable epic adventure","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" The Man Who Would be King is based on Rudyard Kipling's famous short story of the same name. It centres on a pair of scoundrels who, fresh from military service in India, hatch a plan to trek to Kafiristan and lead the locals in combat, eventually gaining the throne through their heroics (or so the plan goes).The two stars of the film, Michael Caine and Sean Connery, were well chosen and deliver a pair of fine performances. Among the supporting cast I thought that Saeed Jaffrey (as Billy Fish) was easily the best of the lot.From a technical standpoint the film is also well done. The Middle Eastern setting and presence of a Maurice Jarre score beg comparison with Lawrence of Arabia, which is a tough yardstick for any film. Huston's direction is impressive but not as breathtaking as Lean's while Jarre's score isn't nearly as memorable as his earlier work. On the whole, though, this film is an excellently crafted epic (although perhaps a trifle short for the 'epic' moniker).In conclusion, if you enjoy epic films then this one is a must-see. It seems to be mostly overlooked these days but I'd say that's only because it arrived after the golden age of epic movie-making. "},{"Title":"very underrated","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" This is one of the best and most underrated movies of all time. In it's time it was voted the Greatest Movie of all times..30 years in the making. Sean Connery's role was originally offered to Humphrey Bogart..But it was better that Sean ended up with it..perfectly cast in a position where he plays a God and his ego takes off with it, never done better. The dialog in this movie is outstanding...along with many messages it is truly captivating. Very few movies will I watch over and over again. This IS ONE OF THE BEST EVER MADE! What a story..I cannot believe it is not on TV more often. THE BEST..I had the opportunity to meet and chat with Christopher Plummer, supposedly they had a lot of fun making this movie...10/10 "},{"Title":"An Overlooked Masterful Epic","Date":"31 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" The Man Who Would Be King is one of the finest epics ever made. John Huston was no stranger to stories which explored the darker aspects of the human psyche, and borrowed Kipling's short-story to weave a tale about greed, arrogance and above all friendship.Michael Caine and Sean Connery, during the best period of their careers, play two former British soldiers who make their living as con-men throughout Her Majesty's mighty empire, hatching daring plans and getting out of scraps with panache. One day they decide to travel and conquer Kafiristan, a land visited only by Alexander the Great. Their plan is bold to cross the mountains, survive the winters and the raiders; defeat the local tribes with modern weaponry and then unite all tribes under a single nation.It all looks pretty sound until Daniel (Connery in one of his best performances) starts believing the local legends that me may be Alxander the Great's son; power goes to his head and, like in a Greek play, he brings about his own demise.The movie is equally funny, adventurous, sad and epic. There's never a dull moment in it, thanks to the great script full of amusing dialogues and thanks to the great performances by Caine and Connery. Endlessly watchable and unforgettable, The Man Who Would Be King is the movie anyone should watch when their looking for a way to have a good time. "},{"Title":"Impossible to say anything bad about it","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Is it really possible to hate a movie like The Man Who Would Be King? While it is understandable that it may not be your favorite movie, you just can't help enjoying at least some parts of the movie. At the same time nothing stands out about The Man Who Would Be King. The acting, directing, and story, all good, but none of them stand out as defining or extremely memorable. But this movie is still remembered and praised over thirty years later. Why is that? It's because, while nothing about The Man Who Would Be King excels, nothing about it is bad either.Told through a flashback, the man who would be king tells the story of two con men, played by Michael Cane and Sean Connery, who decide to con an entire country for its wealth wealth. After tracking across deserts and frozen mountain peaks, the two men come to the fictional country of Kafiristan, which is made up of about thirty warring tribes. After picking one of the tribes they began to train the natives to fight the other tribes with the intent of eventually taking over and unifying the entire country. However one of the men, Daniel Dravot (Connery), survives an arrow shot in battle and is mistaken for a god. Using this newfound advantage the two Englishmen began to take control of the entire country. The story is interesting and told well enough that the viewer does not get bored watching it, yet at the same time the turn of event throughout the movie feel almost inevitable. Its like reading a mystery aimed for young readers where and older and more advanced reader has spotted the fairly obvious clues and solved the mystery by chapter four.The choice of putting Connery and Caine together for this movie seems like an unusual choice but was an undeniably successful one. Film critics have compared their teaming up to that of others such as Robert Redford and Paul Newman. Connery and Caine play very different characters that feel like they should be conflicting with each other but instead each seems to complement the other nicely. Connery is reserved and stone faced through out the movie. Confident in his beliefs and determined to get them Connery pulls of the character so quietly that you can almost forget that you are watching Sean Connery on the screen. Michael Caine is another story altogether. Loud, crass, rebellious and fun loving, Caine's character of Peachy Carnehan almost seems like a young boy trapped inside an mans body. Throughout the movie Caine is the one who speaks back to authority and makes witty remarks to everyone that he meets. Both actor's strongest moment is in the same scene when they are arguing, and ironically the almost seem to be playing each other. Connery, while still quiet and stone faced wants to say where he is enjoying life, and Caine while still being a loud and crass character plays the more mature one who recognizes that they both need to leave.If there is one thing that can be considered epic about The Man Who Would Be King, it is the stunning scenery that is shown throughout the movie. Wide shots that show extensive deserts can take the audiences breath away with the raw beauty that is captured on footage. During a sequence where the heroes attempt to cross a mountain range, there is almost a montage of still clips of jagged cliffs and snow capped mountain peaks. Combining this sequence with almost the perfect music, it is one of the most captivating things in the entire movie. Even when majestic landscapes weren't being shown, the scenery was still captivating. The opening shots are of a market place in India, and while I knew ahead of time that they were actually filmed in morocco it had me believing that I was seeing an authentic Indian marketplace.Set in the 1800s this movie takes place around the end of British exploration and colonization. While the political message is subtle, it does seem to stand against colonization. The Man Who Would Be King shows all of the negative effect that come about by forcing a modern society onto an uncivilized people. Rudyard Kipling, the writer of the original short story was very much in love with the wild and the unknown that was left in the world and probably felt that the colonization of the British was taking away what unknown was left. Director John Huston had long been a fan of the original short story by Kipling and had wanted to make a movie of it for some time. In fact he had gotten the rights to the story early in the 50s hoping to use other actors. When he tried to get Paul Newman, who he had worked with in The Life and Times of Judge Roy Bean, to be in the movie, it was Newman who suggested using Connery and Caine.All in all, The Man Who Would Be King is a memorable movie. It does not inspire you or make any shocking political statement but it does thoroughly entertain you for two hours. Fifty years from now, Film historians will probably not look back on it and say that it was one of the most defining movies of our time. But fifty years from now they will probably still know what it is. "},{"Title":"A Classic!","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  This is my favourite film of all times..clear and simple..The story is fascinating..the locations are wonderful..and the actors..Sean Connery & Michael Caine..what can i say more..Ah the Director is John Houston..Director with the big D...good Plummer too, that in the film is Rudyard Kipling..he joins the 2 big stars in making this film a classic!!!!P.S. Why Caine & Connery didn't any other film together..?this is really a shame for the cinema lovers... "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" An adventure film complete with exciting bits, comic relief, but also a fair share of shortcomings, the final 45 minutes or so of the production help it to rise above the norm, with thought-provoking ideas about the characters, the motivations they have, and religion as a way of life. The balance of the film - the first hour and a bit - is nowhere near as solid as this end section. The tone is uneven, Caine's slipping accent is very noticeable and it feels totally implausible. The characters' motivations are also hard to decipher in the first half of the film, and at times it is just plain difficult to understand what exactly is happening. Still, there is a good general feel for Indian and other cultures, thanks in part to great costumes and sets. The overall picture is the best thing for one to judge, and overall there are many good aspects about this production. It is not quite the masterpiece that some claim it to be, but is solid viewing nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Film About Colonial Arrogance","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  The Man Who Would be King is a film about colonialism. It illustrates the notion that the arrogance of the West leads to a dangerous sense of empowerment.There is much to admire in The Man Who Would be King. Huston's direction and the work of his cinematographer is breath taking. The pace and premise of the film are superbly crafted, and the camaraderie and timing displayed by Sean Connery and Michael Caine are the centerpiece of the film.You realize that these two work extremely well together, at least on film, (lord knows how well these two got along off camera). It makes you wonder why they did not work together more often after this.The film also takes a stab at the 'old boys' networks, the fact that men will claim loyalty to vague and distant ideals, tribes and clubs for no reason and at great expense. It wonderfully ties the notion these networks pre-date our civilization, even pre-date Christ and yet they continue to exert tremendous influence over us. Is a warring tribe any different than a warring nation? Is a Free Mason any different than a colonial soldier, or a high priest dedicated to some temple on a mountain? Our belief systems are forged with two notions, inclusion and exclusion. If you are 'in' you benefit from the club's power, if you are 'out', you feel that tribe's wrath.Every loyalty that is forged in this film is exposed for its hypocrisy and the lies underneath that fuel it. There is only one loyalty that seems to be genuine in this film and that is the friendship between Caine and Connery. Everything else is a rouse, to gain power and to condone war.If the film falls short, it's in the portrayal of the natives as utter barbarians with no redeeming values. Now to be fair, the country they portray is fictitious and the contrast is there for comedic value, but just consider the film opens in India, and rather than show the Taj Mahal or the beautiful music and art of India, it goes into a large montage of scorpion eaters and snake snatchers.We're lead to believe, that England had no right to lead a barbaric culture, no matter how much 'good' that leadership might have brought. The reasoning behind this film's morale is that England's perceived superiority is a lie, and is in fact, based on the same tribal fears and prejudices as the people England are colonizing.The story has strange holes and some laughably implausible incidents to keep the story going. There are moments that make you wince, Saeef Jaffrey's character who seems the most grounded of all, suddenly snaps to his death, for no particular reason other than to rid him from the story line. There are also candid moments, like when Connery begins to question the incredible happenstance that has taken place, and questions that perhaps life is destiny rather than series of meaningless and random events.Of course, the ending of the film, refutes destiny, it in fact implies we yearn to craft destiny out of meaningless coincidence just because our superstitions and our tribe affiliations yearn for meaning.In reality, this is more of a comedy than a drama, the film works best when it doesn't take itself too seriously. With a destitute Caine returning to India to tell his tale and morale, that &#145;no man should play god', the shock value of the final minute of the film, doesn't quite register, because for the most part, we've just been chuckling along.Despite my nit-picking, this is a fine film, crafted from great text, shot wonderfully in breath taking locales, with a superb pace and rapport amongst its central characters. You get pieces of adventure, drama, comedy and a nice little morale in the end, to make you think. What more can you ask for?  "},{"Title":"4 Stars an excellent period piece","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"        Michael Caine and Sean Connery star in this excellent period piece set at the dawn of Post-Colonial India as the British soldiers are pulling out. The glimpse it provides into this time period feels fine-tuned in its authenticity and the cinametography is excellent. Caine and Connery star as Peachy and Danny, two soldiers who are enjoying imperialism too much to leave it. One asked by a fellow Brit why they haven't gone home, Peachy responds Home to what? A porters uniform outside a restaurant and six penny tips from belching civilians for closing cab doors on their blowzy women?     The two good friends decide that just for the hell of it, they'll conquer Kazakhstan, a remote kingdom on the other side of the Himalayans. Danny and Peachy are two brilliant creations, obviously because of what the actors bring to them, but also because they are the perfect embodiment for Eurocentric foolishness. They are guided by the modern-day equivalent of the Spanish Conquistadores' 3 Gs gold, god, and glory.      So the ambitious pair trek across the mountains heavily confident that even though they'll be heavily outnumbered, they'll be able to unite everyone and be kings. The two find themselves overconfident and underqualified when they arrive, but for a short while, very lucky. After an arrow shot into Danny's (Connery) heart gets stopped by his armor, the primitive tribes start seeing him as a God, and things become very interesting for the pair.      Because most of the film is presented as a flashback, we know from the beginning of the film that at some point things went awry, because only one of the friends made it back alive. I won't tell you exactly what went wrong, but it has a little to do with their Euro-Imperialistic mindset I mentioned earlier. However, at the end of the film I was glad that one of the two friends made it back so that we could've heard such a beautiful story about friendship, ambition and ultimately, greed. "},{"Title":"The Mason who would be a God","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" I always liked this movie. When I watched it as a child, I was so captivated by the movie that when Connery accepts fate in the bridge and starts singing, I could not help it and shouted Sean, Run, Escape¡¡¡ I almost cried.It is indeed a very good movie, one of my favorites. They do not really make movies like this anymore. This movie has pure magic for several reasons1. It is a movie about unconditional Friendship. 2. It is a movie about the realization of a very old dream a man who wants to conquer a kingdom. Many tried, most failed. In fact, Peachy and Daniel could have been the perfect mercenaries in the armies of Hernán Cortés, Conqueror of México, or Francisco Pizarro, Conqueror of Peru. Connery and Caine are two thoroughly unscrupulous buddies whose only redeeming qualities are their capacity for dreaming and their loyalty to each other. 3. This movie is indeed high adventure.The only thing i do not like in this movie, and the reason why i give it a six, it is because the whole freemasonry thing is totally unnecessary, a total sham. So, Alexander the Great was a mason, and a couple of English blokes who are masons too end up being kings of the Masonic Kingdom of Kafiristán. That is just not believable, and destroys the story. As for the rest, the movie is just great good script, superb actors in very fitting roles, good directions, good scenery, magic atmosphere, it is pure magic. Pity they blundered it with the stupid masonic twist, which is unnecessary, not realistic, and plain silly, as it borders the ridiculous. Nevertheless, it is a classic, it is good to watch, and it is indeed a very good movie. "},{"Title":"Empty and soulless","Date":"3 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" To sum it up in a nutshell, I did NOT like this film! I won't go into my film and TV background but, suffice to say, I have the credentials. I found the two main characters Dan and Peachy to be utterly devoid of scruples and anything approaching what one would call the milk of human kindness....They're human vessels that simply go through the moves like some sort of twisted Martin and Lewis opus! As far as I'm concerned they had no redeeming qualities whatsoever! Even a stinker like Ralph Meeker's Iceman in Big House USA gives one a desire to root for him - even though he's a real schmuck! I was really disappointed at the end when Peachy drops in on Kipling with his bag. I expected for him to pull the huge ruby from it's depths and say that Peachy was living fat and sassy among the natives as their ruler, but nooooo! It brings to mind Addison Richards' ill-fated character Krofton in 1940's Northwest Passage where he asks the other rangers if they're hungry......Hungry? - I'm not! He just happens to have the severed head of an Abanaki Indian in his bag that he, ahem, uses in place of trail mix.....Get my drift? "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" This film is high on my list of Movies I Was Looking Forward To, But Found Disappointing. The first half-hour, focusing on Christopher Plummer as Rudyard Kipling, feels like something to be endured. The second half-hour, the trek of Daniel and Peachy, reaches for an epic feeling, gets close, but lacks depth, lacks any sense of spiritual struggle by these men to get to their destination. (It's possible that this lack of spiritual struggle is a deliberate choice by the writers, i.e., the two men struggle physically but not spiritually, they do not grow, and this is the core reason for their later problems. Still, the trek needs more juicy danger and less fake snow.) Sean Connery, whose work I generally like, seems not well-suited to the broad, blarney-filled character of Daniel. He's trying too hard. He's far better at relaxed elegance. Saeed Jaffrey as Billy Fish is one-dimensional; the actor is talented but the role is pinched and thus is irritating at times. That said, Jaffrey's last moment is absolutely superb.Michael Caine is perfect as Peachy - exactly the right tone. The film's physical settings are mostly uninspired. The terrain, when they finally arrive at their destination, is ordinary, even a bit dry and dull, when we want gorgeous.The room full of treasure exemplifies for me one of the film's problems. The room has no magic to it whatsoever, it's just a pedestrian room full of not-very-gleaming gold, and un-cut big rubies that don't say big rubies so much as they say boring rocks. Huston decides with this treasure room to emphasize stark historical realism, to make us aware of the fact that rubies were probably not cut to gleaming perfection in the day of Alexander the Great. Huston thus abjures magic and fantasy. This is a mistake. We want magic and fantasy. They are fundamental to how we think of history, deep-down. Huston's basic problem, which he never resolves, is, how do I treat history? What is my conception of the past? Do I want to make a fun historical fantasy or do I want to make something real, something with the gritty, stark feeling of historical reality to it, as in my earlier project The Red Badge of Courage? Or....can I perform a miracle and stitch together the two genres?Raiders of the Lost Ark, six years after The Man Who Would Be King, achieves the miracle that Huston probably thought he could achieve. Raiders recognizes that if a history film receives a light seasoning of magic, if the director makes a significant-but-not-heavy-handed commitment to glittering fantasy, the project can click nicely, can bring to the surface our unconscious fantasies about the past - that it's a place of magic and mystery. (I'm not saying the past is actually magical. I'm saying that's how we feel about it, deep-down.) Connery's last shot is good. The crowd scenes are consistently good, especially one shot where Huston seems to have a couple of thousand people trudging along, forming an army. "},{"Title":"A parable about colonialism and the developing world","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  My wife and I recently borrowed the VHS pan-and-scan version of this movie and were favorably impressed by the director's smoke and mirrors effort. The locales are not Central Asia but instead French mountain ranges and Moroccan exotic backdrops.  The extras work well to convey masses of Asian commoners and priest/monks of the Buddhist/Hindu religion.  Other comment sharers can review for you the plot details and give praise to lead actors Connery and Caine (also Plummer as supporting actor); my USER COMMENT will instead focus on this film as a parable about colonialism and the developing world.  The script carefully locates the decade and background to be the 1890's at the dawn of the British Victorian Empire that subjugated many parts of world civilizations in decline or pre-modern capacity.  The Kipling story from which the film takes inspiration tethers us to a time and place when that world superpower's superiority has enjoyed days of golden antiquity theft and widespread profitmaking and despoiling.  The heroes of this piece are actually villainous, second-rate crooks who become entangled in a web of deceit that they spun themselves.  As would-be strip-miners of the tribal and religious powers-that-had-been in the fictious land past Afghanistan, the duo plus translator/stooge get access to the treasure trove of the civilization but fall prey to basic sins and character flaws.The man who would be king lets power go to his head as did victors in the Colonial expansionist ages of the past and present.  By their doomed attempt to get everything away from the underprivileged, the would-be Colonialistic oppressors get their comeuppance.  Such Western macho consumerists, despite some feeble self-serving propaganda, are still human and vulnerable.  Their divine pronouncements to know it all receive exposure in the end as having been cheap imitations of what life is really all about.  Down with such god-kings who deserve the bites of the weak who are about to be raped!  Their downfall will not be slow-motion sequences but swift thwacks of the Reaper's scythe.  The true and valid relationship of the developed, Western nations toward those sheltered by remoteness must be one of co-development along with democratic progress and humanitarian improvement.  Unfortunately, the world powers didn't learn a whole lot from such 19th century parables during 1901-2000; let's hope that Asian peoples will have their stories told and lay hold on the attention of the world for longer than just the run of CROUCHING TIGER, HIDDEN DRAGON from last year. See this film with your family and talk about who loses it all and who survives with an authentic story worth telling. "},{"Title":"The Man Who Would Be King","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" As a Nobel winner for literature, Rudyard Kipling is a controversial figure, by contrast, this film adaption is a featherweight crowd-pleaser, but unfortunately I find it cannot live up to the height of its literary counterpart, and its colonialism smugness festers further, which I personally feel ill at. Directed by venerable and acclaimed director John Huston, the film starts from a series of exotic South-Asia vistas, then bumps into a rapid hustling with Christopher Plummer as the avatar of the renowned writer himself intermingling with Sean Connery and Michael Caine's Daniel Dravot and Peachy Carnehan, two British solider resigned from the army and going to try their luck in Kafiristan. Then the cut-back narrative slowly but thoroughly turns into a slapstick daredevils' wacky adventure into a tribal residence. The action part is awfully crass, the battle fighting and using rifles to massacre local tribes could never be shoddier, at least they could have hired a team of more professional extras or at least trained them with a little bit more commitment. Only the props and the settings opaquely convince me it is a big budget film, the mind-blowing blizzard and avalanche are something quite spectacular to watch, but all fail to be foils; The two leads Sean and Michael, both at their prime, delivered a solid bromance which could be the only non-artificial part I could recall. Colony and religion, are like guns and roses, they never mesh together well, plus the patronizing attitude alone could exasperate its audience especially foreign ones like me to consider the film is a sheer miscarriage (though it had received 4 Oscar nomination with no wins). "},{"Title":"The Film that Would be Grand","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" A couple of British blokes make their way to a primitive land near India in hopes of declaring themselves kings. A short story by Kipling is stretched a little thin in this overlong adventure. The first part of the film, before the journey to Kafiristan, is rather long and uninteresting. It is well acted by Connery and Caine as the duo seeking the crown, Jaffrey as their faithful friend in the foreign land, and Plummer as Kipling. Huston tries to make a grand adventure out of it, but there is not enough material to support such an ambitious effort. Some of the violence is gratuitous, and Kipling's imperialistic views can be hard to stomach. "},{"Title":"Wanted to like this movie...","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Unfortunately, I did not. I personally hate most of the postings that go why does anyone like this movie??!! I understand that many people like this movie, but if you have not seen it, be aware that, though the movie is in English, you had better have your subtitles on to understand what is being said (HEAVY accents). Further, though the acting was not shabby, I guess I was not as impressed by the performances as many others were. I understand that most movies require a certain suspension of disbelief. However, this movie had SO MANY bizarre coincidences that I could not stomach it (avalanche scene, rationale for not wanting a character to marry, and MANY actions of the priests). The cinematography was stunning at times, but the effect was often undone with loud and pretentious music in the background. I really cannot comprehend how this film got 4 Oscar nominations. Anyway, be aware that many others feel this movie was under-rated and under-recognized by the Academy. See it, and decide for yourself! "},{"Title":"A Snoozer","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"7 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" I love Rudyard Kipling stories, Huston is usually great, the key cast members are usually great, but something in this mix turned a great short story into an incredible snoozefest.I saw it at the drive-in a few years after it first came out. We all fell asleep. I tried watching it on TV many years later. We all fell asleep.There are some good parts, but they're spread so thin over a long and boring timescape that it's just too hard to maintain any interest. It's much like watching the video equivalent of a technical document in which you have only passing interest.I can't believe this is scoring an 8 out of 10 on average. "},{"Title":"So Dated It Almost Plays Like An Exploitation Flick...","Date":"2 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" Please do not be drawn in by the high rating and outstanding cast to waste your time with this absolutely laughable film by modern standards. The portrayal of virtually every character in this film is so comically exaggerated it borders on b-movie exploitation and prevents the movie from ever achieving even the slightest impact dramatically. The action scenes have all the power of an elementary school stage play and not one line delivered by the fine actors ever strikes a truly emotional chord in the entire film. I love Plummer, Connery, and Caine but even their combined talent cannot help the movie find redemption with a viewer that possesses remotely modern sensibilities. It simply cannot hold up as a classic the way even far older films like Casablanca, Sunset Blvd., or those by Sergio Leone, Hitchcock, Welles, Lumet, etc. all can and do. When I think about the fact that this was made 3 years AFTER The Godfather, and the very same year as One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest, I am actually downright embarrassed for everyone that participated in the making of this. "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Review","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" In this classic adventure the Wind and the Lion (Taken place in 1905) are after a woman, and if these two can't settle their differences, they whole world may be at stake by a World War! In morocco Raisuli the Magnificent (Sean Connery) kidnap an American woman and her children. She is hastily taken to the desert and comes face to face with the leader of the bandits that captured her. But this man is different, he is a scholar, and calls himself a servant of God! And all of the hundreds that follow agree. But this woman doesn't follow him, although she is in a life or death situation. Causing feuds between each other several times.When word of this reaches Pres. Theodore 'Teddy' Roosevelt (Brian Keith) he asks only one question to Raisuli, What kind of rifle do you have? With this statement he tells the rest of the USA that he means business. No resident of the USA will ever be held against her will as long as he is president! The German, and French tempers are rising in Morocco. Friend ships are formed, blood is spilled, will she ever be back home? "},{"Title":"The Man Who Would Be King","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" From director John Huston (The African Queen), this is a brilliantly majestic film with two of the best British actors in history, based on the story by Rudyard Kipling. Basically after finishing their duty in India, ex-soldiers Daniel Dravot (Sir Sean Connery) and Peachy Carnehan (Sir Michael Caine) decide to buy twenty Martini rifles to use for taking over villages in Kafristan, and they face a few challenges along the way, such as difficult terrain, hostile natives, freezing temperatures and an avalanche. The eventually find the small village Urheb, where they meet to-be translator Billy Fish (Saeed Jaffrey) and Ootah (Doghmi Larbi), and they train the natives to conquer village after village. During a battle, Daniel pulls an arrow out of his armour, and the gullible natives believe he must be a God, and begin to worship him. Daniel and Peachy decide to use this to their advantage, and rule the the country, as the pretend son of Segunda (Alexander), and with all the gold and gems, may leave and become rich. It is apparent though that Daniel does not want to leave, Peachy thinks he is foolish, but still agrees to lead him up the isle so he can marry local girl Roxanne (Shakira Caine, Michael's wife). When she bites his face, and he bleeds, they all realise he is human, and they kill him cutting the bridge, while Peachy was crucified, but released after living a whole day, and back to England a year later he tells this story to Rudyard Kipling (Christopher Plummer), and brings the head of the man who became King of Kafristan. Also starring Karroom Ben Bouih as Kafu Selim, Jack May as District Commissioner, Mohammad Shamsi as Babu and Paul Antrim as Mulvaney. Both Connery and Caine are perfect and magnificent in their roles, the story does show greed and need for power, but also that even while deceiving, there is some good to be done. There are great memorable scenes, accompanied by sly dialogue and a stirring music score by Golden Globe nominated Maurice Jarre, a must see period adventure. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Costume Design, Best Film Editing and Best Writing, Screenplay Adapted From Other Material, and it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography and Best Costume Design. Outstanding! "},{"Title":"At Last A Film That Deserves Connery And Caine","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  It`s not often a 70s flick starring either Sean Connery or Michael Caine can be described as good , never mind great but THE MAN WHO WOULD BE KING  is a great film . It`s a good old fashioned romp set during Britain`s imperial past without a hint of cynicism , and with lashings of humour   Corporal get three men and put him under close arrest . The bloody fool`s drunk again  . John Huston keeps a solid hand at the director`s helm and the scenery is breathtaking . And after watching this you`ll be asking yourself why neither Connery or Caine didn`t appear in more movies this good   "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" I had been told by lots of people how great this film was, and with a story by Kipling, directed by Houston, starring Caine and Connery all the components of a great film seemed to be in place. Something didn't add up though, this film fails to be the sum of all its parts. The film is over long and failed to fully grip me. It may be that I missed something or that Iam a philistine but to me it felt stilted and dated. Michael Caine described this as the only film I've done that will last after I'm gone but it is far out shone by his other works, such as the Italian Job, Get Carter, etc. In fact it is Caine that is the most guilty of overacting of the whole cast. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  After watching this simply as a result of it being in the imdb top 250 list, I feel that either I'm missing something, or it's overrated.Good camera work. Obvious, moral plot. Uninvolving, simple storyline, which delivered little of interest. Contained supposedly humorous Western stereotypes of Indians.  "},{"Title":"Kipling Short Story Becomes Long Boring Movie","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"11 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":"  It is hard to comprehend why a director with the reputation that John Huston has could be involved in such a gloomy film. The story really did not have anything to say and was unbelievable to boot. The idea that any group of people could so easily be persuaded to believe that a stranger had the qualities that made him worthy to be worshipped as a god is ridiculous. Perhaps Kipling thought that the people of India were so inferior to the British that they would do this, at least that is the way it came across in this story. There was no attempt to explore the personalities of the two leading characters portrayed by Sean Connery and Michael Caine, as a result, it was hard to identify with them or care about what could happen to them. Any actors could have been cast in their parts and would have done no worse. Perhaps this is why Connery and Caine never again appeared together again in another movie.  Cutting the length of this movie in half by good editing might make this terrible movie into one that is merely dull.  My advice to you is to cut it off of any list of movies your planning to see. "},{"Title":"Awful, overblown, overrated, boring.  Where's Abbott and Costello when we need them?","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure","Review":" What an awful, overblown, overrated, boring movie. The only thing interesting about this movie is how many holes can be punched through the dumb, simplistic and unconvincing story. Two ex-British soldiers, supposedly Freemasons, conspire to bamboozle and defraud an entire country? Yeah ... right. These two characters are so dumb that they couldn't even defraud each other. No one in their right mind, or even in their wrong mind, would have had anything to to do with these obvious phonies. There is such a thing as literary license, but literary license has its limits too which this movie blatantly ignores. And what's even worse is the movie's ridiculously shabby portrayal of Freemasonry, a treatment that is entirely unwarranted and which undeservedly casts Freemasonry in a negative light. This is the kind of movie that would have been perfect for Laurel and Hardy or Abbott and Costello ... or maybe Ralph Kramden and Ed Norton ... or better yet, Sergeant Bilko and Corporal Paperelli or Jack Benny and Rochester. Or what about Laverne and Shirley or Lenny and Squiggy or Pat and Mike or Popeye and Bluto or Mickey and Minnie Mouse or Dobbie Gillis and Maynard G. Krebs or George Jefferson and Archie Bunker? Or what Rain Man and Alvy Singer? Put these characters in the lead roles and you have a first rate comedy. If you want to watch a good movie from the charlatan-masquerading-as-king genre, watch the Emperor Jones, or better yet read the play. "}]