[{"Title":"The Country Wife","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"40 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Beatty says he approached Towne to do a modern version of the classic restoration comedy called The Country Wife (hilarious by the way).  In the original play, the hero beds all the wives by confessing to their husbands that he's impotent so the husbands make fun of him and think nothing of leaving their frustrated and underappreciated wives in his care.Here in the updated Shampoo, Beatty and Towne make the hero an assumed-to-be-gay hairdresser (instead of impotent)and the results are inspired bedroom farce mixed with social satire.Younger viewers may find the film a little dated but it was a period film when it was made (set in 68 when it was shot in 74) so Ashby consciously gave it that dated look.  For me this and Heaven Can Wait are Beatty's best work.  Walks a fine comic/tragic line.  And this really feels like the closest character to Beatty's heart.  It was after this that I went back and saw Splendor in the Grass and began to appreciate Beatty as an actor rather than just a gigolo celebrity.Great dialogue by Towne, Jack Warden's hilarious and Julie Christie is stunning.   "},{"Title":"best script ever","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"37 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Towne's Chinatown is considered the greatest script of the past 30 years, but I think Shampoo (written by Towne and Beatty) is even better. It is an intricately constructed sex farce, with realistic, flesh-and-blood characters.  Beatty's character, George, is trying to serve two masters -- his own uncontrollable libido, and his desire to set up his own hair salon. These two desires come into direct conflict when he seeks funding from wealthy financier Lester (Jack Warden), while also having affairs with Lester's wife Felicia (Lee Grant), Lester's mistress Jackie(Julie Christie), and even Lester's daugther (Carrie Fisher).  In fact, George beds all of these women in a 24-hour period, while also trying to maintain his relationship with his steady girlfriend (Goldie Hawn).  All of these incompatible desires are compressed into a short time frame, and George's life unravels spectacularly, as he learns some very hard lessons by the end.Structurally, Shampoo is brilliantly devised.  Each character has an opposite.  George, the satyr, has Lester, the cuckhold, as his opposite. George exudes natural sexual appeal, whereas Lester is loved merely for his wealth.  Tony Bill's character, an ad executive, is the younger version of Lester.  Tony Bill dangles a job offer to Goldie Hawn in order to bed her. Despite his hip outward appearance, this character is as staid as Lester. In fact, the two characters are linked by separate scenes in which each one stares out of a skyscraper window, gazing at a panoramic view of L.A., and makes a world-weary comment about the craziness below (in Bill's case, he says, Jesus, this town).  There is also a contrast between George and Jackie.  George, in his own words, doesn't f*** for money, I do it for fun, whereas Jackie ends up as a kept girl (by Lester).  Goldie Hawn's character also prostitutes herself, in a very subtle way.  In the moral universe of Beverly Hills in 1968, Beatty's promiscuity seems more pure than the money-driven machinations of everyone else.   "},{"Title":"Fun 60s lifestyles with social criticism thrown in","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"36 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hal Ashby always leavened his comedic films (Harold and Maude, Being There, Last Detail) with sharp social commentary and observation, and Shampoo is no different. Taking place on the eve and day of the 1968 Presidential Election, it's as concerned with the free love hedonism as it is with the profound and dark social changes that had taken place by 1975 (the year Shampoo was produced).Beatty has never been more charming - or revealing as emptily vain as anyone so successful with women can become, and the film switches between surprisingly adult material even for now with a concern for mid-life crises, cultural politics, and ultimately, a cynical view of how the free-wheeling 60s counterculture didn't take themselves seriously enough. Robert Towne's influence in the script is clearly evident.Already dated when it came out, it's a great snapshot of the times, its concerns and issues, and is relevant today.  "},{"Title":"Still shines","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"56 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dated? Unfunny? Only to those weaned on formula action comedies of the past fifteen years. I can still remember the gasp in the suburban twin theater when Carrie Fisher made her indelible suggestion to Beatty, and the roar of delight as viewers saw what Julie Christie was up to at that dinner party.Towne's script, and the acting, makes us care about George, Jackie, Felicia and even Lester, to a degree, and it makes the excellent point that is still true today money trumps all. Its logical ending, where nothing happens but life goes on, without a wild chase on motorcycle to the airport in pursuit of Jackie and Lester, is perfect. Did anyone really expect George to win the fair hand of the gorgeous Ms. Christie when he cannot even talk to a banker.As I write more and more highlights come to mind George giving Lester his lecture on women while Lester's goons wait outside. George fobbing off Felicia in the dark as he hustles to see Jill, the terminally ill friend. When Kubrick died, print and the net was drowned in tributes, but poor Ashby, a great filmmaker practically left the earth in silence. Ashby lost himself once the 70s ended, and films had to have tacked on happy endings again e.g. The Natural, but then in my mind the same could be said of Kubrick. "},{"Title":"The film portrays its women, perhaps in a questionable way, accompanied by awareness of their way of life&#133;","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A day in the life of a Southern California hairstylist (Beatty) as he beds three women (Christie, Hawn and Lee Grant) while at the same time trying to seek a loan from businessman Lester (Oscar nominee Jack Warden) to help him open his own salon&#133; His world soon starts to fall apart as he realizes what he fervently wishes in life and the limitations of his cheerful posture toward others&#133; Lee Grant won an Oscar for playing Lester's bored wife who can't seem to take her eyes off Beatty, and even her nymphet daughter (a young Carrie Fisher) desperately wanted him to be engaging in reciprocal sex&#133; Grant's actually quite jovial and adorable in her role as we heartily feel for her character near the climax&#133; Warren Beatty appears either excitable or distracted through most of the story&#133; He lies, hides, and denies facts, doing whatever it takes to make everyone happy...If you like to see Julie Christie notoriously fellating Beatty underneath an elegant dinner table&#133; well don't miss this funny sex comedy which received four Oscar nominations&#133; "},{"Title":"why don't more people love shampoo?","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"39 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In a recent interview in Cineaste magazine, celeb film critic Pauline Kael described the 1970's as the greatest decade of American movies.  She then laid claim by listing her seven favorite films from that period.  One of the films mentioned was Shampoo.       I couldn't agree more with Pauline.  Aside from the lighting and some of the camerawork, everything in the film is about as good as it gets---Robert Towne's ear for common parlance, Beatty's understated charisma, and Ashby's whirlwind direction. It's strange that more people haven't written about this movie.  In many ways, Shampoo seems to have been forgotten, floating somewhere in film history heaven.  I live in Los Angeles and have never heard about it being screened anywhere.  Dave Kehr and the critical establishment in general have all written it off as a film that hasn't aged well.  And I've never seen a book written about either Shampoo or Ashby.  Am I living in a vault or is this really the legacy of Shampoo? If you don't like this movie, I urge you to write or contact me.  My e-mail address is listed above.  I simply don't understand why more people don't "},{"Title":"Did you ever have to make up your mind?","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"25 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  **SPOILERS** Publicists billed Shampoo as a comedy, and critics called it a satire; actually, it's a romantic tragedy a film about decisions we'd rather not have to make. The hero's tragic flaw is that he can't make up his mind, and the heroine's is that she can. Hal Ashby set his film on election day, 1968, when America had to make a decision amidst the epistemological turmoil of the times and chose Richard Nixon (an act that could be read as the beginning of the end of the Sixties, and at the least makes a good metaphor for it).George is a Beverly Hills hair dresser whom women love for more than his skill with a blow-dryer. Warren Beatty conveys the character perfectly sleeping with virtually every woman who crosses his path, he never seems lecherous, chauvinist or even condescending. He simply loves women, and he can't bear to disappoint them (or let one get away). His life consists largely of trying to avoid the need ever to say, No.Of course, this does produce comic moments. When Jill (Goldie Hawn) stumbles upon George making love to her best friend in the boat house at a party, he looks up and without missing a beat says, Honey, where have you been? We've been looking all over for you. A bit later, though, in a rambling, revealing speech, he's at a loss to explain himself in the terms Jill expects. What can it mean that he sleeps with so many women? I see a beautiful girl... and it makes me feel like I'm gonna live forever... Maybe that means I don't love 'em. Maybe it means I don't love you, I don't know. Nobody's gonna tell me I don't like 'em very much.Eventually, George makes a commitment --- probably his first --- when he asks Jackie (Julie Christie) to marry him. He and Jackie have known each other a long time; they were once lovers. Now he's finally come to the realization that even among the things one loves, some are more important than others. I don't trust anyone but you, he says. They embrace, and the bond between them is heartbreaking. But Jackie has told Lester (Jack Warden) she will go away with him; he's left his wife and proposed marriage. She runs from George because, if she walked, she might not get far enough before her resolve gave way.In the closing scene of Shampoo, George stands alone.  Silhouetted on a Los Angeles hillside, he stands like an icon of the things we leave behind when life offers us no other choice but to grow up. The background music is a wordless version of the theme Paul Simon later recorded as Silent Eyes --- which cuts to The Beach Boys' Wouldn't It Be Nice when the credits roll.  "},{"Title":"Underrated Classic","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those films that all takes place in one 24-hour period. When such movies work, the changes in the characters' lives feel more real and intense. So it is in Shampoo, as we watch George's world slowly crumble.Rarely has a movie-star's real life persona been used to better effect. Warren Beatty gives a moving performance as a guy who sincerely does not intend to hurt anyone, but he becomes a victim of his own allure. He is supported by fantastic ensemble acting. Written by Beatty and Robert Towne (Chinatown), and directed by Hal Ashby (Harold and Maude, Being There), Shampoo is Hollywood moviemaking at its best, and it deserves to be ranked with its more well-known contemporaries, like M*A*S*H, Annie Hall, and The Sting. Its theme of the emptiness of unchecked promiscuity is still relevant in a culture where sex is more of a commodity than ever.    "},{"Title":"The Hairdresser Undresses The Customer","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Shampoo' is quite an interesting period black comedy set in the late 60s during the sex revolution. In one sentence, it's about a Casanova hairdresser who sleeps around with every woman he meets but there is one whom he loves and she happens to be the mistress of a not-to-mess-with businessman. Ashby does a splendid job in bringing out the 60's look but it is Towne and Beatty who bring the feel especially through the dialogues and use of language. Not to mention, the make-up department that does an equally fine job. The humour is somewhat different from other films and traditional viewers may find the jokes somewhat vulgar but that doesn't bother me as long as they manage to draw chuckles and at least make me smile. The actors, that include a vivacious supercute Goldie Hawn, a sizzling Julie Christie, a hilarious Jack Warden, a fiery Lee Grant and a very young Carrie Fisher. But, it is Warren Beaty's film. He demonstrates George's wildness, passion, vulnerability and despair with effective skill. In my humble opinion it is one of his best works, both as actor and writer. I don't understand why people call it outdated. It is set in an older time and if the humour still works, why is it obsolete? I got the movie randomly and now I'm glad that I picked this one. "},{"Title":"70's movie-making at its best","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An almost perfect balance showing at once the beauty and shallowness of Los Angeles and those who live there. The film is famous for being about Lothario, but the film is really about a cultural malaise that is Los Angeles. The movie industry has infected everyone in Los Angeles and as a result, you can't get your car repaired without hearing some namedropping (especially today, but even back in 1968) and velvet rope sightings.Some people seem content to try and write off this film as a Hollywood porn film, but it's much more than that. Porn is cheap and often mechanical. Shampoo is full of rich characters and the story, as it should, has the tangles of wet hair. How often has you seen a film where you look forward to each scene? To know what the characters will do next? Shampoo at its center, has Beatty, playing both a fictional character, and to some I'm sure, a bit of the ladies man he was in the public eye for years and years. (Actually, the character is based on a real hairdresser who had a sad ending, being murdered in the terrible Manson murders along with Sharon Tate.) The film not only entertains, but deepens with time. (Anyone, whether here or on other sites, tries to compare movies made years ago with movies today, is either naive or terribly arrogant. Would you hold Wuthering Heights next to Saw? Would you compare Nat King Cole to Marilyn Manson? All were or are popular, so what's the difference? Plenty, I doubt most Blacks would like to go back in time and compare the civil rights laws, if even existed, to today's laws.) Besides Beatty, there are many other fine performances, from Lee Grant, Julie Christie, Goldie Hawn, Tony Bill, Carrie Fisher, Jack Warden among others. Restored on DVD, it's a very good watching experience now as well. "}{"Title":"I know it's classed as comedy but...","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...while there are certainly humorous moments in this film, overall I found it mostly poignant. After watching this film I always feel a sense of longing, loss and nostalgia for the past. Is this what George is feeling when finally proposing to Jackie? A feeling that perhaps the past was better than what is currently being experienced and a compulsion to try and re-create some of that magic that existed when he was younger? The closing scene of him watching Jackie being driven away by Lester (wonderfully portrayed by Jack Warden) is one of the most touching scenes of loss in modern film? To finally recognise what is important only when it is too late is one of the most affecting human tragedies. Dismissing George as a simple playboy I think also sells this movie short. Certainly George is a womanizer in this film, but I feel he could also be seen as much used as the user. Certainly the women in this film (Felicia, Lorna, Jill and to some extent Jackie) could be seen as the aggressors in most of the sex that occurs. The constant demands of all the women in this film, even the women on the street that come up to George and demand call me, make George in some ways a character that deserves some sympathy. Overall I find Shampoo to be very under-appreciated, being written off as a mere sex/comedy farce. There is a lot more depth to it than that. To really appreciate it, it should be looked at in the context of the time it was made, the end of one era (swinging 60's) and the beginning of another, characterized more by the loss of innocence (Watergate, end of Vietnam, 70's recession). Surely this translates equally well to the passing of any era and the moving on into new times that may not be that comfortable to those that fully enjoyed what went before. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Surely one of the most cynical comedies ever made, SHAMPOO is a jarring, scalding satire featuring Warren Beatty as a highly successful Beverly Hills hairdresser hoping to strike out on his own. Unfortunately his runaway libido and the wacky women in his life are conspiring against him --- as Beatty's neurotic girlfriend, Goldie Hawn is wasted in a thankless role. On the other hand, as Felicia, the wife of his potential benefactor, Lee Grant has the role of her career. She's clingy, desperate, and acid-tongued. Julie Christie is his ex-girlfriend, who happens to be the mistress of Felicia's husband. Carrie Fisher is Felicia's daughter and may very well be the kinkiest ingénue in film history. The script, by Beatty and the great Robert Towne slams all kinds of politics presidential, sexual, business, show business...all with equal vengeance. SHAMPOO is something of a naughty cousin to Beatty's more straightforward political satire BULWORTH. The melancholy, sparsely used music score is by Paul Simon "},{"Title":"Incapable of love","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Back in the early 1930s, in the time of cinema known as pre-code due to the general disregard for the prohibitive Motion Picture Production Code, there were lots of so-called sex comedies which made gags out of the bed-hopping escapades of their philandering heroes. The best of them were renowned for their cleverness in hinting at sexual acts that could not be shown on screen. Forty years later the production code had been scrapped and sex now could be (and frequently was) shown explicitly, but the sex comedy did not make a significant comeback. Shampoo is a rare but prime example.Shampoo is a sex comedy in that most, if not all, of its jokes revolve around sex, or at least the implication that sex has taken place or might be about to take place. As a result it is arguable that the comedy is a bit thin and repetitive, and it is true that the story is hardly bursting with riotous wit. And yet ace screenwriter Robert Towne constructs situations that are funny in their believable social awkwardness. They might only raise a chuckle or two over the course of a scene, but they have an almost soap opera quality which keeps us watching. Besides, there's a bit more going on here than bedroom humour. The decision to set it seven years in the past seems strangely arbitrary at first, but it has a surprisingly moving impact when political events start to creep into the narrative, and Warren Beatty's womanising antics are put into some perspective.Like all comedies, a lot of its success or otherwise depends on the acting performances. This was largely an age of realism in acting, but here the performances are just on the comedic side of real. Nobody does anything which is exactly funny in its own right, but it often is funny in its timing and context. For example, there is Beatty's mumbled excuse to Carrie Fisher (whom he has just had sex with) when he is dragged off by Lee Grant (who intends to have sex with him). Similarly, a lot of Jack Warden's self-important manliness is funny in the context of the fact that Beatty is busy screwing his wife, mistress and teenage daughter. Lee Grant gives another of her typically attention-grabbing minor roles, the authoritative society lady one minute, girlishly sipping a soft drink through a straw the next. Returning to Beatty, I'm also vaguely amused by the way he emphasises the last syllable in pancreas during the first scene, as if it's some kind of ass.The director here is Hal Ashby, a really fine craftsman of 70s cinema with a deceptively simple approach. He doesn't move the camera much, and often keeps back a bit from the action, not in a cold, distant way but more to show everything that is going on in a scene and allow the actors' body language to come across as well as facial expression. This is even effective for the comedy, such as in the scene where Beatty trashes the bin outside the bank, in which the wide shot makes him look somewhat pathetic in his anger. When Ashby does move the camera it is usually to give an impression a setting or situation, often with beautiful economy, and nearly always disguised by following the movement of a character. Take the shot which introduces Jack Warden's home life. He enters from one end of the room, kisses his daughter in mid-shot and surrounded by lots of colour. Then as he crosses what turns out to be a rather large room, the camera wheels round, to reveal his wife sitting alone amid stark white furnishings. An editor before he took up directing, Ashby clearly knows the potentially comedic value of a well-timed crosscut. For example, after the scene in which Warden discusses whether or not Beatty is a fairy, we cut to a shot of Beatty blow-drying a woman's hair, her face virtually in his crotch.But there is one thing that makes Shampoo really stand out, and this is something which comes both from Ashby's direction and the Towne/Beatty screenplay Despite coming from a more liberated era, it still has the artful good taste of the sex comedies of the 30s. It resists the temptation to become soft porn or a string of gross-out jokes. There is only a little partial nudity, and for the most part we do not see much of the sex acts, only their beginnings and aftermaths. And this is an era in which a fairly graphic sex scene was fast becoming a staple of any romantic movie. Despite its being a comedy almost wholly concerned with one man's sexual adventures, Shampoo is a surprisingly mature and refreshingly intelligent motion picture. "},{"Title":"What Johnathan Antin wishes...","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The best form of flattery is imitation - as the saying goes. And in the mid-70's a film about the late 60's blew the lid off of the life of a male hair dresser. Of course in this day and time, we have to say hair stylist but back in the 60's it was an industry that was truly 'female' dominated. The only males that were associated with this career were assumed gay. And with this little nugget, we have Shampoo.Shampoo is a picture that hits on 60's 'free love' and also the 70's 'me' generation. Besides, at that time in the 70's you did have a real hair stylist who's life mirrored this film to a degree, Jon Peters. And I believe Warren Beatty knew this - which is why he looked and acted so similar to the real Jon Peters, and that's what made the film very interesting back then. (and gave the new celebrity magazine People Magazine a lot of ink between Mr. Beatty and Mr. Peters!) Mr. Peter's was also a hairstylist to the Hollywood heads, and it is no secret that Mr. Peters had his name associated with many Hollywood women too, and Mr. Peters went on to become one of the most famous and successful movie producer teams of the 80's and 90's. (with Mr. Guber, of course!) But back to Shampoo, this (ahem) 'fictional' movie. This is the story of a womanizing hairdresser (Beatty) who's dream it is to open his own salon. He oozes charisma, and oozes a lot of other things too except knowing how to start his own small business away from the Beverly Hills shop he's the star of and despises (the owner played by the wonderful actor Jay Robinson from The Robe and Demetrius and the Gladiators He's just SO over the top, ya gotta love him!) He has several ex and current girlfriends - one is an young actress that is insecure (Goldie Hawn) and her best friend (Julie Christie), a 'kept' woman who just happened to have been one of his lovers as well. The kept woman is kept by the husband (Jack Warden) of one of the hair dressers top lovers & client (Lee Grant)who has the key to him financing his new shop - her financially dubious business husband. Oh what a vicious circle in Beverly Hills. But this hairdresser is about to use his libido once too often in 1968 and see all his dreams go up in smoke.Shampoo has a deep affection in my movie collection because of the above back story of the time and the way the team of Warren Beatty, Hal Ashby and Robert Towne pulled it off. Warren Beatty is 70's charming as the hair dressing womanizer trying desperately to prove that he IS a 'he-man' and not like the other male hairdressers; Goldie Hawn is perfect as the ditsy/smart up and coming actress; Julie Christie is marvelous as the kept woman; and Lee Grant is perfect as the older Beverly Hills socialite with her boy toy. Jack Warden lends the side of pseudo-reality as the aging Top Beverly Hills Businessman/Mistress keeper and Tony Bill is perfect as the late 60's 'type' producer with a sensitive side to his business dealings.This film is a gem, it's also a look into norms and ideas of two decades clashing and a production and direction team using current innuendo of the time to tell a story within another time.Rent or buy this film, look at it, and then sit down and watch the 2000's Bravo reality show Blow Out. I think then you'll grasp what kind of an old masterpiece Shampoo truly is. "},{"Title":"Time capsule","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    Cheers to both Sandra Bernhard and Julianne Moore for citing this 70's classic as one of their favorites.  A character study about a bed hopping male hairdresser (based on Manson family victim Jay Sebring) can be seen as a Beatty vanity project, a comment on materialism, or a dated box office hit.  I feel strongly about the second.  The film builds at a deliberate pace and packs a slight emotional wallop at its end. George's quest for respect and maturity cuts through the average sex comedy's awkwardness and Hal Ashby's camera allows a viewer to discover hidden depths in Beatty, Goldie Hawn, and Jack Warden.  Lee Grant won an Oscar for her terrific interpretation of Felicia and if you put this performance next to the one she gave in The Landlord you'll see she was an artist of substance who underscored her roles with both humor and pathos.  Julie Christie also shines, displaying an unusual mixture of sexiness and insecurity that help make Jackie a great foil for George.   Words like boring,dated,culturally irrelevant are tagged to this film unfairly.  When I asked various people about Shampoo all they could say was All he did was go to bed with everybody.  First of all, almost every film dates.  So do t.v. shows, songs, plays, etc.  It's an easy critism and one that's rarely valid, especially if the film means something special to you.  Shampoo caused a bit of a stir back in the day and now you can either see it as either a relic-like snapshot of its time or a morality tale with wit, strong acting and a soft filmmaking style.  A richly rewarding film experience awaits the viewer who sees the latter.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"the best sex comedy","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One night I was in blockbuster video looking for something I HADN'T already seen when I decided to give up and leave. And that's when I saw a cover-box and tape (this was a few years before DVD) for this Warren Beatty movie I hadn't seen. This came as a shock to me because I am a big fan of Mr. Beatty's and thought I had seen all his work (even Kaleidescope and Promise Her Anything), but I didn't recall ever reading anything about Shampoo. Of course I immediately picked it up and watched it. I LOVED IT!!! I thought, and still think, it's one of the funniest movies ever! Why this is a hidden gem, I don't know ( some people say it hits too close to home to the powers that be and that's why it wasn't received so well when it was originally released). The movie is so well written, and structured, and acted, and directed. This film is clearly several cuts above other sex comedies of ANY generation. I assume that everyone who has commented on this film has of course seen it, so I won't talk about it in-depth. What I would like to comment on however is the sub-par DVD. The transfer is nice but there are NO DOCUMENTARIES!!! If any film deserves to be talked about by cast and crew (even though Hal Ashby passed away)it's this one. There's not even commentary by Beatty and Robert Towne. Maybe I'm just being bitchy, but I would really like to see trailers, docu's etc. for this film. Maybe we could corral those two and have a Q & A. "},{"Title":"Classy porn? Not quite, but  Shampoo represents a breakdown of studio taboos","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"19 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Kaleidoscopic comedy-drama about a Beverly Hills hairdresser/womanizer on Election Eve-1968, his life complicated by women, his ex-girlfriend's current lover (whose wife is another client), and the perplexing responsibilities facing a man in his thirties. It's not half as daring as it was in 1975, but the performances are excellent, the acerbic script funny, callow, and nakedly emotional. Warren Beatty is not your typical lothario; great pains were taken to make this motorcycle-riding stud both sensitive and shallow, caring and inept, bumbling and suave. Beatty is the ultimate seducer one minute, an exposed fool the next. Lee Grant won Supporting Actress Oscar as Jack Warden's sex-starved wife, but all the acting is on an equal level. Has some brash moments, some dull ones (a political dinner sequence goes on too long), but much local color and dark-hued humor. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Still a classic despite its shortcomings.","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" No matter what the AFI or other critics say, Shampoo is not a great comedy, mostly because it doesn't try to be one. Of course there are some humorous moments such as when George(Beatty) tries to listen to his women and work at the same time, or the out-of-place Lester at a party filled with hippies of the psychedelic era. However, this is a much more serious film than it lets on, which will certainly make some people mad or disappointed in that it didn't live up to its billing.Yet, I cannot blame this film for what it does well, which is portray the life of a man who simply wants a good time and success and an accurate picture of the times of 1968 when Nixon was about to be elected, the Summer of Love was almost upon us and free love was a progressive idea. Yet, this movie seems harder on these characters than would be let on. Perhaps it is a nostalgic look-back to a time when there was a great feeling of new-found freedom but these people didn't know what to do with it. Some also criticize it for being chauvinistic but in reality, the females are the most confident, the most aware of their situations and the only ones able to make sense of what the next step should be.As you might expect, the acting is very good with Beatty playing the character completely aloof, always in his own world trying to think faster than the situations being thrown at him. He realizes what a mess he's in but also knows he doesn't want out so easy. Goldie Hawn is a wonderful, charming and confident actress whose beauty is secondary to her talent while Julie Christie gives the film's best performance as a conflicted woman who seems to know exactly what she will do despite not letting on. The Academy Awards only recognized Lee Grant and Jack Warden, perhaps because they represent a past age, a world about to get completely swept up in the new era being established during the '60s.Some see it as a political satire, others see it as an unfunny comedy about the consequences of free love. I see it as both as well as a very smart character study of what not to do but also why it's so fun doing it. "},{"Title":"The original Zohan","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hal Ashby's Shampoo stars Warren Beatty as George Roundy, a popular Beverly Hills hairdresser who spends his life juggling customers, jobs and women.The great joke of the film is that George exists solely to please other people. He's entirely selfless. Whilst Ashby paints the rest of society as being self-centered and selfish, George dutifully cuts hair, tends to women and bounces from one lover to another. The poster boy for altruism, he exists solely to make other people happy. Though marketed as a sex comedy, the film works better as a political statement. It takes place during the eve of the 1968 presidential election (in which Nixon was elected) and attempts to capture the last vestiges of a certain crazy, carefree era, Ashby contrasting whimsical Pre-Nixon attitudes (nonchalant sex, free love, a kind of social cohesion which George can no longer maintain), with the knowledge that Watergate, corruption, lies and the general pessimism of the Nixon era, were all on the horizon. By the film's end, George can no longer love everybody. The glue has failed and myopia, separation, selfishness and egotism on a grand scale has begun.Unsurprisingly, everyone in Shampoo aspires to success in both bed and bank. The characters are constantly working. Working at their jobs, on themselves, or on their lovers etc. But Ashby's larger point is that they ultimately have no significant political or cultural impact. They're too selfish, myopic and self centred, and thus the Nixon administration, which comes about at the end of the film, is exactly what these people deserved.Shampoo's opening and closing scenes neatly portray George's own personal evolution. The film opens with him making love to one of his many women, the Beach Boys' lyrics, Wouldn't it be nice if we were married... pulsating on the soundtrack. The song emphasises the yearning beneath George's playboy image. By the end of the film, however, George is left alone on a hill top, watching as his women turn their backs on him and drive away with their respective partners. They've all moved on, whilst he stands there, a dead man with a pipe dream. Hard luck, man.7.9/10 - Worth one viewing. Adam Sandler's Don't Mess With The Zohan would borrow heavily from Warren Beatty's work here. "},{"Title":"Possibly the greatest sex comedy of all-time","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After scaling the amazing highs of 1967's BONNIE AND CLYDE, Beatty also turned in some great work in the solid films like Robert Altman's MCCABE & MRS. MILLER (1971), Richard Brooks' sadly underrated heist caper $ (1971), and Alan J. Pakula's terrific political thriller THE PARALLAX VIEW (1974). Yet it was a kitsch-heavy sex comedy that provided Beatty with his next signature role with the somberly hilarious SHAMPOO (1975). Reportedly based on either Jay Sebring or Jon Peters (who later became an uber-film producer), SHAMPOO allows us to spend 24 hours in the life of a refreshingly macho hairdresser (shattering many queer stereotypes in the process) as he unsuccessfully attempts to juggle three women simultaneously. The whole thing is set against the eve of President Nixon's 1968 inauguration, which provides some interesting counterpoints for a film made immediately post-Watergate.While this may sound like an obvious set-up for a Hollywood sex comedy (and, truth be told, it actually is), but the screenplay by Beatty and Robert Towne is devilishly satirical with fully-realized characters and real motivations. Director Hal Ashby (best-known for 1971's HAROLD AND MAUDE and 1978's COMING HOME) keeps all the various story threads moving along at a swift rate, and even allows several moments of disarming perceptiveness to creep in without ever throwing the picture's balance off. The cast is wholly excellent Beatty is perfect for his Casanova-with-depth role, Julie Christie is very funny and sexy, Goldie Hawn is subtle and affecting, Jack Warden is strangely endearing in an Oscar-nominated turn as a man who can't seem to accept his age, and the always-terrific Lee Grant finally won an Oscar for her hilariously tight-lipped performance as Beatty most demanding customer. Also, a very young Carrie Fisher (in her film debut) makes an immediate impression in a scene-stealing turn as Grant's not-so-innocent daughter.The reviews from film critics at the time of the film's release were decidedly mixed. For example, Roger Ebert felt the movie was disappointing whereas it was one of the usually-vicious Pauline Kael's favorite films of the seventies. However, audiences loved it and the film became one of the Top 5 grossers of the year and received four Oscar nominations. While some may claim that the film is dated, but I completely disagree - the film was already something of a period piece (which helps conceal any such complaints), and such sharply-written characters and dialogue never go out of style anyway. In fact, I argue that SHAMPOO is not only one of the best comedies of the seventies, but is also possibly the greatest sex comedy of all-time! "}{"Title":"Beatty's Masterpiece","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sometimes I think the world is divided into those who appreciate Shampoo and those who don't get it. For the latter this is not a balls-out sex farce, but, rather, a sexy comedy of manners in which a group of Beverly Hills ladies play La Ronde with George, their stud/hairdresser.The film taps into modern mythology by having real life Casanova Warrne Beatty, who produced and co-wrote the film, play the bed-hopping hair stylist. He's never seemed so relaxed on screen; even when he's pained, the pain seems funny.Shampoo can also be considered the concluding chapter in a triptych of Julie Christie films. Arguably she portrayed the same woman over ten years, first as an aspiring model (in Darling), then as a bored, rich housewife (in Petulia) and, finally, as a brittle, sun tanned kept woman in Shampoo. Al Pacino once called Christie the most poetic of actresses. Well said. Who else could make you care so much about a selfish narcissistic woman?This is also a time capsule film for its depiction of late 60s Los Angeles. The bell bottoms, mini skirts, psychedelic music...it's all here, gliding in the background, skillfully mixed by master director Hal Ashby. He manages to create a tone of wistful comedy that sustains the film over its two hours.Shampoo is SERIOUSLY funny. Beatty's made some great films -- Bonnie and Clyde, Reds, Bullworth -- but Shampoo just might be his greatest. "},{"Title":"subtle, sophisticated and worth getting to know","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With every viewing, SHAMPOO seems more and more like (even in the 70s) one of the weirdest things to have ever become a hit - a challenging and complex film somewhat erroneously presented as a sex farce, complete with a slow-to-start plot that would challenge any audience today. The free-spirited bed-hopping of the 60s (the story is set on Election day 1968) is reconsidered, as the men here are generally pigs, and the women generally put up with it (to a certain point at least), and all consider themselves to be quite, quite hip - above the uncool squares who were busy electing Nixon on the same day. The fact that reality might intrude (as it does only fleetingly, and fairly late into the movie) never occurs to anyone, and Ashby's suggestion (also on display in BEING THERE, and perhaps HAROLD & MAUDE) that reactionaries may hijack American politics while the hipsters go off to party is open to debate, though also uniquely prophetic.The portrayal here isn't to justify vapid debauchery, but - then or now - there's a world of shallow people out there, and SHAMPOO is as potent of a reminder as any of how ugly it can be when you do absolutely nothing but show off how fabulous you think you are at all times. Ashby's 70s films (along with FIVE EASY PIECES and Coppola's 70s films) were about - among other things - the limits of the 60s, and the hangover that must follow the party, but the openness of the screenplay (by Robert Towne, also known for CHINATOWN and THE LAST DETAIL) does also give the film a timeless relevance.Towne and Beatty also gave director Hal Ashby another of his famous symbolic misfits - like Beau Bridges (THE LANDLORD), Bud Cort & Ruth Gordon (HAROLD & MAUDE), Jack Nicholson, Otis Young & Randy Quaid (THE LAST DETAIL), and Peter Sellers (BEING THERE), Beatty's character is perpetually adolescent in ways both great and awful, and acting out in some attempt at making some sense of a world that either does baffle him, or would if he were to actually stop screwing around and think about it for a second (witness the debacle of trying to get a bank to loan him money early on). Ashby always used these characters as a platform for satire (in this case, of some of the hypocritical excesses of the sexual revolution), while simultaneously playing them as symbolic of some greater human needs that go unmet in an increasingly complicated world - implicitly suggesting that a mix of pleasure principle (or naivete and awe) and tough self-discipline and pragmatism are essential to any kind of success. Though such a sentiment would seem obvious (this is the philosophical link between all of Ashby's best films - the aforementioned five for sure), perhaps it was - in fact - increasing rare in Ashby's world, and perhaps in everyone else's as well.Analysis aside, this works best if you like introspective and dark humor - there is much that is subtle in SHAMPOO, and the kind of unthinking, reflexive flash we expect out of current Hollywood product is completely absent. Ashby's technical skill as a director and editor become most apparent very late into the film (the party scene is a doozy), though a few knockout moments are to be found earlier as well. Overall it's one of the more brooding and jaded comedies to ever be marketed as such, though also rewarding and sophisticated. "},{"Title":"LA Cool with political connections","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For a young medical student in the UK, Shampoo was a major influence.The super bright images of LA parties juxtaposed with a corrupt politician's rise to power and the heart-stopping beauty of Julie Christie as a bonus were enough for this film to become a favourite. Whenever it appears in the schedules, everything stops! "},{"Title":"Good, not great, comedy of manners about a ladies man and the women around (and usually detesting) him","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Warren Beatty is George, a hair stylist in 1968 Beverly Hills. In Shampoo, he's usually not in the same place for more than a minute (unless it's with one of the ladies). His mind is also being tugged at different directions at the start of the film he's doing the deed with one woman, and then swings right over to town to meet his 'love' (Goldie Hawn). Enter Jackie Shawn (Julie Christie, a spirit in any movie she's in), wife of Lester (Jack Warden, maybe the best performance of the film), a well-to-do man. Jackie, it seems, has a stronger will than George, which starts to turn him on to her. After a day of mishaps, uncomforted at a high society dinner, it goes to a hippie party, where everything starts to unravel for George. All the while the 68 election is on in the background, a dark shadow always around the 'me-me-me' qualities that would define a generation.If the film isn't as strong in a satirical way than it could've been, it is not without trying; Robert Towne does give a few funny parts (Julie Christie's line, I won't say which, but it makes Beatty almost choke, is uproarious), and its mostly low-key humor, or stuff that's more subtle than expected. Hal Ashby, the director, keeps a good eye of interest throughout, making the hippie party at night even more interesting than the lead characters themselves. There's also Beatty, who in this film acts very much like the typical Beatty we might envision- womanizer, liar, and ultimately like a little puppy that tries to give sympathy after making a mess. The female performances are, like their characters, a little above Beatty, giving note of the feminist collective that was strong at the time.It's not a bad film in the least, but to say that it wasn't great isn't a miscalculation- there are points where the laughs just don't quite click, or the speed of everything washes over what could've been better scenes. And yet, there is a factor to Shampoo that is great for its time, which means that it is a little more challenging than the standard romantic-comic romp; the ending, to me, was a breakthrough. As George stand on that hill-top the next morning, there is a sort of catharsis if not message (its hard to get any message from this film, as it is a string of love/hate bits). How does a ladies man, a hairdresser of all things, get taken off his game? Shampoo reveals that. It might actually serve very well as a 'chick flick' in some circles, even for today's audiences (that is, if the old-school Warren Beatty still serves as a Hollywood treat for women). "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Warren Beatty, Hal Ashby and Robert Towne crafted a sardonic gem with this film. I think it really holds up well almost 30 years later, as a kind of culturally historical document. It is significant in the cannon of great 70's cinema I believe for it's flawless melding of downright screwball comedy with social and finally even emotional drama. It's Preston Sturges for the Free Love Generation.Was Julie Christie ever sexier? And Goldie Hawn? Off the hook pixie erotic! Lee Grant won the Oscar but I felt she was over-shadowed by others in the ensemble. Tony Bill as the creepy producer. Carrie Fischer as the angry, horny daughter. Jack Warden was perhaps the most under-rated of the bunch for his work here. The movie was very well edited, no surprise there. Nixon came on strong at the end there, his performance was also worthy of Oscar!I just think this is a brilliant film. Genre bending. Political. Human. Real. "},{"Title":"One of my favourites","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw Shampoo a few years ago and since then I have watched it many times because I just simply can't get fed up with it! Warren Betty is absolutely gorgeous in this film even though his character is a bit annoying at times. Despite the depressing ending it is realistic, what woman would ever trust a guy like George? The supporting cast of the movie is great; Julie Christie is beautiful and brilliant as ever and it is also pleasure to watch Goldie Hawn and Jack Warden.Shampoo is just a movie that everyone should see who likes movies from the seventies and Warren Betty. Definitely one of his better movies. "},{"Title":"Big on hair - low on content","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I happen to think the 70s were - very generally speaking - the period where commerce and art met at a favourable crossroads only to drift apart in the future.This movie is one antithesis of this theory but alas... There is definitely a groundswell of (then) controversial, non-PC use of the F-word and supposedly sexual imagery in this film but this overlong work does not really know what it wants or how to get there.Beatty is a hilariously clichéd big-haired open-shirted chain-clad buffoon Hollywood (?) hairdresser with a tight schedule of doing both rich women's hair and their nether regions. So this is supposedly about the rich part of L.A. - pity that these people were such cowards that they didn't name names - not even remotely as in a Citizen Kane way. No, the only name mentioned is Nixon but more about that later. Goldie Hawn is the quasi love interest of our fine shallow fellow. She happens to be in the twilight of her blondie one-trick-pony shtick and she is sporting her knickers under miniskirt dresses at every opportunity. Eventually she finds an even bigger dork than our hairdresser after finally realizing her dream boy is sleeping around with 1.000 other women. Duh...Our follicle fondling friend needs money for his very own hair salon. So there is a scene in a bank which is almost as hilarious as any Steve Martin/Carl Reiner scene, albeit unintentional I'm afraid.Nixon? What exactly is the role of politics in this thinly veiled soap opera?! This is a 1975 movie about 1968. Wow - how fantastic to be clever in hindsight. Talk about kicking someone who is down and out. The whole Republican party scenery is completely pointless and does nothing for the movie which is as superficial as its protagonist - the bike-riding brain-free womanizer.The climax of the movie is an election party which is about as unrealistic and cheesy as an Ed Wood setting - only TWENTY YEARS LATER. Wow.My conclusion is this What we have here is 100 soap opera episodes condensed into one feature film with a little dose of quasi-politics and f-words thrown in. Are Hal Ashby and Warren Beatty French? France has come up with many clever and very interesting movies but also with the Jean-Luc Godard school of film which is to film any amount of nonsensical film segments and give it some meaning afterwards. Example You literally film anything and call it revolution. Any modestly equipped brain can make an association with any given imagery and any word.I love details like that brown-haired stuntman riding his bike around Hollywood. He doesn't look like Beatty. That is funny. Just like the ending which means absolutely nothing. I do like the movie for all the L.A. smog that can be seen every time this soap opera decides to show us more than a few people's petty self-indulgent sex cravings. "},{"Title":"Shampoo-Wash That Man Right Out of Your Hair **","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Disappointing film as Warren Beatty plays a non-homosexual hairdresser who rides around in a motorcycle as if he is part of Easy Rider.Obviously, George does more than hair with his clients. The film is Robert Altman-like with its jumping around as it follows Beatty's sex escapades.Julie Christie and Goldie Hawn steal the acting here in their portrayals as two of Beatty's clients. The supporting Oscar went to the usually fabulous Lee Grant. I can't imagine why even though her category was full of weak contenders in 1975.Beatty's life unravels at a party on election night 1968. President-elect Richard Nixon promises an open administration, the next day, which is probably the film's greatest laugh.Guys should take heart since Beatty probably gets what he deserves at the film's end. (No, it's not the Bonnie & Clyde shooting.)Jack Warden received a supporting Oscar nomination for his portrayal of a man who Beatty asks to loan him money so he can open his own beauty salon. Warden is carrying on with Julie Christie, who is also the lover of Beatty but at the same time Beatty is carrying on with Lee Grant, who is wed to Warden. When all this is discovered, it really is not handled that well. This hysterical-like situation could have been dealt with a lot better. "},{"Title":"A completely boring, tedious, unfunny and unsexy movie.","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented this film and watched for the first time over the past three days. It took me that long simply because there is a limit to how much boredom I'm willing to endure at one sitting.My first reaction after finishing was that the movie has no point at all. But on reflection, I've decided it has one (although feeble) ... namely, that Warren Beatty can appear to bed a large number of women, so long as he writes the script!It is dumbfounding to me that this film is described as a comedy, and even more stupifying that it was included on the AFI 100 Funniest list. I genuinely did not laugh a single time during my (3 day) ordeal.It is also amazing that I have seen the movie described as sexy. Nothing could be further from the truth. The sex portrayed is so mechanical that it's the opposite of a turn on.I gave the film a 1 rating. Only because I didn't find 0 to be available. "},{"Title":"Again, what I do in the bedroom is all of your business","Date":"29 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Set on the eve of the presidential election that put Richard Nixon in the oval office, Shampoo revolves around George Roundy (Warren Beatty), a successful, Beverly Hills-based hairdresser, who has ostensibly skated by in life solely on his good looks, charisma, and easygoing charm with women. Despite living and committing to his girlfriend Jill (Goldie Hawn), George still seeks sex from many other women, often his regular clients.One thing George has consistently wanted to do is open his own hair salon; one day, he turns to Lester and Felicia (Jack Warden and Lee Grant), a wealthy, local-area couple. However, another problem emerges for George and that is the fact that Lester's current mistress (Julie Christie) is one of George's former girlfriends. Lester just outright assumes George, because of his appearance and choice of occupation, is gay, and doesn't see him as any legitimate sexual threat. It isn't until George becomes closer to Lester, meeting his wife, rekindling things with Lester's mistress, and even becoming entranced with select other women that George succumbs to furthering his pedigree as a sexual deviant.Shampoo subtly evokes the breakdown of the limiting and often sexually regressive sexual politics and standards of the 1960's; it plays similar instruments as Paul Mazursky's brilliant and underrated Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice where the very nature of its plot is subversive because it takes a sensitive, introspective camera into characters' bedrooms rather than simply closing the door on it. It's a period of time in American cinema that I cheekily bill what I do in the bedroom is all of your business, due to the liberal mindset and furtherance of sexual freedom, orientation, and behavior in public. In the contemporary, sex is still a social taboo in America, but with each year, be it what is accepted by the MPAA, or what is casually discussed by young people in a serious, social setting, the stigma of sex is continuing to be broken in many ways.Shampoo looks at the social mores by picking a character who is contemptible not because he loves his sex but because of how dishonest he chooses to be. There's nothing wrong with having multiple sexual partners, nor is there nothing inherently wrong with practicing polygamy or sleeping around. There is something wrong, however, with being dishonest or deceptive about it, which is what George consistently is. With that, screenwriters Robert Towne and Beatty seem to recognize this, and Beatty himself seems to recognize it as he's playing the character. Nonetheless, he challenges you to like him largely by the quick-witted and zippy way he moves and conducts himself, as well as the way he works and entertains his clients. He may not be an easy character to like, but he's not an easy character to write off.With that, Beatty gives an entertaining performance and effective turns an ensemble film into what could easily be mistaken as a one-man show, if it wasn't for the significant presences of Goldie Hawn and Lee Grant, specifically Grant who winds up having some strong scenes with Beatty during more pivotal moments of the film. These inclusions make Shampoo more likable throughout all the contemptible attributes of the film, and the film winds up addressing sexual politics in a way that doesn't tell the audience, but show them. It sort of walks in circles, not always coming to a clear point, but Beatty's performance and its more subtler approach to the material is enough to make it, if nothing else, a thematically and fundamentally interesting piece for the time.Starring Warren Beatty, Goldie Hawn, Julie Christie, Jack Warden, and Lee Grant. Directed by Hal Ashby. "}{"Title":"A missed opportunity","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Shampoo has famed Hollywood ladies' man Warren Beatty playing a role he was apparently born to do a libidinous male hairdresser who chose his profession solely to be around women.He tries to navigate various relationships on the eve of the election in '68 that saw Nixon become president of the United States.I guess this is supposed to provide a sharp contrast; a man-whore trying to get laid with various women while the country goes to hell. It doesn't work there isn't enough of the political stuff for it to be anything more than a distraction from the hairdresser's tawdry affairs.It's also an attempt at a comedy, eg. one of the conquests is a wife of a well heeled republican who assumes his wife's hairdresser is gay. This should be funny, but strangely isn't.Goldie Hawn is a true star but isn't given enough to do. You see too much of her, really, to take her seriously as a wide-eyed innocent, who, like the republican, also believes Beatty isn't a cooze hound.The final revelation should be poignant but again, isn't. This movie misses all its marks, and is really only kept afloat by its stars and screenplay. "},{"Title":"Shampoo","Date":"6 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I guessed this film would have something to hairdressing because of the obvious title that I heard a number of times, I was interested in watching mostly because of the good cast, directed by Hal Ashby (Harold and Maude, The Last Detail, Being There). Basically set during a 24-hour period in 1968, on the eve of the presidential election that would see Richard Nixon become President of the United States, it sees a day in the life of successful Beverly Hills hairdresser George Roundy (Golden Globe nominated Warren Beatty, also writing and producing). George's occupation and charisma have given him the perfect platform to meet and have sex many beautiful women, including his current girlfriend Jill (Golden Globe nominated Goldie Hawn), but he is dissatisfied with his professional life, he feels he is the creative star of the salon, playing second fiddle to owner Norman (Jay Robinson). George dreams of owning his own salon, but he lacks the money to do so, so he turns to his wealthy lover Jackie (Golden Globe nominated Julie Christie) and her unsuspecting husband Lester (Oscar and BAFTA nominated Jack Warden) to finance him, the situation is complicated by the secret that Lester's current mistress, Jackie, is George's former girlfriend, the most serious relationship he has ever had. Lester assumes that George is gay, he invites him to a Republican Party election night soiree, escorting Jackie, there the room is full of many of his present and former sexual partners, they later move on to a posh counterculture party, filled with drugs, alcohol and sexual indulgence. Lester and Jill catch George and Jackie having vigorous sex on the kitchen floor, Lester is impressed, but Jackie throws a chair at them, George tries to reconcile with Jill, while Jackie sees him for the rascal he is and flees. George realises he feels true love for Jackie, he proposes to her, by then it is too late, Jackie announces that Lester is divorcing his wife Felicia (Oscar winning, and Golden Globe nominated Lee Grant), who George has also been involved with, Lester will be taking her to Acapulco, George no longer has Jackie, Jill or Felicia, he realises his moral errors and has an epiphany, but it ultimately ends bleakly for him. Also starring Tony Bill as Johnny Pope, Carrie Fisher as Lorna, George Furth as Mr. Pettis, Ann Weldon as Mary, Randy Scheer as Dennis, Susanna Moore as Gloria, Mike Olton as Ricci, Luana Anders as Devra, William Castle as Sid Roth, Brad Dexter as Senator East, Howard Hesseman as Red Dog and Richard E. Kalk as Detective Younger. Beatty is good at being the sleazy and not easy to like hairdresser messing around with various women, Hawn is pretty and good at being innocent, Christie with her own English accent is likable as the woman who doesn't take nonsense, Warden is good in his time on screen, and I can see reasons why Grant would win the Oscar. I agree with critics that this film is amoral and has memorable moments of sorts, not just the sexual stuff, it grossed millions at the box office, but it didn't make me laugh much, and it doesn't quite have the same flair as other complicated relationship films, overall it is an average satirical comedy drama. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing, Original Screenplay and Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy or Musical. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"They don't make em like they used to.","Date":"23 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a brilliant and underrated film. It's hard to imagine something like this being made today, filled with riotous laughs although concluding with a reflective and bleak ending. Warren Beatty ducks and weaves throughout the film, trying to juggle relationships with 3 or 4 different women but his hectic lifestyle eventually begins to unravel. It was written as a satire of 1960's sexual liberty and ultimately proves that free love is not 'free'. The film is set in 1968 on the day Richard Nixon was elected president and there is a clever use of Nixon's image in posters and TV screens behind Warren Beatty's character to symbolize someone whom everyone believes in and loves but turns out to be untrustworthy and unreliable. Although it was the 4th highest earner in the box office for the year 1975 it seems to have been largely forgotten since then. "},{"Title":"Sex comedies just aren't my bag.","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I did not enjoy this film.Perhaps it's because I have grown tired of sex comedies.Perhaps it's the fact that I've never really liked Warren Beatty as an actor.I'm not sure but of all the films I have viewed from the AFI's 100 Years 100 Laughs list (and I still have a few to go to date),this one is the least funny,so far.I didn't laugh at one single moment.Obviously,more than a few did and that's why it made the list.To each his own.Other than the fact that there are a few wonderful looking ladies in the cast,I can't say that I will ever revisit this film again.It's as i keep saying,it all depends on what makes one laugh.If this is your type of humor,go for it and enjoy,but I'm moving on and not looking back. "},{"Title":"Mildly interesting but feels dated","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mildly interesting but feels dated. Ostensibly a commentary on the social mores and morals of the late-1960s, this movie hasn't aged well. Much of the moral dilemmas and predicaments, which may have seemed fresh and unique at the time, are ingrained and old news now.The romance angle is also nothing new.The free-wheeling young people vs the stuffy older generation was laid on rather thick and is another aspect which seems not at all profound now.Has its moments though. Some quite funny scenes. Overall, however, just feels dull and pointless.Decent performances by Warren Beatty, Julie Christie, Goldie Hawn and Jack Warden. "},{"Title":"Five Star Sex Appeal","Date":"16 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In upscale Beverly Hills, handsome hairdresser Warren Beatty (as George Roundy) comes undone by his promiscuous lifestyle. He would like to open his own shop, but copulating with a potential investor's wife, mistress and daughter could cost him dearly. Sexy wannabe actress Goldie Hawn (as Jill) is Mr. Beatty's puzzled girlfriend. The other women are fright-wigged Julie Christie (as Jackie), older-sexed Lee Grant (as Felicia) and teen-dreamy Carrie Fisher (as Lorna). There are, no doubt, many others. Beatty advises wealthy investor Jack Warden (as Lester) to Shampoo daily, so the follicles can breathe. Beatty's very attractive. His best scene may be when Mr. Warden walks in on him in Ms. Christie's bathroom. The women are beautiful, with Ms. Hawn reaching incredible levels of leggy sexiness...Shampoo won critical acclaim and was a big hit at the box office. This was probably due to its undeniable sex appeal. The story takes place in 1968, just before the election of US President Richard M. Nixon and Vice President Spiro T. Agnew. Often seen on television, they provide background visuals and foreshadow doom. Happier are the soundtrack recordings by The Beatles, The Beach Boys and others. However, neither Nixon nor Sgt. Pepper convince you this film is set in 1968. It looks like 1975. Strangest is the fact that Beatty makes a living creating hairstyles like the ones worn by the women he services. Especially odd are the distracting wig-like hairdos worm by Ms. Christie. Naturally, Beatty's own classic hairstyle looks fantastic. Giving Shampoo five deserved stars for the 1970s sex appeal.***** Shampoo (2/11/75) Hal Ashby ~ Warren Beatty, Julie Christie, Goldie Hawn, Lee Grant "},{"Title":"Doesn't wash","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A sex comedy that is neither funny nor sexy. Even though there are potentially funny situations, the characters are shallow and obvious, something the other characters don't seem to have realized. The film is shallow and obvious as well with pretensions of social criticism;setting it in 1968 on the eve of Nixon's election says nothing, and would the film be any different save for hairstyles and clothing if it were set during the Carter administration? The film is tedious as the characters go through so much just to get laid and when they do, the sex is awkward, hurried, unsatisfactory and often interrupted which may be the point. George as played by Beatty doesn't really seem that interested in sex or hair and the attempts at seriousness at the film's end and the suggestion that George is a tragic character are utter nonsense. Beatty runs around in a distracted dither as he did in Bugsy, Heaven Can Wait, Mickey One, Reds... Jack Warden, Christie, Fisher, Grant and Hawn are good, but the dialog and direction are without distinction. "},{"Title":"Shallow and prosaic, but truthful....","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I first saw this (many, many years ago), thought it was very new, daringly honest and brash. Today it is merely reflective of some relationships, whether they be a ladies man/player in SoCal, or a sports figure for the Oakland Raiders (Beatty played this playboy role as well, in Heaven Can Wait, the remake of Here Comes Mr. Jordan). I imagine at his age, we now have seen the nadir of his 'ladies man' roles. He may need to find a different niche.Good for a few laughs, although Lee Grant as the indulged older mistress is downright narcissistic and annoying, the Goldie Hawn character is sympathetic (a young girl who actually believes Beatty is capable of love). Julie Christie is rather good (Imagine, a female in 1975 who is portrayed as being cerebral, and using her brain).Primarily this theme is no longer intriguing or rare, narcissism today is the norm. A few good performances from Christie and Jack Warden make it watchable. 7/10. "},{"Title":"A Jungian Sensation Type.","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Warren Beatty is a high-end hairdresser who is trying to borrow money from Beverley Hills executive/businessman Jack Warden so he can open his own shop. Meanwhile, he's getting it on behind Warden's back with Warden's wife (Lee Grant), Warden's girl friend (Julie Christie), and Warden's daughter (Carrie Fisher), while at the same time he's dealing with his own girl, Goldie Hawn. Warden makes Beatty's tasks a little easier by believing he's gay. In the course of the 1968 election (Nixon wins over Humphrey), everything falls apart. Beatty finally decides he wants to spend his life with Christie but it's too late. Christie runs off to be married to Warden's wealthy businessman in Acapulco. Last shot Beatty standing alone on a hill top looking forlornly after Christie's retreating car.I don't remember my response when I first saw this in a San Rafael theater but I doubt that it would be the same that I had tonight, after seeing it again for the first time in thirty-some years.For one thing, the protagonist, Beatty, is clearly the person we masculine types are meant to identify with. He only went to beauty school in the first place so that he could meet women, and except for a few nagging doubts, he's in heaven because, man, has he met a lot of rich and beautiful clients. We also must admire his skill. (I guess. I speak from a position of total ignorance.) All his clients seem to have identical hair styles. And, as he explains to Warden, he wants some capital to open his own business because I'm better than the guy I'm working for. And, as his own boss, we presume new sensual vistas open before him. Beatty is basically a Jungian sensation type, hungry for new stimuli, careless, reckless even, about his means of getting them.His obvious opposite is Jack Warden's character, this being one of Warden's best and most complex roles. Warden's only skill is making money. He listens only to stock market reports and the only television he watches is during Nixon's election. He's blind to everything else going on around him, the intrigues, the interactional dynamics, although he evidently feels good about his family life, loves his daughter. In the end he's brought down by his own complacency, his own feeling of invulnerability.And yet, in many respects, he's a more honorable man than Warren Beatty. He really DOES love someone beside himself. And when he realizes that Beatty has been servicing his wife, his girl friend, and his daughter, he doesn't strike out in anger. He huffs and stalks away, then later returns for a rational conversation about solving some of the newly uncovered issues. He's not mean spirited in any way. He's open minded. Finding himself at a hippie psychedelic party, he is puzzled by the naked goings on, but curious too, and a little pleased. He doesn't turn down the joint that's offered him and he's perfectly willing to join a nude threesome in a jacuzzi. Sure -- why not! There's the political subtext too. The movie was released in 1975 but is placed in November 1968, meaning the audience knows what will follow. Everyone in the film seems apolitical except for Warden, who hopes things may be different under Nixon, but says, Ahh, what's the difference? They're all jerks. Everyone is dragged to a Republican party on election night to witness and celebrate Nixon's victory and it's all hollow and stilted -- tuxedos and formal gowns and only white folks over 50 allowed. The main speaker is Senator East, played by Brad Dexter, whose only memorable role was as the treacherous, murdering henchman in The Asphalt Jungle. East's speech, about an American Indian legend, is suitably grotesque. The contrast with the fun, strobe-lighted hippie gathering couldn't be more obvious. We get to hear Sergeant Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band and snatches of Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds, almost enough in itself to make 1968 sound paradisaical, though to be sure, these are pretty well-heeled hippies and flower power was to turn into violent half-baked revolutions and 1968 was a great year for assassinations.Still -- okay, Nixonian America was materialistic, Philistine, and shallow in all respects. I didn't vote for Nixon but from our current perspective, that is to say, 2007, and in light of the circumstances from which we now suffer, Nixon is beginning to look more and more like Saint Francis of Assisi, Watergate, the hit list, and all the rest notwithstanding.I'm not sure that the interpretation I've just outline wasn't exactly the aim of the writers, Warren Beatty and Robert Towne. I might be wrong but both the writers are men of talent and intelligence and the ambiguity might have been what they intended. It's a movie that's filled with ironies that are at the same time bourgeois and heroic. It's well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Not a must see but very very funny and memorable.","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have seen all sorts of reviews on here for shampoo. After reading the good, the bad and the really ugly I must say I agree with the people who liked this not loved or hated it. shampoo isn't the best movie of the 70's but it's good. The problem is the amount of sex. A lot of the comedic value canters around that so if one doesn't find that funny or isn't interested in a character study about a male hairdresser who seduces every female who comes across his path one won't find much here for them.I saw this way back when and enjoyed it. Even when watching it, I was aware I wasn't watching the best movie out there but it was interesting on many levels. And Fun. AND(though many will disagree)REALISTIC. I have known men like Beaty's character and women like the girlfriends/mistresses in this movie. A lot of people make choices in life based on sex and later come to regret it. I found shampoo a little boring in spots but there were so many characters and so many things happening, that I enjoyed most parts more then not.I'd have to see this again to rate it, it's been awhile. But I certainly would recommend it, it's far from a bad movie. "}{"Title":"A great, nontraditional, satisfying film!!!!","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just recently, I have seen SHAMPOO in one of my film classes and I enjoyed it tremendously.  I think I must have always passed this one up when I used to work at a video store, but now I am grateful for the chance to have seen it.  The only other Hal Ashby film I have seen is COMING HOME and I really liked that one too.  But SHAMPOO takes a humorous look at the swinging sexual lifestyle in Los Angeles in the 1960's.  Beatty is very good as the lead and he gets his just desserts at the end of the film.  I loved all the actresses that played the women he was loving.But the film has a point....It shows that no answers lie in this type of lifestyle.  I think that at the end Beatty realizes that he has lost the one girl he truly loved and that now he must face the rest of his life alone. Great ending.  In most American films, he would have ended up with the girl.  "},{"Title":"No, Real Poo","Date":"19 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Muppets TV show actually had such a joke a TV reporter interviews a wig maker, and the reporter sniffs a wig and asks, Don't you ever use shampoo on them? Replies the wig maker, No we only use real poo. I am not making this up.If you thought the joke was childish, try this movie. Ironically enough, I rented it on the basis that it was mentioned as a good movie by none other than the infamous film snob Pauline Kael. I figured that if she recommends a movie, it therefore has to be great. But I got disabused of this notion fast.The story is about a hairdresser (presumed to be gay, ha-ha) who is sleeping with a number of girlfriends. I was expecting a bedroom farce, but the laughs were nonexistent. The story takes place on Election Eve in 1968, but that seems unrelated to the story. Perhaps the movie was meant to be a social satire, but I missed what the target was.The movie is not only unfunny, it's slow-moving and boring. We find no reason to like or relate to the hairdresser. But when it is revealed he is sleeping both with a woman AND her daughter simultaneously, that was too repulsive and we switched it off. The hairdresser isn't merely a womanizer, he's a genuine creep. We didn't care what would happen to him in the end, we wanted nothing more to do with him. "},{"Title":"A rare treat - genuine satire on film.","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The lead part in Shampoo is George a professional hairdresser and rather lecherous cad, played by Warren Beatty who also wrote the film. Warren was probably disappointed by the string of rather empty parts he was being offered, and he had had enough experience of script writing to create a part which would give him the chance to create a film that he clearly felt would have something significant to say about the standards of morality fashionable at the time (shortly after the so-called sexual revolution. The result was a very fine piece of satire which was most enjoyable to watch, but in which the characters remained uniformly real and believable. Since cinema audiences unfortunately rarely appreciate satire (as we can see when Gulliver's Travels gets reduced to a fun film for children) this has made Shampoo something of a rarity among North American films.Shampoo was made in 1975 immediately after the Watergate scandal and the story takes place on the eve of the 1968 American Presidential election which brought Richard Nixon to power amidst promises of an open trustworthy administration. I am writing these comments on the eve of the 2008 election because several of the reports we have been seeing on TV news are so reminiscent of scenes in this film. that I decided to watch it again today. It is a long time since I last saw it and I certainly found it a little dated in places, but overall I enjoyed it even more this time round (maybe this shows I have become increasingly cynical with advancing years). The role of the election in the film appears to be to draw parallels between the moral corruption in public life and that of the private lives of the principal characters; it played little part in the story as the characters mainly remain either blissfully ignorant or totally contemptuous of the election and its significance. Current news bulletins suggest that for many people today their attitude to the present contest is based more on which candidate they dislike most, rather than on any policy issues. This similarity struck me so strongly that I am rushing to send my comments tonight before they are complicated by the knowledge of who won this year.Spoiler ahead - The film opens with George making love to one of his customers to the strains of the song Wouldn't it be nice if we were married. It continues with him providing similar services to several other clients on his list, so making him appear a complete cad. Gradually however the viewer realizes that his shallow personality only provides a limited attraction to any of his paramours, and that he is actually a desperately lonely man - the lines of this song then come back to mind. The heart of the story is the strong attraction he feels for, but initially dares not express to, another of his customers Jackie (played by Julie Christie). Unfortunately he leaves it too late, Jackie commits herself to Lester, a rich businessman who has just divorced his wife and asked her to marry him. She also loves George but feels Lester is a better bet. She has to run in order to make a quick break with George, and the film ends with him watching her drive off with Lester. He knows, but she does not, that Lester has already let out the fact that he could not face the scandal of a divorce, so all she will share with him is a brief fling before she is finally discarded.Clearly this is very nearly a morality play satirizing three concepts that are incapable of leading to long term happiness- Politics are corrupt, lust outbids love, and money talks the loudest. But it is well written, beautifully screened and very well acted. It would be a great joy if we could see a few productions of comparable quality today, and I feel quite indebted firstly to Warren Beatty not only for being dis-satisfied with the parts he was getting from the Hollywood machine but also for having the writing skills to produce something so much more rewarding, and secondly to Columbia Pictures for being willing to sponsor what was a rather daring film for its time. "},{"Title":"A mid-1970s look back at a pivotal time... but saying what?","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Seeing this film 30 years after its release makes its intentions clearer then when I saw it back then, but it still fails to deliver fully.One way of understanding Shampoo is as a movie about the '60s. It may be hard for some to believe today, but by 1975 the '60s, as a culturally time-stamped era, were over. Long over. The '60s really began with John F. Kennedy's assassination and ended with Richard Nixon's resignation (November 1963 to August 1974). The times and the atmosphere had changed by the mid-1970s, probably because the youth rebellion movement fractured as the Vietnam War wound down, and because many student radicals either joined the human race (as a Steely Dan song from the period put it), became more radical underground, or went off to live in the woods somewhere.But what does Shampoo mean to say about those wild years? Warren Beatty's George character takes pains to note that he's not a hippie. And he's not. He's devoid of social and political values, and he says, late in the film, that he has no interest in fighting the Establishment. What he is interested in is casual sex -- and that certainly was part of the social upheaval of those years -- and he's interested in hair styles. But not much more. So is the film suggesting that in the end, the '60s were about soulless, casual sex and hair? It's not by accident that the film takes places in the 24-hour period in which Nixon becomes president. And the film was made just after (or just before?) Nixon resigned in disgrace. The TV clips of Nixon and his vice president Spiro Agnew expressing their hope for an open and inclusive government ring funny but sadly against what we know would follow. Is Shampoo saying that with all the partying and hedonism, the younger generation missed the boat and allowed Nixon to get elected? Interestingly, George doesn't vote, nor do we see any of his women friends voting, or even acknowledging the election.Or is Shampoo about the shallow California lifestyle that was fully ripe by the mid-1970s? The Eagles' landmark album statement Hotel California, which savaged the vapidity of that cocaine- and sex-addled culture, was released just a year after this film (see also Jackson Browne's song, The Pretender). It also occurs to me that Beatty may be satirizing himself -- or at least the version of himself that Carly Simon satirized in You're So Vain -- in this role.Shampoo is worth seeing to understand the reassessment of the '60s that was already underway by the mid-1970s. But films like Deer Hunter and Nashville I think do it better. Shampoo falls short in that we can't really sympathize with Beatty's character, or with anyone else. The perspective we have is as distanced and as numb as George is in his relationships with women. There's lots of fucking, as George puts it, but not much building tension or release achieved here.In the end, it's not entirely clear what the film is saying about 1968, 1975 or about people like George. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Warren Beatty Movie","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" SHAMPOO was a well-written and smart sex comedy which showcased the personal sex appeal and charm of Warren Beatty to great effect. Beatty shines in this film as a womanizing hairdresser named George Roundby, who is the most popular stylist at a chic Beverly Hills salon but really wants his own salon. George treats women like toys and juggles them around to the best of his ability, making every single woman in his life feel like she's the only woman in his life. The story is set back in 1968 a couple of days before Richard Nixon is elected president, but George's sexual shenanigans seem to be more akin with the me generation of the 80's. I always thought this film was way ahead of its time (1975) and had more substance than most of the drek that was coming out of Hollywood in the 70's. Even though he's a cad, Beatty imbues George with something that makes you care for him and feel sorry for him. Goldie Hawn, Julie Christie, Lee Grant (who won an Oscar for her performance) and Carrie Fisher (in her screen debut) play the women that George is currently juggling and Jack Warden does a fine supporting turn as Grant's husband and Fisher's father. If you don't blink, you will catch brief appearances from ex-Beatty girlfriend Michelle Phillips and a very young Andrew Stevens. To say more would ruin it for the uninitiated, but if you like Beatty and have never seen this sleeper, it is definitely worth the rental. "},{"Title":"Beatty's best","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie when it was first released and even then I knew it was a great movie, I just didn't know how great.  I like it better than any other Warren Beatty movie, and he has surrounded himself with a terrific supporting cast, especially Julie Christie.  The end is a heartbreaker and I am amazed they didn't change it!   "},{"Title":"Couldn't do a thing with it...","Date":"26 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I wanted to like this mid 70's sex-comedy-drama, having in the past been impressed by the likes of Warren Beatty & Julie Christie, the two leads but was left flatter than a soggy bouffant by the end (I will try to get through this review without piling on the hairdressing references!).I'm not quite sure what the movie's aim was - I'll take a shot and venture that it was a last hurrah for 60's idealism, invoking sexual freedom, anti-capitalism and hedonism against the backdrop of the changing of the guard, specifically the onset of the conservative republican administration of Richard Nixon & Spiro Agnew in 1968. Cue much hippy antics with psychedelic music in the background but if the film was making a comment about young people's apathy about current politics as they move onto the next party, drug or sexual partner, like I said, the point was made unsubtly and occasionally distastefully.To me, it seemed more like a vanity exercise for co-writer, producer and star Beatty whose bed-hopping Casanova of the clippers at one point and in short order beds middle-aged staid financier Jack Warden's wife, daughter and mistress in his picaresque journey towards self-awareness and by the conclusion, disappointment as his discovered true love - Christie's spurns him for the easy life offered by Warden's cuckolded Lester Carp character.I found it almost impossible in the first place to believe Beatty as the super-macho motorbiking hairdresser and from the first scene onwards (the sexual groans and fumbling of his latest conquest, set in near-darkness), never felt any sympathy or understanding for his character. After getting short shrift from an unsympathetic bank manager over funding for his own salon, he hooks up with Warden but of course betrays his trust by getting it on with the latter's mistress Christie in the act of cutting her hair, naturally.An insight into the lifestyles of the rich and would-be famous may have a certain, prurient charm but it wore very thin for me early on with very little actual comedy to leaven the load. I guess I was meant to be shocked and amused by Christie's outburst and under-table antics at the new senator's party, or Warden's voyeurism as he watches, at first unknowingly, Beatty & Christie having sex in a stranger's room at a later party but instead found myself bored and certainly unamused.The acting I could take or leave too, perhaps only Goldie Hawn, in one of her first non-kooky parts achieving anything with the paper-thin characterisations offered to pretty much all the actors here. I know I was watching from a vantage point some 34 years after the film was made but the whole thing just seemed messy, unfocused and gratuitous, in a word, dated.No and I can't resist it, this particular Shampoo was unable to revitalise my viewing pleasure and failed completely to get me into any kind of appreciative lather. Maybe you should have been there, as John Lennon once said (although he was talking about the 50's not the 60's), but on this evidence, I'm glad I missed it. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Satire of the Decline of Morals in the 70's","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Warren Beatty plays a straight, Beverly Hills hairdresser who can't say no. He is a Candide-like innocent who is willingly used by his self-involved clients to satisfy their lusts, their neuroses, and their vengences. The decline of morals and the rise of self-indulgence takes place against the background of the Nixon re-election, itself signaling the nadir of political morality. The cast is uniformly well-cast with the possible exception of Tony Bill, and Carrie Fisher is a stand-out as a world-weary, mother-hating teenager. The opening black-out scene is one of my personal favorites.Favorite line (Warren Beatty, responding to the bank manager when questioned about having any loan collateral) Collateral? I do Barbara Rush!Favorite touch Beatty on his Triumph motorcycle with a hair dryer tucked into his belt like a gun slinger.  "},{"Title":"Yes folks, we're all hypocrites.","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It seems that most people remember Shampoo for its looks at sex and relationships; for example, hairdresser George Roundy (Warren Beatty) does Barbara Rush. But I'll remember it more for what it says about our society. It's set around the 1968 elections, and shows how hypocritical we were for electing Nixon when we knew that he was a crook (not to mention that we re-elected him). So much for the great society! Granted, Warren Beatty's movies often deal with political issues, but I would say that Shampoo, Reds, and Bulworth form the troika of really great ones - maybe we could also include McCabe and Mrs. Miller. And I think that most people would have to agree that this was the only time that Warren Beatty and Goldie Hawn co-starred in a good movie (the others were the dreadful $ and the worthless Town & Country). Julie Christie, Lee Grant (who won Best Supporting Actress), and Jack Warden also do a great job. This was certainly part of Hal Ashby's string of greats (along with Harold and Maude, The Last Detail, Bound for Glory, Coming Home, and Being There). "},{"Title":"hideously self-indulgent","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The story of a p*ssy-seeking alpha-male (played by then alpha-male Beatty) produced by said star as a p*ssy-seeking ad for himself.All that George (Beatty) cares about is that the number of chicks he's nailing increases, because his self-regard requires it. He doesn't care about or connect with any of his conquests. But that's no matter because as viewers, we don't care about them either, because they're 70's era self-actualizing simps. With a decent script or in the service of a greater message, the best this could have been is something like Boogie Nights, which isn't saying much. The open sexuality of the 60s became dirty junk like in the 70's; the smutty, repulsive aftermath. Maybe people didn't notice how ugly their surroundings were because they were zeroing in on which occupants they wanted to nail, or forgetting the last one they actually did. The story implicates seventies values topically; bad hair, bad clothes, bad music... The production implicates Hollywood values, with hyperactive bit-actors trying to hog the screen. Everyone enters a scene shrill and loud. Viewers who see fun in this, miss the fatuous self-absorption and meanness to the whole thing. Beattys stammering cuteness is tiresome in all his movies. The only scene in which he's required to show any emotional range is the last one. You have got to see it to believe it. Beatty flexes every muscle in his body trying to overcome his cuteness and register something complicated on his face and FAILS utterly. In a just world, this scene should have ruined his career.Structurally this is a train wreck. It should be regarded as the Showgirls of the 70s. Artistically it's sh*t. Thanks Warren. The DVD should come with a syringe full of penicillin. "}{"Title":"Can anyone spell  V-A-P-I-D ?    O-V-E-R-R-A-T-E-D ?","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Can anyone spell B-O-R-I-N-G ?I have no idea how Warren Beatty carved a career in movies. He is simply an awful, boring, uncharismatic actor. He actually seemed depressed in this film. And it made me depressed watching him be depressed in this role.I fast forwarded over most of this piece of dreck because it was just so utterly boring and ridiculous. What a waste of time. I rented this on Google Play today and I am glad it only cost me $3.21. My advice to everyone out there is don't waste your time with this film. It is simply an overrated piece of junk. "},{"Title":"grossly overrated and with ZERO plot - not quite spoiler","Date":"14 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember back in the day this being a monster hit. It was on TV recently, and I decided not to miss it, having never seen it.Ay yi yi, what a disappointment. Here's the 'plot.' Over the course of maybe two days, hairdresser juggling three girlfriends (including one who's married) loses all three. The end.You'd think a premise like that would be rich with plot possibilities, but Towne and Beatty apparently thought that people with good bodies in nice clothes -- with the occasional flash of nudity -- would be plot enough. "},{"Title":"a major disappointment","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is a 1975 film directed by Hal Ashy (BEING THERE 1979, 8/10), stars Warren Beatty, Goldie Hawn, and his then-lover Julie Christie, with an Oscar winning performance by Lee Grant and an Oscar-nominated turn by the perpetual character actor Jack Warden, sounds appealing to any cinephile, right? Yet SHAMPOO, not unlike its characters' utterly outmoded hairstyle, is a mediocre downer, which makes Grant's Oscar triumph looks like a fishy consolation prize for the sake of her career achievements. It is 1968, in the eve of the President Election, George (Beatty), a Beverly Hill hairstylist (by the way, no one dares to advise him to get his own flurry hairdo a neat trim), an inveterate womanizer and sex-addict, gyrates around his girlfriend Jill (Hawn) and the cougar patron Felicia (Grant), with other casual dalliances not included. Dreaming of open his own salon but rejected for a bank loan, George is introduced by Felicia to her wealthy hubby Lester (Warden), who might be interested in the investment, meanwhile, he encounters Jacky, his old flame, and discovers she is Lester's mistress. Inevitably Jacky and George rekindles their romance, and everyone involved needs an egress out of the sticky situation. Eventually, the obvious loser is George himself, but as we can envision, 30 minutes after the ending, he is back in his habitual mode to seduce another predator in the jungle of voluptuous creatures, it is hard to deny a self-revealing aspect of George's character is based on Beatty himself (oo who is the co-writer here).More like a personal project for Beatty and Christie, they are not at all in their top form, it it their pillow talk which leaves audience in a state of dumbness and aloofness. Goldie Hawn actually pulls off a renascent awareness of her own worth through maturing from a wide-eyed ingénue to a woman knows what she wants and feels pity on George's addiction. Lee Grant is ferociously acrid as the lust-driven middle-aged wife encircled with desperate loneliness, an Oscar-win is too much for the role nevertheless; Jack Warden is the token of a winner in a male-chauvinistic world, which proffers a rare showcase for this perpetually sidelined character thespian, in the end, he even dissipates some of the antipathy, which presumably aims towards Lester's shallowness and the stink of money, with an inherent affinity borders on visceral humility and drool naiveté, his adventure in a hippie party draws the best eye-sensational revelry in the entire film. But after all, SHAMPOO doesn't live up to my expectation and the ghastly dreadful coiffure, hope no retro vogue will tread back into that era, ever. "},{"Title":"Warren Beatty is my Hero in this Movie","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I love this movie. It's so '70s, although the time line of the movie is set in 1968. The way people explored sexual relationship in those days is bit enviable if you watch this movie.Warren Beatty plays the role of a beautician who has affair with his clients. He goes to bed (and on the floor) with just about anyone he can get his hands around. He does it with both the mother and the daughter. Hands down he's my hero in this movie, but as in reality, such life has price to pay, and things back fires on George when his secret affairs slowly gets discovered by his would be sponsor, and his lovers.It's amazing that this movie is based on exploits of real life Hollywood hairdressers. But it sure made a good story.One of the best movie of its kind ever made, and is recommended for a watch. "},{"Title":"Excellent everlasting bitter satire and wild comedy about LA, sorry, Beverly Hills!","Date":"23 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's a shame to read, as in today, that, the rating of this little classic masterpiece, that also happened to be one of the biggest box office smash's of the 1970's all over the World, has such a low grade scoring on IMDb! Explanation? Easy lots of reviews from people who don't get LA, or Beverly Hills, most of all, lots, way too many, crazy, fool reviews from people literally intoxicated by the brutal Cinema of today, made only and with lots of money and useless subplots or science fictional sets they do not even get that today we must use all that crap just to cover mostly up for what's so dramatically lacking the force of genius, like in this great movie, or just a great script and solid actors, directed by a truly great director,with a vision! Shampoo is one of those movies that still speaks and widely to anyone! If you can listen,still, that is! A classic! The more you see it, the better you get it, and, it gets.. the more you understand its flawed characters, the melancholic subtext,the loneliness of a city like LA,where everything is dominated by money& superficiality,like looks.In LA someone good looking makes almost commercial asset out of it! Then they feel shallow and empty,and try to embrace spirituality to forget all the broken dreams! Or there're always drugs, handy. The lucky ones get married well,and, are unhappy anyways! Even lonelier than before! Not that LA is an awful town!We have got gorgeous woods,Oceanside,Hills with splendid views,sunshine, desert and Oasis, even Lakes.. We live quite healthy life styles (too bad we then use drugs to party and think we are still young..).. And, there's after all, some great architecture. People just don't know where to find it, but there is,actually! It is just the over all mentality,that kills every human feeling, that leaves you as drained as an old swimming pool! But,this sums up very well the all Country's mentality as well! In fact, LA is a melting pot, and,it is a place where you can invent and re-invent even the non existing nobody wouldn't even ever know his/her limits, or at least, a little humbleness! They call you weak, if you're delicate and unassuming! If you even have had a 2 lines speaking role in a B movie, you must carry on yourself with an attitude impress always, to get a little respect! Then what about all that sex? Yes, we do lots of it, because, sexual freedom aside, we are lonely, and, we always deceive ourselves.. We always wanna hope for something that's never going to be there.. looking for what's not really available! That is the true main philosophy! Back then as it is now! I think both Beatty's and Christie(she is truly divine here unforgettable lines, incredible presence,strength,intellectual, glacial yet almost burning wit her melting down party sequence, with that Iconic look and that unforgettable,trend setting,sequined black dress, she wears like a glove,almost like Marilyn wearing the Jean Louis's flesh gown to sing Happy Birthday to JFK,it is one of the most well known images of great, Classic US/Hollywood Cinema!). Goldie Hawn's a bit annoying, but truthful to her character,over all, while, the phenomenal Lee Grant and Jack Warden both shine in more classic representations of immortal LA classic characters! And, best work ever for both Carrie Fisher and Tony Bill,too! What can you say? With a script as clever and damned layered without bragging or going over useless extensions,as only the most vivid Robert Towne's job ever, could deliver,after or, along the lines, withChinatown,and,then, genius Hal Ashby,directing, with his personal, light, yet so unmatchable touch, Beatty,at its most powerful ever, producing and starring creating a sensation,opposite(again) an almost otherworldly Julie Christie and all the rest of the phenomenal players,What else needs to be said? Aside, from excellence, with no replay? How could you possibly beat this one up? Nobody can or could. Ever. And, especially, today! And, if you don't get it, i am sorry, you don't get true Cinema! "},{"Title":"Beatty Knows His Stuff","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It was an interesting insight into a woman's head. The movie Shampoo had a lot of substance, not the best movie, but true to life in the most perfect way, just simple and somewhat dull and almost completely truthful in how human beings react in such a non theatrical way, as Warren Beatty demonstrated perfectly in it. Very well written movie too. There were many great scenes that really made you think, and the one I want to point out in particular is the scene with Goldie Hawn and Warren Beatty as she is telling him to get out of her apartment as she is breaking up with him. Basically she saw him having you know what with another woman about 5 hours ago, and now she wants to know how many women he has cheated on her with. 'Why do you want to know?' he keeps asking her and she finally says to the likes of 'I want to know if you are capable of loving someone or if you don't care.' Basically she's saying is this a one time thing where you cheated and can you love and commit or do you not give a hoot. So she wanted to know because if it had only been this once, she might have given him another chance, but if it had happened a lot, then she was done. Or perhaps she was done, and she just wanted to have an answer that might let her move on a lot easier and quicker and be done with him a lot easier and quicker. I think both male and females dwell on it and ask a million and one questions about being cheated on and feel the pain and need to go through the process of healing, but there are differences in the reaction, the process of time and the thinking part of it, at least that's my opinion. And this is just one of the many issues that you will see in the movie Shampoo. A good movie! "},{"Title":"still good after 35 years","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I purchased my DVD of 'Shampoo' for 3 euros lately, I hadn't seen this film for some 35 years.Reviewing it, 'Shampoo' surely evokes memories of my young days in the late 1960's. In those years the rigid post-war structure of Western society started to loosen up, and people experimented with all sorts of new lifestyles.This trend is perfectly performed by male lead Warren Beatty. Acting a profession that fits in equally perfect a lady's hairdresser.From this point 'Shampoo' develops in a predictable way a wild life, peppered with sex, drugs and many complications. All set in 1968, around the time when Richard Nixon was elected president of the USA.Beatty performs with his female leads Julie Christie and Goldie Hawn, and it's good to see the three of them back again. "},{"Title":"Hair Today gone Tomorrow","Date":"4 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILER*** We first get to see Beverly Hills hairdresser George Georgie Roundy, Warren Beatty, doing what he does best Having a romp in the hey, or bed, with one of his customers Felicia Karpf, Lee Grant. In the middle of the hot and heavy action George gets an urgent phone call from his study girlfriend aspiring actress Jill,Goldie Hawn, who's just arrived from out of town. Leaving Felicia in bed bear butt naked George leaves to meet Jill telling Falicia that a friend of his is suffering from a pancreatic ulcer and needs his help immediately or else she'll expire before the night is over.This type of conduct by George is repeated over and over in the movie Shampoo with him juggling his many sex partners in order to keep them ignorant to who he's involved sexually with in order to keep them from walking out on him. This soon takes on very dangerous proportions when George desperate to get a loan for himself to open up a beauty salon is turned down by the banks in him being a bad credit risk.With only big businessman and Nixon for President supported Lester Karpf, Jack Warden, willing to give George the cash he needed for his future business ventures he finds that he's not only having an affair with Lester's old lady, Felicia, but also his mistress Jackie Shawn, Julie Christie, as well. Pretending to be gay George has Lester overlook his involvement with the fairer sex in him feeling that he has no interest, sexually at least, in them. And at the same time not being suspected by Lester that he's been in fact involved with the two most important women in his life! His wife and mistress! It's only 18 year old Lorna, Carrie Fisher, Lester and Felicia's sex starved Lolita-like daughter who sees through George's gay hairdresser act. Without much of an effort Lorna ends up getting George to bed her down, off camera, just as her mom shows up in the house!George being invited to attend a Nixon victory party if in fact he wins the election that evening, November 4 1968, by Lester soon turns out to be a disaster for everyone involved. A very embarrassed George with the help of a drunk and out of her skull Jackie Shawn ends up being exposed as the two timing heel, to both men and women, that he really is! Getting royally boozed up Jackie, who's relationship with both George and Lester is supposed to be a secret, makes a play, from under the table, for George that leaves Lester and all the other blue nosed Republicans at the Nixon party not only gasping for air but,in the case of Lester, heading for the exits and trying to get on with it, the Sexual Revelation, by getting stoned on pot and headed for the nearest hippie all night orgy party in town!It's there at the hippie orgy that both Lester and Jill who were driven there by movie director Johnny Pope, Tony Bill, find both George & Jackie in the buff doing their thing right out in public! By now expecting to get his head busted open by Lester's paid goons George just about gave up on his chance to own his own beauty salon that he was to name Hair Today gone Tomorrow. In all the pandemonium swirling around him George is still trying, besides avoiding getting worked over by Lesters' goons, to rekindle his on and off relationship with Jackie who's, with Jill leaving him, about the only women left in town who's willing to put up with him.***SPOILERS*** It's then that George finally begins to realize that his life of sexual escapades not only brought him to this sorry end but also educated him in what women really want in men! A loyal and caring companion in life not a womanizing lout who's cares more about getting himself off then the women that he gets himself off on! And in the case off Jackie Shawn, who dumped him for Lester, a few million dollars in the bank is far more sexy then anything he, in his amazing assortment of sexual acrobatics, could offer her. P.S The person whom George Roundy was supposedly modeled after was hairdresser to the stars Jay Sibling who was murdered on the night of August 8-9, 1969 together Sharon Tate and a half dozen others by the Charles Manson Family. "},{"Title":"A Minor Classic About Methaporical Blindness and Methaporical Deafness","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" George (Warren Beatty) is a hairdresser who wants to open is own business with and have his own beauty shop. He's also a womanizer that most of the time he's going out with his clients such as Jackie (Julie Christie), Jill (Goldie Hawn) and Felicia (Lee Grant). Jackie is the mistress of the Republican senator Lester (Jack Warden); Felicia is Lester's wife; and Jill is more likely to be George's girlfriend. There are times when George seems to love all of them, there are times when he only wants to have sex with all of the girls he can. His connections with all this women and later with the senator will help or destroy his chances of having his own business. In Shampoo there's so much more about hair and fooling' around with women, it has a minor yet interesting background that could be more developed or better presented. Everything happens in one day, particularly in 1968 during the election for President of the United States (I know that there's a reason for it but it looks like there's only one candidate running for the White House and that would be Nixon, I'll explain the reasons later or at least my point of view on the subject of why Nixon was the main figure here). George (or Warren if you prefer) is a very confusing character and most of the time he's confusing others or confusing himself. One of the best moments with him is when he's attending a client in the shop and talking to another client, another hairdresser, his annoying boss Norman, and Jill (she needs to make a decision in order to get a job in a trip to Egypt). His feelings are pushed away in so many directions that by the end of the movie you won't care too much about him. In some times you might he's getting out with some of his clients for money, almost like a male prostitute, desperately to get something (his shop). But quoting his own words I don't do sex for money I do it for fun (Best quote in the film). The female characters seems to be killing time, having fun but they don't want to share George, after all he makes her lives so much fun with all the sex and the hairdos. To make things worst Lester arrange a meet (where he possibly can loan some money to George) with all these characters together in a Republican convention. Big mess!As a comedy and film I must say it's really though to watch it. I have missed or fell asleep during this film ten times, always finding boring, endless and this sort of things. On the 11th time I finally get it and watched the whole film. Still I don't find it a funny movie (except for some parts like the party at the end of the movie). But it has many good things. Hal Ashby directed Shampoo in 1975 and this was Hollywood looks into 1968, portraying the peace and love idealism, the songs of that year, many things that are relevant today to place us in a different era, the most representative year of the 1960's. It's background theme of the election and Nixon was interesting to show a little critique to all distracted voters that appeared in the following Presidential election. If they were so distracted and ruthless like the characters of this film and they went to vote in Nixon you might understand why things were the way it was. It was more like a subtle statement against people full of themselves who end up doing wrong things repeated time and doesn't seem to know that one day something is gonna make them realize what they missed. At the end George's gonna realize that he perhaps love one of his women. Too late for that. All of the characters (with the notable exception of the Senator) are deaf and blind (methapors) only seeing and hearing themselves forgetting that a major event is happening in the country. In its conclusion Senator Lester says I hope he'll (Nixon) be better than Johnson. Well, even the movie realized that this story appeared too late and not in a better way.Good cast (Warden is the best in scene) and some good and funny moments but it could be a greater movie if the whole background story was more appellative with more black humor or sharp speeches on sex and politics. It could be better than have all the characters lost in scene. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Well, what I really want is to suck his cock.","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ellis Ambrun wrote an incisive biography about Beatty, and this film is central to that book's theme that promiscuous males (whether they are str8 or gay) ultimately miss out on maturity.In Beatty's real-life, he managed to secure a happy-ending (thus far) by finding love w/ Ms. Benning, but in this film the opposite is true the George character is left alone on a Beverly Hills hill top ... having gained measurable professional success, but having lost tangible personal success (all in a period of twenty-four hours). Shampoo is, for all its surface comedy and hilarious dialog/situations, an ultimately sad and all-too-common MySpace.com story. As a str8 male in the new millennium, who has been promiscuous more than is palatable, I felt a lot of the emotions (registered by the leads in this film) has played out in my life. I've known real-life women like the 'cast-away girlfriend' and the 'unsatisfied, older horny woman' characters portrayed by Hawn and Grant. These people do exist. It's a credit to the acting, the direction, and the writing on this film that makes the overall production believable.In this film, the setting is Nixon's election eve victory of '68, but the underlying, raw theme missing out on the maturity of fidelity and love; is as relevant today. "}{"Title":"Pointless And Purposeless","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having just watched Reds in the last few days, I begin to see a trend, and it puzzles me how did Warren Beatty manage to put out yawner after yawner as a producer and still manage to stay in the business (and not only stay in the business, but be hailed by some as a great film-maker?) It's truly a puzzle. I doubt any two movies could be more different than Reds and Shampoo and yet they have this in common they're rather dull watching. To Shampoo you must add the adjectives pointless and purposeless although, admittedly, I liked it more than I liked Reds - which isn't really much of a compliment! In Shampoo Beatty casts himself as hairdresser George Roundy. George is completely self-absorbed and hedonistic, admitting at one point that the only reason he became a hairdresser was because of all the beautiful women he figured he'd get to sleep with. He juggles relationships and seems to have no real commitment to anyone but himself. (Perhaps producer Beatty was making an unconscious autobiographical comment?) The problem is that it's just not consistently funny. There are a few scenes, yes, but not enough to make this work, and in the end the movie doesn't seem to go anywhere. I can live with pointless and purposeless movies, because often it's the very pointlessness that makes a comedy funny - you're not to take it seriously; you're just to laugh. I didn't really laugh at this movie, and, in fact, I think Beatty wants us to take something seriously here, but I'm not sure what. I'm also not sure what having the 1968 presidential election win of the Nixon/Agnew ticket as the backdrop had to do with the movie, either.What did this movie have going for it? Well, Goldie Hawn. She was pretty good, and stunning in that micro-mini she wore. The other women in George's life (played by Julie Christie and Lee Grant) were also well portrayed. Perhaps the best performance of the movie, though, was from Jack Warden as Lester Carp. In the end, though, what I liked best about a movie that I didn't like much was that two of George's women finally told him to get lost - which they should have done a long time before. The only thing that might have made this better would have been if Carp had told his goons to beat the tar out of George! At least there would have been a sense of George paying a price for his self-absorption. As it stands? 3/10 "},{"Title":"Casanova as a harried Hollywood hairdresser","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robert Towne, who has written a number of popular movies and at least one critically acclaimed one--Chinatown (1974)--and Warren Beatty wrote this satire of Hollywood. Beatty plays George Roundy, a not entirely bright but nimble hairdresser on a motorcycle who is much beloved and desired by woman. The women doing most of the desiring are Lee Grant (Felicia), Julie Christie (Jackie), and Goldie Hawn (Jill). Jack Warden plays Lester a successful investor who, to his chagrin and ultimate amusement, learns that his wife, his mistress, and his daughter Lorna (Carrie Fisher) are being bedded by the guy he thinks is gay. (Shades of the sham eunuch in the harem!) This is a premise that many in the Hollywood Hills could not resist, the irony cutting so beautifully through the canyons and swimming pools and the lavish parties. Most of the action takes place on that November day in 1968 when Nixon and Agnew were swept into the White House by the silent majority. Lester and his friends are quite pleased and are celebrating as the election returns come in. Meanwhile George is trying to raise money so he can open his own shop since he's got the heads. Keeping the heads though turns out to be more than he can handle--and to be honest jumping from bed to bed several times a day with several different women might be too much for any man.Will Georgie-Porgie, puddin' pie (who kissed the girls and made them cry) get the money for his shop and the girl he loves--and which girl is it, that he loves? Goldie Hawn wears a micro-mini (but there's no peeking!) and Julie Christie sports a short pony skirt with boots while Lee Grant has to play the eldest woman. Now, who gets George and would she really want him? Some nice sixties/seventies Hollywood decadence graces the screen along with free love and don't bogart that number. In the background there are a lot of mug shots of Nixon and Agnew in juxtaposition as a kind of joke since the movie was made in 1975 not long after Watergate.Beatty, playing a role said to be patterned after makeup artist Jay Sebring, is competent and wins our sympathy, maybe because we know he's never going to amount to much. Or does he? Lee Grant won an Oscar as Best Supporting Actress, but to be honest I thought Julie Christie was better, although they both were good. Actors carried this with Warden and Hawn also putting in strong performances.Shampoo is not so much funny as it is amusing. It's like a superior sit-com without the laugh track, but in no way is it a defining Hollywood film.See this for Warren Beatty, one of the Hollywood royalty, brother of Shirley MacLaine and husband of Annette Bening.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Bad hair day ....","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" SHAMPOO is rather pointedly set in early November of 1968, with the pivotal action taking place on the night of the presidential election that saw the beginning of the Nixon-Agnew administration. Also, rather pointedly, images and references to Richard Nixon and Spiro Agnew pop up all over the place, with nary a mention of any sort to the opposing Humphrey-Muskie ticket, let alone third party candidate George Wallace. Clearly the intent wasn't to use the election as mere window dressing nor to focus on politics in general, but to specifically target Nixon and Agnew, whose various scandals and misdeeds came to a head in 1975, the year of SHAMPOO's release. On the one hand, the choice of dates (credited to star, co-writer and producer Warren Beatty) is ingenious, as it places the action at a pivotal point in our social and ethical history. Yet, it is also a bit disingenuous, because SHAMPOO isn't a political farce, it is a sex farce, and it seems to use Nixon as a symbolic scapegoat for the loose morality and declining sexual ethics that grew out of sex-drugs-and-rock'n'roll liberalism. Richard M. Nixon was clearly guilty of many things, but promoting promiscuity and hedonistic excesses is not among them.When you set aside the political posturing and look past the 70s soft-focus realism, SHAMPOO is really just your standard sex farce. Beatty plays George, a hustling ladies' man who juggles the affections of several women -- among them his girl of the moment, Jill (Goldie Hawn); a former lover, Jackie (Julie Christie); and a demanding, rich client, Felicia (Lee Grant), who uses him as a boytoy sex object. In true farcical fashion, all of George's women, and all of his various lies, converge on one particularly important and hectic evening, and his shaky house-of-cards love life starts to shake. The twist is that George is a Beverly Hills hairdresser, and being a straight man in a gay man's field, the film gets both a type of disguise and a form of mistaken identity which are also traditional elements of classic farce.What makes SHAMPOO atypical of farce is that it really isn't all that funny. Humorous, yes; but in a dark melancholy way. In a creepy sort of way, the film tries to be tragic farce, rather than comic farce; and it almost succeeds. As the story unfolds, George emerges as a truly hapless character; self-doubting, sexually addicted and somewhat self-destructive. You can sense the contemptuous affection he has for women and that he resents the power they have over him because he can't resist either their sexual charms or their neediness. The most interesting part of the film is trying to figure out where famed playboy Warren ends and the guilelessly libidinous George begins. To hear George/Warren bemoaning what a burden it is to be lusted after and how taxing it is to be constantly satisfying beautiful women is at once deliciously ironic and strangely unsettling. The actor, the character and the film all seem to share a numbing self-pity that is genuinely sincere and not intended to be laughed at. And that sincerity is actually cruelly funny.Though a ladies' man he may have been, Beatty has never projected a particularly macho persona, either on screen or off. Though his soft-spoken, diffident and vaguely befuddled demeanor on screen might, indeed, hide a swaggering, conceited personality off screen, Beatty nonetheless honestly comes off as a nice guy, even when his characters are lying, manipulative jerks. In SHAMPOO, whether or not he is playing himself -- or some version of himself, clearly this movie plays off his Romeo reputation and pretty boy image with more calculated intent than any other film he has made. Watching it, you can't help wonder if what George goes through to finance a dream of his own beauty shop is really much different from what Warren had to do to get this film made. And maybe Warren's sex life wasn't much different either.But however personal the film may be, it is set on election night 1968, and the political weight it carries, whether meaningful or cavalier, can't be overlooked. I don't think the film carries any sort of pro-liberal message, or for that matter any real anti-conservative message. Indeed, it is the Republicans in the film who are the most socially conscientious, and seem to have a real hope for the future, all wrapped up in their support of Nixon. In fact, the most open-minded and optimistic person is Jack Warden's Lester, the man who unknowingly shares his wife and his mistress with his potential business partner, George. While everyone else is obsessed with sex and vanity and greed, Lester -- the film's nominal villain -- seems sincerely concerned with keeping everyone satisfied, whether it's his family, his party guests or his country. So, if the film has any political stance, it is anti-apathy. Nixon got elected, the film seems to suggest, not because Republicans are bad, but because not enough people cared, or at least they weren't paying attention. The film has two parties -- and not Democrat and Republican -- but, rather, while the GOP was celebrating victory at a fancy dinner party; sex, drugs and rock'n'roll were on the agenda at the orgy across town. SHAMPOO was already a period piece in 1975 and was considered a commentary on the Nixon years. But the story takes place in 1968, and its stinging insight is directed at the trendy superficiality of the era, political and otherwise. While 60s liberalism inspired great passion in some, to others, then as well as now, political involvement is no more enduring or meaningful than the latest hairstyle. "},{"Title":"A movie that lacks a point....unless YOU want to provide it with one.","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Obviously there are people who love this film and consider it one of the best and most underrated comedies of the 70's, but frankly, I found it dull and pointless. The meandering story hops around for nearly two hours, the supposedly comic sequences don't pay off....and to call this a political satire you'd have to be VERY generous. Near the end, there's a well-played scene with Beatty and Jack Warden, and the actual downbeat, bitter ending gives some weight to the picture....but by then it's too late. (**) "},{"Title":"Dated and unexciting","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is not a horrible movie, but not as good as it should have been. What's with the comment earlier about the ending? Heloooo !! What did this person have on his/her mind? Their own scenerio? The ending is Julie Christie leaves Warren Beatty for a better life. Simple as that. There is no murder plot of any kind, even reading between the lines. This must have been an easy screenplay to write as it's based on Warren Beattys real life character and all kinds of Hollywood sex and drug people. A real mistake is when Beatty waits for Goldie Hawn to come home. He arrives before her on his cycle which he didn't even have at the party. How did he get it? If took a taxi home, then got it.. fine...but Goldie would have been home long before. Also, when she arrives it's nighttime, and when she enters the house a second later and see Warren in the terrace...it's DAYLIGHT.. How could that be? Surly they must have caught this in editing. What happened? "},{"Title":"All Dressed Up With Nothing To Say.","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm still not sure why, but Shampoo is set during a 24-hour period in 1968. So in one day's time, Nixon will be making his victory speech on television, promising an open administration. In two days' time, George, a hairdresser, will have managed the destruction of three affairs, fleetingly laid a potential fresh prospect and experienced the shambles of his false impressions. Shampoo never totally unites its images of American averageness and individual fool's paradise, although perhaps it doesn't need to. Perhaps the indication is that in a country that doesn't communicate, doesn't believe naked truth, what you wind up with is a Nixon in office and a stranger in bed.George is played by writer/producer Warren Beatty as a celebrated Beverly Hills hairdresser and sexual superjock. He has sex gleefully with innumerable customers, not so much because he's wanton as because he's motivated, and always has been As long as I can remember, when I see a pretty girl and I go after her and I make it with her, it's like I'm gonna live forever. It's an optimistic outlook, although throughout the 40 or so hours encompassed in Shampoo he gets too many pretty girls and too many behind-the-scenes lives confused, and is relinquished confronting a possible future without the woman he (maybe) truly does love. That his future also includes Nixon and Agnew is something he never thinks about and possibly hasn't even picked up on. He drifts amongst a shrubbery of news broadcasts and election-night festivities completely absorbed in his own bafflements.But if you thought, quite understandably, that Beatty wrote a script where he playing a super-stud would essentially get to bang as many hot actresses as he could, the erotic acrobatics aren't actually what the movie really cares about, and the sex scenes are never elucidated in a sensual way. They're directed by Hal Ashby more as side effects of Beatty's crisis, which is that he likes being affectionate and sweet, he listens to his customers and occasionally even does actually get concerned with their issues, yet in some ultimate way he's too clouded to make a profound connection, to truly give himself.He's living with Goldie Hawn, a harmless and somewhat elementary girl who innocently thinks she has him to herself. Hawn's best friend is Julie Christie, whose feet are closer to the ground. Christie and Beatty had an affair going at one time, and they revisit it intermittently, though presently Jackie is being supported by an orange-haired fat cat, played by Jack Warden, with obscurely menacing affiliates. Oh, and his wife Lee Grant is one of Beatty's customers down at the salon and in bed. Over the duration of the film, Beatty is also effective in seducing or being seduced by Lester's daughter, so he has the sucker in a checkmate.Shampoo is a movie I thought I would appreciate exceedingly. It was made by some of Hollywood's most accomplished figures of the time, including its smart, subtle and under-appreciated director, a giant and notable cast that surely pre-sold it, Beatty's co-writer Robert Towne who wrote Chinatown, and its cinematographer the great Laszlo Kovacs, who was influential in the development of New Hollywood-era films and most famous for his award-winning work on Easy Rider, Five Easy Pieces and Paper Moon. But its rhythm isn't self-assured enough to achieve its big ideas. It feels like everyone took this as a holiday. It's not funny or emotional or pointed. It's not the opposite of any of those things either. It's just there. I'd like to say I enjoyed Lee Grant, Hawn, Christie, but all the women run together and none of the men seem to be motivated as much as acted upon.It isn't as effective as it could have been in the humorous parts. It isn't as brutal as it could have been in its parodies and ironies, like when an elite Nixon clique's election-night party decelerates in an inane string of what seem like fraternity incantations from a U.S. senator, whose manner of conducting himself is so unreasonably far-fetched it doesn't succeed as anything. And it's not as affecting as it could be in its scenes of authenticity, as we can see the mechanisms. We can tell that the movie's supplying compulsory scenes rather than absorbing us in a progression of findings about its characters. It feels as if to have been put together in a stoned daze, where one's ideas and abstractions are so much bigger than one's actual output. "},{"Title":"Popcorn Flick Pick Shampoo (1975)","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Shampoo is a film that can be fun and inviting even after several viewings,and it's the skillful direction that keeps the film at an easy pace, and flowing. Director Ashby finds the stillness of these rambunctious characters at different moments in time, and projects their hidden integrity with curious nuance and texture. Personally, I love film's where its narrative is set within a reasonably compacted amount of time (i.e. Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf, Halloween) because, A) the plot and people within become immensely compelling, and exciting, and B) the arc and/or climax of the film is usually something of a doozie. Shampoo's players are always up to one thing or another, and it ends up becoming one helluva of a 48 hours for them all. Set on election eve 1968, the film perfectly captures the craziness of those groovy hippie times, filled with hidden (and expressed) sexuality, the power and restraints of one's actions, and finding out what the real world is all about. To George, the world revolves around his many women with their precious hair, and his own personal predicaments. Within almost two days his perfect world slowly crumbles away, and he is forcefully exposed to the reality everyone else lives in. In fact, the compacted time set is essential to the entire feel of the film, as all of the characters (not just George) are abruptly and unexpectedly shown what they couldn't see and comprehend from the get-go. We are constantly waiting for the moment where one of these people will see what the others cannot, and as the film continues those cracks in this golden egg of a world begin to show.Art almost imitated life when Warren Beatty played the womanizing hairdresser, who's had more woman in his bed than all of the Kennedy's combined. The character of George redefines what we today call, a man-whore. That's right, like a heterosexual hustler who doesn't make his clients pay for his services (I don't **** anybody for money, I do it for fun!). Beatty may be the one true weak link in the film, and it's a shame considering he's the center of it. His portrayal of George is quite flawed, and its amazing the rest aren't taken down with him. George is a player, right? Than why doesn't he act like one? Where is that control and aggressiveness a hustler would/should possess? To me, all George looks like is a Labrador being told what to do (yes I got that from The Constant Gardener). We see George's growing anxiety and short attention span, but Beatty just seems to walk through the film, and the performance ends up being a complete misreading of the character. Luckily Beatty's scenes are brightened up with the help of his co-stars, Goldie Hawn and Julie Christie, who both deliver first-class performances. They play best friends, but are actually quite the exact opposite of each other; Jill is the loyal and loving girlfriend of George, who is strong willed, but a bit naive. Jackie is the ex-girlfriend of George who (like any women) would still screw him in a New York minute, and is not naive to the fact that George is a lying bed-hopper. Both actress' are perfectly cast in their roles, and as always, give depth to their characterizations even if the script doesn't. As the day goes on, both ladies discover what their secretly shared lover is all about under unfortunate circumstances. Jill's arc is given subtle shadings thanks to Hawn - who possess over flowing charm, but who is able to ground her character and surroundings. Much like in her other roles, her golden locks may project her giggling and lightweight persona, but theirs much more to it than that. The fluff is inlaid with indelible strength and intelligence. And Hawn's take on Jill is no exception. Christie makes Jackie a person who you can hate and feel for at the same time. Although we don't know much about her past, we can perceive that it wasn't as pretty as she is. The next player is perhaps one of my favorite aspect's of the film, and she won the Oscar for her engaging performance of a wealthy but bored housewife. Yup, that player is Ms. Lee Grant who remains vivid in her part even after all these years. Grant is aware of the typical bitch housewife routine set up for her, so she gracefully avoids it, and gives her role a resolute feeling of following dreams and losing them just as quickly. Felicia is very much human, and not some cartoon sketched up to pass the time. For example in the scene where she finds George coming out of her daughter's bathroom, even behind those bug-eyed sunglasses we can still see her questioning and doubt about what really just happened. Then to push those ideas aside, she must immediately pounce on George, so psychologically she has the upper-hand to her daughter who only gets to enjoy the ride once. Aside from the technical aspects of the performance, Grant's Felicia is a real hoot to watch. Walking around her house in a mink coat, having different hairstyles in every scene, her neurotic ranting and line readings. God, I wanted more! However for me, the icing on the already delicious cake is her climactic chance of attempting to turn around her life which is slowly falling apart. Her husband is trying ever so gently to avoid the conversation, but Felicia knows that this is the final straw (No....no we cannot go into this later.). After Lester refuses to hear the reality of the situation, Felicia forcefully shoves it down his throat with a sharp edge.To sum it all up, this is one bottle of shampoo that never looses its luster, texture, or proficiency. "},{"Title":"Fair","Date":"16 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Shampoo (1975) ** (out of 4) Election Day, 1968; a L.A. hairdresser (Warren Beatty) finds his life falling apart when the bank turns him down on a loan to start his own shop but things get even worse when the four women in his life start to cause trouble. This is a film I've been wanting to see for a very long time but boy did it turn out to be a major disappointment. I knew I was going to be in trouble after the first thirty-minutes because I really didn't care for any of the characters. Not Beatty's womanizer or any of his women. If I couldn't care for these people I just didn't care what was going to happen throughout the rest of the film. I think the biggest problem is the screenplay written by Beatty and Robert Towne. The screenplay goes after a lot of things from politics to sexuality to the showbiz but I don't think it does any of the subjects justice. I think the film is all over the place without any clear direction of what it's trying to say or do. I have no idea if Beatty and Ashby clashed during the making of the film but nothing seemed to come off too well. What does work are the performances, which are all rather good. Beatty is especially good and gets most of the laughs with his laid back approach to his character. I loved the scene in the shop where Goldie Hawn is trying to tell him something important but he isn't paying any attention to her. The way Beatty keeps overlooking what she's saying is priceless. Hawn herself does a good job with her role but unfortunately it's a thankless one that doesn't allow her too much. Julie Christie steals the film during one drunken scene where she says something to Beatty, which is another highlight for the film. Lee Grant won an Oscar for her role here but I didn't find her overly good. Jack Warden is also wasted in his role. Carrie Fisher does a very good job in her small role. I'm pretty sure Beatty was wanting to comment on the Nixon election as well as people in general but I think he forgot to add any drama or emotions. The ending, which seems like a weak version of the one in The Last Detail doesn't have the impact it was going for. The soundtrack featuring The Beatles, The Monkees, The Beach Boys, Jefferson Airplane and Jimi Hendrix is a good one. "},{"Title":"this was an awesome movie","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i was most definitely way too young when i saw this movie. but however i did enjoy it. a couple of parts were very....inappropriate for a 10 year old. basically the whole movie was watching Warren Beatty do it with people. at the time i didn't understand half of what they said.And when Carrie fisher said So do you wanna f**k?? i had no idea what that meant.As i said early i was to little to understand the movie. but now that i'm older i understand it better and understand what they are saying. overall it was a good movie, the acting was good and it was pretty funny...i guess. and this was Carrie fisher's first film, the original reason why i watched it in the first place. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A satire about modern relationships, sex, love triangles and contradicting values in regard to these issues, the film has some interesting ideas, such as whether sex is just for fun, and some amusing moments, but it falls a little short in building up a solid story. Beatty still has an interesting character one whose ease in which he has sex with so many people is actually quite funny to watch, and the film is somewhat of a cultural study - the times of the '70s. Some people will have heard of the film simply because of Lee Grant's Oscar win, which is a bit of a surprise, because the film is not really one for acting. Warden was also nominated that year, and gives a performance that verges on being good in the film. But the only real outstanding piece of acting comes from Carrie Fisher, who is effective in her big screen debut. Overall, the film is far off being anything near a masterpiece, but it has quite a few good elements, and if one can get a copy it may just be worth checking out. "}{"Title":"I Enjoy Shampoo More Than This Film","Date":"27 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The romantic comedy Shampoo is directed by Hal Ashby and stars Warren Beatty, Julie Christie, Goldie Hawn, and Lee Grant. The film takes place on election eve in 1968 in Beverly Hills.The film starts off with George Roundy (Beatty) in bed with a woman and then has to go to the hair salon he works at because he is a hair dresser. Roundy is a very casual man in life. He has sex with basically every woman at the hair salon that he works at, and every woman outside of it that he sees. He has what I guess he would call a relationship with a girl Jill (Hawn) and also one with a mistress of a very powerful business man, Jackie Shawn (Christie), and his wife, Felicia Karpf (Grant). The whole film is basically Roundy trying to juggle his love life while trying to convince the powerful business man, Lester Karpf, to invest money in the hair salon he wants to open up.The screenplay for this film was not very strong. The central problem of it is that the main character Roundy is not very relatable. The only person that could relate to Roundy is probably Beatty himself. I felt no connection to such shallow characters that are willing to have so many affairs. The plot itself could have never worked out in my opinion, unless they made it purely a comedy. And on that note the film was not even funny, I didn't even know where it would be that I was expected to laugh.The direction for the film was decent, but nothing noteworthy. Like I said before I felt no connection to the characters and Ashby did nothing to help me with that. I guess he was able to get pretty decent performances out of the actors, so that was probably what he did best. None of the shots were too impressive, and there were no sort of shots that intended the film was at all a comedy. Ashby overall had a successful career as a director winning an Oscar himself and getting a few for some of the actors he worked with, but this was not his best.The acting in this film was okay. I am not really a fan of Warren Beatty and his role in this did not make me change my opinion of him. Still I must see Bugsy which I hear is quite good. For this though he did not connect me at all to his character, I just thought he was pitiful and I couldn't care for him or for any of his problems. He did nothing to make the part funny either. Usually when someone writes and stars in the film they know exactly what they are looking for to make it just right and maybe Beatty got what he wanted out of the role, but he did not convince me that he was in anyway praise worthy. Hawn was not that good as Jill, she was basically just a dumb girl that at the end I was supposed to have an emotional attachment to but had none at all. I felt no connection to either Christie or Grant and I do not believe that Grant really deserved her Oscar. No one sucked me into this film like an actor should.Overall I give this film a 4/10. The main problem was I just never could get into the story and support the characters. If I was forced to recommend this I would do so to people who enjoy romantic comedies. "},{"Title":"it really seemed like the world might topple over","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wonderful film that has held up remarkably well. Much helped by excellent and very sharp dialogue this portrait of a particular moment in the late 60's when the hedonism of the young was in such opposition to the 'established' way that it really seemed like the world might topple over. But Nixon was elected, there was pause for breath and the experiment was over. Politics aside this is funny, sexy and a real treat to watch. All the performances are spot on and as, for me anyway, all three leads can be a bit lazy, Ashby does a great job in bringing out most believable and endearing turns. The only slight snag, I feel, is that Julie Christie looks a little less than stunning under what I hope is a greyish wig. Particularly noticeable because this is ostensibly about hairdressing but never mind, others seem to love her look so it must just be me. "},{"Title":"Great, just great, really great.","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's the hallmark of a truly great film that each time you see it you derive something more from it. I hadn't seen SHAMPOO in quite a long time. I had liked it when it came out in what is now something of a annis mirabile, 1975, the post war equivalent of 1939 in the Hollywood film industry. At heart this is the classic male dilemma, older than Aesop, set in a specific time and place. Here the time is the apocalyptic election night in November, 1968. The place is Los Angeles or rather several different layers of Los Angeles society.Despite his best efforts, hairdresser George Roundy (Warren Beaty), reputedly based on Mason Family murder victim Jay Sebring, has come to a crossroads in his life. He is living with Jill (Golde Hawn), a would be actress who isn't above having an affair of her own on the side, while maintaining an affair with Jackie Shawn (Julie Christie), a kept woman of a rich man (Jack Warden) not above using strong arm tactics to get ahead, and screwing Felicia (Lee Grant), a client and the wife of the same businessman, as well as her daughter (Carrie Fisher), and various and sundry other females who he comes into contact with. George is beginning to think that maybe there is something more to life and that he really prefers similarly fidelity challenged Jackie to the unsubstantial Jill or any other of the numerous women he knows. This all come to a head, no pun intended, on election night, 1968. George is invited to the election night party of the Beverly Hills Republicans as are all of the entangled parties.When they enter the party, there is a horrible ricky ticky band listlessly playing a crap arrangement of Lennon and McCartney's Yesterday, giving a new meaning to the song, giving the whole shebang the pale cast of reactionary torpor. They leave the party and go to a really far out party and Sergeant Peppers Lonely Hearts Club Band is playing. When George and Jackie have their love scene, its done to Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds.A sudden death of a tangential character crystallizes the problem in George's head and he attempts to rectify it but finds out its too late. Someone left the cake out in the rain, as we used to say in the sixties.At once this film takes on the the essential male myth and lives as a concrete record of a time and place, and, rarely, if you look at some of the films from that era now, one that holds up perfectly today. Not to be missed are speeches being made by Nixon and Agnew, the felon and vice felon in chief, lying through their asses about the honesty and high moral standards they will be bringing to the government. Nothing has to be done to make the political point other than showing the crooks in their own words on the night.SHAMPOO is one of the best films that represent the mid-seventies, the last high point in American cinema. After this period the really excellent films came on ones and never again en masse as they did then. "},{"Title":"Beatty embodies with body and spirit","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Warren Beatty perfectly embodies the anarchist loner who struggles for love, yet settles for lust. Check out the scene in the bank where George is determined to get a loan for the hair shop he's always wanted, yet the bureaucratic schmuck won't give him a chance. Times sure haven't changed.Hal Ashby made some of the satisfying films of our times and SHAMPOO has it all timing, comedy, love and loss, the struggle to strive to attain something yet not quite being able to attain it. Everyone in this film is beautifully cast and the music (much of it by Paul Simon) is phenomenal. "},{"Title":"One of AFI's FUNNIEST movies of all time?  Strange...","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To see the movie's original trailer, and to hear much of the criticism of Shampoo, you'd think it was a raucous romp of a movie, and that's about it. Morality be damned, it's all just fun. But there is so much more to this movie that is serious and compelling, it's hard to rate this movie as a comedy. Perhaps it's the shockingly promiscuous behavior of the characters that prompted laughter in the theaters. I admit that I was shocked by some of the behavior in the movie watching it in 2004! I can only imagine how 1975's average movie-goer saw it! But it was more scathing character study than social satire, and much of it very serious.You can't help but wonder if Warren Beatty (with legendary screenwriter Robert Towne co-scripting) wrote a character to explain himself to the world. Yes, I've been with lots of women in Hollywood, including Julie Christie, Diane Keaton and even Madonna before settling down with Annette Bening, but there's more to me!!!! And more IS told in this film than tawdry exploits. It examines the emptiness of the lives of baby-boomers during the late 60s who were outright rebelling against, or trying very unsuccessfully to live within, the confines of what was right and moral.Lee Grant was effective and entertaining as an unhappy older woman (but not much older) having a fling with Beatty and cheating on her cheating husband Jack Warden. But was it Oscar-worthy? Methinks not. It was good, not great. Give that Oscar to Goldie Hawn or Julie Christie instead! And Jack Warden was robbed of an Oscar, infusing so much pathos into the persona of a man simply too old to live like the kids do, but trying way too hard to keep up anyway. Despite his riches and establishment stuffiness, Warden gives a performance that makes you feel for him and understand the man he's trying to grow up and be. Seeing him in a party of hippies was so sad, you just wanted him to go home and get a good night's sleep. In the hands of a less gifted actor, the role would have been seen as merely clownish or cold.All in all, Shampoo was a great, biting criticism of how life was going for the confused masses who shook their heads in disbelief as Tricky Dick was elected TWICE, and were trying to update the book of morality for a far more open generation. You can definitely see how today's 20 or 30-somethings might have grown up to be misguided and lost with parents like these! "},{"Title":"The definitive Hasn't Aged Well picture.","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What once perhaps seemed edgy now seems trite. What once seemed sexy now seems silly. And a performance that once seemed Oscar-worthy (Lee Grant's) now seems a head-scratching victory (in one of the weakest years for female roles in movie history) over Lily Tomlin's role as white gospel singer Linnea Reese in Nashville. This is a film I looked forward to seeing in a theater, and when it was finally re-released I remembered wondering what all the fuss was about or why Pauline Kael raved about it.Unsympathetic characters can be very fascinating, but that is simply not the case here. I grew somewhat weary of these self-absorbed basket cases by the halfway point. Julie Christie, who to me has always been better in the roles for which she's received LESS acclaim, uses her considerable charm to elevate the material, but it doesn't come close enough to salvage a script that may have sparkled freshly in 1975 but has dulled considerably since. I cannot go back in time to see how this would have played in the ME decade, but today it pales vastly in comparison with director Hal Ashby's great work on Being There, Coming Home, and Harold and Maude. "},{"Title":"Insignificant unfocused flick doesn't work as comedy, satire or character study.","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Warren Beatty is a favourite of the ladies, both for his abilities as a hairdresser, and in the sack. That's about the extent of this one. It bandies about in love triangles and politics, but to no significance.Some of the dialogue and some moments are memorable, but generally the screenplay lacks direction, and meanders quite badly. It doesn't really work as comedy, is not really penetrating as satire (a few Nixon posters does not equal a political film), nor as character study - the characters are just not interesting enough!Its just a shambles, quite honestly, with a poor attempt to try and make the whole thing poignant at the end, as if anything resembling true human emotion exists in this film!1/5. There is one piece of music in particular, in this film scored by Simon of Simon and Garfunkel that is just so beautiful - that's the only reason i recommend you see this. It seems to be his only contribution to the soundtrack - the rest is made up of Hendrix, The Beatles and assorted artists. "},{"Title":"I was bored","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A hairdresser (Warren Beatty) is addicted to sex. He sleeps with virtually every woman he meets (but primarily with Lee Grant, Julie Christie and Goldie Hawn). This takes place in 1968 and shows his life slowly unraveling because of his addiction to sex.Unsuccessful, unfunny, unfocused and VERY obvious satire. It's also very dated--no way would this be made today. I suppose in 1975 this was considered daring and innovative--it sure isn't today. There are some good moments (especially a hilarious dinner party sequence) but they're buried. Also Beatty's character is such a jerk I felt no sympathy for him at all. It got dull watching a totally unlikable character seduce every woman he meets.I'm giving this a 6 for the actors. Beatty is handsome, buff and very good. Lee Grant deservedly won a Best Supporting Actress Award for her role. Julie Christie is just gorgeous and very good as a mistress. Goldie isn't that good--but she's not given much to do. And Jack Warden was nominated for his performance as a cheating husband. Also this was Carrie Fishers' film debut and look for Andrew Stevens (nude) at a drug party.This was a huge hit in 1975. It just doesn't hold up anymore. "},{"Title":"biggest letdown ever.","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For weeks I had heard that the critics raved about this movie.  When I saw it, I kept thinking it has to get better.  The critics wouldn't say it was good if it wasn't.  This was my turning point.  If the critics love it I don't go to it if they hate it I will generally love it. "},{"Title":"Great comic vehicle for Beatty","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are enough comic situations that work accompanied some actually moving drama (especially at the end) to allow me to recommend this film. Warren Beatty, as elite hairdresser George Roundy, really carries this film and his evasiveness, optimism, wit, and yes libido in the various scenes are put to good comic use. The female co-stars are also more than competent in their roles. Overall, I think this film is somewhat overrated but still worthwhile, 7/10.  "}{"Title":"interesting...Beatty Bio?? could be....","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Never having seen this til this weekend, wasn't sure what to expect.   I liked Beatty, he was obviously playing someone younger than his actual(38) age-and did quite a good job. He looked alarmingly like either David Cassidy or Rick Springfield in that get-up, so...some of the effect was dulled by that. His guy was really...a drifter through life, a Zonker-Lothario type, who couldn't committ, and seemed to be attracted to like minded gals he waited on and etc. Goldie Hawn as always plays Goldie Hawn-but that is alright-she is what Melanie Griffiths could have been without all the drugs and some career smarts.Julie Christie seemed outta place-what is such a classy lady as this doing drooling over Beatty, Warden, etc.? Of course she added much to the flick-but....better than the material.Lee Grant got an Oscar for being a randy older woman-hmmm, yeah she was fun, cynical and all that. Good turn by her.I enjoyed seeing 19 year old Carrie Fisher basically play Amy Fisher here. And to think a bare year later she was 'Princess Leia' LOL. Yup. Interesting casting there Lucas.Other things-the Nixon election backdrop, the love quadrangles, the image of Beatty on the hill, alone, etc. are poignant, funny, etc. I got a kick outta seeing Johnny Fever as Hawn's date too-though it was hard to recognize him through the hair, bellbottoms and etc.Overall-dated somewhat, but alright...*** outta ****. "},{"Title":"It's awful! Warren Beatty is a world-class jerk!","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The year 1975 was supposed to be a banner year in cinema, but I can't think of another year where I have more often said, I just don't get it. There are so many films released in 1975 that are *supposed* to be classics of the '70's -- Dog Day Afternoon, Nashville, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, The Sunshine Boys, Three Days of the Condor -- but I've watched all of those movies, and I can't understand WHY so many people think they are so good.(I can think of only one movie released in 1975 that really deserves to be called a classic. You can guess what it is.) Shampoo is another example. I watched it and I couldn't understand why some people think it's a comedy classic, or why AFI chose it as #47 on their list of the funniest movies of all time.In the movie, Warren Beatty plays George Roundy, a Hollywood hairdresser who REALLY needs a haircut. He is a skilled hairdresser, but when he gets done trimmin' the women, he usually pops into bed with them. George dreams of opening his own beauty shop, but can't get financing for it. He schmoozes Lester Karpf (Jack Warden), a shady businessman, as a possible financier, but also carries on affairs with Lester's wife (Lee Grant), his daughter (Carrie Fisher), and his mistress (Julie Christie). In addition, George has his own girl (Goldie Hawn), a ditzy actress who for some reason thinks that she is the only woman in George's life.The movie was a long slow wait for the inevitable moment when these women wake up and realize that George is a self-absorbed jerk who is never going to love any of them. I couldn't understand why any of them would find George so attractive to begin with.The movie only has one really funny moment. The rest is just a long slow slog to nowhere. As Roundy runs around, his women meet each other and find out about his affairs, and do what they should have done in the first place -- drop him like a rock.Yes, Lee Grant gives a good (if brief) performance, but the movie is about someone who is so self-absorbed that you can't help but hate him. By all accounts, Warren Beatty is playing himself in this movie. It's no wonder Carly Simon dedicated the song, You're So Vain. to him. "},{"Title":"most overrecommended movie ever","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  According to the American Film Institute, Shampoo is the #47 funniest movie of all time.  It is officially funnier than anything by Eddie Murphy, Leslie Nielsen (except Airplane), Jim Carrey, Steve Martin, the Three Stooges, all Disney cartoons, and any 90's (or 80's for that matter) teen comedy.  It is funnier than Ferris Bueller, Shakespeare in Love, and The Sting.  It's even funnier than the IMDB comedy-favorite One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest which coincidentally won the Oscar the same year.Shampoo may work as a Broadway play, and may have been an okay movie in 1975.  Shampoo might offer literary value if you take several hours to analyze it.  But pitching it as a funny movie is just wrong. "},{"Title":"forgettable","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe this movie is supposed to be a comedy. I only laughed once during this very unfunny movie. I also find it hard to believe that this movie is suppposed to be a romance. More like a sex movie. If there was any romance whatsoever, I'm sure I missed it. Romance is portrayed just as sex. In fact, the sex is so overdone that it just gets boring. I found it hard to keep track of who's sleeping with whom and who's cheating on whom.This movie is pretty dull. I'm not sure what genre to put it in, but it's not a comedy or a romance. One commenter said that the ending is so sad. I don't even remember the ending, nor do I care. Trust me, this movie is not a must-see. No one was lying in their deathbed shouting, I wished I saw Shampoo! I'm glad I saw it, but only b/c it was one of the last movies I saw in conquering the AFI's 100 funniest movies list. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, sexy, subtle and sophisticated","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ladies and gentlemen, this is as good as it gets. I recently bought all the Hal Ashby films for my DVD collection and promptly watched this beautiful transfer.It had been years since I'd last watched Shampoo, and I was blown away by how wonderful a film it is. Seeing something this smart, witty and provocative really puts the sad state of today's Hollywood product into perspective.If you have good taste, this film is for you.SPOILER ALERT! The ending of this film is so subtle that most people watch it without catching what's really going on... George pleads with Jackie to stay not just because he loves her, but to PROTECT her from Lester.As he stands high on a hilltop watching her get into Lester's car and drive away, his sadness is not just for the loss of her, but something far more tragic... Lester is not taking her away to marry her, but to have her killed.Towne weaves subtle references throughout the script that Lester is involved with the mafia and will not divorce his wife due to the scrutiny it would put on his financial dealings.Most people miss what's really going on at the end and it's a shame because it's one of the things that makes Shampoo a true classic. "},{"Title":"Probably the first porno movie involving big name stars","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After the flood gates have been opened, no one appreciates the first drop of water.  This is what Shampoo was the first movie using established actors (other films made their actors stars afterwards) to show some semblance of the deed (non-explicit, of course--we have not seen that yet in this context).Nowadays, it has been pretty commonplace for many major stars to have an soft core love scene, but the fact that this is so common just goes to show how much of a ground breaking film Shampoo was.  We found out (from a major studio, at least) what the swinging part of being a swinging bachelor involved.If you think Shampoo does not hold up well, try renting Airport or Earthquake or any of the other dreck of disaster flicks that were big at the box office at the time.  I believe when you see what we were getting from major studios at the time, you will appreciate Shampoo infinitely more!.Aside  Seeing all those short skirts again brought a tear to my eye--please god bring them back!  "}]