[{"Title":"A Film Way Ahead of its Time","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"77 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  My older brother bought an LP The Who's Tommy in the 60's. I was very young but I liked it. It was a project ahead of its time. In the 70's I had a fantastic music teacher who played music soundtracks of several rock artists for my class, included was The Who's Tommy which I remembered immediately. Three years later, this movie came out directed by Ken Russell. I didn't get it at all. I loved the new soundtrack, still do. I loved the performances in the movie by Elton John and Tina Turner. But as a young teen, the movie I didn't get. Well, 20 years went by and on cable I saw Tommy again. This time, I got it. I understood what Ken Russell's vision was and for 1975 it was WAY ahead of its time. It is, in fact, a brilliant masterpiece of 20th Century pop culture a brave, warped and cartoon mixture of sex, violence, war, religion and celebrity worship with the backdrop of one heck of a rock opera and story by The Who but focusing on the burning questions...what IS the central focus in our lives? Do we choose to look up to the right thing in our lives? And what do they look up to? Do they understand the power they have? Do we? Tommy is an experience in film, not for everyone. Its out there but a vision in its tale. "},{"Title":"A crazy but wonderful interpretation of a legend's music","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"50 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I first came across Tommy when I saw the West End theatre production about 10 years ago, and I instantly fell in love with the music and the plot. However, at the time I was only 11 years old and couldn't really appreciate the many levels to Tommy. I did watch the film pretty soon after but was constantly comparing it to the show and to me it didn't even come close.Now I'm a little older (and hopefully wiser), I have watched the film a lot in the past couple of years and all I can say is WOW! The music is fantastic, Pete Townshend is a genius, and the way he uses it to tell the story is awesome. When you listen to the original Who album a lot is left open to the imagination as regards plot, and I think its important to realise that Ken Russell's film version is merely one interpretation of the story told by the music. Having not seen any of Russell's other work, it's impossible for me to say that this is typical of him. However, what I will say is that the imagery he uses in the film really does spark a lot of interest, for example the hypocrisy of organised religion and icon worship (particularly when Tommy causes Marlyin Monroe to crash to the floor after the rest of the church have been brainwashed by the priests).A lot of people criticise the film for its cast, particularly Oliver Reed and Jack Nicholsons' debatable singing abilities. However I feel that this only adds to the sleaziness of their characters, especially Reed's - I think if he was note perfect it would be out of character. I think Ann Margret is fantastic as Nora - it's obvious that as Tommy's mother she feels torn between the love for her son and the love for fame and money, and she portrays that really well. As for Roger Daltrey, what a voice and what a body!!I think it's important not to take the film too seriously though, like I said it's just one interpretation. I feel that Tommy as a whole - the music, words, story etc can only be fully appreciated if you listen to and watch as many versions as you can in order to make your own opinion of it. "},{"Title":"A fun if overblown rock opera with a cult following, shambolic plot with obvious attacks on religion and an eclectic cast","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"52 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" When her husband is lost in WWII, Nora Walker is left with an unborn baby to raise by herself. Years later she has a fantastic son, Tommy, and is being courted by 'Uncle' Franks Hobbs. However when Tommy sees Frank and his mother killing his real father, he becomes psychosomatically deaf, dumb and blind. This way he stays all the way through to adulthood regardless of what his mother tries to get him cured. Running away from home one night, Tommy finds himself in a junkyard where he finds an old pinball machine and begins to play it. When he turns out to be a natural born wizard on the pinball table it not only leads him to a cure but also causes a religious following to spring up around him.Being born in the 1970's and not really being a retro type of person, I have never gotten into The Who but I am always willing to give a film a try no matter what period it is from or what genre it is. I approached Tommy with hesitancy aware that I may not like the music and that it had a reputation for being all over the place. Well, suffice to say that the latter is certainly true and if you're coming here looking for structure or decent plotting then you'll be not only disappointed but also a touch bewildered! The basic plot is an obvious swipe at religion and, as such, I'm rather surprised this film doesn't have a legacy of Catholic protests (it may do &#150; but usually things like that stick with a film forever, like Life of Brian) following it given the amount of religious imagery in it. It doesn't totally work as it isn't clever enough to be really interesting or sharp enough to serve as a clever attack at religion. However it still manages to be great overblown fun from pretty much start to finish.Credit where credit is due, Ken Russell doesn't run the risk of being remembered as someone who suffered in moderation &#150; no, if he can have Ann Margaret rolling round on the floor then why not cover her in tinned food product? To that end his direction is relentlessly over the top and it actually helps the material because the plot and music are both over the top and revelling in 1970's excesses. It is never funny in a comedy sense but it is fun in the same way as going to a big show like Rock Horror can be, it's hard not to get caught up in the music, performances and sights of the film as everyone is really overdoing it and it's fun! Not being a fan of The Who, I was still won over by the music here &#150; like a west end show mixed with rock and served on top of sliced ham, it is catchy, overblown and enjoyable to listen to. The cast also help and all manage to deliver their lines well even if some of them are not singers as their day jobs.In fact the cast is a big part of this film working quite as well as it did &#150; their performances mostly match the overblown feel of the film. Daltry isn't a great actor but he does well here apart from the odd slip up. Ann Margaret chews the scenery with every chance and her performance is memorable (and I think was Oscar nominated &#150; but I may be wrong). Reed hams it up like a good'un and appears to be enjoying himself immensely &#150; although given the people involved in this film and the legendary habits he had I would not be surprised if it was something other than the film itself that gave him that lecherous leer! The real gold in the film though is a collection of cameos that may not all work but all add to the film Tina Turner IS The Acid Queen, Elton John gets the best song of the film, Clapton doesn't make as much of an impression as I would have liked and the presence of Jack Nicholson is as good as it is surprising!Overall this is a silly, shambolic film that makes very little sense and is not clever enough to make the points about religion that it tries to. However it is overblown, musical and fun to watch with a great collection of people from the period in small roles all through the film. It may frustrate many, which is why it is a 'cult' film as opposed to a classic hit but, for all it's flaws, I found it enjoyable and fun in a big silly OTT way! "},{"Title":"Fantastic Rock Opera!","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I first saw this movie a few years back whilst going through my Uncle's collection of records, tapes and videos etc. To be fair I was fairly sceptical about the prospect of spending at Saturday night drinking and watching a musical film involving The Who (a band I had obviously heard of, but not actually really listened too) with my Uncle. However my Uncle has great taste in music and has introduced me to many great bands and albums over the years, especially 60's rock music.I think my initial reaction to the film was it had some great scenes, mixing fantastic music with iconic imagery, some very interesting cast members, and a very strange dark humour throughout most of it.The scenes which I were first really drawn to were 1951/what about the boy? (whether Oliver Reed can sing or not without severe editing, he fits his part perfectly and both he and Ann-Margaret shine during this scene), Acid Queen (an amazing performance by Tina Turner) and Amazing Journey.Due to enjoying these songs/scenes so much I revisited the film a few times and then really found the true depth of the movie. The songs are top notch, with the above mentioned and others such as Christmas, Pinball Wizard, I'm Free, Sally Simpson and Listening To You amongst the best. Every scene is almost mesmerising in it's own way (apart from Eyesight to the blind, although I love Eric Clapton, I just do not enjoy this part at all).I had been looking for this on DVD for sometime, and in the meantime had purchased the original CD (interesting how some songs are better on the CD whilst others translate better in the movie) as a substitute. I was of course extremely pleased at the recent 2 Disc Collectors Edition release and did not hesitate to make my purchase.OK, the story is not your run of the mill, easy to understand type and I think it is open to all kinds of interpretations, the main thing is the movie is a visual and musical feast almost like an extended ultra good pop video. "},{"Title":"A true taste of the '70s","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"43 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Tommy is one of those films I can watch again and again. I guess I first saw it when I was about 15, and what made most immediate impact was the music. Strident and tightly coupled to the plot. The Who are brilliant, and Elton John as the Pinball Wizard is just mind blowing (if slightly camp).I have since watched it countless times and it wasn't til I watched it in, how shall I put this, an illegal state of mind, that I actually realised how well the film hangs together and it's real meaning. Up until then I mainly watched it for the music, but after that it became a whole different ballgame, and I watched it to extract more of what Ken Russell was really trying to get at.Anyone younger than about 30 probably will not understand this film at all, but if you are of the right generation, see it a couple of times because you may not get the meaning the first viewing.Several memorable performances - Elton John as the Pinball Wizard, Keith Moon as Uncle Ernie, Ann Margaret as Tommy's mother and - of course - Ollie Reed who has never done a bad film. "},{"Title":"It helps to have an appreciation for Ken Russell, not Pete Townsend","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"34 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" This is a Ken Russell movie, make no mistake. It is relentlessly twisted, ugly, savage (for a sometimes humorous effect) and trippy. Russell may be the oldest flower child of all time. Surreal plot concerns a deaf-dumb-and-blind boy becoming the new Messiah to a pinball-crazed population, and the film has been accused of being too literal to The Who's rock opera source material. In this age of lavish music videos, it has also been tagged as archaic. Though nobody seems to care anymore how a film was perceived in its time, I would say the picture still succeeds in doing what was originally intended shake an audience up with freaky visuals and propulsive music (nicely arranged). It also does something else creates actual characters from the music, a plus due in part to the fine acting of Ann-Margret as Tommy's glamorous mother, Roger Daltrey as Tommy, Oliver Reed as Tommy's stepfather (Reed is hammy but quite game, while the role is designed as both a villain and a hero), and Tina Turner, an extremely scary presence as the Acid Queen. Tommy has some bummer scenes, and Russell's love for degradation occasionally made me wince, but it is a real cinematic experience. Whether it involves or alienates the viewer depends on their appreciation for the English director's constant penchant for the bizarre. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"The Weird World of Ken Russell Tommy","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Tommy (1975) was the film adaptation of the Who's classic concept album Tommy. The film and the album are slightly different (the re-recorded songs pale to the real deal). But it was interesting to see avant-garde film maker Ken Russell re-imagine Tommy for the big screen. The movie has an all-star cast of eccentric and top stars (Oliver Reed, Ann-Margaret, Jack Nicholson) and pop stars (Tina Turner, Roger Daltry, Keith Moon, Eric Clapton, Elton John and The Who themselves, as a group on stage).The music was changed and performed for the movie. Most of the dialog was sung (by all of the actors) and Ken Russell changed some of the story to fit the movie. If you're a fan of the album you might be disappointed by the movie. But it's worth a watch just to see Oliver Reed, Ann-Margaret (in total HOT mode) and the others as they make cameo appearances and guest spots. I was slight disappointed but I was pleased with the results. I just wished they used the original music whenever they could.Recommended for Who and Ken Russell fans. "},{"Title":"It's all in the music!","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  It's been interesting reading all the reviews here for this movie. It seems you either love or hate Tommy. I find it odd that you could completely hate a movie with the music of Tommy. If you love the songs there has to be something about it then right?I happen to be an admirer of the film. It's not a masterpiece but it succeeds more then it fails. Director Ken Russell has brought his weird sensibilities and ideas to the film and made it more a series of scenes then a coherent story. Yes it is bizarre. Yes it is odd. But the music keeps the film alive and flowing.It seems apparent that Russell the director may have let some scenes run on a bit too long (the Marilyn Monroe worship scene for one), perhaps because he was bereft of ideas. But he always had the music.The performances range from terrific to downright awful. Ann Margret is the best thing about this movie. Her Oscar nomination was more then deserving. Her fabulous voice went well with the songs she is asked to perform. Oliver Reed was always a dependable performer but he can't sing worth a lick. Either he should have been dubbed or the part re-cast. Roger Daltrey is just fine in the title role. Basically all he does is sing and smile. For the female fans out there he does go shirtless a lot as well.There are many cameos in the film worth noting. All the members of The Who are seen though only Keith Moon has a role to speak of. Pete Townshend and John Entwistle are relegated to performing on stage in the worship scene. Tina Turner is the Acid Queen in a bizarre scene that doesn't quite work. Jack Nicholson (and this may be the only time this can be said about him) may be the worst thing in the whole movie. His role as a doctor is short but not so sweet. He sings but is a terrible singer. It's an embarrassing scene and no surprise that he never mentions this role. Paul Nicholas, as cousin Kevin, who babysits Tommy and subsequently tortures him is terrific.On the whole most of the sequences work. For me the two best sequences are the pinball wizard tournament (with Elton John) and the making of a groupie sequence. And just remember, it's all in the music. "},{"Title":"An Introduction to Opera for Pop Fans","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Anybody generally familiar with opera will immediately recognize that the Who's Tommy suffers from neither a weak nor outrageous nor terribly surreal nor even bizarre storyline in comparison to what passes for plot in many classic operas. And anybody generally familiar with 1970s cinema will note that Ken Russell's envisioning of this film was actually one of a very small handful of intelligent and serious musicals produced during that decade, not a psychedelic experiment or a contribution to the avant-garde. Many of the less complementary comments offered here on IMDb concerning this movie appear to be driven by commenters' personal opinions or prejudices about The Who or about Ken Russel, and seem to have very little to do with this film. In 1969, The Who released their wildly innovative breakthrough album Tommy. Written almost entirely by 23-year old Pete Townshend, Tommy was, like many albums of its time, an early example of album-oriented rock. But unlike similarly assembled LPs by the likes of Pink Floyd, Jefferson Airplane, The Beatles, etc., Tommy told a story through music and lyrics. Tommy knew his father - Captain Walker - mainly through the photograph which has stood on the nightstand next to his bed all of his young life. His mother, Nora (Ann Margaret), a war widow, has shacked up with Uncle Frank, a well-off and well-intentioned but rather low-brow gentleman (Oliver Reed). One night, Captain Walker comes home to find his beloved wife in bed with Uncle Frank, and Uncle Frank, in a panic, kills him. Tommy witnesses this and Nora and Frank expand the trauma by shouting silence and near-catatonic autism into the young boy with the classic lines You didn't hear it, you didn't see it, you won't say nothing to no one, never tell a soul... what you know is the truth. So Tommy grows up in a state of trauma-induced deafness, muteness and blindness. Guilt and sincere love drive his mother and her new husband Frank to seek every possible cure, and Townshend (and Russel) waste no opportunity to skewer religion, medical science, traditional family dynamics, and testosterone-influenced views of sexual rites of passage. Eventually, Tommy and his mother will find their own cures - in quite unexpected places. And Tommy will offer his apparently miraculous awareness to the rest of the world as a universal form of salvation. Although the medium of the album and the film is rock music, Tommy strings together many of the most powerful elements of classical opera. Religion plays an important, though atypical, role in Townshend's story. Allegory is a key to understanding the entire process. And both the lyrics and the film incorporate widespread and often incisive social criticism - touching on broad intellectual themes such as the escape from freedom, the subjectivity of truth, and the inherent futility and silliness of most efforts to improve the lot of humanity. If you let yourself 'go with it' Tommy will likely take you places you've never been. I won't promise that you will like it, but rather, that if you keep your mind open and let it pour in, like most operas, Tommy will move you. WITH REGARD TO THE FILMFacing a nearly impossible task, Ken Russel enlisted Townshend, Daltrey, and a host of very talented and popular musicians and actors to make Tommy. Most of the time, this works - Ann Margaret, Roger Daltrey, and cameos by Jack Nicholson, Elton John, Tina Turner and Keith Moon are all outstanding. Unfortunately, Oliver Reed, as well-cast as he was, has no vocal talent to speak of, and Eric Clapton has the on-screen charisma of a desk lamp. Despite the common 21st century wisdom concerning the amount of experimentalism in 1970s films, films like Tommy, Rollerball, Deathrace 2000, French Connection, Solyaris, 2001, etc, were actually very few and far between during that decade. In fact, most of the films released in the 1970s were so uninventive and uninteresting that they can only be found on public domain download sites and budget mega-pack DVD sets. Although Russell was a shoe-in for directing this film - given his longstanding interest in visualization of classical music (http//pro.imdb.com/name/nm0001692/) and more challenging subjects, Tommy was - even for Russell - a wildly innovative film - NO DIALOGUE - a singing cast tells the story, set against The Who's original music, and Russell's visual story-telling is as powerful and striking here as it was in Gothic and many of his better-known films. Oliver Reed's bellowing vocalizations are a bit overbearing, and too much synthesizer is added to embellish a score which was 6-years old by the time the film was released. But the problems with the sound track are at least partly made-up for by fabulously campy musical cameos by Tina Turner and Elton John, and - FINALLY - by Daltrey's excellent performance once Tommy himself gains a voice. Ann Margaret's singing is also quite good, but, unfortunately, several of her songs are infected by Reed's brutish howling. All considered Tommy is a must-see for open-minded film enthusiasts, and particularly those interested in the evolution of the modern musical. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Your senses will never be the same...you can say that again!","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I will say that the movie version of Tommy is not as good as The Who's original opera. I guess that it's hard to adapt something like that to the silver screen. But even so, this movie is an experience unlike any other. Watching it, you try to figure out how to digest all that you're seeing and make sense of it (although I would reject calling it sensory overload).The plot of course has deaf, dumb, blind Tommy Walker (Roger Daltrey) becoming a pinball champion and developing a cult following. Daltrey has no trouble getting into the role, especially when he sings I'm Free. Equally good - and quite perceptive - is Ann-Margret as his mother Nora, using his celebrity to enrich herself; I really liked the scene where she hallucinates soap, beans and chocolate pouring out of the TV set. Oliver Reed seems a little bit wooden as Frank, whom Nora marries when she hears that her husband has gotten killed in WWII, but he still passes. Tina Turner really goes over the top as the Acid Queen, who tries to cure Tommy. Elton John is OK as the Pinball Wizard, but I guess that anyone could have done that role. Probably the most surprising cast member is Jack Nicholson as The Specialist; I mean, who would have ever imagined Jack Nicholson of all people in a musical?* Peter Townshend, John Entwistle and Keith Moon also appear.All in all, director Ken Russell instills this movie with the same sensibility that we find in the rest of his movies. Maybe it seemed better in the cinema, with its quintaphonic sound. But it's still something that I recommend to everyone. In conclusion See it...feel it...touch it...heal it.*Just imagine musical versions of Five Easy Pieces, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, The Shining and As Good As It Gets! "}{"Title":"A cult classic if ever there was one. You'll either love it, or hate it.","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" This movie is all over the place. Ken Russell's penchant for garishness and bad taste runs rampant throughout the film, and the imagery consequently gives the film a very surrealistic feel (when it doesn't simply just get too weird for its' own good which it most definitely does indeed do at times). It should also be said that some of the casting is questionable to say the least. Jack Nicholson should never, ever have taken this role. His cameo is short, but rather painful to watch. Not to mention painful to listen to. And Oliver Reed? Think ham. He must have had a ball doing this movie, though. But in an odd sort of way, he fits in the role of Frank like a glove. Watch the movie, and you'll see what I mean. Just don't ask him to sing at your wedding. You'll regret it. Deeply. And plot? Almost none here to be found. At least none that cannot be easily summarized in two or three pithy sentences. That being said, I know I didn't go to see it in the seventies because I thought I was going to see Oscar caliber performances or a tight and thoughtful script. I went to see it because of the music. And it still holds up well to this day because of that. The music still carries the day. Tommy is one of The Who's best and shining moments. And between the songs, some of the performances shine..... just enough to make this a worthwhile viewing. But God help you if you go into this expecting anything approaching serious cinema. You will be seriously and grievously disappointed. Tommy is mostly played off as camp and is meant to be that way.Best performances...... Elton John as the pinball wizard, (who does so well in this that I think he decided afterwards to retire from making movies while he was still ahead) while Ann Margret chews up the scenery much better than I had certainly expected, and Tina Turner as the Acid Queen gives a performance in a cameo that you have to see to believe. Paul Stevens as Cousin Kevin also gives an energetic turn in a rare (for this movie) comedic moment.I give it 7 out of 10. Too flawed to be a classic, but definitely a solid piece of work overall. You may never look at another body pillow without pork and beans and Ann Margret springing immediately to mind ever again. "},{"Title":"Your senses will never be the same.","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" This is one of those movies you just can't get out of your head. Well, I couldn't, anyways.From what I understand, director Ken Russell was trying to make Tommy a satire on the abstract, psychedelic kinds of movies that were coming out at that time. I think he definitely succeeded.Interesting bit of trivia here The original rock opera took place just after WWI, but the movie was changed to make it just after WWII. Two new songs were written just for the movie Champagne and Bernie's Holiday Camp. And speaking of camp, I also understand that Tina Turner laughed out loud when she saw the *ahem* prop she had to work with. It is pretty outrageous.Then there was Elton John's shoes.... "},{"Title":"Snapshot of angst-ridden early '70s Britain in bizarre Christ allegory","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" The Who weren't known for making subtle music, and Ken Russell makes anything but subtle movies. Put the two together to tell the story of a very underprivileged child, who one day emerges as a self-proclaimed messiah trying to preach an impossible message, only to be ruthlessly exploited and viciously attacked, before finally crawling from his tomb and ascending to the celestial realm, his job done, and you've got an extravaganza of sound and cinema just waiting to explode on your screen.So why does it not work very well? As far as I can see, they simply try to cram too much into it. As if the religious theme isn't enough, it touches on many of the problems starting to tear secular society apart in the early 1970s &#150; drugs, drunkenness, child abuse, pornography gambling, gang violence, dishonesty, etc, all played out against a kaleidoscopic backdrop of churches, scrap heaps, tatty holiday camps and beautiful Lake District mountains.Despite an admiration for the central message of hope and spiritual purity, there is deep criticism of the abuses inflicted by organised religious groups &#150; this movie abounds with false prophets and money-making evangelism.It's also, in vintage Russell style, garish, unnecessarily lurid, and filled with pretentious, surreal imagery, and though Pete Townshend's soundtrack contains one or two classics &#150; PINBALL WIZARD and I'M FREE, to name but two &#150; much of it is forced and rather shrill (and is way too long &#150; many purely musical moments could have been cut in half or removed altogether).Performance-wise, Ann-Margret is by far the best thing in it. She sings and dances the house down as Tommy's sultry mother, remaining lithe and curvaceous through various incarnations, from homely '50s housewife, to '60s tart, to '70s glam queen, finally dying stripped of all adornments on her own cross &#150; a broken pinball machine. As the other 'thief', Oliver Reed &#150; a Russell regular &#150; can't sing for toffee, yet succeeds in evoking some sympathy for a character who in lesser hands would simply be a brutish villain. That leaves Roger Daltrey as the other main lead, the titular Tommy, and there's not a lot he can do, being deaf, dumb and blind for at least half the film, and for the rest doing what he normally did as lead-singer of a rock band, which is entertain massive crowds with grandiose and overblown songs. However, his first appearance jars the film badly; even for a Ken Russell movie, it's asking too much of the audience to accept Tommy's sudden transformation from World War Two runt, complete with a tank top and short back and sides, to a tanned, muscular hippie with bleached blonde hair and pearly-white teeth.In terms of secondary characters, it's a mixed bag. Elton John gives an ordinary and overrated performance as the Pinball Wizard (his version of the song is, in truth, nowhere near as good as The Who's own), Eric Clapton lacks any charisma as a charlatan preacher and Jack Nicholson is completely wasted (but awful even in the short time he's on screen) as a money-grabbing doctor. Better by far are Tina Turner, whose Acid Queen is sexy but also disturbingly weird, Keith Moon, who's in predictably odious form as Uncle Ernie, and best of all for me, Paul Nicholas as Tommy's gleefully maniacal Cousin Kevin. As rock operas go, this one is strictly second division, so in terms of movie musicals in general, it's way down the list. However, it packs energy and certainly, if it's the first time you've seen it, makes for compelling viewing &#150; much the way a freak-show would, if I'm honest, though there is a lot of talent on show as well, and it's worth watching at least once just for that (and for Ann-Margret, wearing tight clothes that are already semi-transparent, and then rolling around in a mess of beans and chocolate, but that's a different matter). "},{"Title":"Oh It`s A Musical","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I remember the first time TOMMY was broadcast on British television on BBC 2 in the late Autumn of 1981 . For the first time ever Radio 1 did a simultaneous broadcast , the idea being you turn off the sound on your TV , turn up the sound on Radio 1 and you`ll be able to watch TOMMY in stereophonic sound , bare in mind this was before we had widescreen TVs that broadcast stereophonic sound , everything we got on TV in those days was in mono Instead of watching the movie on TV I listened to it on Radio 1 . I knew the movie was a musical but was under the impression it`d be something like Jeff Wayne`s WAR OF THE WORLD album where there`s a clear narrative with dialogue along with musical tracks , I mean Robert Powell , Oliver Reed and Jack Nicolson aren`t singers right ? I listened to the film and it was about ten minutes before anyone started singing and within 20 minutes I had no idea what this was about , it was people singing , no dialogue , no narrative , no nothing so I decided to turn off the radio and go to sleep . Strangely when I was at school the next day everyone was saying what a weird though thoroughly entertaining movie it was And finally seeing the movie last week I can understand in some strange way  what a subversive movie this is . Ken Russell doesn`t hold back on the weird factor . Take the scene where Eric Clapton is performing in a church and everyone is worshipping a statue of Marylin Monroe and there`s people wearing masks of her waving bowls of incense around . Mind if I ask what that`s all about ? On second thoughts don`t . That actually sums up the strengths and weaknesses of TOMMY , the imagery is strange , sometimes utterly compelling and breath taking like the sequence in Amazing Journey where a pin ball randomly smacks bombers turning them into crosses of rememberance but more often than not the film makes just as much sense as it did when I listened to it on the radio more than 20 years before . There`s a vague point that musical heroes are somewhat Hitlerite in our modern pop culture but the very similar THE WALL by Pink Floyd makes this point far clearer and if truth be told THE WALL is by far a better movie and album Anyone else feel uneasy that much of TOMMY revolves around a young child from source material by Pete Townshend ?     "},{"Title":"Wonderfully stupid!","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" First, you should know the album to really -er- appreciate this film. The album is a classic, even though it is a patchwork of songs that The Who decided to turn into a concept album by gluing various themes together with mostly lesser tunes. But it has some great pieces, like Amazing Journey, Overture Welcome and Sparks (all of which you won't hear on Classic Rock radio stations). So first know the album, and then see the movie, if you dare. You will be amazed &#150; but certainly entertained.Rather than apply the original music from the heartfelt album, the film reworks the tunes with tepid session musicianship and the neat-o synthesizer, so very innovative in 1975. Seeking to be high-minded about idolatry, religion, war, consumerism, pinball- y'know, all that big meaningful stuff- this flick heaps on laughably dopey symbolism by the barrelful. Seeing cameos from Eric Clapton and Elton John is interesting,simply to give you a window on the era. Tina Turner, however, as the twitchy Acid Queen dancing to... er, a mirror-hypodermic-iron-maiden is- well, one of the reasons this lunacy is simply a must-see. And no actress has ever gone more over-the-top than Ann Margaret, and God bless her and her bean slither for that.It is so dated, so in-that-moment, so weird, so over-the-top, and so fearlessly awful it's great. The best of the 'worst rock and roll film ever' category, and that includes Sgt. Peppers Lonely Hearts Club Band, which could be considered its spawn. This is a must-see glam-a-licious wierdfest. "},{"Title":"Musical treasure for a magical pleasure ...","Date":"12 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Please, I implore you to watch, no&#x85; not to watch, but to live Tommy, Tommy Who? Yeah, you hear me, Tommy &#x85; not Tommy who? But Tommy from the Who's unforgettable rock opera, a musical monument and a delight for any of your senses, even the sixth one will be transported to the seventh heaven if he trusts your heart and gives Tommy the chance to enlighten your life.Tommy, this stellar cinematic creation that will never be equaled, an extraordinary sensation .... the light in the shadow of the 70's musicals, incarnated by this big, big bright and white sun, like an enigma reflecting whatever Tommy would mean to us &#x85; for me, Tommy means, well it's... It's ... it's simply &#x85; Tommy with a *T* ... like Trippy, Tommy transports you in an entertainingly vibrating tour of creativity, where even non-perceptions are perfectly translated through the devastated eyes of the titular character, trapped in a terrible condition after witnessing a traumatic act.*O* ... like Oliver Reed, extraordinarily decadent and charismatic as a so lovable bastard... he steals the shows in every single frame he appears in and his interactions with Ann-Margret are so genuine and believable &#x85; just for the priceless part of Bernie's Camp, where we have the guilty pleasure to admire his mimics during the lovely legs contest, the film is a cinematic pleasure rhyming with an underrated treasure.*M* ... like Musical Masterpiece ... like Mood or like .... More than a Movie, an 0peratic 0dyssey of 0neirism ... whoops, that was the O &#x85; never mind, Tommy is the kind of musical where music doesn't help you to reach the beauty of the film, it helps the beauty of the film to reach you &#x85; don't make an effort, just enjoy Tommy and it will take you, and plunge you, and absorb you until you'll feel an overdose of feelings, to compensate the very absence of perceptions from the titular character. It's almost unbearable how the movies transcends every cinematic genres, comedic, dramatic, romantic, epic, musical, biblical, philosophical, psychological &#x85; universal.And another *M* ... like Mother, and one of the most visually stunning and grippingly intense female performances from the Swedish beauty Ann-Margret as Tommy's devoted mother! I'm not overreacting but this is one of my Top 10 female performances ever, and this is saying a lot, considering her part was mostly made of singing and incredibly convincing facial expressions, she was the heart and soul of this film, and touched me deeply in the heart &#x85; as the mother who couldn't touch the heart of her poor boy &#x85; he couldn't see her, couldn't hear her, but God, the desperation in her face, was the stone on which Tommy's tragedy was engraved &#x85; but sometimes, even a powerful wave can destroy the most implacable stone &#x85; stone &#x85; I like this word &#x85; stone, like Tommy's face, or stoned like the effect, like how I felt, while watching this film, both free, through a sensational cinematic escapism &#x85; and yet wondering why? Why? Why what? Why&#x85;oh yeahAnd *Y*... like Yes, I think it's all right, yes I think it's all right, yes, I think it's all right ... OR You didn't see it, you didn't hear it ... and other incredible songs stuck in my memory forever now ... I didn't enjoy the songs or the music, I felt them, heard them, experience them, the movie took me to a world I shall not find again &#x85; a world I wasn't even born in, but that made me nostalgic of an era I didn't live in &#x85; Tommy, a tragic view &#x85; for a hard review &#x85; It's hard to review such a film without falling in the trap of the enthusiastic discoverer but this is the most sincere feeling I can describe after finishing Tommy, the opera rock. Ken Russell's achievement is to tell a story that stands apart from the music and music that makes the story even more appealing, there are so many levels of enjoyment of Tommy that you almost need several viewings to appreciate the hypnotic beauty of the film.Watch the film in a detached way, and you'll enjoy the music. Concentrate on the music and Tommy's story will break your heart, enjoy both and then it will tease your brain ... there's no way not to enjoy this film &#x85; the only mystery is how it's not even more praised and appreciated today &#x85; I don't know &#x85; I don't care &#x85; If there ever was a sect of fans of the film, I'm among them &#x85; I won't go emotional, or cerebral, the greatness is here, the gallery of characters that enrich this masterpiece so unforgettable, from the Acid Queen to Cousin Kevin, from Uncle Ernie to the doctor, from Elton, to Tina, from Clapton to Nicholson &#x85; it's a psychedelic experience that just makes me feel likeI feel like the ball in the pinball machine, trying to stay in the game as long as possible hitting every segment, going back and forth, every repetitive viewing, I don't want the journey to stop, but ultimately, there are no free games, and all I can do is to share the experience with the others and convince them to watch this film &#x85;So let me speak on the name of Tommy  hear me, see me, touch me ... and so it will touch you. And I can repeat it as many times as it needs, it won't be enough, and Tommy, played by the iconic Roger Daltrey will symbolize forever a lost era right between the psychedelic 60's and the roaring 80's, do you think it's all right to watch Tommy and re watch it? Yes, I think it's all right, yes I think it's all right, yes I think it's all right &#x85; "},{"Title":"A FILM MADE TO LOVE ROCK MUSIC","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  See the film, please don't buy the LP. Yes I know, I take the contrary of most of comments about this film. In fact I think all depends on what people see or hear in first.In 1975, I hated Rock Music. For me, this music was just an horrible din made by hairy yelling junkies. A friend pushed me very hardly to watch Tommy. AND THIS FILM MADE ME LOVE ROCK MUSIC.. Not only the musical movie score, but all the Rock Music (Clapton, Turner, Who, Stones, Deep Purple, Pink Floyd, even the Sex Pistols because they looked like Cousin Kevin). And all that because Ken Russell succeeded to melt the old music (the Symphonic Opera) and the new one (Rock) together. He used a very clever crescendo to not hurt those who don't like Rock Music 1  the beginning is like a normal movie music with no voices, but a hard tempo.2  the first voice (which announce the bad new) is off, and the electric guitars start, but briefly.3  the first singing scene it's a boy looks like an old musical show (Like the sound of music, very reassuring for a guy who hate Rock Music).4  Bernie's Holiday Camp and 1951 look like songs for  TV commercials. (Silly and fun, but not shocking)5  What about the boy looks like a classical opera with a great voice work made by Ann Margret. In fact, from the beginning, I was waiting for the return of the normal speaking like every musical movie does. I suddenly understood that Tommy was a true opera. I thought  Wow ! They had guts to try such a thing !.6  After this raging scene Ken Russel knew he has pushed the dramatic climax far enough to launch a big Rock missile  Amazing Journey. For the first time of my life (I was 13) my legs jumped and twisted on a Rock Music. Russel trapped me ! He pushed the pressure with a classical way and to liberate all this energy he gave me .. ROCK ! I was totally upset ! I realized I was facing a great film with a great music. And this slow musical progression brought me to accept and to love hysterical scenes like Acid Queen or Pinball Wizard. Without Ken Russel, I'd probably still hate Rock Music. Thanks Ken !Because I was crazy about this film (I saw it about 400 times since 75) I bought the original album, but I don't like it. The orchestration is poor, the overture is just a mixed of the main themes, some songs don't exist (Champagne, Mother and Son, Welcome, TV Studio), and my favorite songs (Acid Queen, Pinball Wizard, I'm Free) are really too slow and too short. Of course, I realize if  I have such an opinion, it's because I saw the film in first, and I understand those who have listen to the original in first will be disappointed by the film. I still think the bonus brought by Ronnie Wood (The Rolling Stones) for Acid Queen, Elton John for Pinball Wizard and of course the genius work of Pete Townshend have made a real opera from what I call a good rough. And that's a real creation ! If we compare with QUADREPHONIA or PINK FLOYD - THE WALL, in these films, directors just put the original recording on pictures. Where is the creation ? If the composers were dead, these films could be made exactly as they are ! But TOMMY no ! TOMMY - THE MOVIE is really a new creation made by the original composer, the greatest musicians of the decade and a very experienced director. For me, THE GREATEST MOVIE EVER  10/10.  "},{"Title":"A great musical movie. Loads of fun.","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Tommy tells the story of a woman who loses her husband in the war and gives birth to their son soon after. Six years later she falls for a new man, but Captain Walker returns home, having been in a POW camp for years. Mrs. Walker's new love kills the boy's father right in front of him, and together they drill into him that he didn't see it, he didn't hear it, and he won't say nothing to no one ever in his life. This causes the boy to fall deaf, dumb, and blind, much to his mother's bewilderment. The movie follows his adventures from the strange attempts at curing him (including drugs and cult worship), and the torture he endures (a sadistic cousin and a perverted uncle), all the way to when he becomes a pinball champion, and becomes such a celebrity that he even starts a religion. Based on the 1969 concept album by The Who, Tommy tells a good story and is loads of fun to watch.Tommy is a great musical film because it has what musicals need to be successful...Great music. The Who's album Tommy is an amazing album with some really great songs. It is credited as being the first rock opera ever written. The plot line of the album is vague, and you're forced to make guesses, but here in this movie you can get the whole story. The music in the movie is different from the album. It features more instruments, including synthesizer, which I love. Every song in the movie makes you bob your head and tap your feet. The sets and the story are very good. The movie features some really weird imagery in some scenes, but it makes the movie fun. I only have one real problem with the film. The first half of the film is a blast. The awesome songs and characters (my favourite being Cousin Kevin), the great story, everything. However, once the Pinball Wizard scene is over, the movie begins to drag ever so slightly, but when Tommy is cured and starts his own religion, the movie begins to grow too long. I would have liked it better if the movie ended with Tommy being cured. All the fun is gone once Tommy is cured.The performances in this movie are great for the most part. There are some really great singers and actors involved in this movie. Oliver Reed and Ann-Margaret give great performances as Tommy's parents, though Reed can't really sing. Elton John and Keith Moon give memorable and hilarious performances as the Pinball Wizard and Uncle Ernie. Jack Nicholson did pretty good as the Doctor for someone who's not a singer. Eric Clapton and Tina Turner did good in their roles as well. Roger Daltrey was the perfect Tommy even though all he had to do was stare with a blank look on his face.Overall, Tommy is a great 70's musical with fantastic performances, but after a while it starts to lose momentum. There might be some boredom near the end.7/10 "},{"Title":"Crazy, fun and psychedelic experience for eyes and ears","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Tommy by The Who told us the story of a child, since his birth to his personal discovery.What does this movie had certain touch in the people who see it? Well, when you watch it you feel the answer of this question in your body, in your being.The music(Marvelously created by The Who)speaks to us the story about the little boy Tommy. A boy who grow up, a man who of a traumatized boy become as an idol. Then he realizes about the really important thing.The stars of this rock opera are sensational(well, Ann-Margret, Oliver Reed, Tina Turner, Elton John, Jack Nicholson and The Who).If you want to live a psychedelic experience, please try to find the DVD with the original sound of the 1975...and get ready, because the tag line of the movie tell us all the true.*Sorry me if i wrote something bad "},{"Title":"Who haters Unbelievable!","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Let's stop for a minute and ask who was in this movie? Uh the WHO that's who! Jeez this was a great cinematic take on a great album and this was also pretty close to the Who's vision of Tommy. The music was there and just as great as the album and the cast was dead on even Oliver Reed played his role perfectly. Those who dislike this must dislike the WHO and the 1970s that is all I can get from that. Having grown up in the 70s, listening to the WHO and watching Tommy I can't say how one could say this is a bad movie shame on you! I always have enjoyed this classic and always will the mood, the music, the vision it's all there. Keith Moon as Uncle Ernie is deliciously evil , Anne Marget is perfection and Roger Daltry was great too! To all the Nay Sayers watch it again you must have left the room! "}{"Title":"A Gray Area the Size of the UK","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Along with David Lynch's Dune, Ken Russell's Tommy stands as a perfectly admirable film that entirely misses the point of the basic source material.While I agree that The Who's groundbreaking 1969 rock opera (on which the film is based) is open to much interpretation, the band themselves even admitted that the film is a bit off. To me, Tommy was always more about religion and acceptance than crass commercialism and familial dysfunction.But hey, what do I know? In spite of what, to me, is a blinding message error, Tommy is superbly, sharply entertaining, and the message it gives is still one that needs to be heard. That ancient clich that money is the root of all evil comes to a boiling, tense, child-abusing head in this whacked-out opera, beautifully designed and staged and intriguingly acted.The songs are done just brilliantly (for the most part)-- very few problems there. But the song Champagne (written for the film, not featured in the original album) morphs into a disgusting mud-wrestling fantasy involving soap suds, chocolate, and baked beans. Gross, right? Those three or four minutes could be dropped out, no problem.The musical cameos are great. I've never before been able to stand performances by Tina Turner or even Eric Clapton, and Elton John-- well, it's pretty much this and The Lion King, ya know? Also, most shockingly of all, Jack Nicholson shows off his vocal chops-- and actually does a pretty good job! There is, however, a rather awkward moment in Sensation where Roger Daltrey attempts to throatily sustain a note that is much too high for him-- wasn't there another take they could use? Most of the characters in the film do some really evil things, and the challenge for the audience is reserving judgment to look at the bigger picture, which we see quite clearly in the climactic We're Not Gonna Take It. Along the way you'll find some typical 70s dementia, some typical Ken Russell oddness, and some typical Robert Stigwood musical exaltation. On the last note there, it's better than Stigwood's Grease and infinitely better than his Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band. If you're a fan of the original album, this film may drive you crazy. At least for a while. But for anyone, it takes some getting used to. But once you're used to it, it's a masterpiece-- with a couple minor faults. "},{"Title":"crash course on rock-operas","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I was nine years old and in the blanketed, fold down, rear end of a Plymouth station wagon at a drive-in watching who knows what with my parents when my next eldest brother said, Psst...let's go watch something good. To this day I don't know if our parents know that we saw another movie; I only know that it's one of my fondest memories of and possibly the closest bonding experiences with my brother I've had. He and I sat in the gravel of a drive-in in a vacant parking spot. He brought a speaker down on either side of us. We sat in stereo and watched this incredible tale unfold. Even though I was young, I appreciated many of the jokes and innuendos. We were living in California in the '70's...there was a different learning curve there back then. Watching it now one can see where other classic pop-musicals directors like those that worked on Rocky Horror Picture Show and Hairspray, both brilliant movies in their own right, might have benefited from this early example. In closing...I don't care how old you or your children are...isn't Anne Margaret outstanding in this movie? "},{"Title":"Tommy Blew Me Away","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Was it the speakers stacked high next to both sides of the screen at the old (now extinct) Esquire in Melbourne that blew me away or the music itself, probably both I guess! And I was probably too young to fully realize this movie but I just lapped it up anyway in the most subjective of manners.People walked out asking for their money back because the music was 'so loud'. We walked out at the end of it, looked at each other and both said, lets go and see it again.. No, we can't do that, lets be sensible, we just saw it! Okay, so we were sensible, we waited till the next night and saw it again then.Definitely one of the great memories of my movie going youth! "},{"Title":"Bizarre, at times tough to follow but ultimately engrossing","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Tommy is a strange movie from the off, I have never seen anything quite like this before and that is, I think, why I couldn't take me eyes off it. I found it to be a strangely engrossing movie, the music and the imagery just suck you in. Because of the strange imagery being employed by Ken Russell, the film is at times difficult to follow and their are parts of it where I was just thinking, whats the point, why is this scene here? However as the film progresses more and more of it starts to make sense. As I write these comments I have yet to watch the film a second time, and I do think that on repeat viewings the film will get better and better. The vocal performances are generally good, while not quite as good as those on the original 1969 album, Anne Margret's performance stands out as particularly brilliant. And who would have thought Jack Nicholson could sing.Overall a very good movie, well worth watching and deserving of its cult status. "},{"Title":"WIERD","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  God only knows what Ken Russell was thinking.  Holy Crap!! What a horrible piece of garbage.  However, I gave a five because of Elton John, Roger Daultry, Tina Turner, and Kieth Moon.  However, Ann-Margaret SUCKED as did Oliver Reed.  Both of them cannot sing.  Ken Russell must have been drunk when he picked them out to be the main characters.  PLot sucked. It was to damn wierd and what the hell was Eric Clapton thinking agreeing to de a scene like that. Ken Russell should burn for what he did to the best damn rock opera ever written. "},{"Title":"That was then, this is now.","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  When this was released 27 years ago, it rivalled the Rocky Horror Picture Show and The Song Remains the Same as a wonderful way to spend a Saturday midnight.  Only RHPS seems to be remembered now -- and for good cause.  It's not stylistically stuck in the '70s -- which was a bloody awful time to be stylistically stuck!  But Tommy is not bad.  Dated, true, and it still pains one to hear Jack Nicholson sing, but it did then, too.  Elton John's Pinball Wizard remains a wonder to behold.  The performances, by and large, don't match those in the original album, but they're not nearly so far off as they could have been.  Tina Turner's Acid Queen is as good as Roger Daltry's, nearly.As a time capsule, Tommy is wonderful.  Timeless?  No.  But still fun.  "},{"Title":"A Great Rock Opera","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  What else to say.... Roger, Pete, Tina and Elton all perform outstandingly. I own a copy on VHS and will buy it on DVD if I come across it. The Who's music is great and timeless comes to the silver screen , with all that we should expect from such talent. The Acid Queen, The Pinball Wizard, Wicked uncle Ernie, all great characters, and played well. "},{"Title":"Incredibly entertaining in a strange way, though is not going to please everybody","Date":"17 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Ken Russell has always been an interesting director but also a very controversial one, for example Women in Love, The Devils, Mahler and The Music Lovers are great(though his biopics on Elgar, Delius and Debussy are even better where you see Russell in restrained mode) but Lisztomania and Salome's Last Dance not so much. As someone who does like The Who and thoroughly enjoyed the school production of Tommy with my sister as the mother, Tommy was a lot of fun. It is though the sort of film that will divide viewers, Russell does go overboard with the excess that are not always relevant to what's happening, Roger Daltry goes too overboard(also rather swamped by his colleagues), Eric Clapton is bland and while his voice is not that bad Jack Nicholson is one of those talented actors who is not used very well, verging on wasted actually. Tommy does look great though, the surrealist look is positively hypnotic and the photography is very well suited for the atmosphere. The songs are outstandingly catchy, with Pinball Wizard being the most memorable one, and orchestration-wise it is rousingly power-house, to have the Who themselves involved was a great idea that paid off well(though you do wish that Keith Moon wasn't the only one with a substantial character). Some parts are on the overblown and excessive side but there are a number of great moments especially Pinball Wizard, Acid Queen and Champagne(though it is somewhat true too that it is an example of excess). Likewise the story of the film and the musical is just absurd and knows it, seeing as Tommy is a satirical rock-opera that didn't mar things. Most of the performances are good, true Oliver Reed's singing ability is very limited(as is Keith Moon's actually) but he plays a real sleaze with perfect gusto. Moon himself is appropriately repellent. Tina Turner gives a bat-out-of-hell performance as the Acid Queen and Elton John is fun personified and provides some of the best singing of the film. Best of all is Ann Margaret, she has a great voice acts with energy, charisma and vulnerability. Overall, a very divisive film and not a perfect one but is very entertaining in a strange way. 7.5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Nice Videos, Shame about the Film","Date":"19 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Tommy started life in 1969 as an album by The Who. It was described as a rock opera, and was indeed the first album to be so described, because the songs told a story, which was explained on the album's sleeve notes. It was not originally intended to be performed on stage in the same way as a Classical opera, but someone clearly thought that the story had dramatic potential, because it was turned into this film and later into a Broadway play. The title character is a young man who becomes deaf, dumb, and blind following a traumatic childhood experience, then later becomes a champion pinball player and is hailed as the Messiah of a new religion. I must admit that I am not a great fan of The Who's music; my main reason for watching the film was that it was directed by Ken Russell, one of the leading British auteur directors of the sixties and seventies. Not every film made by Russell was a masterpiece- some of them were far from being so- but he was generally interesting (as well as controversial), and he brought to Tommy his the vivid visual imagination which was a hallmark of his films. Early in his career, as in his famous Elgar documentary and even in something like Billion Dollar Brain, Russell was capable of restraint and good taste, but by the mid-seventies he had developed a visual style characterised by bright colours and a fast-moving kaleidoscope of striking, sometimes shocking, images. The film is perhaps most notable for Russell's visuals; scenes which stand out include the Prologue, which tells the story of Tommy's parents, Group Captain Walker and his wife Nora, the Acid Queen sequence with Tina Turner, the bizarre scene involving a religious cult that worships Marilyn Monroe and the Pinball Wizard sequence in which the film's best-known musical number is belted out by a manic Elton John; the cast list names John's character as the pinball wizard, although the lyrics of the song make it clear that this description refers to Tommy himself. (Practising Catholics might have been offended by the Marilyn scene, which parodies the Mass, although it should be pointed out that Russell himself was a Catholic). Russell also had a good eye for the eccentricities and inanities of British popular culture in the sixties and seventies, something shown in the holiday camp scenes, the Christmas party and the various advertisement parodies. The Who's lead singer Roger Daltrey plays the title role, and the other band members all make appearances, along with other rock stars such as John, Turner and Eric Clapton. The film is a sung through musical, without spoken dialogue, so it is surprising that Oliver Reed and Jack Nicholson, neither of whom were noted for their singing voice, were cast, Reed in the major role of Tommy's stepfather. The best acting performance comes from Ann-Margret as the sluttish Nora, a performance which won her a Golden Globe Award and an Oscar nomination. (Ann-Margret is only three years older than Daltrey, who plays her son, but in a heavily stylised, non-naturalistic film this does not really matter). My main problem with the film is that this type of rock music is not really the ideal vehicle for putting across a story dramatically, particularly a tragic story like Tommy's. (Besides being struck dumb, deaf and blind, Tommy also loses his father at an early age, is tortured by a sadistic cousin, sexually abused by a perverted uncle, and suffers problems with drug addiction. Even his role as the new Messiah fails to bring him satisfaction or happiness). The music, generally loud with an insistent rhythmic beat, designed to be exciting or exhilarating, lacks the variety to cope with the vast range of different emotions which would be involved in a story like this one. The film does manage to tell a story- one can always work out what is going on from the visuals alone, even if the lyrics are unclear or inaudible- but it does so without any subtlety, insight, sympathy or understanding. (The scenes in which Tommy is abused, making light of a serious matter, struck me as particularly crass).The traditional Broadway-style musical, and for that matter the traditional Classical opera, are much more effective narrative vehicles in this respect. As I said, The Who are not really my cup of tea, musically speaking, and those who love their music may well enjoy the film more than I did, although I note that there are several negative comments on here from those who describe themselves as Who fans. The visuals are striking, if occasionally garish or in dubious taste, but it is difficult to make a successful film on the basis of visuals alone. Tommy betrays its origins as a rock album, resembling nothing so much as a series of loosely-connected pop videos. Nice videos, shame about the film. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Go On The Amazing Journey, And Learn All You Should Know.","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" anyone looking for a straight adaptation of The Who's rock opera will most likely be put off by this. i literally grew up listening to the original album by The Who. i think i was like nine years old when i first heard it. and it always seemed to be very different and much deeper than a lot of the other rock i heard at the time. when Ken Russell's movie came out, i went and saw it with some other stoner, rocker friends expecting the greatest film of all time. i was disappointed and a little put off by what i perceived as over the top and loud mouthed. i really didn't like it and i thought Ann Margret's performance was terrible.how impressions change. when i saw the film again for the first time in 1990, i was completely blown away by it. i now feel it is one of the greatest and most cinematic films i've seen. i don't think i can think of another movie that features so many outrageous visuals crammed into 2 hours. not only that, but i've never seen so many visuals that connect on such a unconscious level and elicit so many emotional responses, good or negative, from the viewer. whether or not you like the film, it's still bound to create a strong response either way. you'd pretty much have to be dead and buried to feel impassive about this. even people who don't like it feel it's over the top and weird.not only does Russell tap in to the profound depth of The Who's opera, but the performances resonate with deep emotions and complexity. i went from hating Ann Margret's performance to now feeling it's one of my favorite female performances in film i've seen. you can't take your eyes off of Margret and she almost overwhelms every scene she is in. she makes over the top and hammy over acting, work in her favor. as a matter of fact she practically turns over acting into a style or art form. a considerable feat considering that those elements usually work against an actor. Margret's performance in 'Tommy' alone, establishes her as one of cinema's most noteworthy and compelling personalities.most of the film's detractors often point to the interpretation of the music as it's main flaw. sure, musically the original album is better and more refined, but this is a film musical with the various roles delegated to different actors and performers. the album basically had all the various roles sung by only Roger Daltry and Pete Townshend. that wouldn't have worked for a film story and would have come off like a filmed concert. what worked for the album wouldn't have worked for a film.and i can hardly say any of this is messed up or wronged in any way. in some instances, like with Tina Turner and Elton John, the music is improved upon. detractors of the film's music should also keep in mind that Daltry, Townshend, Moon, are all here for the show and faithfully recreate their own music.the film even survives a ridiculously clownish performance by Oliver Reed and a lackluster attempt at singing by Jack Nicholson. neither one can sing a lick. i can't really sing and i probably could have done better. but their obvious star presence keeps their performances above water.The Who's 'Tommy' is one of the deepest works of the twentieth century, in my opinion. it's a journey of self realization and about the downfall of too much pious egotism. in a sense it is also about the presence of a higher God that exist outside of one's self. there is so much insight in 'Tommy' it would fill volumes. and Ken Russell flamboyantly pulls out all the stops and tricks of the trade to give 'Tommy' the powerful imagery it deserves. he truly makes 'Tommy' a work of the imagination.imagination. i think that's what people often overlook in this film. it's highly imaginative. it's almost like if Walt Disney wasn't such a square and became a stoned out rocker, he would imagine this.definitely everyone should take this journey whether they end up liking it or not. it truly must be seen to know what it is. and if you free your imagination and mind, a journey that will stick with you for life.since 'Tommy' is a Christmas movie, Merry Chistmas and may your New Year be filled with discovery. 12/29/10 "}{"Title":"Oliver Reed singing?","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Ken Russell introduced Oliver Reed to Pete Townshend. Townshend sat at piano and told Reed he would accompany him on any song he knew. Whatever the song was, Townshend stopped playing after one line, turned to Russell and said 'You're f****** joking aren't you', such was the ineptitude of Olly's singing. In fairness to Reed, he would readily admit that he couldn't sing to save his life.Therefore, it seems incredible that he should be cast in a musical. 'Tommy' is a musical with no dialogue, unlike 'Oliver' in which Reed was excellent.This sort of sets the tone for a pretty bad film.Buy the original album by The Who instead. A classic. No film was ever likely to do justice to it, even so, this fails by an uncomfortably large margin. "},{"Title":"Deaf...dumb...and not such a great movie either...","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" An insane adaptation of The Who's rock opera directed by Ken Russell. It's the story of a deaf, dumb & blind boy who becomes a pop icon as a pinball wizard. The music is incredible and the cameos by the likes of Tina Turner, Elton John & Eric Clapton are well-worth putting up with the flimsy storyline that shows us how Tommy was sent into near catatonia. It's silly instead of compelling but still Ann-Margret as Tommy's selfish mother & Oliver Reed as his greedy step-father are fun to watch...their singing isn't bad either. As Tommy, Roger Daltrey is perfectly suited to be playing an idiot. He's a performer, not an actor, and there's little personality that comes across. The role and singer are in perfect synchronization. Russell also wrote the screenplay (though all the dialog is sung) and Pete Townshend, who appears briefly, directed the music. Robert Powell is Tommy's ill-fated father and Jack Nicholson pops up as a specialist hired by Ann-Margret to cure Tommy. "},{"Title":"Ranks highly on the meh scale","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I plead to all the movie channels in the world, do not make me watch this movie again. It's not bad, I can see why some people think it is good. I just don't like the sort of film where you have to root around for the symbolic meaning every time a character picks his nose! Look up films in any dictionary and you will find they are a form of entertainment, look up this film anywhere and you will find that it is not. I was in one of those English classes we've all had where we watch a film and then pull it to pieces to find the subtext, the so called hidden meaning. As far as I'm concerned the hidden meaning can stay hidden in Tommy, as can the rest of the film. It is just all so, unnecessary, watching this film is likely to give you cataracts if you don't wear sunglasses, there must be other ways to present a film than this, films like this just seem overly pretentious. "},{"Title":"That deaf, dumb and blind kid, sure plays a mean pin ball.","Date":"15 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Sometimes I'm just late to the party. This time I'm really late to the party, about forty years after the movie originally came out to be exact. Which is unusual in one respect, since I actually bought The Who's 'Tommy' album when it first came out. My recollection is that I played it exactly once because I had no need to go through the whole story of Tommy's calamitous life all over again. Besides, 'Pinball Wizard' and a host of other songs from the album had ubiquitous air play when it debuted, and you could pretty much sing the more popular songs to yourself.So call it like it is, the film is garish, over the top, and if you like the music, it's all here from start to finish. I can't diminish Pete Townshend's vision in putting the original rock opera together; it follows a conceptual story line and deals with controversial subjects in a way that gets your attention. Most notable is the cult-like status that Tommy achieves for a rather unenviable proficiency - mastery at pinball. In that respect, the film successfully points to the vapidity of celebrity success and how fleeting it can be.Music fans will certainly appreciate the presence of rockers like Elton John as the Pinball Wizard and Tina Turner in her role as The Acid Queen. For Roger Daltrey, it occurs to me that his was a rather demanding physical role what with the climbing, hang-gliding and other athletic stunts he was required to perform. As for Ann-Margret, I'd have to say she earned her paycheck sloshing around in all that chocolaty goo during the regurgitating TV scene. I'm not sure how that qualified her for a Best Supporting Actress Oscar nomination, but she actually did win a Golden Globe for her performance.All things considered, I can't really say I enjoyed this very much but as is often the case I can appreciate the opportunity to see the film and compare notes with other reviewers. One thing of note, I didn't see his name in the uncredited cast list or see it mentioned any place else, but it sure looked to me like John Lennon was one of the observers sitting in a car and watching Tommy run across the beach during the 'I'm Free' segment. Anyone on that? "},{"Title":"Today it rained champagne","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I doubt I can add much to the many reviews already posted for Tommy, Ken Russell's demented film version of The Who's classic 1969 rock opera. It's not a movie that will please everybody. It's weird at every turn and feels very much like it was crafted by someone on psychedelic drugs. But it's also fascinating to watch (and listen to) and never boring. I've read many reviews here that talk extensively about Russell's creativity, the amazing sets, the various people performing The Who's music, and so on. All of that's great but I would like to focus on one specific person who makes the movie for me Ann-Margret. Aside from being stunning throughout the picture (even when writhing around in baked beans and chocolate), she has one of the best voices in the film. Most importantly, she gives the film's standout performance. Most of the people in this are camping it up as much as possible or they seem to be high. Ann-Margret manages to match everyone's craziness while still bringing her own special charm and energy to her role. She was nominated for an Oscar for this (and won a Golden Globe). She's really fun to watch and, if you're a fan of hers, I strongly recommend you see this. Overall, the movie is not without its flaws but it's worth a look at least once. Be prepared, though, it's very 'out there' and never lets up, moving along at a fast pace from start to finish. "},{"Title":"The Who, Ken Russell, and the 1970's&#x85;Subtle They Ain't","Date":"26 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Ear Piercing Audio, Sans Dialog, and Visually Overwhelming, This Overblown Rock-Opera Written by Pete Townshend (Oscar nominated), and Directed by Ken Russell, Stars Ann Margret (Oscar nominated), Roger Daltrey (Golden Globe nominated), with a Gaggle of Cameos.The Elton John (Pinball Wizard), Tina Turner (Acid Queen), and Eric Clapton (Preacher) Segments are Highlights but the Movie is On a High All Its Own. There was Absolutely Nothing Subtle About The Who, Ken Russell, or the 1970's. Everything was Big, Bright, and Blowhard. The Hair, the Attire, the Politics, and the Culture were on a Mind Expanding Trip to the Heavens.This Movie is a Product of its Era. A Gut-Wrenching, Cringe Inducing Musical Satire on Religion, Pop Culture, Fame, and the Kitchen Sink. It is as Kitsch as it Gets. A Sensory Overload of Sound, Color, and Excess for Excess Sake.Unless You are Fan of The Who/Ken Russell, This will be an Inconsistent Piece of Work at Best and a God-Awful Debauchery at Worst. An Objective Viewer Most Likely will Find Something to Love and Something to Hate.But, It Can't be Denied its Ambition, Creativity, and Place in the World of Cult Cinema, Rock on Film, and Artsy Pretensions. It's Long, Well Done, Mostly Entertaining, and Exhausting, with a Color Palette and Style Worthy its Subject. A Breathtaking Ballyhoo. "},{"Title":"Who wouldn't want to see Ann-Margaret slithering around in a 500 gallons of baked beans??","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Tommy is a surreal experience. While not quite as over-the-top as the psycho-erotic Barbarella (1968) and not as incomprehensible as the psycho-mindfreak Head (also 1968), this movie certainly delivers a wild ride.The plot is about a blind, deaf-mute boy who suffers abuse after abuse, eventually finding his salvation as a pinball prodigy. The spectacle instantly turns him into a cult figure, and from there things get really weird. According to writer/guitarist Pete Townshend, Tommy is an attack on the hypocrisy of organized religion, and there is certainly no question about that. Religious themes and symbols constantly crop up throughout the film, including, but not limited to, the statue of the Madonna (an outrageously suggestive sculpture of Marilyn Monroe), various images of medieval Catholic torture devices, and of course the iconic T for Tommy symbol (take a guess). The satire is laid on pretty thick.As I just described it, you might think the movie is predictable, and to a certain degree it is. But the film's complexity and power come from the presentation which is just weird enough to keep you guessing while not so weird that you'll lose focus. With unique visuals and music, it takes a tongue-in-cheek comedic approach which gives the director license to get away with murder. An example would be the scene where Tommy is being molested by various family members to the tune Fiddling Around Fiddling Around. Don't ask how such a disturbing concept can be presented in a silly way but it is.Another memorable moment is when Ann-Margaret's character has a sort of mental breakdown that begins with her drinking champagne in a luxurious, white room and ends with her squirming around in 500 gallons of baked beans. Yeah I told you this movie is weird.Director Ken Russell achieves a strange balance between Willy Wonka, The Life of Brian and Zardoz. While Roger Ebert criticized him for going too far, I actually feel like he was pretty conservative compared to other rock musicals of the time (like The Wall, Magical Mystery Tour and the aforementioned king of wtf-musicals Head).Notable appearances by Elton John, Tina Turner and Jack Nicholson add more fun to the mix. And it should go without saying, if you're a fan of The Who, you can't miss this movie. "},{"Title":"A great film with the potential of being excellent, if only the music had made a better transition.","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Review I love the album. The movie is good- but mainly for the way the concept is adapted. Visually it is a true adaptation of the concept, complete with the usual acid inspired scenes (I'll give you an example, his mother is watching commercials. First up, a bean commercial. Then a chocolate commercial. Then it switches to Tommy, she is scared to see him on TV so she trys switching, laundry detergent, but it keeps switching. She smashes the TV after hearing Tommy speak with his mind. Then out comes a stream of laundry detergent. Then a stream of beans. Then, not surprisingly enough, pinball's and chocolate. She messes up the entire house, then Frank comes home to see his wife flopping around on the floor like a loony.) However, the music does not translate so well. Keith Moon can't sing. Jack Nicholson can't sing (Who the hell cast him in this anyways?) Oliver Reed can't sing either. Much of the instrumentals have been changed, and the entire overture as well. Some tracks were left out for songs that weren't even the movie. It's still good to listen too, but this is probably the worst version of Tommy music wise, with the exception of Eyesight to the blind, The Acid Queen, Pinball Wizard, I'm free, Sally Simpson, and We're not gonna take it/ Climb the mountain which are sung by either professional singers, Roger Daltrey (The lead singer of the Who) or the Who themselves. This movie would be one of the best I've seen in awhile, if it weren't for the fact that the music is butchered in many areas. But still, if you're looking for a good acid film (but coherent enough that it won't overwhelm you) with a good story, and decent acting from the people who can sing. Tommy isn't the greatest movie you will find, but if you like the music or if you just want a good movie to while away a boring afternoon, Tommy's a great movie to check out. 7/10 (I would give it a 8 if the music was adapted better) "},{"Title":"One of the more strange films I have ever seen...","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I don't have time to go into too much detail, but for the most part, I found tommy to be both amazing and horrific at the same time. I've seen a lot of weird movies in my time - from eraserhead, to ichi the killer, to buckaroo bonzai - and this is easily way up at the top of my list of weirdest movies of all time. Some of it was cool - some was downright creepy - but for the most part, as a piece of abstract rock musical film, it was well done and pretty ground breaking. Where it looses isn't in strangeness or unpredictability, but really in the pace and basic comprehensibility of the story. I felt like it could have been more powerful at certain times - and less at others. Certain elements seemed far too vague, and then to bring it all into some strange full-circle at the end seemed unnecessary and rather...well...silly. But truly, I was both impressed and amazed. Oh, and I would have expected more from The Who for the soundtrack. Oh well. "},{"Title":"Yes I think its alright,Yes I think its alright.","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I first saw this thing about 10 years after it came out, we somehow had a VHF tape of it and myself,my younger brother, and my older step-brother watched it over and over and over. I think it was the imagery that fascinated us. I also know we could just not figure this thing out,and we wanted to be able to do that. I just got done watching it a minute ago, for the first time since those days, what twenty years ago itself now? I still cant figure this this thing out. I do like it still though.Ann Margaret was incredibly brave in this film,her performance of excess, selfishness, frustration, and love is only to be seen to be appreciated. Oliver Reed was fantastic too, as he humphffed through his scenes, and his lack of singing ability defined his character, not detracted from it.The sick uncle played by a sick man, Moon, really got the point across. As did the sadistic cousin. When Reed and Moon just look at each other after Reed comes home and Moons been babysitting tells how it really was not Allright and everyone knew it.Daltry himself did just fine. Blank stares and be-wondered facial expressions were just what Tommy seemed to be all about.As for the cameo appearances, Tina Turners was actually frightening,truly an Acid Queen. Elton John in those big shoes,looking all ticked off as Tommy is beating him, while he hammers out his superior version of Pinball Wizard is awesome. Nicholson even though he couldn't sing,just like Reed, didn't harm his part with it.His glances at Ann Margaret told his tale. Finally Clapton, well he was subdued, but just being there was I believe was the point for him.One big thing about Tommy. It is blasphemous, there is no question of this. I wouldn't watch this if that is going to offend you too greatly. "}{"Title":"Wow, thirty years later...","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I remember seeing this when it came out. I had purchased the record (a HUGE expense!) and I had this boyfriend who had cystic fibrosis and was not expected to live past 25, and we were in high school and we kissed and made out and he looked EXACTLY like Daltrey but with black hair. Anyway, having not had much exposure to much of anything (that would change in a year!), I thought this was just the most amazing film. I didn't figure out that GW looked exactly like Daltry until I saw Tommy and that was part of what made it such an emotional experience. Also, it was my first Ken Russell film. I would later see Lisztomania and others, and I learned that this insanity was normal.Years passed; I took film classes in college; I read the New Yorker; I became a cynic, and life hardened me.I rented this film and watched it. It took two nights because I literally could not take it all in. Ken Russell positively BOMBARDS you with images. It was much less exciting, much more pedestrian, this time around, but GEE does Roger Daltrey look good. I wonder where he is now. Does he ever look at this? Being close to his age, I feel sympathy and gladness -- it's tough growing old, but I sure would like to have a record of myself scaling Lake district rocks and turning cartwheels on the beach... I enjoyed all the characters, possibly more now that I am older and we have all had life experiences which have changed us. Hey, Elton just got married! Tina had a lot of problems, and Eric lost a child. And Pete is dead, isn't he? Seriously, the original rock opera by the Who is still far better than this movie could ever be, but Ken Russell did a very good job trying to make it spectacular. Ann-Margret is believable. Which is surprising for me to say after I thought the whole time how ridiculous she looked. I guess, in retrospect, she pulls off a very difficult role quite well, and I respect her in the end.And, yes, Daltrey is the capstone. If it were not for him with his gorgeous chest in practically every scene during the last 2/3rds of it, the film would flop. I wish to inform any uninitiated that he is very short. However, he had great hair, great eyes, great teeth, and a great body. And a great voice. (He did many songs with the Who and solo which can attest to that.) The conversion of the original rock opera to a film format is not hugely successful but it isn't too bad, either.I guess I am saying that it could be a lot worse, and it really is good for what it is/was. And for sentimental reasons alone, I have to give it at least a 7. Of course, a 10 for Daltrey's body. "},{"Title":"An Original and Imaginative Assault of the Senses...","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" The 1975 film version of the Who's Rock Opera TOMMY is a motion picture experience unlike any other. Director Ken Russell takes us on a roller coaster ride of a story, putting starkly original visuals to the Who's original opera. In this version, Tommy is struck blind, deaf, and mute after witnessing his mother's lover murder his father after he finds the lover and mother in bed together and then follows the boy's journey to adult hood where he discovers an ability to play pinball machines by touch and eventually becomes a cult leader whose followers get out of control. The Who's memorable music is still center stage but there are wonderful performances, headed by Ann-Margret, who received her one and only Best Actress Oscar nomination for her full-bodied performance as Nora Walker, Tommy's mother. The late Oliver Reed is equally memorable as Frank, Nora's lover and Who lead singer Roger Daltrey, who proves to have an engaging screen presence in the title role. There are also memorable bits contributed by Tina Turner as the Acid Queen, Elton John as the Pinball Wizard, Eric Clapton as a Preacher, Jack Nicholson as the doctor, and Keith Moon as Uncle Ernie. There are wildly imaginative scenes that won't soon be forgotten such as Tommy's visit to a church whose God is Marilyn Monroe and Ann-Margret's unforgettable bath in a wash of soap suds, chocolate, and baked beans. An original assault on the senses that you won't soon forget. Not for all tastes, but for the brave and bold moviegoer, keep an open mind and give it a look... "},{"Title":"Okay, but has some problems.","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" This movie has moments of brilliance, and then stupidity. It counters great numbers like Pinball Wizard and Cousin Kevin with some really lifeless numbers, such as Eyesight to the Blind and Sally Stimpson. Plus this movie goes on a bit too long. Tommy regaining his eyesight, hearing and speech should have been the end of the movie, but instead it staggers on with a senseless story about Tommy becoming a messiah-like figure. It just didn't work. But I do have to say I enjoyed most of the movie, even though it did drag in spots. Christmas was very entertaining, and Jack Nicholson did a surprisingly good job as the doctor. All in all, I give it somewhere between a B- and a C+. "},{"Title":"Fabulous, and highly underrated","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" (Possible spoilers...maybe...) This is by far one of my favourite movies. In my opinion, the Who do an excellent job of making their point about religion, but one has to realise that that isn't the only point they are trying to make. The stardom and obsessive admiration Tommy achieves also points a finger at many people's obsession with stars such as Marilyn Monroe and Elvis, and how they can get way out of hand. For example, in the case of Marilyn Monroe in particular, there is a temple to her where Tommy's mother takes him to be cured. The Who are making statements not only about religion, but about popular culture in general and how it is taken too seriously. The music is brilliant. Although it is different from the album, I still greatly enjoyed it. I think both the movie soundtrack and the Who's album are definitely worth hearing. I love the overall impression that this movie leaves you with. It has an excellent cast with an original and symbolic storyline, and I was very impressed with Roger Daltrey's performance. 5/5 "},{"Title":"Very memorable because it is very unusual","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I highly recommend this movie. It is a totally off-the-wall rock opera like Rocky Horror Picture Show, or Jesus Christ Superstar. In the movie the title character Tommy is a child who is traumatized into developing a psychosomatic loss of sight and hearing. Even though he is deaf, dumb, and blind he becomes the greatest pinball player in the world. Most of the movie takes place while Tommy is in his twenties. His parents and an assortment of other crazy characters try to cure Tommy of his illness. There are some neat little details, like hookers wearing gas masks, that make this movie worth watching more than once. "},{"Title":"Not the Album, but still good","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Tommy the album is one of the greatest albums in rock and roll history.  It propelled the Who into the forefront of music in the late sixties and early seventies.  It didn't make sense to anybody really.  Even John Entwistle said, I didn't understand what it was about until I saw Ken Russell's version, and he was wrong.  Wrong as it was, Tommy the movie was still very good.  I could have done without Bernie's Holliday Camp, and Champagne wasn't all that great either.  The order was changed, but it did make it run more smoothly.  Eric Clapton's song was pleasing to the ears, but not to my eyes.  Tina Turner was terrific.  I enjoyed Elton John's Pinball Wizard, maybe even more than the album version.  Paul Nicholas was spectacular as Cousin Kevin, and Keith Moon was despicable (to both sound and sight).  I enjoyed the Christmas scene as well.  Sally Simpson was also another well done piece.  The beginning didn't work for me, because they cut out the entire Overture, that in my opinion is one of the greatest instrumental rock and roll pieces of all time.  Amazing Journey is a good song, but I liked the album version much better.  So I just get the DVD, watch selected scenes, and I'm watching one great movie.  The great portrayal of some songs made up for some additions and changes, so 8/10. "},{"Title":"One of the classic midnight movies","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Many fans of The Who detest director Ken Russell's gleefully over-the-top film of the legendary rock opera about a blind, deaf and mute boy who becomes the pinball champion of the world. On the other hand, those who love Russell generally hold ``Tommy'' up as one of his greatest works. When it was released in 1975, it generated a fair amount of controversy, raked in lots of money and garnered an Oscar nomination for Ann-Margret's frenzied performance as Tommy's boozy, self-indulgent mom. Certainly she deserved the honor for surviving the much-talked-about scene in which she writhes around in a mix of soap suds, baked beans and chocolate syrup - trust me, you have to see it for yourself. Russell planned ``Tommy'' as a full-fledged assault on the eyes and ears (the tagline on the movie was ``Your senses will never be the same''), and that's exactly what it is, tossing out one bizarre visual after another while guest artists such as Eric Clapton, Tina Turner and Elton John help out stars Roger Daltrey, Ann-Margret and Oliver Reed. This is nothing, repeat, nothing, like the 1990s musical version of ``Tommy,'' and the PG rating the movie received 25 years ago seems absurdly mild today, considering how much of the movie involves drugs, perversion and violence. Oh, yeah, Jack Nicholson also turns up as a singing doctor - as I said, you have to see it for yourself. The DVD allows you to select from a 2-channel Dolby Surround soundtrack, a Dolby Digital soundtrack and the movie's original ``quintaphonic mix,'' which was restored for this re-release. Each of these sound superb, although all the technology in the world couldn't help Reed or Nicholson carry a tune.  "},{"Title":"Stunning, but not for everyone","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  This is one of those films you either really, really love or can't stand the first five minutes of. I, however, am a lover of the film.I find Tommy to be better visually than musically, though. The effects and sets and costumes are all breathtaking! I have mixed feelings for the soundtrack. Elton John's cover of Pinball Wizard is far better than the original, but some tunes are a bit irritating I do admit (that's something you'll have to hear for yourself though). I loved watching Roger as Tommy not only because he's incredibly gorgeous (laugh all ya want, Roger Daltrey's the best looking guy I've ever seen in my life), but because it's almost as if he really is deaf, dumb, and blind. He really did convey it beautifully.However, I can understand why some wouldn't like Tommy. As I mentioned before, a few tunes are a bit irritating, and it does tend to drag a little, especially towards the end (this is why I only watch it about twice a year). Perhaps it really would have been better if made in 1969 rather than 1975, but I love this film anyway. Seeing The Who and Elton John all in one movie, who could wish for anything better? "},{"Title":"Weird","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  This is one weird movie!  The music is good but not up there with the rest of The Who's music.  Good performances all across the board (for the most part), and good singing, although Ann Margaret's singing was..different for a woman.  Plus seeing her smear baked beans all over herself was appetizing! "},{"Title":"A one-off","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" When it was first released, in those long-ago days of mono movies in local cinemas, it was accompanied by a dedicated sound system to enable the 5 channel soundtrack to be delivered in local fleapits at an ear-splitting volume never before encountered. Wonderful! But the film itself, what of that? Well, to start off with, Pete Townsend's weird little brainchild was an odd concept from the beginning, even as fuel for a rock music concept album (the first of its kind, I believe). There was a strange narrative about a childhood trauma rendering Tommy deaf, dumb and blind, a section dealing with him being abused by various of those who should have looked after him, and then his becoming some sort of self-help guru following the notoriety he earned after suddenly being cured.Ken Russell managed to plonk all that on screen, complete, as filtered through a dose of screaming hysteria.Tommy is, to put it bluntly, utterly insane. Or, to be more British about it, bonkers.Which is not necessarily a criticism. Tommy is a truly original piece of cinema which captures, in its own way, a truly original piece of English rock history, and I can't imagine anyone other than Russell having the vision to match a directorial attitude to the nature of the material being filmed.There are some pretty good performances, some singing which varies between great and downright duff, some eclectic casting, some extraordinary visuals, and some pretty darn good music.And they burned Southsea Pier. "}{"Title":"Wonderful opera from the 70's","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I was 13 years old when I first saw Tommy in 1975. I really didn't understand it at that time. However, I saw it 3 more times and fell in love with it each and every time. Now at 46 all I can say is I fell in love then and I am still in love. The score is nothing short of genius by Pete Townsend. What originality and imagination! The words will move you and the music will haunt you. I appreciated Ann Margret as an actress before but after this movie, I saw how she really poured herself into her role. I saw her win the Golden Globe for this performance and she accepted it with Roger Daltry at her side. Roger himself proved that he could act as well as sing and the rest of the cast was sublime in their roles. I feel that this movie had a lot to say at the time it came out and still does. You are captivated from the opening scene to the last scene. What a way to remember the good times of the 70's. "},{"Title":"I don't usually enjoy musicals...but this is one of the very few that I do enjoy","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Rated PG for Violence,Thematic Elements and Drug Content(would be PG-13 today) I am a big fan of The Who.I think they are the greatest rock band of all time! There are so many of their songs I enjoy.Tommy is my favorite album from the who and in my opinion, its one of the greatest albums of all time.I was curious to see how the movie version was so I checked it out.Now, if you don't like rock music, you will probably not like this film.Unlike other films based on concept albums, this one has the actors/actresses singing their own versions of the songs.It actually works! Some of the songs were better on the album but some others were actually better in the film.The film is full of weird imagery and metaphors.The plot of the film is of Captain Walker who goes to fight in world war 2, leaving his wife and soon to be born child.It is believed that he is dead when he does not return.The child is born and his name is Tommy.They visit a holiday camp where the mother meets another man.The year is now 1951 and Tommy is a young boy, however Captain Walker did not die and is seen confronting the mother and the lover.The lover then kills him but Tommy sees it all.The parents yell at him telling him he didn't see it, hear it and wont say anything about it.Because of this, Tommy becomes deaf, dumb and blind.A few years later, Tommy and his parents are seen taking him to many places to get him cured such as a cult which worships Marylin Monroe and thinks that she can give eyesight to the blind & a place where a woman gives Tommy LSD sending him on a wild acid trip.Meanwhile, his cousin Kevin tortures him and his uncle Ernie molests him when Tommy is put in their care.One day, Tommy wanders into a junkyard, finds a pinball machine and plays it very well.He then becomes rich and famous.His mother is sad however because Tommy cannot enjoy it.One day in a fit of rage, she throws Tommy through a mirror, curing him.He then becomes a religious icon but his followers dislike his strict rules, so they burn down the camp, killing the parents.Tommy then gets a new enlightenment.If you have heard the original concept album, you pretty much know the story.However the movie has some songs that the album does not and omits some songs as well.Tommy may not have the greatest plot, but it has some great songs, and if you like the who, its worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Dated and overblown but very enjoyable nonetheless","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Tommy is very much a product of its era and is inevitably dated. Still, it remains a very entertaining rock opera to watch, full of the gonzo outrageousness one can come to expect from Ken Russell. While its neither his best or his most accessible film (Altered States would be both of those), fans of Russell's idiosyncratic output will lap it up. The taglines said Your senses will never be the same again, and while that may be a slight overstatement, the film is a sensory overload. Its retelling of The Who's rock opera is quite colorful and campy - the viewer isn't sure whether or not to take the film seriously.The acting here ranges from good to bad. Oliver Reed and Ann-Margaret are both performers occasionally mocked for their public persona, but they could turn in fine performances when they tried. They're at the top of their game here. Roger Daltrey, on the other hand, proves why he was a rock frontman instead of an actor. As good a vocalist as he was, hes a laughably lousy performer, managing to overdo the part of a deaf, dumb, and blind character.The renditions of Tommy on the soundtrack are very good. It was a wise decision on Russell's behalf to not include any dialog not sung, because it would've brought the film to a screeching halt. Without it, it manages to be one of the very few musicals I actually enjoy. (7/10) "},{"Title":"The alternative to drugs","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Ken Russell delivers a psychedelic rock opera.That's right, this opera I think made me high, I kept seeing colors, I forgot what most of this film was about, I put on the Teletubbies and LAUGHED! OK, not really but this movie was very psychedelic, the colors are awesome, the singing is awesome (especially from Jack Nicholson, but if it's a voice over&#133;) I loved the direction, The acid queen bit was awesome.This film is only a 8/10 because, the plot was hard to follow sometimes, and the side story with Sally Simpson, I thought was totally unnecessary, and didn't like it. "},{"Title":"Rock God as Singing Savior","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Pete Townshend once said, What's good about great pop and rock is it's sublime and ridiculous at once. He should know. He wrote *Tommy*. The film, *Tommy*, inspired by The Who's 1969 concept album &#150; about a traumatized deaf, dumb and blind boy who becomes a pinball-playing savior &#150; is simultaneously an electrifying musical monolith and a descent into drug-induced kookiness. Someone had to be high to let Oliver Reed sing. Blame eccentric satyr director, Ken Russell, whose hallucinogenic vision puts the higher in Messiah, jamming the movie with images of sensual nightmare showgirls in gasmasks, bombers-as-crucifixes, a skeleton with a snake-as-penis, giant pinballs littering the landscape, and Ann-Margret lolling in chocolatey, syrupy goodness.Oliver Reed is the nightmare part. Playing Tommy's stepfather, he excels at his forte (acting) but his painfully off-key ululations, combined with Ann-Margret's melodramatic cheese-vibrato (as Tommy's mum) make the film's early segments nigh unbearable. The creation of Viagra can be traced directly to the scene of Reed getting ready to bed down with Ann-Margret. Responsible for more erectile dysfunction than prostate problems or testicular cancer combined, that scene still sends a shudder of horror through my supple thighs. When the real rock musicians enter the fray, the film suddenly finds its feet. During Sonny Boy Williamson's *Eyesight to the Blind* - the first actual rock track - Eric Clapton is The Hawker Priest, The Who his acolytes, with Crazy Arthur Brown giving communion, under the graven image of Marilyn Munroe. Oh, sweet Blasphemy!An indefinable verve is captured on screen when real musicians mime their own instruments and vocals, which actors-playing-musicians could never hope to achieve Entwistle's fingers clearly ravage the bass fretboard, as Townshend smacks down his Les Paul and Clapton bleeds the blues. Tina Turner burns it down with her crazy-eyed Acid Queen and Elton John (in arguably the best re-arranged song for the movie) plies his big-booted pinball wizardry, while Keith Moon eats riotous scenery as a leering lecher. But it is when Roger Daltrey opens his mouth as the adult Tommy that the film finds its wings as a bird of prey. In his first on screen role, The Who's lead singer, Daltrey &#150; whose vocal timbre and awe-inspiring, full-bodied delivery simply bespeaks rock superstardom &#150; single-handedly elevates the film from an average musical to a legendary rock opera. As soon as that shirt comes off, he is the personification of Rock God. Thirty years after the film's release, his long-haired, bare-chested, tight-panted visage is still an icon of rock rebelliousness.The stirring final track (*Listening To You*) sees him bare-footed and bare-chested, climbing a mountain, in full-throated passionate song, more than ever resembling that which the rock opera itself tries to deconstruct &#150; a savior. The messages may be in the music, but even writer-composer Townshend would not be able to reconcile the paradoxes inherent in those messages. Throughout this magnum opus, though Townshend exhorts not to place faith in media-engined, merchandised entities, his own rockstar livelihood relies on the music-buying public doing just that. Even as his messages denounce those who would blindly worship icons, in creating this scintillating monument to rock, he himself becomes an icon to be worshipped. Maybe when the album and band were in their infancy and walking an unknown path between ephemerality and longevity, *Tommy* needed to make sense. With Townshend's concepts morphing constantly during the writing, recording and eventual filming of *Tommy*, he would never adequately explain it, but nowadays he does not need to. *Tommy* has achieved transcendence, as much a part of human culture as death and spam. There are allusions to Oedipus, The New Testament and even nods to *Beneath the Planet of the Apes* (Holy Bombs as graven images).*Tommy* the movie propelled *Tommy* the album back to No.2 on the Billboard charts, six years after its initial release. Townshend once said about performing *Tommy* The Rock Opera live, All I remember from that tour was Roger's chest.Townshend dedicated the *Tommy* album to his Indian spiritual mentor, Meher Baba. Thankfully keeping the lyrics free of mystical raving, profundities can be found passim You've been told many times before / Messiahs pointed to the door / But no one had the guts to leave the temple. Each one of you has freedom / In your heart, without my grace. But oft-times the hokeyness bleeds through in *We're Not Gonna Take It*, Tommy instructs his legions to simulate his Unaware state by plugging their ears, mouth and eyes, to attain enlightenment by effectively freeing their senses from the distractions of the world, then singing that Pinball completes the scene &#150; Huh? Of course! The eternal correlation between pinball and nirvana&#133; The traumatic deadening of Tommy's senses can also be applied to any society. How often we close our eyes and minds to the truth, because those in charge tell us with no uncertainty You didn't hear it, you didn't see it / You won't say nothing' to no one / Never tell a soul what you know is the truth!Only the epic finale touches upon any kind of inexplicable epiphany, yet is more than enough immortality for Townshend never to have to compose another tune Listening to you, I get the music / Gazing at you, I get the heat / Following you, I climb the mountain / I get excitement at your feet&#133;Literally shouting it from a mountaintop, Tommy the son ends a story where his father began it years ago, and director Ken Russell ensures that the Messiah metaphors, the chintzy and great rock music, the stunning imagery, the insightful themes will all take a backseat to this last scene's smoldering idolatry. All you will remember is Roger's chest. "},{"Title":"The most uniquely bad movie I've ever seen","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" This is probably not the best movie to start watching after a busy day at 1030 P.M. Even though I had already heard the Who's original album, I was still completely unprepared for the sensory assault mounted by the film's director, Ken Russell. Every scene is a kaleidoscopic frenzy of garish and bizarre images, most filled with hilariously obvious symbolism (which the college kids watching the film with me seemed to enjoy pointing out), and reinforced by the Who's music, which runs throughout the movie at top volume and with barely any interruption. It's also badly dubbed to the actor's lip movements, which only adds to the overall strangeness. Russell seems particularly fond of having the actors degrade themselves- one long sequence shows Tommy being abused by his sadistic cousin and his perverted uncle. In another scene, involving Ann-Margret as his mother, champagne and baked beans erupt out of a TV and fill an immaculately white room. Following the lead of the original album, Russell seems to be trying to make some kind of satirical statement on organized religion, but the whole thing is so over-the-top and bears such little relationship to any reality that the attempts at commentary wind up as empty as the rest of the film. Russell's dubious accomplishment basically consists of having created the world's longest and noisiest music video. "},{"Title":"Flawed, dated, erratic, sophomoric, silly, nonsensical, but I still love it!","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Almost 30 years later, TOMMY the Movie is still splitting critics into love/hate camps. I fell in love with this movie when it first came out, and I still love this movie. You may initially hate it, but if you see TOMMY, and I recommend you do, you can't deny that Ken Russell and the WHO shot for greatness, may have missed the mark, but will be remembered for this minor masterpiece of surrealism, symbolism, and flat out great rock and roll. And let's not forget that TOMMY was the first attempt at a Rock Opera, a debt that MTV, RENT, and a slew of follow-on Rock Musicals owe in spades (MOVIN OUT?). They were treading on new ground and TOMMY should be remembered for the chances they took and the innovations they created. The number of themes investigated and delved into throughout the movie alone is staggering Familial and oedipal conflict, organized religion vs. inner spirituality, forgiveness and redemption, parental guilt, monetary gain vs. spiritual poverty, the consequences of fame, memory vs. free will, etc. etc.Must see highlights 1. Elton John as the Pinball wizard, (the only song to actually improve on the Who's original) 2. Tina Turner as the Acid Queen, (echoing her future role in Beyond the Thunderdome) 3. Eric Clapton as the False Prophet of False Idols (even in 1973 Marilyn Monroe was already a Plaster Pedestal Goddess) 4. Anytime Entwhistle, Townsend, and Moon play or Daltry sings. 5. Sally Simpson Set 6. The Harmonies in It's a Boy Mrs. Walker 7. The Chorus of We're Not Gonna Take It 8. The recurring theme of See Me, Feel Me. 9. Ann Margaret's roll in the beans and chocolate.Avoid if you can1. Nicholson as the scheming doctor (apparently he did this on the spot and spent only 18 hours from the time he agreed to doing the role to wrapping the filming). 2. Fiddle About by Keith Moon. 3. Anytime Oliver Reed Sings. (True, Reed butchers the lines he sings, but perhaps Ken Russell wanted it that way as a sign of moral degeneracy the way Shakespeare and classical poets associated language abuse with villainy and moral decay).I especially like Russell's use of symbolism and color schemes throughout the movie, even if it is obvious and at times sophomoric1. Silver balls represent technology Pin balls, shrapnel in bombs (loaded by Tommy's Mom), electro-shock devices, Microphones heads, mirrors, recurring silver balls throughout. 2. The blue uniform of Tommy's RAF hero father becomes the green uniform of Tommy's Army of Disciples. 3. White => Mother and Ann Margaret (Tommy's even born in a completely white room) (although she also shows up in Red in several scenes and Ann Margaret's Cadillac is white with a red interior suggesting the virgin/whore duality (now I'm really getting a load of myself)). 4. Yellow => Sadism, Cousin Kevin 5. Red => Lust, Sex, Drugs, Rock and Roll and Tina Turner 6. Blue => Pedophilia, fetishism, perversion, and Keith Moon. 7. Green => Tommy's new religion, freedom, nature. 7. Recurring Christ Symbolism is constant and over the top throughout. Tommy is born on VJ Day, endures darkness & silence (in the wilderness), destroys the idol in the temple, is crucified by the Acid Queen, baptizes his mother in the ocean, is central in the Last Supper scene in My House, climbs the mountain toward the rising sun, and his symbol is a T with a silver ball on top as a cross. 8. Mirror imagery is frequent as a symbol of freedom resulting from self-reflection, literally Tommy discovers pinball after a long reflection into a mirror, Tommy is freed from his catatonia after his mother hurls him into a mirror, a biker puts down his shotgun after Tommy's image is reflected in his mirrored glasses.Symbolism I haven't quite worked out Tommy's father and Sally Simpson both suffer huge scars on the left sides of their faces. I suppose it means that those who truly love Tommy are destined to be scared or something like that.I also liked the following symbolic tidbitsAt the communion in Clapton's temple of Marilyn worshipers they hand out pills and bourbon instead of bread and wine.Sally Simpson marries a Rock Star from California who is a Cowboy Frankenstein which neatly ties in with the huge scar on her face.On VJ day they decorate the tombstones of fallen soldiers with red flowers with black centers which are used in several scenes.Townsend, Entwhistle, and Moon are all wearing suits with a design for the Bank of England Notes on them in the Pinball wizard.In short, the movie is rife with these little cinematic treats. I usually pick up one or two more such connections on each viewing.Lastly, unfortunately, every time we leave the kids with a sitter or a relative, my wife says, Do you think it's all right? and I always say, a little nervously, Yes I think it's all right.Watch the movie for how bizarre and out there the visual language is. Listen to the movie for those songs that make the Who one of the greatest and enduring Rock and Roll bands of all time. "},{"Title":"You either get it, or you don't","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" There's really very little point in trying to tell you whether this movie is any good or not. It massively divides people, between those who think it's great and those who think it's ridiculous. And those, like me, who think it's both of those things at the same time.So, there's this deaf, dumb and blind kid who sure plays a mean pinball. Has it got too silly for you yet? OK, how about Ann-Margret rolling around covered in chocolate? Keith Moon playing an amusing child molester? How about Oliver Reed singing? Elton John in 25-foot high Doc Marten boots? Eric Clapton as a vicar who worships a plaster-cast Marilyn Monroe? And I haven't even mentioned Tina Turner's truly bizarre turn as the Acid Queen yet.If you reckon you can cope with all that - and much, much more in the same vein - and if you like the Who's music (obviously), you might end up liking this movie. A lot. Ken Russell is clearly quite mad, and a very bad man, but that's why I love him. And I love his strange, insane, wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"Who's Film?","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I became a big fan of the Who in late 2005, and one of the first albums I bought by them was Tommy. So I was excited when I heard that there was a film adaptation.I finally saw it last night, after receiving it as a gift for Christmas. I went in thinking If the movie itself is bad, I'll at least enjoy the music. I was wrong. The songs from The Who are here in less rocking versions. That's not to say they are bad, but anyone looking for the normal sound of the Who might be disappointed. The exception here is 'Pinball Wizard', which retains it's energy quite well, despite Elton John on vocals. That scene is also one of the best scenes in the entire film. It's just as bizarre as Tina Turner's 'Acid Queen' without the freaky horror aspect and Tina's over the top performance.Anyway, Ken Russell stays very close to the Tommy story, which is good in theory, but as a film plot it's very difficult to pull off. Luckily, he saves the film by using very unique visuals. If you're open minded enough to understand and accept Russell's visual choices, I think you'll enjoy this film.I recommend this for fans of Ken Russell, but I could see some fans of the "},{"Title":"There is no nonsense like rock musical nonsense","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  A boy is deaf, dumb and blind, but despite his multi-handicaps has magical gifts including being a champion pinball player.Where do you start with this giant piece of self-indulgence that would be so easy to ignore if were not created by a popular rock-and-roll band (The Who) and actually includes some above average tunes; and even some above average talents singing them.(Anne Margaret - as Tommy's mother - not being one of them. What can you say about a career that is best remembered  for being a  hot-panted piece of  whoops I've dropped something eye-candy in dreadful Elvis Pressley movies!? Not only have her hips expended - since those days - her breasts seem to have as well!) The last time I saw Tommy director Ken Russell he was in his own back garden filming a straight-to-video vampire movie on his camcorder. The man has finally found his level, sadly the journey includes films so camp that drag queens probably walk out screaming enough, I can't take any more!Tommy is a  stick it in the camera while the soundtrack booms and deafens festival. Rather in the school of  Pink Floyd's The WallPlot, narrative and plain making any sense are clearly less important than the wham-bams. Some wham-bams work (they had enough budget for fantastic props and sets);  but that doesn't make them an art form.  Lead Daltry is supposed to be a child and despite being a bit on short side is just as close to his old age pension  as his childhood. Nevertheless he  actually makes a good fist of  an impossible part.The modern audience fed on pop videos and can't-concentrate-for-long TV  might be able to stomach this guff, but you have to have to be able to take large doses of camp (Anne Margaret's shrill voice is more old-time Vegas than rock) and even dated material The holiday camp sequences are pure music hall.You also have to be able to view child abuse as a  suitable subject for comedy - unless you view the most modern cut which simply snips it out. Indeed you could snip most scenes from this movie out and you wouldn't notice. I'd even suggest that you could snip all the scenes and reassemble in them in a totally random order and you wouldn't do much damage either!Despite not being very good, don't be put off seeing Tommy, it is no more a waste of time than two hours of MTV, but works best at illustrating how  ramshackled and nonsensical the mind of Pete my whole life is pop art Townsend really is.People in the pop music world give kudos to this movie, but then again they give kudos to any artist who simply  gets out of bed before midday, no matter gets an expensive home movie made. "}{"Title":"My Favorite Cult-Movie","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" When Nora Walker (Ann-Margret) gets pregnant, her beloved husband, the pilot Captain Walker (Robert Powell), is considered missing in action in World War II when his plane crashes in a battle. Nora raises her son Tommy alone with the memories of his father. In 1951, she meets Franks Hobbs (Oliver Reed) in a summer camp, is courted by him, ending in an affair. However, in the middle of a stormy night, the boy has a nightmare with his father and runs to her mother's bed, finding her naked with uncle Frank, becoming immediately deaf, dumb and blind. The years go by, and her mother lives with a complex of guilty of the psychological problem of her son. One night, Tommy finds a pinball machine in a junkyard, and his natural skills transform him in a champion, and when he supersedes and heals his problems, a legion of fans follows him, as if he were a new Messiah.Tommy is my favorite cult-movie. In the 70's, I do not recall how many times I went to the movie theaters to see this film. Later, in the 80's, with the videocassette, I rented this movie many times. Then I bought the CD, and later the VHS. Now I have just bought and watched the DVD, in DTS system. The first 45 minutes of this metaphoric story is outstanding. The second half is sillier, but also very attractive. It is amazing the imbecilities I read about this movie. For example, in the synopsis of the Brazilian DVD, it is written that Frank kills Captain Walker in front of little Tommy. The sexy, for the standards of beauty of the 70's, Ann-Margret, has probably the best performance of her career, singing wonderful songs with her marvelous voice and being nominated to the Oscar. The music score, also nominated to the Oscar, is one of the best I have ever heard. Just as a curiosity, in the military dictatorship of my country, the scene with The Preacher (Eric Clapton) was censored and not allowed for Brazilian viewers. Only many years later I could see this religious satire. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) Tommy "},{"Title":"Rock on Tommy","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" The combination of The Who's concept rock/opera album Tommy and director Ken Russell in his pomp led to this visual, surreal, hallucinogenic and flawed musical film. There is no dialogue, just songs and music. It is also disturbing especially when Cousin Kevin and Uncle Ernie turn up.The film begins with Robert Powell as Captain Walker and Ann Margaret as Nora, a young couple in love. Powell goes off to fight in the war and his RAF plane crashes and he is missing presumed dead.Tommy was born on VE day and only knows his father through his photograph. Some years later his mother meets Uncle Frank (Oliver Reed) an entertainer in a holiday camp. He seems well intentioned but rather a murky character.One night Powell returns home and catches Margaret and Reed in bed together and after a scuffle, Reed kills Powell an act witnessed by young Tommy who ends up in a near catatonic state as with the cajoling of Margaret and Reed he loses his ability to see, hear and speak.The adult Tommy (Roger Daltrey) grows up deaf, dumb and blind but somehow manages to play a mean game of pinball. Margaret and Reed bring on all sort of quacks to cure Tommy be it religious, medical or charlatans. Leading to cameo appearances by Tina Turner, Eric Clapton and Jack Nicholson.As Tommy excels at pinball we have that famous duel with Elton John as the Pinball Wizard.However Tommy regains his senses miraculously and he becomes quite a cult that brings him and his family fame and fortune. However it is at this point the film loses its lustre and the music and visuals just seem to lose its impact.The film has a religious subtext, almost messianic as Tommy is reborn and gains a devoted following. It also has an underlying sexual and child abuse elements as well.The bold film is a British classic of 1970s experimental cinema thanks largely to Ken Russell at times unrestrained direction but he is in his element in marrying the music, songs and visuals.Ann Margaret probably did not realise what she was letting herself into when she agreed to this film. However she throws herself at with whatever Russell throws at her including being covered in baked beans and chocolate goo. She bagged herself an Oscar nomination for best actress and she also looks beautiful.The film starts at rather conventionally at first but quickly becomes an assault on the senses as Tina Turner struts her stuff as the Acid Queen and we have all sorts of striking imagery. Some other darker thoughts enter your mind when Paul Nicholas and Keith Moon start singing.Once Tommy can see, hear and speak the film loses its purpose and becomes less interesting. It is only now you think the film is self indulgent and over-long. There is a great sunrise shot at the end but gosh, how did Daltrey manage to climb that mountain with his bare feet? "},{"Title":"Exercise in '70s camp and excess","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" TOMMY, a film version of The Who's rock opera musical, is an exercise in everything 1970s horrid fashions, glam rock, complete excess in terms of story, filming style, and the like. But then you'd expect nothing else from infant terrible director Ken Russell (THE LAIR OF THE WHITE WORM), a guy who could film an old man walking down the street and turn it into something campy and unrealistic. Still, Russell's out-there style, complete with zooms and dizzy editing, is part of the charm, I reckon.The story is a series of set pieces about the rise of a pinball wizard, played by an enjoyable Roger Daltrey, and the religious cult that forms around him. In reality, though, it's a series of vibrant songs, each seeking to eclipse the former, delivering excess after excess. The list of cameos from musicians and stars is endless Jack Nicholson, Eric Clapton, and Tina Turner are just a few of the appearances here, although my favourite is Elton John with those crazy trousers and boots. The music's pretty good and I did enjoy the visuals, which are as colourful and over the top as some gaudy Christmas decorations. See it to believe it! "},{"Title":"As a musical/rock opera, I love this movie...and, the album! )","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Ken Russell's Tommy, of the same name as the album it was made from, is nothing less than brilliant if you like this kind of music and enjoy musicals.I first saw this back in the later-days of VHS and recorded it onto a cassette, along with Woodstock, during the Roger Daltry hosted RockStock Weekend special in 2000 on the AMC channel.I thought, and, still think, this is a great movie/musical! I watch it at least once year to remind me of just how good it really is.This, like any movie, is one of mood...you must be in the right mood to enjoy it. Also, you have to like this kind of rock opera musical storytelling to even consider watching it. Many Who fans, including myself, might even consider this movie a departure from the music that one would hear at their concerts or on the radio...but, I still love it.The acting, singing, and, dancing performances are impeccable! Ann-Margret is as lively and beautiful as ever! Oliver Reed is as great and devious as ever! Jack Nicholson is as creepy and persuasive as ever! Tina Turner is just fabulous! Elton John does his cover of Pinball Wizard in a very memorable way! And, the newcomer to acting, Roger Daltry (singer of The Who), does an incredible portrayal of the 'deaf, dumb, and, blind kid' Tommy!However, I've found that many people don't share my enthusiasm about this epic musical. Most of my friends considered The Who's more serious 'movie' Quadophenia (1979) much better than this - to each his own.If you like The Who, I'm fairly sure that you'll like both! ) "},{"Title":"Overblown satire","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Oh how I laughed when Roger Daltrey ran and ran in the oceans and the stars running and running and running. Just the character he plays, Tommy, is funny in himself making one impression throughout the whole of the movie, but no one can like him as much as he does himself, for me at least two hours is too heavy...For established fans of 'The Who', those who know and like the Tommy album, can really enjoy this movie, but for those who haven't this is like eating four bars of chocolate the first time to see how it is. Ken Russel is a unique filmmaker and one with strange visions, some of them work really well, some get tedious. "},{"Title":"It's like RHPS. You like it, or you hate it.","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I love the movie. I work on similar old pinball machines for re-sale and they're just great to play. Of course in the end when all those machines were destroyed, I became a little weepy. Even if someone didn't like the movie, the music was always great. Just like Quadrophenia. The movie wasn't great, but the soundtrack was amazing with a high crankability factor. People say they hate it, but sometimes I notice people looking at me smiling with their heads bobbing when I play it in the car. Seeing various cameo appearances by then young musicians like Eric Clapton and Tina Turner was what made me want to watch the movie in the first place. I saw it first when I was very young and didn't understand the movie. I'm older now and it means more than just music.  "},{"Title":"I liked the stage version more, but I may be biased.","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I've seen the play on stage 3 times and loved it. I've only seen the movie once, recently, after seeing the play, and thought it was... not as good as the play. It's possible I'm biased to think that the play is better because I saw that first. The movie was a bit confusing though. In the play, the mom's lover is killed, not Capt. Walker, as it happened in the movie. The movie also has many more songs that aren't included in the play. The movie has that 70s stoner/weird/what-the-heck-is-going-on kind of feel to it, whereas the play is a bit more straight-forward and caters to a different, more theater-going audience. In my opinion, the movie's acting was very cheesy. It has a creepy vibe to it also, since everyone seems to be stoned/drunk/out to get you. I didn't like it all that much. I want to see the entire thing, though, because Bravo cut out the Uncle Ernie and Cousin Kevin parts. I liked Tina Turner's rendition of Acid Queen, even though the scene was pretty disturbing. Even so, I'll stick to my Original London Cast sound-track. "},{"Title":"He will tear your ears apart!","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  When Eric Idle of MONTY PYTHON fame spoofed this notoriously extreme and excessive rock blowout in his 1976 'Rutland Dirty Weekend' book, among the more amusing things he wrote were He will tear your ears (as opposed to your soul) apart and, regarding the use of quadrophonic sound, this film can kill you unless you sit in the more expensive seats. How right he was! After seeing this outrageous offering a couple of times on TV, I finally got to see it on the big screen, and I was completely blown away. The flamboyant, psychedelic visuals, the very seventies sense of everything-and-the-kitchen-sink overkill and the pounding rock soundtrack combine to overwhelm your senses, and anyone who doesn't walk away from this film drained and breathless must be either deaf, dumb and blind themselves, or just plain old dead! Despite the film's poor reputation amongst Who fans, it has to be said that TOMMY was a difficult album to film in the first place, given the rather mystical plot and the open-to-interpretation nature of the storyline and the events. Everyone has their own take on the opera, and perhaps this is where the film rubs people up the wrong way - seeing everything set in concrete, rather than as they imagined it will always come as something of a blow - a bit like watching a disappointing film adaptation of a favourite novel. In my opinion, Ken Russell was an excellent choice to make the movie, because he seems to understand the sweat-drenched headrush a really good rock concert can induce, and really pulls out all the stops to emulate this dazzling onslaught of conflicting emotions and thumping adrenaline on celluloid. The whole cast are good - Oliver Reed can't sing, of course, but then neither can Keith Moon, and nobody complains about his wonderfully perverted turn as Uncle Ernie. Ann-Margret has never been better, and she definitely deserved the Oscar for her energetic and emotive portrayal of Tommy's blowsy mother. Jack Nicholson has fun with his role, Roger Daltrey is never less than convincing as the eponymous Pinball Wizard and Robert Powell is hauntingly effective as the doomed Captain Walker - he's also worth checking out in Russell's nightmarish MAHLER (1974) if you enjoyed him in this. Eric Clapton, Elton John, Tina Turner and Arthur Brown offer great value for money, and the whole film looks dazzling, beautifully shot and set, with fantastic split-second editing and several scenes that predated the era of the rock video, a style Russell took to its logical conclusion with his 1980 sci-fi freakout ALTERED STATES...why is he never trusted with major motion pictures any more? For all his wilful excess and delight in pushing the envelope, he's an excellent director! In case you're still not convinced, can you imagine any modern-day British band being trusted with a high-profile cinema film, or even knowing what to do with one if they were? Can you imagine Jennifer Lopez, sulking and pouting as a lethargic Acid Queen, Eminem busting his wannabe bad-boy moves as a pathetically ineffective Cousin Kevin, or dull-as-ditchwater David Gray shaking his balding head around as a completely unconvincing Preacher? And who would they get to play the Pinball Champ, Marilyn Manson? It doesn't bear thinking about... "},{"Title":"The play's the thing","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I had seen the stage show and heard the album before checking out the movie and I was seriously disturbed when I finally saw it.  I thought a lot of the scenes were way too much information for me.  The plot itself is pretty bizarre and I know the music is a higher priority but both really seemed that they were overshadowed by the visual parts of the film.  Every scene is bright and colorful and kind of a sensory overload, but I could have done without a lot of the scenes, like the Acid Queen and Cousin Kevin.  I was, I repeat (in capital letters), Seriously Disturbed.My problems with the film relate to the plot and the music.  I really didn't like the film's alterations in the plot like the updating of the time period (fifty-one instead of twenty-one), the lack of the mirror's role, and the change in the role of captain walker.  I also thought that the music was not a priority in the film.  The songs seemed mediocre and it seemed as if they were kind of an afterthought.It is entirely possible that I only preferred the album and stage show because I experienced them first.  I also saw the probably edited version on television.  Feel free to draw your own conclusions.One thing you can say for the movie, similar to The Rocky Horror Picture Show, is that it's an experience! "},{"Title":"It depends","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Yes it depends on if you like rock music and rock operas or not. If you don't you'll say that this movie is not worth seeing because the story is uninteresting and meaningless, the music is a lot of ugly and noisy sounds, the images are nothing special and some of them are even shocking and the end is very stupid . But if you do you will say this is a great opera rock where even great stars such as Tina Turner and Elton appear, the images are gorgeous and colorful, the music is beautiful and moving and the story has got a nice sentimental message even with a religious touch.  "}{"Title":"An introduction to the music","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  From some comments here, it is clear that if you came across the film first, then at least it interested you in the music.  If, however, you knew the music first (as I did) then the film is a mess.  This is certainly not one of Ken Russell's finest - not because of the visual mis-en-scene, because some of that is quite striking (particularly the last scene in the field of giant pinballs, the Iron Maiden-of-syringes in the Acid Queen sequence and Ann-Margret rolling around in baked beans).  However, there is some very poor camera work, and the decision to have Oliver Reed and Jack Nicholson (among others) sing their own songs was a mistake.  Also, Roger Daltrey was already too old for the lead role.  Musically the movie is weaker than the album, the orchestrations are simply not as vigorous.The final problem for the film, for those who know the album, is that Russell's visualisations are a little too literal.  When you hear the original, the songs Cousin Kevin and Fiddle About gradually reveal their horrors onto you in a truly shocking manner.  When filmed, the abuse Tommy suffers becomes almost cartoonish.Oliver Reed chose (or was directed) to act in a very cartoon-like, stylised way.  Ann-Margret stands head-and-shoulders above everybody else in this film for performance.  Clearly she took the job very seriously indeed, and should be commended for bravery! "},{"Title":"INTERESTING, BUT UNSATISFYING","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Ken Russell's Tommy is an interesting but unsatisfying film adaptation of the classic rock opera by the Who. It seems to know the words, but not the music and that's a fatal mistake Russell commits.Russell himself has said that Tommy is the greatest work of art the 20th century has produced. If that was the case, it doesn't show in the finished product. It's basically one bizarre moment after another. Russell has made this kind of film before (most successfully with Lisztomania, but Tommy runs out of gas half way through and doesn't have the sheer audacity of Lisztomania or even The DevilsThe mandatory stipulation of Columbia to make it a PG movie was a mistake. Russell's gift is to deliberately go too far. Here, he restrains himself too much to make much of an impact.There are great sequences, no doubt. The Acid Queen, Look in the Mirror and Pinball Wizard are highlights and make the film worth seeing, despite its' shortcomings. But the casting is a problem. Oliver Reed has one of the best screen presences in film, especially when cast as a villain. But he can't sing, which becomes a liability. Ann-Margret is much better as Tommy's mother. Her performance is the key to the film's success. It takes chances and pays off.Despite it's faults, I marginally recommend Tommy for the music, certain sequences and Ann-Margaret. Other than that, it doesn't have much going for it. And for Russell, luckily Lisztomania came out after this and rebounded his career.*** out of 4 stars  "},{"Title":"A pleasant piece of hack work","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Tommy is an experiment gone bad...A Frankenstien monster of the 1970's. Putting this tale of the deaf, dumb and blind boy on the big screen does have its morbid fascination, kind of like watching the XFL; and Tina Turner does make for a great Acid Queen.  But the plot is run down with obvious symbolism and feeble attemps of Dark Humor.  The effort is there, the product is not...  "},{"Title":"Dated film that ruins...","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" ...everything.  My theatre company had The Who's Tommy (the 1993 Broadway musical version) on its short-list for the spring of 1999.  I rented this film to see what it was about.  After I watched it, I told everyone I knew that Tommy was the most awful thing in the world.  I did not understand how anyone would like it.  We ended up not doing it because of licensing issues.  Then, in the winter of 2000, I saw another theatre company perform it.  Their vocalists were awful but they were drowned out by the band anyway.  I was astounded at the music.  Only vaguely remembering the film, I decided to give it another chance.  This time, I found the London Symphony Orchestra recording.  It was alright, better than the film, but still didn't impress me much.  Then I finally listened to the original concept album by The Who.  I was hooked.  I started a Tommy craze, finding every version I could, learning all of it on piano, guitar, and drums.  I even made my own recordings.  But I still remembered hating the film.  Well, I just finished watching it again and I was right.   Tommy is one of the worst movies I have ever seen in my life.  I believe it is Roger Daltrey's best performance of the rock opera.  Tina Turner and Elton John sing their songs powerfully. Ann-Margret's exaggerated vibrato rattles my senses, an Oliver Reed (though probably intended) makes me cringe.  Jack Nicholson's strangely harmonized Go to the Mirror proves why he didn't become a singer (even Pete Townshend didn't want him involved!).  Ken Russell's interpretation is twisted and tries too hard to have impactful symbolism.  He's just pounding you into accepting the Christ symbolism.  Worst of all, the music, mostly not performed by The Who and over-synthesized is just plain unpleasant to listen to.  If you want to see Tommy, find a good theatrical staging (the Broadway show closed in 1995).  If you want to hear it, listen to the CD of The Who's performance live at the Isle of Wight 1970 (or watch Murray Lerner's Listening to You The Who at the Isle of Wight Festival - though heavily edited). "},{"Title":"Maltin-style review","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Lushly-photographed rock-'n'-roll musical about the life of Tommy, a young British deaf-mute who survives a traumatic childhood, becomes a professional pinball champion, suffers tragic loss, and ultimately learns the true meaning of life. Jumbled, esoteric, and more than a little bizarre (I think we all could have done without the iron maiden scene), but nevertheless a virtuoso film with a heartwarming message and upbeat music. Besides, that deaf, dumb and blind kid really does play a mean pinball. Watch for numerous cameos, including Eric Clapton as a cult leader and a thirtysomething Jack Nicholson as a doctor. "},{"Title":"A brilliant example of creative, but pretentious 70s cinema","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  A stellar cast - Roger Daltry (just looks well, deaf dumb and blind), Ann Margaret (cor), Oliver Reed (sozzled), Keith Moon (seedy), Elton John (camera shy), Pete Townshend, Eric Clapton, Tina Turner (wild thang)...Well worth a look, although not one or Russell's best.  Yes, it is very self indulgent, over-long, and the plot (such as it is) is simple, and the soundtrack is equally mixed with brilliance alongside the pedestrian. But Tommy encapsulates the spirit of 70s cross-over cinema and has some awesomely brilliant moments.The tight budget shows in the cheap sets, but some of the stagings are quite extraordinary, particularly in the first half where there is a church scene worshipping the goddess Marilyn Monroe.  One can see early influences on the 80s pop videos (especially Robert Palmer), as well as other ambitious rock operas. Pink Floyd's The Wall is kind of natural progression from Tommy.The Pinball Wizard sequence with Elton John is a show-stopper - it's worth seeing the whole movie just for this.  He seems petrified that he'll fall off those amazing shoes/stilts!  The atmosphere generated by the sets, the insane crowd and the backing track is phenomenal.  And as a bonus you also get to see The Who smashing their instruments and driving the remains of their guitars through their on-stage monitors and amps.  Ah, they don't write songs like that any more.Another wonderful scene is Ann Margret bean-wrestling (mud-wrestling using baked beans).But it's down hill from there.  Everyone seems to lose interest and things start to get boring.The grand finale, in spite of the awesome soundtrack, is totally lame and hackneyed and quite a let down.  Kind of everyone had a late night and couldn't work out quite how to end it all, but the budget had run out and so had everyone's patience.In short, an archetype of it's genre and deserves to be viewed by anyone with an interest in cinema, short video and rock/pop. "},{"Title":"Great album. Appalling film","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  The Who is one of great Rock & Roll bands in the world.Tommy is their crowning achievement. It's to everyone lasting shame (including the band themselves), that the film of Tommy turned out to be such a godawful mess. I don't know about other subscribers, but I don't think Ken Russell is that good a director, frankly. Thanks to Mr. Russell, The Who's sad, poignant story of a kid who is deaf, dumb and blind, has been turned into nothing more than a pop pantomime - an excuse really, for Mr. Russell to show us how clever, how original, he can be!! To see how it should be done, take a look at Franc Roddam's interpretation of Quadrophrenia, or Alan Parker's Pink Floyd-The Wall. Then, perhaps, Tommy the film would have lived up to Tommy the album "},{"Title":"different","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  A very artistic movie. I rented Tommy when I got the role of young Tommy in the play (the play came first). The movie is extremely different from the play.The play has the WHO's original music, the movie slaughters the music when trying to update it, but not all the music. Pinball Wizard,Acid Queen, and I'm Free weren't changed. But my favorite song Eyesight to the Blind is turned into stupid rap (!) The play and movie are both Townshend-biographical with proper symbolism of Christ. The movie will teach a lesson as well though.  "},{"Title":"Campy fun if you don't take it seriously.","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  While I'm a big Who fan, I didn't see this movie until 1989 or 1990...which obviously made it seem less cutting-edge, daring and/or relevant than it must have in 1975. It's one of those unintentionally funny movies that MSTK3 would have a field day with...and I'm sorry, but I LOVED Oliver Reed's infamously bad singing. (I kept thinking of it while watching him in Gladiator...I was half-expecting him to bark, Yes, I think it's all right, Yes I think it's all riiiiiight.... Roger Daltrey's cartwheels too. It's a bit of a camp classic in my circle of buddies.The fact alone that Ann-Margret garnered a Best Actress Oscar nomination for this movie makes me damn glad I live in the times I do. She certainly is gorgeous and has a good enough voice, but an Oscar?! Maybe it was an especially fallow year for female performances.  "},{"Title":"Tommy is silly, sybaritic fun","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Ken Russell's garish film version of Tommy is no better or worse than the Who's silly song cycle upon which the film is based. (Tommy is closer to a song cycle than a rock opera.)Make no mistake I have been a Who fanatic for over two decades now, with a well-worn LP copy (remember those?) of Tommy still in hand. Tommy contains some great music, much of which has been stunning when performed live (and captured for posterity on albums like Live at Leeds, the band's Woodstock performance included on The Kids Are Alright, and the recent Isle of Wight album). But despite (or maybe because of) its spiritual and religious underpinnings, Tommy is a pretty ridiculous story Helen Keller meets Hermann Hesse in Jimmy Swaggart's Disneyland.And with a set-up like that, Ken Russell can't help but go to town with a film version that is very faithful to the tenor of Pete Townshend's opus. The movie is lurid without being cheesy, salacious without being obscene, and embarrassing without being awful. This may be hair-splitting--after all, lurid and cheesy sound synonymous, and the difference may be a matter of degree. But Russell wisely avoids trying to elevate Townshend's pretensions into an Artistic Statement, a move that would be unintentionally hilarious. Instead, he embraces the camp approach and allows the viewer to come to his or her own conclusions--or better yet, to simply soak up the aural and visual stimulus. As a director, Russell seems unable to make a spectacle of himself, yet in doing so he manages to distract from the pomposity of his source material. I'm thinking of Russell's adaptation of D.H. Lawrence's Women in Love (also with Oliver Reed, by the way), in which his over-the-top tendencies actually offset Lawrence's meretricious persiflage. (I had to look it up myself--it means pretentious banter; this phrase actually appears in Lawrence's novel!)Russell does the same with Tommy. He exaggerates only for cinematic effect; there are no outlandish elements that didn't already exist, implicitly or explicitly, on the album. If anything, he fleshes out the lasciviousness of Acid Queen with a sizzling cameo from Tina Turner, and underscores the hyperbole of Pinball Wizard by casting that master of camp, Elton John himself, as the Pinball Wizard. Finally, casting Ann-Margret as Tommy's mother makes almost plausible Tommy's Oedipal premise.Considering how silly the literal story of Tommy is (and whether or not it works as allegory is debatable--rock does not flourish under subtleties), Ken Russell does a noteworthy job of translating it to the screen. The downside to the translation is that it amplifies the weaknesses of the source material. But those weaknesses lie with the creator, not with the interpreter. Peter Townshend remains one of the greatest songwriters in rock music (and his Quadrophenia song cycle/rock opera was far more effective than Tommy in terms of story and presentation), but Tommy betrayed his self-indulgence and sense of self-importance. Don't shoot the messenger, Ken Russell, for bringing it to the movie screen. Thank him for putting together such silly, sybaritic fun. "}{"Title":"This movie has it all.....","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  This movie has it all..... Elton John, Eric Clapton, Tina Turner, Jack Nicolson, and of course, THE WHOMany will care to dispute this with me....but i feel Tommy captivated the original rock opera, and added more to it, or, rather, a different approach to it. Songs like Sensation and Sally Simpson are given more lyrics. Roger Daltrey plays Tommy perfectly..which goes without saying. the only downside it Oliver Reed's Singing....but, he's supposed to play a sleazeball type...so it fits.that's my $00.02 worth......dispute if you must... "},{"Title":"Somewhat pretentious film adaptaion.","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  What I think of this movie depends on my mood. Somethimes I like it, sometimes I find it a little too gaudy and overblown for my taste. I suppose if I wasn't such a big Who fan I probably wouldn't care for it much. This movie is loaded with psychadelic images and surreal moments that you can't help but feel that tripping on acid might help in watching this movie.Roger Daltry's impressive performance is probably the film's highlight. Tine Turner also does a pretty impressive performance as the Acid Queen. The musical reworkings of the Tommy songs are fine for the most part but some of the vocal performances leave quite a bit to be desired (who told Oliver Reed and Jack Nicholson they could sing?). Not qute a bad as its reputaion suggests, but not a great one either.I found John Entwistle's comments regarding the Tommy movie rather amusing I never knew what the story was until I saw Ken Russell's film version. And he got it wrong. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest moments in artistic idiocy!","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Take a great album by a great rock group, and filter it through an hours worth of meaningless jargon and psychedelics, you will end up with something like this.  My brother was up north and he called me downstate to tell me it was on TV.  We both ended up laughing our asses off while we watched. What amazes me is the amount of money that was spent on the creation of this film.  I don't blame anyone but director Ken Russell for making it the idiotic piece of crap it is.  His mastery of meaningless visual pyrotechnics and pseudo-apocalyptic imagery was wasted on Tommy.  Roger Daltrey does what he can on a bizarre set with cheesy lines.  The actors look as if they are ready to bust out laughing.  But acting doesn't seem to matter to Ken Russell.  Psychedelics do.  He fared better with Altered States, which was loaded with psychedelic imagery, and likewise was a far better film. Don't even bother to see it.  Just stay away from it.       "},{"Title":"mediocre is a good thing","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I understand that many people did not enjoy this movie, & they are of course allowed their own critique. Though I am on the most part happy that the movie went were it did. I am aware that it is not as good as the CD or the play even but the many good points that it had I enjoyed.This movie is a treasure trove for so many of the most memorable moments of film, just think about them Tina Turner transforming into a syringe sacophagous, Elton John as the Pin Ball wizard (& those shoes), a television explding with nutritional goodness, a Marylon Monroe church, Tommy's holiday park, & JACK NICKOLSON sings! There are these & so many more.Sure it may not be the greatest movie ever (& no one said it was), & yes it doesn't exactly follow the amazing cd, but for the good points you should watch it. I play it regularly at parties & everyone loves it. It is well known for the corniness & silliness of the reinactments, but if that is what you like... give it a try. & while your at it pick up a copy of the Who's album, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"This is actually quite an intriguing alternative musical.","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  This film is definitely worth a viewing should the opportunity arise.  You don't have to be a huge fan of the Who to enjoy the story or the music.  In fact, it's worth watching just to hear Jack Nicholson singing!Ann Margaret deserved her Golden Globe for her excellent performance and, all of the other cast members are very good in their roles.There's lots of Ken Russell symbolism, such as the use of colour and the recurring plane / cross / silverball motifs.The music is very good and there are some humorous as well as bleak moments in this film.  "},{"Title":"Some good songs, some bad.","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I really enjoyed the songs by the professionals - Tina Turner, Eric Clapton, Elton John, etc. But the rest of the songs, including the Who ones (which I suppose made up most of them) weren't great. Cousin Kevin was a good one as well, for a non-big-name as was the christmassy one. But after Pinball Wizard, the film fell apart, to a kind of just The Who singing the story. The instrumental in the scrap-yard was good as well. "},{"Title":"not your standard movie, and definitely not boring!","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Sure, Tommy isn't really tight musically, but it's great because it's a wonderful story to see in movie form.  The music is done adequately, if not admirably.  (and I am a big fan of The Who and the Tommy CD)For me, it means a lot because it's about people's greed, hatred and anger and it's effect on a little boy who grows up to overcome these obstacles and not become a holy person or anything, he just becomes more human.Definitely worth checking out, if you ask me!(Plus, seeing Ann-Margret rubbing baked beans all over herself is, shall we say, interesting!) "},{"Title":"1/2","Date":"30 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Absolutely dreadful film and will always wonder why the Motion Picture Academy gave Ann-Margret a best actress nomination for it. She is rarely seen in the film as her son approaches adulthood.While it is certainly true that the music is supposed to carry the plot, this was way overdone here. You needed some regular interaction of talking among the characters.Since when is Marilyn Monroe a person to be worshiped? This was absolutely ridiculous but that's true regarding the rest of this awful film.Tommy lapses into this state after seeing his father killed, but wasn't dad killed during the war?Tommy, as an adult, resembled Tiny Tim. "},{"Title":"Tommy An eccentric ride through an person's life and thoughts, followed by great rock music","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Tommy is an masterpiece way ahead of its time. The movie tells the story of tommy, a boy that gets a trauma when his father gets killed by his stepfather and mother, followed by them telling TommyYou didn't see it, you didn't hear it, no word of it for anyone in life multiple times. That made him act like he is deaf, blind and dumb for his whole life, suffering and suffering throughout the whole movie. It's a movie that you need to have your mind open to enjoy. Also keep your mind ready to understand the hundreds of messages and symbols in the movie, or else you won't find it that genius. The movie does psychological analysis on the character of tommy, quotes the story of Jesus, with great charismatic characters that are represented by great actors, followed by the sublime The who discography. Without dialog, only music. If you're the kind of person that likes to think, and also likes rock, this may be your favorite movie, although, that's not a movie for everyone, if you're used to movies that are easier to digest that don't require too much reflection to justify what you've just seen, you may find this movie just creepy and bizarre, as most of the scenes in the movie require some thought to make sense, like the scene where Tommy is tossed to the mirror. I simply loved it, each second of it and every thing in it has an utility for the story, be it to symbolize something(Like the recurring metallic sphere in the movie) or to just make something clear for the audience. The movie almost never gives answers to you right away, if you question what you've seen, search through your own mind to find the answer. The only thing i know that gives me the same feeling of watching Tommy, also providing psychological analysis of the character and symbolism is Neon Genesis Evangelion, although Tommy doesn't give you ANYTHING mainstream, it's all different and strange in the movie. For rock and thinking lovers, this movie is a must watch, if you are new to both subjects, you should watch it too, the best rock opera of all time. "},{"Title":"Tommy be good","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I came to this movie for the first time as a Who fan, never having seen a Ken Russell feature, although I was aware of his infant-terrible reputation and even while I consider the group's later Quadrophenia double-album to be superior, there's no denying the filmic possibilities that Tommy offers. The allegorical story of course is so fantastical that perhaps its original creator Townshend felt that only a director with the imaginative flair of Russell could translate it to the big screen. Told entirely in sing-speak, faithful to operatic tradition, it probably helps if the viewer is familiar with the source material as the plot takes some imaginative (and then some!) leaps as it progresses.Even if you can't follow the narrative flow, there's invariably something going on on-screen to keep the viewer interested, from the cameo appearances of contemporary rock stars, some memorable, Elton John, Tina Turner, some not, Eric Clapton. But these sightings are a mere bagatelle compared to some of the visual imagery dreamed up by director Russell, none more so than Ann Margret's freak-out scene which sees her awash with chocolate and champagne, but there are plenty more, the screen invariably filled with people, myriad objects of varying significance and unusual locations.As for the rest of the acting, it's hard to judge given the operatic context of proceedings, but, as indicated above, Ann Margret certainly throws herself into her part as Tommy's loving but feckless mother while Who lead singer Roger Daltrey gives a capable and very athletic performance in the lead role. Oliver Reed on the other hand, no singer for a start, as her second husband and who brings with him dubious other male relatives, seems out of his depth, but keeps going, I think is the best you can say. The music is fine, including a few new Townshend songs recorded with the film in mind, although I could have done without the synthesiser constantly filling up the background. I also somehow didn't get the release from the rich uplifting songs near the end like Listening To You and See Me Feel Me as I did on the original album.An unusual film, then, fulfilling both the rock and the opera criteria of its genre, the latter particularly in the eschewing of normal dialogue. It's never dull but occasionally opaque, you'd probably need to be a fan of either the Who's music or Russell's idiosyncratic direction to really appreciate it. Good luck to you if you can do both. "}{"Title":"Tommy an amazing journey from a concept album to an actual opera","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" My introduction to the Tommy franchise was the soundtrack LP. I've been into classic '60s and '70s rock ever since I was a tot, thanks to my older brothers' record collections, and was already very familiar with The Who when I discovered the soundtrack to the present movie (noting that it was an anomaly being on the Polydor label, me associating the band with Decca and MCA...that's the kind of young music geek I was). The songs definitely had a storybook-like quality reminiscent of the Disneyland LPs I had, but even then I thought the over-the-top synthesizer arrangements were a little too melodramatic for my tastes. Years later I got my hands on an original copy of The Who's 1969 original version, and was shocked by how low key, stripped down, and slowed down the songs were--and also how sketchy the story was as presented on the original LP, if you could even call it a story. Some of the songs worked better on the original, some better on the soundtrack. It was interesting.But in all those years I never watched the movie until just tonight, on YouTube. For the first time, the soundtrack actually makes sense. I realized that the movie wasn't nearly as serious as some of the music suggested when played out of context--I was shocked by the outrageous black humor in the first half of the movie. Take Tommy's ordeal at the hands of his grinning Cousin Kevin. Years of listening to the record had conditioned me to expect it played straight. There is some pathos in there at seeing poor Tommy stumbling over helplessly when getting sprayed with the hose, but then it's balanced by the intentionally ridiculous gag of Kevin literally ironing the dripping Tommy dry (spitting on the iron for emphasis). Visually it's a tour de force, that's for sure. Ken Russell, the notoriously over-the-top director, loads on the razzle dazzle, quick cut and dramatically lit, and with lots of pre-CGI optical effects thrown in for good measure. Some quite beautiful photography in there. And in places, when it's not trying to be satirical or campy, quite powerful dramatically. Captain Walker's presumed death in the war, for instance, or the messianic closing shot.It's blessed by an amazing cast, headed up by the surprisingly capable Roger Daltrey in the title role. It's easy to see here why he was one of the most charismatic pop stars of the '70s, and he's no slouch as an actor either. While I admit it's kind of fun to see this macho rock god getting manhandled by various people, it's also impressive how physically agile he is (blasting through the water with an Olympic-style butterfly stroke, for example, or doing cartwheels down the beach). The other real star of the movie is Ann-Margret playing his mother (despite being only four years older than him), a sultry sexpot with a hell of a voice. One can't take one's eyes off her, there's a reason she was such a immense star back in the day. Oliver Reed's Uncle Frank is such a lout that his tone-deaf Cockney bellowing fits the role in a way a polished singer-actor could never do. Jack Nicholson shows up in a minor one-scene role as a doctor; many have commented on his singing ability or lack thereof, I think he gives his song an appropriately genteel treatment, even if he totally ignores the original version's melody. As everyone knows, several rock personalities make appearances in one song apiece. Tina Turner makes the biggest impression imo as the unhinged Acid Queen, while Eric Clapton sleepwalks through his big movie debut like a coat rack with a Les Paul hanging from it. Elton John, however, given the film's show-stopping number, unfortunately comes off as something of a schlemiel, pathetic, petulant pointing his finger and pouting. I really expected him to be this cocky smug baddie, a real menace for Tommy to overcome. Instead I felt pity for the Local Lad--he just kinda stands there at a distance complaining while Tommy plays pinball. What a letdown! Of course I must mention Keith Moon's gleefully insane Uncle Ernie, and Paul Nicholas's Cousin Kevin as among the more successful character bits played by rock stars. There isn't really a bum performance among all the other minor players.I could go on and discuss the deeper emotional and spiritual meaning of the movie, but since it's late here I'll just close by pointing out what I mentioned in my summary. It took making a movie out of Tommy to force Pete Townshend to flesh out his half-baked (but musically wonderful) concept into an actual story. The expanded music may not be to everyone's liking, but the story is complete, and as presented here it is a compelling one, and relentlessly entertaining. See it. "},{"Title":"Deep and Challenging","Date":"24 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" It is not easy to adequately review this film properly. I am doing a series of presentations to the Society on Ken Russell and while I have the original sound track of Tommy on vinyl I had not seen the movie since its release. With some difficulty I sourced a DVD and watched it the other night and subsequently. This is my fifth attempt at writing a review that I am satisfied with.This could be an offensive movie to many despite the stellar cast and music. It really is quite deranged in parts and simply would not be made today in this form. Cousin Kevin, Uncle Ernie, the Acid Queen, and the Eric Clapton scene (Eyesight to the Blind, in which he reprises the Clapton is God theme from the 60s) are surely calculated to upset everyone, or challenge traditional viewpoints such as Catholicism, false rituals, cults etc. and that clearly is what KR intended doing, and he does it brilliantly. We even get a good measure of paedophilia, sadistic abuse and drug use thrown in as well.In the end I suppose it is also about redemption and the triumph of good over evil which is a marked counterpoint to KRs 'The Devils'. Is it just my opinion or is the close out shot a depiction of Christ on the Cross offering redemption and salvation to all, not just Tommy himself? This is an incredible juxtaposition to Clapton's 'God' scene earlier in the movie. Are also the lyrics to 'Listening to You' not a strong association between Tommy and Christ? I think they are. Listen closely or source the lyrics.This is a movie that deserves and needs serious reflection because it challenges convention, and if you don't like the music, don't go there. It is for me utterly audacious and original but I also appreciate it will be disturbing to many. Appreciate it or hate it for its originality but if it is viewed with an open mind the incredibly positive ending is a tonic for the soul.And of course, the music cannot be faulted. Did Elton John ever exceed his Pinball Wizard role? I think not. I also think Roger Daltrey (Tommy) singing 'I am Free' and Listening to You' are incredibly uplifting and spiritual. And are Ann-Margaret and Roger Daltrey not the most beautiful creatures on the planet? The 'Healed' scene in the ocean is just gorgeous, as is the strong message about materialism. If Tommy is Christ reborn, is Nora his mother Mary? You can go on and on analysing this movie but the easiest thing is to just go along for the ride. "},{"Title":"Not a true adaptation","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I saw the Broadway show of Tommy and the the play was far more true to Pete Townshend's vision. First of all, the story takes place during and after WWI. (I think '21 is gonna be a good year are the lyrics from the album). Secondly, according to the play, and I happen to agree, when Cpt. Walker returns home, he kills the new boyfriend and Tommy witnesses the event. This change in the story forces us to have to suffer through an entire movie with Oliver Reed! Finally, I'm not entirely convinced that having guest performers sing the songs added anything to the film. I really enjoy Roger Daltrey's and Pete Townshend's vocals. Still, the film is enjoyable and worth watching if you're a fan of The Who. "},{"Title":"I saw Tommy when i was 12 when it was released","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" and it changed my life forever. It is good to remember that when Townsend wrote Tommy he was very influenced by R.D. Laing's idea that the sickness of the mentally ill is actually a sane reaction to an insane world. It was years before I could really piece together meanings and relevance from this on-screen carnival of images and sound that blew my mind when I originally saw it. It remains a seminal moment in the development of a world view and musical palette. The music alone, for any Who fan, is an incredible accomplishment. The underlying soundtrack contains music, mixes, performance unavailable on the soundtrack released. Rumor is the Faces helped with some of the performances. Harry Nagle NYC "},{"Title":"My impressions of Tommy","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I saw this film in the theater when I was 14 with a friend and her older brother, who was a big Who fan. Myself, I didn't know who The Who was, that the movie was a rockopera - nothing. I was a huge Elton John fan and just wanted to see him perform Pinball Wizard. When he finally appeared, I was so excited I spilled a huge tub of popcorn, much to the chagrin of my friend's brother.I remember thinking that Roger Daltry was hot, but had no clue who he was. When he began singing I thought, he has a good voice for an actor! Pretty funny. I was terrified by Tina Turner's performance as the Acid Queen. Again, I hadn't a clue who she was.I was thoroughly confused and intrigued by the movie. In particular, the psychosomatic condition of Tommy was fascinating to me. I thought it was interesting that a child could be affected by trauma in that manner. The religious elements of the movie were also interesting to me, though I didn't quite understand it all. (Still don't.) I ended up seeing the movie several more times and was really moved by Tommy and his plight. It made quite an impact on me.Seeing it again as an adult, having a lot more context and maturity, I can see how cheesy it is in a way that I didn't as an impressionable teen. I still love it for what it is - but I find myself wondering if a remake could be done by the right person. "},{"Title":"Whoa!","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" This rock-opera is a cult camp-classic alright. It's ber-weird and is filled with some fantastic visuals. No, this most certainly ain't a movie for just everyone but when you are a fan of these sort of movie's you'll absolutely adore this one as well.The movie has no dialog and is completely sung, which in my opinion makes it weird that Ann-Margret got an Oscar nomination and won a Golden Globe for her role in this movie. I don't know I just have something against actors receiving Oscar nominations or winning any other big movie award for playing a role in a musical movie. Musical acting and 'normal' movie acting are two totally different things that are totally on different levels and require a totally different approach. Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying that Ann-Margret was not good in this movie but receiving big movie awards and nominations for a musical role was just totally out of place.Person I enjoyed most in this movie was Oliver Reed. He seemed to be the only one who didn't took his role completely serious and he plays his part with lots of fun and joy. Also it was fantastic to see Jack Nicholson in a fairly big cameo appearance. The rest of the movie is filled with appearances of famous artists such as Tina Turner, Eric Clapton, Elton John and of course members of 'The Who'.I admit that I'm not the biggest musical fan around but I can appreciate the way this movie is made, both visually as well as musically. The movie is pretty weird and features lots of symbolism, that forms in a way a satire on religion. The movie is not as accessible as for instance the other well known rock-opera and in my opinion far superior Jesus Christ Superstar from 1973. Because this movie is not really accessible to everyone I find it hard whether or not to recommend this movie. Even though I thought the movie was just plain weird at times and I'm not the biggest fan of the music in the movie, I was still entertained by it and somehow also enjoyed watching it. So perhaps everyone should give this movie at least once a chance.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"One HE*L of a movie!!","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  This movie is an unrecognized classic, not only of it's time, but for ALL time! Sure, the effects might be a little dated today, but a movie like this is for the performances and acting...not special effects! Sure, when Tommy is running through the different scenes during I'M Free, I admit that it looks a little hokey but I watch that part of the movie for the emotional impact, not the effects. The musical performances are first rate as is the footage of the concerts as well. Let's face it, where else are you going to be able to see the Who destroy their instruments as they did during their early days? The Who is a classic rock band, one of the few that transcends the time that they were formed to still remain popular and relevant today. This group is not like other groups (cough...the Stones...cough) who have today become a parody of their glory days! To bring this back to the movie, The Who's Tommy shows why the group has continued to impress audiences the world over, with performances that include; Pinball Wizard, Eyesight to the Blind' I'm Free' and many, many more! Let's not end this without mentioning the performances of Eric Clapton, Elton John, Jack Nickelson, Keith Moon etc, etc! Remember, all the quest stars were in this movie because they liked the material, NOT for money or material gainTake my advice, if you have never seen this movie...rent it and watch it, if you saw it a long time ago...go watch it again. You won't be sorry!  "},{"Title":"The Who's Great Rock Opera Well Made by Ken Russell","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I have no reason to be optimistic But, somehow, when you smile I can brave bad weather.That's one of the unexpected lyrics Pete Townshend has written, among many in partial rhymes and blank verse (this one was toward the beginning, as Ann-Margret (as Tommy's mother) falls for Oliver Reed, whom she met at Burnie's Holiday Camp.)Tommy has been deaf, dumb and blind since his real father was dispensed with by Frank Hobbs (Reed.) That's the beginning of the refrain Hear Me, Feel Me, Touch Me, Heal Me (until he no longer needs it.)At a Christmas party, already full of some of Russell's palette of horrible garish colours, Nora(Ann-Margret) scream-sings I believe in love, but how can men who've never seen light be enlightened. This is not entirely honest, of course, because Tommy had been able to see for a few years.As she accompanies his healing moment, Nora, a ravishing mother if ever there was one, sings to the opening-up of Tommy You're rich, but it's so absurd....to try to explain the things you've done.As his success grows (not merely from pinball anymore) Tommy (Roger Daltrey) sings Come to my house, be one of the comfortable people...We're drinkin' all night and never sleepin'...These kinds of lyrics are not that easy to find song-music for, so they are reserved for the recitatives.You get some real rhymes for the great songs like Pinball Wizard that is lavishly produced with Elton John singingSince I was a young boy, I played the silver ball, From Soho down to Brighton I must have played them all I've seen nothing like him in any amusement hall That deaf, dumb and blind kid SHO' PLAYS A MEAN PINBALL.Of course, everybody knows that...and it's pretty thrilling every time.Equal to it is Tina Turner's fabulous star turn as I'm a Gypsy Acid Queen, in which all the stops are pulled out. This is one of the great musical numbers in movies, with her face and body as expressive as her voice, working overtime to evoke a high-powered prostitute-junkie.There are Rex Beans (like pork and beans) coming through the television for Ann-Margret to have to deal with by wallowing in--and here is one of the prime examples of Russell's hilarious love for mud, vomit and feces colours that remind one of similar predilections in 'The Devils' and 'The Music Lovers.'It looks indeed quite nasty, but, as always, Ann-Margret is quite the trouper and never seems to let it go to her head what a great actress she is. And Nora does a lot of back-and-forth (during the period in which the fame is purely from Olfactory Pinball that has stunned the world) between a guilty conscience about how Tommy has provided her with all of this and just going ahead and indulging in all the champagne and pink feathers and posters of herself in her own room she can muster.The opera and movie drag one through them, as one hypnotic bombardment after another is introduced. The movie goes fast, you cannot easily stop watching it even after several viewings because of how smoothly one seemingly totally opposed scene is modulated into another.Jack Nicholson has a small role as a quack doctor Tommy has been taken to. He is the third man we see Nora dancing cheek-to-cheek with--a curious bit of serialization--and Ann-Margret always wears that quiet, pleased look at such times. I think that is Jack actually singing, because there is no need to use a dubbed voice like that.This film is wonderful, there's nothing like Russell's energy when it is somewhat under control--and The Who made the one truly great rock opera. Andrew Lloyd Webber's attempts came nowhere near, with putrescent songs like I Don't Know How to Love Him from 'Jesus Christ Superstar.' "},{"Title":"tommy boy...i loved it","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"         a mix of music and drama, waht more can you think of that describes fantastic? Great shots, great actors(singers), and a fabulous music score  made this movie a hit to no cmmparison!    tommy is a hit, you can tell a good movie when you dont need words to describe emotions and plot! i give theis movie an 11! "},{"Title":"could have been better","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  With such great music, if the director is not stupid, the film becomes a masterpiece, such as Pink Floyd The Wall, directed by Alan Parker. However, the acting is bad, many minutes to make the movie longer. Roger Daltrey rocks, Ann Margret and Oliver Reed suck. It should have been 10.5/10, it is only 6.5/10. "}{"Title":"I prefer the film to the LP","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I saw the film and listened to the LP. Everyone/their mom will probably hate me after this review. As the headline states I prefer the movie to the album. Oliver Reed's terrible singing only helps to make you loathe the ball of sleaze he portrays all the more. Ann-Margaret's singing makes you sympathize with the frustration and despair her character is going through. The film version of Sally Simpson has a drive to it that the album just didn't quite do for me. If you like the album, you will probably hate the movie. I don't have surround so I can't give any commentary on the DVD's digitally remastered quintaphonic mix. But the stereo mixdown sounded phenominal. Pete Townshend crafted some masterful pieces of music for the rock opera. And since he is listed as Musical Director on the movie I assume that the new arrangements (synthesizers and all) have his blessing. This goes on the list for my Moviefest 2002 "},{"Title":"Yeah, OK when on dope, but on reflection pretty lame","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I have to agree that the album was a somewhat unique piece of art. The movie is a pile of c**p (on the whole). Some sections have their appeal (seeing Mr. Moon in his advanced decadence was a guilty pleasure and Clapton actually showing his egomaniacal side). All in all, not a good reflection on the artists or the album.I am glad they didn't try it with Quadrophenia (I have not seen the Broadway show yet... "},{"Title":"Classic Musical Flick","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Director Ken Russell who also created other classic flicks, The Devils 1971 and Altered States 1980 has created another gem in Tommy.Starring Roger Daltry from the great band The Who.Also starring Oliver Reed who was also in Ken Russell's The Devils and other classic flicks, Gladiator 2000, Lion of the Desert 1981, Z.P.G 1972 and The Hunting Party 1971.Also starring is Ann-Margret.Also starring are musicians Tina Turner, Elton John, Eric Clapton and also from The Who, Keith Moon, Pete Townshend and John Entwistle.Also starring is Jack Nicholson who was also in the classic flicks, Easy Rider 1969 and Psych-Out 1968.I loved the music and the trippy scenes.If you enjoyed this as much as I did then check out other classic musical flicks, Cry Baby 1990, The Doors 1991, Fears of a Black Hat 1993, Jesus Christ Superstar 1973, Pink Floyd the Wall 1982 and This is Spinal Tap 1984. "},{"Title":"A hilarious over the top mess.","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I am actually glad that this was as dumb and poorly acted as it was because without those elements, this would be a pretty bad movie...I know that sounds weird. This movie was over the top in every way, and because of that, the horrible acting was funny, and usually worked for what it's purpose was.Tommy tries different techniques throughout, but none fully work. The trippy musical numbers are just awful, the worst one featuring Tina Turner as the Acid Queen in what might be the worst acting ever. The musical numbers trying to be normal are just so exaggerated and poorly dubbed, it's amazing. The plot (or what there is of a plot) is about Tommy, a boy who witnessed his father's murder by his mother as a child. Since then he hasn't said a word and everyone thinks he's deaf and blind. His mother and her lover try to fix him. He becomes involved in pinball, and becomes a pinball champion. Other than that, this is really just a bunch of interesting songs strung together to form a musical. Many of the songs are pretty good, but just as many are bizarre and performed so strangely they don't work. It's often on the line between hilariously great, and sheer stupidity, and it crosses the stupidity line all too often. Roger Daltrey's performance as a blind and deaf man is so terrible, it almost seems the audience would be better to be blind and deaf to appreciate the movie.I think in the end, Tommy tries to be a surrealistic musical masterpiece, when in actuality, it's only your average corny musical. And believe me, it is corny! My rating ** out of ****. 110 mins. PG for some sexual content. "},{"Title":"Pretentious fun","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I hadn't seen this since it came out at a midnight show, which it is well suited for. When I was 20, it seemed a lot more serious or I took it that way, but then that was the 70s. The succession of images, the symbolism. The church of the faith healer with the large statue of Marilyn Monroe in the classic pose of her dress being blown up. Which Tommy, being blind, topples to the ground and breaks. An omen, anyone?MTV has made us drunk with images now and recall that 500 years ago the common man might go his entire life without seeing more than 500 images made by human hands. Now we get that in a commercial. But in 1975 it was headier.The music has held up well, although since that time we've entered the Kingdom of Hip Hop (sic), which makes nearly any music hold up well excepting possibly Philip Glass. The fun part is the camp. Oliver Reed is one of the great ham actors who is full of crap and knows it--others are Brando and Shatner; he steals the show. When Tina Turner isn't on. Having learned to listen a great deal less to others I find myself liking people like Reed who do the same.The most interesting thing, though, is the comparison of the 70s to the aughts, or perhaps the comparison of me, which is, after all, the only way one can compare anything. Watch this and be transported back to double-knits, pinball machines (remember those?), and long hair and sideburns, instead of shaven hair, idiosyncratic splotches of facial hair, tattoos, and piercings.I haven't said anything about the plot. "},{"Title":"A rock opera? A good film as well!","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Tommy is not an ideal attempt to approach the rock opera grounds. Anyway, this 1975's film made it quite a nice try. If you look for some serious psychological insights, then avoid this film. This is not in fact a proper film at all; it is a lightweight but very clever rock opera musical. The actors? Well, not all of them. Roger Daltrey may be a nice guy but his wooden face and a blank stare spoil the scenes much too often. Ann Margaret also looks too much all over the place, but anyway, she does try. The ones who play really admirably well are Jack Nicholson in his very short cameo part (and, man, he even does sing!), Elton John in his typical frenzied style, and then Keith Moon who actually outshone everyone else in this movie. He plays a mean greedy Uncle of Tommy with such a menace that sometimes one may wonder why he had chosen drums and hadn't gone to the Actors' Guild instead. Good music does help and the arias Sally Simpson and Christmas stand out quite well. A fine rocky film, watch it at the full volume and enjoy lavish colors and excellent sceneries. Two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Listening to you, i get the music.","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" One of the most odd films of all time. With the new songs and the classic originals this movie is a must see. Especially the ending. I won't give it away but it is very emotionally grasping with the great acting and music. Roger Daltrey plays the part of Tommy perfect. though i wasn't the happiest with Oliver Reed's singing. I loved how it followed the story line. I would only make a few changes in this film. I enjoyed the weird things. This movie really makes you think. Even at the saddest parts The Who's music will make you smile. And when you think the film can't get any better, they have an all star cast of musicians to make the film more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Tommy","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Tommy is based on The Who's Tommy album, about a deaf, dumb, and blind boy, who ends up being an amazing pinball player. Tommy was a great movie, I've seen it a million times and I love it. Though the original album was much better and they added some pointless songs to the movie, it was very good. Ken Russel and Pete Townshend are both symbolists, so at first it may be hard to understand and follow. If you are a Who fan, it is definitely worth seeing. If you do not know or like the Who or Tommy or are stupid (meaning you will ask too many questions) or intellectual (meaning you think too much) I personally advise you not to see it. Great movie, best seen with dope and a bong. However if you are like me, a die-hard Who fan and love Tommy and understand everything, go ahead see it-like me also, you won't need to get a little blitzed to actually enjoy it. But if you are otherwise, don't. "},{"Title":"A film you will either love or hate. I love it.","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I first watched this film more than twenty years ago. At that time Tommy was a fairly new film, which i thoroughly enjoyed. The fact it is still excellent now, is a sign of a film that when produced was way ahead of its time. I only have three other films that i return to watch with the same frequency as tommy. The cast in this film where huge names at the time of it's release, Robert Palmer, Roger Daltrey, Elton John, Jack Nicholson, Tina Turner, and the great Oliver Reed. Reed plays a man who likes a drink or two (no stretching of his acting boundaries there then). His singing is so out of tune and terrible, but that still takes nothing away from this masterpiece of a film. Every time i watch Tommy it takes me on the same roller coaster ride of emotions. "},{"Title":"A wild experience of a film","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" One thing I've heard complaints about (even though very forgiving ones) is Oliver Reed's singing. but I've always thought it genuinely worked, for one reason. I guess it's because he knew his limitations (as other people put it), but he seemed to sing everything in an over-the-top way. For instance, he sang the lighter songs in a deliberate big lug kind of voice (at least, that's the only way I can describe it). And I've always thought that Jack Nicholson (the other non-singer in the movie) somehow really WORKED, making you believe him as this image of a refined London doctor. And even though the scene was supposed to be as serious as any other, the sight of him leering at Ann-Margaret, also in a completely refined way, was hilarious. There's nearly only one complaint I have, and this might seem to be stepping on sacred ground (even to people who DON'T like Tommy). Without having anything against HER, I'm always put off by the huge, huge Marilyn Monroe cult following, just because you can't seem to get away from it. So even though Tommy came BEFORE a huge amount of that had happened, and even though art film makers have a thing about her and you almost have to accept that, the Eyesight To The Blind scene bothers me for that reason. A while back, I thought of what could've been a substitute (thought it might sound far-fetched). Since Tommy was set in Britain, and since that part (I think) was set in the ' 50s, and since they wanted pictures of a bombshell actress with a cult following - why not Diana Dors? Since her cult following has been so much smaller (whose hasn't?), those pictures would have really belonged to THAT film, that much more that Monroe's do. One thing that bothers me about X amount of the people who hate it, and probably X amount of the people who LIKE it, is that they probably label it as a  ' 70s movie. Whether it's great or terrible, it hardly belongs to ANY decade (I think). "}{"Title":"Great but weird","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" When I first watched it, I didn't know the album and I watched the film with the sound turned off because we had guests and I didn't understand a word. It was a weird thing and I didn't understand a thing of the story line. Next time I watched it, I knew the album, in fact I loved it, and I knew what it was about. The actors can't sing to save their lives, but anyway, i love this film. It is weird, and the baked beans scene is more than that, but it's great as well. Keith Moon as Uncle Ernie is simply the highlight of it. If you forget serious films, and if you try not not to make sense of it all, so basically if you just turn off thinking and give in to the colorfulness's of the pictures and the awesome music, it's so great. "},{"Title":"all in all pretty good","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" well i really enjoyed this film, i mean once i understood what was going on.I think you really have to know the album to understand it but it was an enjoyable film none the less. Keith Moon as Uncle Ernie was truly a highlight. However i can never bring myself to watch the baked beans scene, it just disgusts me every time i watch it. Some scenes really confused me, like the acid queen, but hey, never mind it didn't stop me enjoying it. However, the songs just aren't as good as on the album. I think it may be because Roger Daltrey isn't singing all of them, but i just love the album versions more than the film versions. I would recommend this film to Who fans mostly because if you don't know the album you won't know what's going on. "},{"Title":"PURE GENIUS WITH CAPTIVATING VISUALS AND MOVEMENT AT ITS BEST!","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  PURE GENIUS WITH CAPTIVATING VISUALS AND MOVEMENT AT ITS BEST! The music is outstanding with one of the best scores of the 1970's. This movie can't be taken literal; it is a work of art that screams to viewers to understand the symbolic references. This is one of the most difficult albums by the WHO to make into a musical video. Ken Russell, the genius he is, accomplished this by adding time-safe visuals, acrobatic camera detail and captivating musical dynamics. Enjoy this movie for what it is and you will learn something about great directors. In 20 years from now it will be a musical classic like bye-bye birdie. We can only hope that in 20 years musicals still exist. But Tommy isn't the type of movie where at random spots song breaks out. Every song has its own scene, it is often viewed as music video's strung together. For you WHO lover's, watch your favorite songs put into visuals. This is a true masterpiece and a work of art. "},{"Title":"Don't believe the nay-sayers, it's good","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Producer Robert Stigwood, although not outshining his fantastic Jesus Christ Superstar, brings an excellent film adaptation of another rock opera.  I love the original Who album Tommy, but there are performances in this film that trump the album.  Eric Clapton as the Preacher performs a vastly more energetic version of Eyesight to the Blind than appears on the original album.  Amazing Journey, which was my least favorite piece on the album, is redone with a synthesizer feel in the film that is a definite improvement.  The additional pieces added by Townsend at Stigwood's request (to ensure that the story could be followed without the necessity of spoken word parts) are solid.  An early piece when Reed and Ann Margaret meet is excellent.  Margaret's later solo piece is memorable, to say to least.Yes, Oliver Reed can't sing, but the conversational lyric is the trademark of rock opera.  It isn't necessary to be the greatest vocalist to adequately portray that role.  I personally think that Reed makes the part of the Stepfather MORE sympathetic, in contrast to other users' reviews.  Like JCS's Judas, he can be no more than he is and isn't faulted for that.  The looks between him and Ann Margaret fill the narrative gap that an opera might often lack.  Jack Nicholson isn't much of a vocalist, and his part is the only song that suffers from that lack.  Otherwise I have no complaints about the vocals.As for the imagery, I mostly enjoy it.  The transition from Tommy tossing the ceramic Virgin Mary to Clapton's musical sermon about Mary Monroe was highly amusing.  The filmmaker takes out his ire upon a society that idolizes figures who are no more than sex icons.  It's amazing that Elton John would participate in a piece that so mocks Monroe, about whom he wrote a sappy and ridiculous tribute song that is almost universally despised (Candle in the Wind).  Unlike other users, I much enjoy the ending.  The overcommercialization of Tommy's place as an idol is more explicit here than on the album.  The attitude of man towards a messiah figure and religion in general is exposed in the final few songs with great clarity.  Man is more than willing to follow a leader when it means he doesn't have to expend any effort.  Yet when salvation involves sacrifice, we rebel.If you enjoyed the album, I think you will enjoy the film if you let yourself.  Too many people fall in love with the first version of an opera or musical that they hear and won't tolerate any alternate version.  The comparison between this film and music video isn't apt anymore, as music video has become no more than a chance to showcase the good looks of the performer.  The film Tommy is a chance to SEE what you loved to hear in the Who's classic rock album, and I am grateful for the opportunity a fan like myself has been provided. "},{"Title":"Dated but lots of fun!","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Tommy is very 1970s--the clothes, the music, the drugs...but it's lots of fun. Also if you came of age in that era (like me), it's very nostalgic. The movie is stunningly directed by Ken Russell--the imagery is astounding and manages to complement the music. The music is, for the most part, good, but the Who obviously made changes for the movie--and not very good ones. The acting is all good, especially Ann-Margret who was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actress for this movie. I think she got nominated just for her sequence with the exploding TV! Most of the singing is great (Ann-Margret, Tina Turner, Elton John) but there are a few who should never have been allowed to sing (Oliver Reed, Jack Nicholson, Keith Moon--he was a great drummer but no singer!). My only complaint is it loses a lot on TV. I saw it in a movie theatre on a large screen and loud sound. It blew me away! On TV, you don't get the same effect. Still, worth watching. If you get a chance to see it in a movie theatre, don't pass it up! "},{"Title":"Terrible!!!!","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I am a major music buff.  I love the album and I love the musical.  The movie...I had to watch it over two days, because I couldn't sit through it all at once.  I feel bad for all of the big names that were cast for this movie...it doesn't help their career.  Do not watch this movie!!!!! "},{"Title":"Oh no!","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Tommy is such a great record. It is such an immortal piece of musical work. It is all the movie isn't. The film is just boring, unbearable. Oliver Reed singing is hell! And that whole 70ies feeling that clings to the film is just disgusting. Buy the record und condemn this movie. Watch Quadrophenia instead! "},{"Title":"World's longest and noisiest music video","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" This is probably not the best movie to start watching after a busy day at 1030 P.M. Even though I had already heard the Who's original album, I was still completely unprepared for the sensory assault mounted by the film's director, Ken Russell. Every scene is a kaleidoscopic frenzy of garish and bizarre images, most filled with hilariously obvious symbolism (which the college kids watching the film with me seemed to enjoy pointing out), and reinforced by the Who's music, which runs throughout the movie at top volume and with barely any interruption. It's also badly dubbed to the actor's lip movements, which only adds to the overall strangeness. Russell seems particularly fond of having the actors degrade themselves- one long sequence shows Tommy being abused by his sadistic cousin and his perverted uncle. In another scene, involving Ann-Margret as his mother, champagne and baked beans erupt out of a TV and fill an immaculately white room. Following the lead of the original album, Russell seems to be trying to make some kind of satirical statement on organized religion, but the whole thing is so over-the-top and bears such little relationship to any reality that the attempts at commentary wind up as empty as the rest of the film. Russell's dubious accomplishment basically consists of having created the world's longest and noisiest music video. "},{"Title":"Hasn't aged that well","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I saw this when it first came out in 1975.  I had to go with my Mother but would not walk into the theatre with her (but she paid). I was worried that if some of my friends were there, they would see me with her and that would be the ultimate humiliation, seeing Tommy with your Mom.  When you're 15, that counts for everything. Well now that I am my Mom's age, I should call her and thank her for tolerating this.  It is a little too long and you have to be in a great (I mean GREAT) mood to enjoy any of Ken Russell's movies. The acting is all good and I don't care that Oliver Reed can't sing, he does his job.  Ann-Margret is great and I can't think of anyone else who could have played her role, at the time.  The movie is not a rock classic, in my book anyway, but it was worth seeing again.  "},{"Title":"How not to make a rock opera","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Seriously, this one should be a study in how not to adapt a rock opera to film. The casting is seriously questionable. Reed and Margret on screen together are an explosion of overacting waiting to happen. And it happens. With a few exceptional moments, this one is just painful for fans of The Who to watch. The exceptions are the Pinball Wizard scene with Elton John, Eyesight to the Blind with Eric Clapton, and especially Acid Queen with Tina Turner in a delirious fit of over the top facial contortions. It's also almost worth watching the film just to see Ann-Margret doused with what looks like literally a ton of baked beans. The scenes with Keith Moon doing Uncle Ernie are pretty frightening, but Paul Nicholas' Cousin Kevin is just a sad and unfunny joke. A lot of the interpretations fall flat, though none worse than Margret and Reed's tortured rendition of 21 changed to 51.By the last part of the film if you're a fan of The Who you're just waiting for Daltrey to sing so you don't have to put up with any more half baked 70s pop stars' versions of the classic tunes. But the way Russell handled the scenes towards the end makes it something more worthy of being spoofed on MST-3000 than the apocalyptic journey it's supposed to be. "}{"Title":"An Extended Music Video","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" The Who are great, they are one of my favourite bands, made great albums and were an important part of the British music scene in the 60s and 70s. They were a major band during the Mods and Rocker clashes in the 60s, being a Mod band. Tommy is seen by many music critics as their best album, an important concept album which influence future albums like The Dark Side of the Moon and American Idiot. It became a Rock Opera and that Rock Opera was turned into a film directed by Ken Russell.The film tells the story of Tommy (Barry Winch/Roger Dalton) who as a young boy sees his mum and step-dad having sex which results with becoming blind, deaf and dumb. His mum (Ann-Margret) becomes extra devoted to her son. Tommy ends up showing that he has a talent for playing pinball, despite his disability. His step-dad (Oliver Reed) uses him to make the family rich. After Tommy miraculously regains his scenes he ends up becoming cult figure with people wanting to know his secret and help them.The album of Tommy is great and I recommend people to listen to it. It is very dark and a wonderful example of The Who's music. But as a film it doesn't translate well. They is a good beginning showing the love between Tommy's parents which is well handled and doesn't need dialogue. They is a basic plot, but a lot scenes in the film are just play like a bunch of music videos. Examples are the scenes involving the Acid Queen, Pinball Wizard and Sally Simpson. Even in musicals, such as Sweeney Todd, they are still scenes of normal dialogue, or play the song as a conversation. But this film basically played and song the songs for most of the time, making the audience feel devoid from the action on the screen. There were only small motions where the audience could engage. Some of the actors/singers were poorly casted, Oliver Reed is the best example with his poor vocals. Tina Turner was another poor choice. The directional of Ken Russell also felt like he had been taking psychedelic drugs. There are some positives. Obviously the music is brilliant it is The Who. I also did enjoy Ken Russell's direction when it was more down to Earth and grim, so mainly in the beginning.But sadly this is really a random collection of bits rather then a real film. "},{"Title":"is there another version (release) ?","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I saw a special showing of TOMMY at the Museum of Moving Image in New York City last year and I saw scenes some quite bizarre and even psychedelic that I never saw in the movie before. Maybe this was a Director's cut or foreign version but the staff and documentation made no mention of this, so it really through me for loop. Plus my girlfriend and other fans didn't like some of these scenes....Also I'm thinking of a pilgrimage to Portsmouth, UK England where most of the filming for TOMMY was done. Especially after finding this website and talking to the creator who was even around for its filming pointed out to me that many of the settings, sites and structures are still intact. Heck I went to London & Liverpool for the Beatles I feel I should visit Portsmouth since TOMMY is a special movie and musical to me.....Website http//www.wholocations.co.uk George Lewycky grlewycky@yahoo.com http//georgenet.net "},{"Title":"Freaked me out as a kid","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I saw this on video as a child - couldn't have been older than 10 at the time, and for some reason it fascinated and disturbed me in equal measure, making me watch it over and over again. Of course, it's not exactly aimed at children, and as a result, I missed most of the meaning behind it. For instance, I didn't understand the 'iron maiden' scene with Tina Turner, and it frightened me, as did most of the film, really. I have been unable to watch a film starring Robert Powell to this day without getting the shivers! I do remember feeling so horrified by the way Tommy is abused by everyone around him, and being quite upset by it. I finally watched it again recently as an adult, and it was good to see it again with adult eyes. I still can't quite believe I watched it at such a young age, and it's no wonder I was deeply affected by it! I think now I can see it for what it is - a load of tasteless nonsense, which has put a lot of childhood ghosts to rest! "},{"Title":"Tommy Poster","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I love this movie so much, and as I was watching it today, I realized how amazing that poster of Tommy pretty much appearing as Jesus with all white accents on a black background is. I would love to find out if there is one anywhere to buy! If anyone knows of a place where they are available, please let me know!Oh yeah, while I'm on the topic of merchandise ;), does anybody know if they sell a soundtrack to the actual movie? I have the CD originally put out by the who, but I haven't looked to see if there is a CD featuring the actors instead...Thankyou! "},{"Title":"The Greatest Rock Movie Next to WOODSTOCK","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Extraordinary adaptation of The Who's ground-breaking rock opera about a psychosomatically deaf, dumb and blind boy's strange journey through life, starting with his traumatic experiences as a child, through his eventual rise to superstardom as a champion pinball player.  Egregiously underrated director Ken Russell creates some of the cinema's most striking and surreal imagery, perfectly set to the pounding rock soundtrack, without ever losing sight of the humanity at the core of the story.  The movie, at turns, feels like a classic Hollywood musical, a ballet, an early music video and an epic.  The finale is one of the most phenomenally moving sequences in film history.  Superb performances throughout, though Ann-Margret, Roger Daltrey and Tina Turner are standouts.  Russell's best film.   "},{"Title":"A great Rock opera","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I thought this movie was one of the best. I just now saw it today and I'm only 16. I thought it was great. I don't think it gives much of a moral or a lesson but it was good. My grandma thinks it was hours of nonsense but it was GOOD...I don't know how much I could emphasize that. It was really entertaining and fun to watch. I don't see how someone could not want to see it unless you have no sense of humor or otherwise nothing at all to get up in the morning. I can't seem to understand how some people could see a work of art and say Oh...it's not good. It has no blood and sex so it can't be too good. "},{"Title":"Crappy","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  The Who's Tommy is one of the greatest rock albums of all time.  However, I wish I could say the same thing about the movie.  The movie just plain sucks!!  Ken Russell is the biggest wimp I have ever seen.  He uses balsphamy throughout the whole movie.  Not to mention VERY BAD casting. I mean come on Oliver Reed singing??? Ha!!  Ann- Margaret can sing worth crap so that was a bad move.  The only pick up was Elton John as the Pinball Wizard he tore the shorts off of everyone else.  His song was excellent!! Roger Daultry was very good in playing Tommy but everything else was just plain DUMB save yourself the time and go see the broadway show DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME WATCHING THE MOVIE!!!!!! "},{"Title":"How 70's can you get?","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  As with most of Ken Russell's films, you either love this one or hate it. And yes, I love this one! Story about a deaf dumb and blind kid who gets a huge following. It's the excellent music of The Who, brilliant line-up of cameos, great cast and beautiful settings that make this film so much worth your time. After you've seen this, you'll want to get the sound track and listen to it over and over again, promise!  "},{"Title":"See Me, Hear Me","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  A rock opera is an interesting concept.  The way the popular music scene evolves, I guess it was inevitable.  I don't know how many rock operas have become movies, but Tommy is one of the best.  It's visually stimulating, and the music is great.  I have a tape of the original album by the Who. The basic songs they share are done well in the movie.  I also enjoy the music that's not even on the album.  You should hear both the album and see the movie.  Maybe even see the stage show if you can. "},{"Title":"A message for those that don't like Tommy!","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Tommy is a classic movie! - always good for a laugh )  My twin sis and I always watch it.  We even know the actions from the scene where he's connecting with the disabled P  Even though we were born 6 years after the movie was made, we still think it rocks!  The Who are absolute legends. The movie is worth watching just to see the bub that plays Tommy when he's a baby - gorgeous!  If not that, who can go past Keith Moon as Uncle Ernie!? GOOD MORNING CAMPERS! DNow, for those people that don't like Tommy because it's too bizarre, it's SUPPOSED to be like that!  I never lived in the 70s, but I hear that entire decade was bizarre, so Tommy is very token for that era.  If you look in-depth at the movie, you will see that EVERYTHING has a meaning - it is full of symbolism!  The drugs, the loss, the confusion, the awakening, the freedom - every scene in the film means something if you think about it! My sis and I were watching Tommy one day when a friend walked in.  It was up to the scene where Tommy can see and hear and speak again.  She was like, why is he running on a sting-ray???.  She just didn't get it!  If she'd watched it from the beginning, she would have realised that this was the scene symbolising Tommy's freedom.  You have to watch the whole thing and be alert through it all and you will see the thought that went into the movie!So, for those that think that Tommy is a big joke, watch it again for me and this time really WATCH it!   "}{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  This movie is inspiring, moving, emotional and incredible as is the soundtrack.  The performances by Daltrey, Oliver Reed and especially Ann-Margaret are breaktaking.  If you are not moved by this movie, you might not be alive.  Amazing, amazing and amazing.  Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Maybe I'm getting old or something, but I had a great time watching Tommy.","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I saw this film for the first time at the theaters when I was twelve years old; there is a story associated with this.  Before I saw this film, I didn't much care for Elton John.  After I saw those cool big Doc Marten's he was wearing and those diamond-studded specs I was hooked, and have been an EJ fan ever since (that's 24 years if you are counting).What is it about Tommy that makes it a good movie?  Well, of course, for one it is directed by Ken Russell; with this guy you either love him or hate him, and personally I think the man is a genius.As I have mentioned I was twelve when I first saw this movie and I distinctly recall this as the first movie that had what I was later to learn is called allegory.  Is Tommy an allegory for Jesus? for religion in general?  Is the film about the journey we all must take toward realizing who we are and what our potential is?Several other people have mentioned how campy this movie is.  Maybe it is. But you had to be there when it first was released; I can assure you that it wasn't campy when it first came out.Anyway, Tommy is in my top 250 as the best film ever made; I will not spend your time, Kind Reader, convincing you of this.  Either you know it, or you don't.I mean, where else are you going to hear Jack Nicholson sing?  Yeah, he does a couple of bars of Always Look On The Bright Side Of Life in As Good As It Gets, but our Jack does a whole number!I like this flick, period.  Maybe I'm getting old or something. "},{"Title":"Rave reviews","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  This is a must see for fans of The Who. Though Townshend's interpretation differs from that of director Ken Russell's.  Most people see this as a movie about a messiah, but it can be so much more, spiritually and physically, plus there's no ending, Townshend said he didn't want to have a specific message in the movie like, get a job other movies for Who/Ken Russell fans Lisztomania, dir. Ken Russell starring; Roger Daltrey, Ringo Starr, Paul Nicholas. Mahler, dir. Ken Russell starring; Robert Powell, Georgina Hale The Kids Are Alright, documentary; Ken Russell scene describing how the Who will bring England out of it's rut. Thank you "},{"Title":"One of the Most Unpleasant, Xenophobic movie experiences I have ever had.","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" If I had known better, I would have stayed away. I am absolutely shocked by this film's glorification of Xenophobia to the mentally challenged (Mostly in the film's case, retarded people) I am not sure if I understand what Ken Russell is trying to say about The film version of one of The Who's greatest works. Now I am thinking. Thinking of things I have never thought about. Have I missed something? The movie is one of the most unpleasant experiences of my movie watching career. Tommy features many scenes of nauseating visual effects, disgusting images, and Xenophobia. Tommy seems to be the most Xenophobic person on the planet after he gets his senses back because he wants everyone to be like him. Hitler Much? Also, The people are Xenophobic to Tommy and kill his parents and he plans revenge or plans to get healed again? I don't know it never explains at the end. Maybe some text could help me? But no, they just say, HEY HIS PARENTS ARE DEAD! HE LOOKS INTO THE SUN! THE END! I never want to see a film like this ever again. I felt sick, filthy, and absolutely awful. I was disturbed immensely by this film so much, that I might need therapy every weekend. AND I LIKED PINK FLOYD THE WALL! 48/100 C- "},{"Title":"From Soho down to Brighton","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Ken Russel's (1975) film grew out of Pete Townshend's songs which were first performed by 'The Who' from 1967 onwards.A surreal musical set in the 50's and 60's, it traces the life of disabled child Tommy Walker (Barry Winch / Roger Daltrey) as his perverse family struggle to make sense of his obvious limitations and unexpected talents. Mother Nora (Ann-Margaret Olsson) takes up with ambivalent step-father Frank (Oliver Reed) whom she meets at a holiday camp where he is on the staff.As Tommy gets to know his unsettling extended family, including Uncle Ernie (Keith Moon) and cousin Kevin (Paul Nicholas) his precocious talent for playing pinball emerges. This leads him further into a wonderland of seemingly grotesque figures including The Pinball Wizard (Elton John), The Acid Queen (Tina Turner) and various religious fanatics including The Preacher (Eric Clapton).Despite a consultation with a medical expert (Jack Nicholson) there is apparently no help that mainstream medicine can give the boy. Paradoxically, the abuse he receives from his weird and disquieting family does not seem to have the expected effect.Haunted by the ghost of his dead father Captain Walker (Robert Powell), still in RAF uniform, Tommy's condition improves and his miraculous recovery sets the scene for his transformation into a religious guru, attracting a widespread following that brings him sudden fame and fortune.But it's an unfulfilling fame and fortune, that seems bitter-sweet. Almost like the wildly successful and much beloved comedian, who spends their time when not performing in a state of lonely and anxious isolation.This is a troubling film with a nightmarish quality about it, but despite everything that befalls young Tommy, he seems to have an innate capacity to weather the exceptional challenges that life throws at him and come to some kind of resolution of his uncomfortable lot towards the end.A film that is screaming to be heard. "},{"Title":"Bizarre and fantastic","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" The combining of The Who's memorable rock opera with Ken Russell's unique and outrageous directing style is a perfect match. Taking each of the songs from the best selling album Russell creates a visual storyline that is both beautiful and surreal. The cast lip syncs to a pre-recorded soundtrack. As singers, some of the actors do a better job than others but it's still fun to watch them. The rock star part of the cast give outstanding performances. Playing the title role is Who lead singer Roger Daltrey in his film debut. It's no wonder he has since done several other acting stints. He has wonderful charisma on screen. After starring in this he went on to star in another Russell vehicle (Lisztomania) proving that he must be one heck of a good sport as well. Another good sport is actress Ann-Margret playing Tommy's mother. She required stitches in her hand during the filming. She was re-payed for her hard work with an Academy Award nomination for best actress. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Bad use of the classic album","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSAs I am a real fan of The Who and really enjoying the album Tommy (although it isn't their best album),I was really interested in the movie.Not that I thought that it would be a classic but more to see how the original music was used in a movie.But I was disappointed yet again. After seeing a similar project with Pink Floyd The Wall (Pink Floyd being my favorite band) and not liking it this was an improvement but still not good.The use of the music in Tommy is really not doing the original album any justice.In the movie the emphasis is too much on the synthesizer while that instrument is hardly used on the album.Almost every version of the songs on the album are worse in the movie and the order of the songs has been changed just like the lyrics of the songs(1921 has become 1951 for instance).Still,I must say that there is a spectacular version of Acid Queen in the movie starring Tina Turner and a brilliant instrumental solo during the song.Here you have the highlight of the film.The acting is all but non-existing since it is a Rock Opera on celluloid and the performances by Oliver Reed and Ann-Margret are awful.Yet some performances are really funny and good.Keith Moon,who is the greatest drummer of all-time,is really funny and obscure as the Wicked Uncle Ernie.There are also cameos by Eric Clapton,a young Elton John and a really weird role by Jack Nicholson as the doctor complete with a ridiculous English accent.For the people who have never heard the album but only saw the movie,this could be quite good music.But to me it was pretty disappointing.So don't judge The Who's musical ability on this movie,but on their great albums like My Generation,The Who Sell Out,Who's Next and Live at Leeds.  5/10 "},{"Title":"Way beyond wierd and BIZZARRE","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  This movie has all the WIERD STUFF.  Some of the highlights are1. Roger Daltry laying down on an ironing board and having some bully iron him.2.  Ann Margaret whipping Roger Daltry with her hair 3.  Keith Moon cracking an egg into a beer and drinking it. 4.  Some queen eating tons of beans. 5.  A toilet Seat with nails sticking up from it.The music is really good in this movie as is ALL music from THE WHO. "},{"Title":"Sensory Overload...is that a bad thing?","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I find with this film, that people either love it or hate it. I am one of it's major fans. It is, indeed, an extreme example of 1970s movies, with it's everything-AND-the-kitchen-sink sensory overkill. The quintophonic score was a big deal for the time, and it certainly adds to the overall experience. Ann-Margret steals the show as Tommy's mother...her scene in the white room, with soap suds, beans and chocolate is so memorable, you don't even need the rest of the movie. Yes, Oliver Reed can't sing...does he need to? His character is suitably slimy. Roger Daltry and the rest of the Who members are all fine. Elton John as the Pinball Wizard...great, Tina Turner as the Acid Queen...awesome, Paul Nicholas as Cousin Kevin...wicked! There is some spectacular music throughout, and more then a feature film, this plays like a series of music videos sewn together. Watch it, enjoy it, experience it...it's a film you won't soon forget. "},{"Title":"A nearly perfect film version of the classic rock opera","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I guess we have some truly blissful film commentators at imdb if it's true what they say about ignorance being bliss.  I can't believe some of the things some of them have said here.   The guy who wrote the one called Steaming Pile should grow a sense of humor.  Not only does he take Reed's and Nicholson's performances too seriously, he was actually so stoned when he saw Tommy, that he thinks it's dog-poop Ann-Margret is writhing in in the TV-scene, instead of beans and chocolate, which the TV-set clearly shows you before it explodes! Oliver Reed is hilarious here.  He's supposed to be an unlikable character, and he is, but his singing is so bad you can't help enjoying his performance, albeit in a funny way.  Nicholson's great, because he's Nicholson, simply speaking. As for the rest of the film, it's already been said.  The direction is wonderful, the music is great (although I agree that the songs Christmas and Go To The Mirror, Boy are pretty much ruined here), and Daltry was the perfect choice to play the deaf, dumb & blind boy Tommy.   "}{"Title":"Designed to blow your mind!","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I saw this movie in 1975 about eight times in the theatre.  As a young man in his late teens, this movie really blew my mind!  The music was great (in spite of the attempts by Oliver Reed and Jack Nicholson to sing), including then-stars Eric Clapton, Tina Turner, Elton John, and Ann-Margret.  Most of the other songs were done by the Who.Having seen the move again more than 27 years later, I still felt some of the magic I experienced in 1975.  I don't believe I've seen Ann-Margret act better in her life.  The emotional scenes, such as when her son witnessed the murder of his father, are done by Ann with incredible realism. I remember as a young man having a crush on Ann.  Now I can see why!In 1975, the movie's music and cinematography most captured my mind.  In 2002, I am also impressed with the plot and message of this rock opera. Several scenes appear to be blasphemous (e.g., the church of Marilyn and Tommy becoming the new Messiah).  However, they are really not-so-subtle attacks upon organized religion.  Tommy's religious cult fails miserably, as it should.  The movie ends with Daltry's character climbing a mountain and worshipping God (the one Whom Tommy rejected on his first Christmas after becoming deaf, dumb and blind).Although some folks obviously did not enjoy this movie, I think everyone can agree that it is unique.  I haven't seen another one quite like it! "},{"Title":"Where things went wrong","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Pete Townshend is one of the 10 greatest creative artists of the modern era. The Who is the greatest rock band ever -- they proved that for the umpteenth time at the New York 9/11 benefit. Tommy is a story that seems in need of completion (or perhaps a highly impressionist and kickass staging) but the music alone is supreme stuff.The movie Tommy is irrelevant to Townshend, The Who, rock, and intelligence in general. Back in 1975 bunch of us were pretty excited the night Tommy premiered. Two hours later we left the theatre downright embarrassed. It was bad then and age hasn't helped. I quickly forgot it.My 6-year-old son got a glimpse of Tommy on AMC the other night and asked to see the entire unit. We rented it. It's been fun noticing where things went wrong; perhaps I'm still hoping someday Tommy will be done right.Ken Russell Sloppy tracking shots, pothead snap zooms, clunky staging, inside-a-toaster lighting -- he's his own parody. He shoots a lot of bad ideas. When he gets a good idea, it'll look like a bad idea by the time he's done.Ann-Margret She's game but badly miscast. This is *rock and roll* but she's at heart a 50s-style showgirl. And her vibrato is hard to take, like the idling Kenworth next door when you're trying to sleep at a motel in Wendover.The orchestration This is the only time Pete Townsend made stupid-sounding music. His synth sound is cheesier than any Casio keyboard. It's more like a Casio watch.There's no need to pin failures on anyone else -- it all boils down to Russell's fantasy that he's a competent, important filmmaker. Everyone else gave it their best shot. Oliver Reed, Roger Daltry, and Jack N emerge unscathed. (Russell didn't even bother to notice that Elton John looked mortified at falling off those big shoes.)I like the Sally Simpson cut better in the movie than on the original album, however. The sequence even makes a decent vid all by itself.A lousy movie but a cultural artifact. And perhaps a useful message for kids about the dangers of drugs -- there's no other explanation for Ken Russell's combination of  sloppiness and obliviousness. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable...","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I saw this on AMC movie network on a Thursday, and me being a Who fan, found this movie to be unbelievable. Everyone was great in here, we have Eric Clapton in a great performance as a preacher, then we have Tina Turner in a great performance as the Acid Queen, and one of my favorite parts, Cousin Kevin torturing poor tommy. Unfortunately, Oliver Reed and Jack Nicholson are a little out of place here, but this movie is still unbelievable. Get some acid, pop this in the DVD, and get ready for an unbelievable ride. "},{"Title":"a first rate movie musical","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Widely considered to be one of the finest movie musicals of the seventies, TOMMY (1975) also has the distinction of being one of the most entertaining films of the seventies as well. It should be noted that it is not for all tastes and those who dislike it only do because it is so unique and unusual. I will say, however, that the film played a lot better on the big screen in 1975 than on the small screen now. The remastered DVD helps out a great deal in that department. The remarkable cast is amazing and the standout here, without a doubt, is Ann-Margret. Her Golden Globe winning, Oscar nominated performance is a knockout. She conveys a wide range of emotions, all the while carrying a tune. Not a small feat for a film of this type. Roger Daltrey, in the title role, obviously knew the part like the back of his hand, and the camera loves him. The late Oliver Reed (GLADIATOR) gives one of the finest performances of his career. His singing ability is more than questionable, but this particular role didn't really require the best singer. The rest of the cast consists mostly of guest star cameos that includes Tina Turner (perfectly cast as the Acid Queen), Elton John (whose version of Pinball Wizard was a hit, as was the film's soundtrack) Eric Clapton, Keith Moon, and Paul Nicholas as Tommy's demented cousin. Jack Nicholson (who co-starred with Ann-Margret in CARNAL KNOWLEDGE just a couple of years earlier) also appears as The Specialist in one of my favorite sequences. TOMMY also has a reputation of being extremely influential, made at a time before MTV existed. Director Ken Russell wanted to create a film unlike anything ever before seen and he succeeded. There's even a bit of insightful social commentary toward the end of the movie, which doesn't always work, but it does here. Also Oscar nominated for TOMMY was Pete Townshend (for his adaptation of the Who's classic 1969 concept album). Producer Robert Stigwood later gave us GREASE (1978) and EVITA (1996)and made TOMMY a major critical and box office success. Just as the tag line for the film puts it, your senses will never be the same. Grade A "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies, ever.","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  You all know what Tommy is about, so you should all know that is a really good movie.  One of the best, really.  The way the movie is made and the way the music is set up is really good.  I recommend this movie to everyone. "},{"Title":"A Poptacular Epic!","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Made in 1975 this movie, (thanks to director Ken Russell) is an over-the- top rock opera, with the emphasis on opera. 'Tommy' is the tale of boy who witnesses the murder of his father (who was thought to be dead) by his stepfather (Oliver Reed). When his mother (Ann-Margret) and stepdad insist he didn't hear or see it and that he not tell anybody about it Tommy goes into a permanent state of shock and becomes deaf, dumb and blind. The result is a hallucinogenic, visually arresting, campy, explosion of a film. The casting is wonderful with Oliver Reed as the seedy stepfather, Tina Turner as the insane Acid Queen, Roger Daltrey as the title character and Keith Moon as the lecherous Uncle Ernie. The standout (in my mind) has to be Ann-Margret,a brave casting choice by Russell. Ann-Margret approaches the whole affair with the intensity of a Wagnerian opera, which earned her an Academy Award nomination. Sure, not everything works and The Who went a little heavy on the synthesizer, but hey, it was 1975! All and all, a brilliant film with miles of vision.    "},{"Title":"Pure Who or not - Great Flick!","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  While this isn't pure Who, it's highly entertaining. It was a social commentary of the period. False idols or, leaving myself open for assault, just religions which were attacked in the rock opera itself (Marilyn Monroe=Jesus Christ) contribute to a good story that carries through today. And such a showcase for the stars of the period. Jack Nicholson (ever seen/heard him sing?), Oliver Reed, Elton John and especially ANN MARGARET! - need I say more?! "},{"Title":"It is ingenious as a movie.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Ken Russell invented video clips. Tommy is an encyclopedia of clip making. Probably anything we can see in any video clip now, we can see in this movie. It is bizarre as usual and beautiful and very inventively done. it is true that it does not reflect The Who's ideas, but as a movie it is ingenious and very decent. "},{"Title":"The greatest and only rock opera (it stands alone!)","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Tommy is a film that accompanies its soundtrack instead of the soundtrack being a background. However,  this does not invalidate the movie.  It received many academy award nominations,  including Ann Margret for Best Actress and Pete Townshend for the music. Ken Russell is a director who really has his own style and has not received enough credit.  Any one who truly appreciates this movie should look into his others.  One is called Women in Love (i think). I challenge you to not cringe as tina turners acid queen strokes her syringe and stares at you through the screen with a drug induced grin on her face.  This is a sweaty film,  a rock and roll masterpiece and the only movie like it.  And i just have to add, with the risk of sounding completely adolescent,  that roger daltry was definitely sizzling in this movie!  but that is purely from the materialistic view...in a tone more true to the film,  he was absolutely brilliant as the deaf, dumb and blind pinball wizard. "},{"Title":"ughh","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I have seen this movie a lot and let me say it is the worst musical I have ever seen.  I mean the Who is a great band and all but the movie wasn't so hot I just didn't like it.But there was one part in it I did like the part were ann-margaret smashes her Television with a champagne bottle and it starts gushing out soap suds all over her. "}{"Title":"one of the best musical films","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Interesting what is happening with 'Tommy' in posterity. I have seen this film very late, trying to catch back with my teen and young age spent in a Communist country. I knew the music, I knew the film had quite a cult status at the time of the release, and I was kind of expecting it to settle in the area of polite consensus thirty plus years after. And yet, here is a lot of controversy, a rift between lovers and haters among the viewers, and an IMDb grade lower by at least one unity than what I was expecting. Odd! I am on the lovers side. This film is what a musical is about, it has wonderful songs, a message not too sophisticated, but poignant and fit to the late 60 naivety years, and above all consistency and such a good fit of music to story that it deserves the opera half of the 'rock opera' construct. Among all however the best are the visuals, even more amazing thinking that they were done in the 70s, a decade before a computer could fit on a table and two decades before decent computer graphics started to be used in movies. Imagine what Ken Russell could do if he re-did the film nowadays.Sure, I am a rock music fan, and seeing The Who or The Tina Turner of these days was a treat for me. I enjoyed even Elton John, whom I like less, here he fits however so good in the colors and sounds of the movies, with psychedelic spectacles and huge shoes that are not made for walking. And let me not forget the long and sexy exchange of stares between Ann Margaret and Jack Nicholson! Wow, get in the 70s mood and enjoy the ride, guys. "},{"Title":"Disappointing compared to the album","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I had high hopes for this movie. I love the Who and the album. However, Tommy was a huge letdown. I could only watch about twenty minutes of the movie, up to the 1951 scene. In my mind, I kept referencing the album. For instance, the song is titled 1921in the album, not 1951. The whole time setting was altered. Also, the lover kills Captain Walker. In the album, it is Captain Walker who murders the lover. Each of the songs was redone by the actors and no where near the quality of the original Who versions. The order of songs was different, as well. The movie includes a version of Tommy's Holiday Camp at the beginning, which is a completely different interpretation. In the album, Tommy builds his own holiday camp for his followers. In the movie, it is named Bernie's holiday camp. Tommy and his mother attend it.I guess the secret to enjoying this movie is to forget the album. Otherwise, the movie seems like a poorly done cover. "},{"Title":"Tommy is a jolly good movie","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Tommy is my favourite film of all time. I can see why it might not be to everybody's taste, but as a young, not very good musician, Tommy blew me away. I love the collaborations on some tracks, with Clapton, Tina turner etc. I have to say, seeing Tommy changed my life and the way I write music.Tommy is like the ultimate musical journey, and that is fantastic, because the thing that spoils films for me, is when they fade down the really meaningful music to spout more dialogue. Tommy combines a constant flow of great music with a colourful and powerful imagery. Many people may dismiss it as fanciful nonsense, but you have to fall in love with the music before you can fall in love with the film.The best bits for me is 1951/What about the boy, because of the mood changes and the return of captain walker, and the worst bit in the acid queen where the metal suit with the syringes(!?!?! don't know how to spell that) on it opens up to reveal the snake and the skeleton. I don't get the relevance to murder, war or arcade games this might have. Otherwise that sequence is wicked, especially when the suit opens up to show tommy with the bleeding poppys and the camera pans down to show Nora on the floor surrounded by the pinballs from the incendiary bombs...I give Tommy 10/10 because it is my favourite film, and it isn't remembered as it should be; the first complete fusion between music and film that really worked well. Well if there's a better one, I haven't seen it.If you liked Tommy, you might like Magical Mystery Tour by the Beatles... They don't have much in common apart from that you don't know where they are going next. Magical Mystery Tour though is a much harder film to get into. You have to bear in mind it was made for T.V., but apparently it is one of Spielberg's favourites, and I conquer(don't know how to spell that either). "},{"Title":"An amazing masterpiece","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I cannot understand why so many people hate this film.  As far as I am concerned, it is a tremendous masterpiece, a feast for the eyes and ears.  It does wind down a bit at the end, but that is a flaw so minor as to be insignificant compared to the film's virtues.  Only a snob would consider this to be any different from real opera like Traviata or The Magic Flute; the only difference is that those were meant to performed onstage and Tommy is meant for the movie screen.Ken Russell's direction is the best thing he has ever done, and it is amazing and influential.  Ann-Margret threw herself into her role and she is sex appeal personified; her Oscar nomination was one of the few times the Academy had the good sense to reward a project that took risks that paid off.  Oliver Reed and Jack Nicholson aren't the world's best singers, but their awkwardness is part of what makes the movie such fun to watch.  Besides, both of them have incredible faces, and Nicholson conveys more with one raise of an eyebrow that most performers can with a Shakespearean soliloquy.  Robert Powell also has a great camera face, and Russell uses him to full advantage.The music is excellent, the performances are excellent, and the imagery is second to none.  There is a message, but Tommy is also one of the most purely entertaining and fun movies I've ever seen.  All in all, a masterpiece, one of my favorite movies, and one of the few movies that I can watch again and again, because I see something new every time I watch it.  (I know that's a cliche, but it's actually true in this case.)  Try to avoid edited or pan-and-scan versions; they are butchery! "},{"Title":"Pretty amusing even though it's also quite bizarre","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I'm not much into The Who and knew little about this film - to be honest I only saw it because I had heard that Jack Nicholson made a cameo in it, singing, and I just had to see that. It was released the same year as ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST (1975) so I suppose Nicholson hadn't anything to lose so early on in his career.Most of the movie focuses on the blind man-child Tommy who finds himself raised by his widowed mother after her husband dies in WWII. All of this story is told through truly bizarre and over-the-top musical sequences. They're all enjoyable in a strange sort of way - like a car wreck, it's impossible to bring your eyes away from the catastrophe on-screen.In a very deliberate sort of way this is a total mess. I think that's the point. "},{"Title":"Buy the LP, please don't ever see the film","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  This film is appalling. It's an embarrassment. The album Tommy is a great rock album, beautifully recorded and sung, with melodies that stay with you for a long time. Ken Russell hasturned it into a campy dance-fest with cringingly bad singing (stand up, Oliver Reed) and wincingly bad set pieces. Heshould be shot, although the Who themselves must take some blame. You have been warned. "},{"Title":"Real Shocker","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  This film is beyond redemption - it is hopelessly dated, the acting is dreadful for the most part and the music brings out some of the worst excesses of the 70s.  The only positive is Tina Turner's all too brief appearance as the Acid Queen - she uses her wild, energetic stage persona to great effect.  However this is not enough to make it worth suffering through the rest of the film.  Only for the dedicated fans of the artists involved (and even then you only need to view it once). "},{"Title":"Ahead of it's time? I think not..........","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"16 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I saw this film when it was initially released and aside from a few issues, I quite liked it. Over thirty years later, I'm watching it as I write this and the only thing that comes to mind is this what the hell was I thinking ??? Appallingly bad casting , a rotten soundtrack adaption that should've had Pete Townshend running for the hills rather than settle on this audio nightmare ...no wonder the poor slob is going deaf...I'm surprised I haven't just from the horror of listening to it. Now, having been a teenager of the '70s, I know synthesizers were the sleek new toy in every major recording studio's box of fun, but ferchrissake!! To take a rock album and turn it into a gooey, horribly over-processed bit of amateurish synth-crap is absolutely unforgivable.........eeeeekkk!! Now,in regards to the casting...I said it before and I'll say it again......eeeeeeeeekkkk!! Lesse, who shall I comment on first? Let's start with  A, for Ann Margaret..........wrong ,wrong, wrong, wrong! Emoting that's so over the top that it borders on the stupid, a complete and utterly inexcusable misuse of her voice...she can belt out a Vegas tune with the best of 'em, but I'm sorry, folks....she can't sing this type of material and it was foolish and humiliating to expect her to! Oliver Reed and Jack Nicholson.........all I can say in regards to these characters is these boys must've had some real fun on the set together, but it's too bad it did'nt translate into good acting. Don't even ask me about the singing...........pleeeease! But being the responsible critic that I comport myself to be, I will grudgingly admit that, despite all the previous vitriol, the film does have a few redeeming moments that might make it occasionally watchable. The scenes with Keith Moon as Uncle Ernie are no less than inspired and absolutely hilarious; the Acid Queen segment with Tina Turner as the title character is one of the best segments ever filmed for a rock movie and Elton John as the Pinball Wizard is simply put, absolute balls of fun with a live performance by the Who themselves. A grand example of the best and worst (mostly the worst) of 1970's clich' music fantasy and overindulged ridiculousness, Tommy is a film that should be filed right alongside other rock and roll horrors like Sgt. Pepper's and Xanadu along with a note stating Watch at Your Own Risk! "},{"Title":"despite some good music, it's an awful mess!","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"24 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I can't stand this movie. It is 100% self-indulgent crap that has somehow gained cult status. I just don't understand HOW this has occurred, except that, perhaps, many of the movie's fans were so burnt out by drugs in the 1970s that they lost ALL sense of taste and perspective. To me, this movie represents some of the worst of pop culture of the decade (apart from movies like Roller Boogie).Art? No way!! This is an overdone and overacted movie throughout. I can't think of a single moment I liked--it was like a GIANT migraine that just wouldn't quit.You don't believe me?! Well try watching it yourself. Then, explain to me the artistic value of Ann-Margret bathing in baked beans as they shoot out of her TV set at her, the Eric Clapton tribute to Marilyn Monroe (which probably resulted in her haunting him ever since) and Roger Daltry's ridiculous performance (as he manages to OVERPLAY the role of Tommy, a deaf and blind man). Ay, ay, ay, what a mess! This movie is SO dumb that it isn't even funny or worth laughing at--especially since so many were in rapture about it when it debuted.And, although I am repeating myself, DON'T BE QUICK TO CHECK OFF not helpful for this review until you can figure out what is artistic or good about the whole bathing in baked beans that fly out of the TV set scene! This is stupid and any thinking person should be willing to admit it.If you want a BAD musical that is fun to laugh at, try The Apple. It, too, is self-indulgent hooey, but at least it was NEVER mistaken by anyone for ART! "},{"Title":"Blind, Deaf and Dumb to the Music","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Spoiler minefield ahead...Tommy and Pink Floyd.  Tommy and Pink Floyd.  Tommy and Pink Floyd.  Apples and oranges.  Personally, I'm more of a Pink Floyd person (the Who just sounds_too_70s to me) but I tried leaving all my reservations about this movie at the door.That wasn't enough.The themes, ideas, and especially the method are now obsolete.  Actually, this bears little in common with The Wall though both are similar in narrative.  This is straightforward, The Wall is stream of conscious.  'Tommy' has more in common with Norman Jewison than Pink Floyd's tragedy.Ken Russell is obviously trying to outclass Norman Jewison and relies on cheap theatrical and visual gags--Ann-Margret in the suds and beans.  Yeah the effects have dated, but so is the style.  Russell's excess is less amazing and just annoying (or is it the overabundance of 70s fashions?).Simply put, the method here is the plain musical we've been nursed on since sound became part of film.  The characters sing at us, their lyrics advance the plot.  The Wall is pure MTV--for once, a good thing--particularly Gerald Scarfe's animation.Personally, I prefer Alan Parker's depressing self-indulgence over Russell's boring duplications.  I never thought I'd say this, but I find The Wall to be Parker's best since he goofed less there compared to other work. Oh, and the themes of 'Tommy' are too upbeat.  Too similar to Jefferson Airplane (anti-establishment, religion and whatnot).  Only Elton John has something interesting to do.  Pinball instead of poetry.Watch 'Moulin Rouge' instead.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "}{"Title":"Oh dear.","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, from glancing on IMDb this movie looked like it would work. The Who, a band I love. Tommy, and album I love. Oliver Reed, Jack Nicholson, actors I love. And Eric Clapton as a bonus. However what I was subjected to was an interesting, yet unsuccessful piece of semi-experimental film. Aside from Oliver Reed's awful singing - air quotes never more deserved - the whole thing came across as pompous, over thought, poorly directed and even worse in its acting. The only saving grace was Roger Daltrey who did a sterling job of playing Tommy - great commitment (or stupidity) in throwing himself at the scenery.I didn't believe the film could be as bad as the comments here indicated.. until I saw it. Overall grade O - for Oh dear god NO.  "},{"Title":"The Best Musical EVER","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  This is the best musical ever, all the songs are brilliant and the absence of talking just brings this film to life. All the songs are fantastically done by The Who, Eric Clapton and Elton John. The film is about a boy who becomes deaf, dumb and blind but in his life he manages somehow to be become the best pinballers ever as well as doing this he manages to start a religious cult. The film gets across a very good point about famous people becoming a view of 'goodness'' to inferior proletarian and it shows how easily this can happen and at the end of the film it all back fires on the cured 'god.' This was also the savior for The Who as they where at a low point in their illustrious musical career. "},{"Title":"A huge letdown for Who Fans","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  As a huge fan of the Who, and the Tommy album in particular, I was very interested and excited to see this movie. I was expecting something a little deeper, ambiguous, and a bit darker. I was very disappointed. Some of the characters were well cast like Roger Daltrey as Tommy, Elton John as the Pinball Wizard, and of course, Keith Moon as Uncle Ernie. Others however were awful choices such as Oliver Reed and Jack Nicholson(???), neither of which can sing. All of the songs are butchered. The worst being Go To The Mirror!, which on the album was a hard rocker, here is transformed into a campy Jack Nicholson vocal. The new songs such as the camp song at the beginning, and the song when Tommy has his senses again are poorly conceived. I attribute most of this poor quality to Ken Russell, whose production is very dated and too bright for the story. Despite its poor acting, singing, and song rewriting, this movie is a must for Who fans. Other musts are Quadrophenia, and even better, the rockumentary The Kids are Alright, both excellent Films. "},{"Title":"I'm Sorry, but I loved it.","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  It seems like theres alot of people who don't like this movie. But Iloved it, and I became a big fan of THe Who after I saw this movie. The music is fantastic. I love Pete Townsend's lyrics, and RogerDaltry's voice for the songs on the Tommy album, and I thoughtthat the movie gave the songs a more dramatic aspect. And it'sbeautifully shot, and wonderfully made. I loved all of it. ****. "},{"Title":"Why this is one of my Top Ten Favourite films.","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I was lucky. I first saw this film on TV at the age of seven or eight, never having heard of The Who or their music before. The film's visuals entranced me and kept me interested for the duration. I have always loved rock guitar, and the powerful music, especially Townshend's trademark sus4 chords, excited me. I recently bought the video and the double CD soundtrack, and count them as one of my very favourite films and records.I was lucky because I didn't have the original format of the music and stageshow to prejudice my judgement of the film. I will soon investigate the original album, and am sure I will enjoy that just as much.Ann-Margret was Oscar-nominated for her role. In my opinion she should have walked away with the award. Her acting was exceptional, her singing perfect for the part.Peter Townshend's music and concept does not even need comment. It is obvious that 'Tommy' is a work of true inspiration, possibly genius.Ken Russell's film is colourful, humerous, touching, spectacular, and memorable in every scene. It's the kind of film you can go away from and talk about favourite scenes and moments with friends who have seen it, with a smile.I genuinely feel sorry for the film's detractors, the ones who have had their thoughts set in concrete by the original 'Tommy'. A great gift for appreciating art is to learn how to enjoy another version than the one you saw first. You will get new insights to the original version. "},{"Title":"Probably the most visually stunning film I've ever seen","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  The music is great too, of course. It's a bit overlong, but scene after scene is simply eye-popping. I'm normally no fan of excess, but this man is a visual genius. Great acting from Ann-Margaret and Oliver Reed. "},{"Title":"What movie did you all see?","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Wow! I find it hard to understand the mainly negative comments about Tommy. I think of Tommy as a unique high energy rock musical. It's innovative in many ways and it succeeds more often than it fails.Note to people complaining about Oliver Reed's singingIt was possible back then to smooth over bad singing if that's what they wanted. I tend to think Oliver's off key singing is an artistic choice rather than a mistake. The I wish I knee-eee-eeew... line always gets a chuckle from me.This movie has great moments like Tina Turner's Acid Queen sequence and Elton John's Pinball Wizard sequence. Oh! And how about that Eric Claptin Eyesight To The Blind sequence. The dark humor of the Cousin and Uncle sequence, wonderful! Jack Nicholson sings! He's not bad!The movie is full of great imagery and the story of Tommy is well told through the music. The parable style of it all frees it from reality so you can have a church based on Marilyn Monroe and a guy who's main claim to fame is playing pinball well become a messiah. Have another look at it and see what you thinkMike "},{"Title":"Depends what you mean by a bad film","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Like many other Ken Russell films, that one is so bad it's good.  In fact, it has a huge amount of plus points, mainly visual ones - Tommy on the hang-glider, Ann-Margret rolling around in baked beans, Paul Nicholas's gloriously evil cousin Kevin, Clapton's bluesy Eyesight to the Blind with a giant Marilyn Monroe, Tina Turner's spidery Acid Queen, Elton John's shoes... I agree that leaving the singing to the others rather than the boys themselves - Daltrey's Tommy remains dumb until he is freed by the mirror - weakens a lot of the songs.  The album is fantasic but isn't the film trying to achieve something else.  It looks stunning, it is memorable, it has a great cast (although perhaps Mr Reed would have been better off not trying to sing!), and it is fun.  Not as bad as some people would paint it.  I'd say give it a go. "},{"Title":"My Most Hated Movie Of All Time And An Insult To The Album","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Before I watched this piece of cinematic garbage, my least favorite movie in the whole world was the shallow, badly made Armageddon, which managed to be dull and boring, even with all the loud explosions, stupid plotting and bad music video editing. Tommy makes Armageddon look like Richard III.I love the album by The Who. It is dark and very disturbing in spots but still manages to sound beautiful and even transcendental sometimes. I literally grew up with the album... my parents would play it at me ever since I was a wee one, so you can understand that I would be interested to see a movie version of it. Oh, God, I wish I hadn't.This movie takes everything that was good about the album and jettisons it out the window. Look, I don't need the movie adaptation of anything to be 100% accurate to its source material, but please be at least 50% accurate...40%? 20? 5? Ken Russell twists the story into something horrid and ugly, and turns the music into something gaudy and excessive. Gone is the dark subtlety of the album... now we have Ann Margaret rolling around in baked beans and Elton John going glitzy (as is his wont) and Oliver Reed singing badly. And Jack Nicholson singing. Badly. Russell even manages to mess up having Tina Turner in his movie, with her over-the-top rendition of Acid Queen... how can you mess up Tina Turner? That part should have been awesome. And the worst part is that while some directors put offensive or shocking things in their movies to make a point about something, Russell seems to be doing it all just to be shocking - I suspect that he got off on being offensive for the sake of being offensive. And I am no prude - for example, I loved South Park Bigger, Longer and Uncut and how rude and funny it was... but there the filmmakers had a point. There is no point coming from Ken Russell, only crude excess.Tommy is a self-indulgent mess of a movie by a self-indulgent mess of a director and I hate it more than any movie in the entire world. What makes it even worse is that the band itself put its stamp of approval on this piece of flotsam by appearing and performing in it (what were they smoking?). This film insults me to my core and I despise everything about it. There is nothing redeeming about it. Nothing. "},{"Title":"If You Like Operas....","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I seen this film in the fall of '75 I was a HUGE fan of Elton John and I really dug his music. However, I thought this movie was quite BORING!!!! The only scenes I enjoyed was those of the Pinball Wizard and the Acid Queen. I loved how Tina Turner belted out her song, and I thought those boots Elton was wearing were crazy!! It's a wonder that he didn't fall and break his neck!! Of course, I should have had a clue that this film was ALL singing; after all, it was billed as a Rock Opera, but I was only 12 at the time, and I just wanted to see Sir Elton in his first major movie role. Elton John was like, totally hot at the time, and to see anything that Elton was in was to be hip with the times. Boy, how do I miss those days!!! "}{"Title":"Dated, boring and spectacularly stupid","Date":"10 November 2010","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Imagine a really bad music video lasting about three minutes. Then imagine watching 40 of them in an uninterrupted row. That's what Tommy is like. Awful.What induced Ken Russell, other than his obsession with Oliver Reed, to make this abomination?The Lake District scenes at the start and finish are easy on the eye, especially the view of that finest of mini-mountains, Melbreak, at the end of Loweswater. Elton John steals the show as the deposed pinball king, and if he's the best part you can imagine how bad the rest is. Tina Turner provides a wonderful advertisement for cosmetic dentistry and hints at her famous constipated chicken dance.Fragmented film, so disjointed review, in short snippets, lacking a story, making no sense. "},{"Title":"ponderous","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I am not a fan of The Who nor am I antagonistic towards them.  Yet I did not find anything remarkable in the music to this movie.  The subtle as a sledgehammer slap at organized religion and the laughable sets made this movie hard to watch.Sadly, you can see where this movie could have made a valid social commentary on drugs, religion, and social norms; yet, this movie failed on all levels.  I am sure that since I was not a child of the 70's that even if this movie was done well I would miss some of the relevance of it; but this movie is as close to unwatchable dribble as I have seen in a long, long time. "},{"Title":"Makes Even the Who's Music Sound Bad","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"14 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Really, a pretty hopelessly bad movie.I can't imagine any but the most die-hard Who fans liking this, and even then it might try their patience. The music doesn't even sound good in this rock opera about a traumatized boy who becomes a pinball sensation. There might be a point to the story, but God knows what it is. It's filled with people who can't act, and showcases Ken Russell's direction at its over-indulgent worst. It's really not much more than a random series of images set to music by the Who, that maybe would be cool if you were stoned out of your mind while watching it. Otherwise, just listen to the original concept album and leave the T.V. turned off.Grade F "},{"Title":"One HE*L of a movie!!","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  This movie is an unrecognized classic, not only of it's time, but for ALL time! Sure, the effects might be a little dated today, but a movie like this is for the performances and acting...not special effects! Sure, when Tommy is running through the different scenes during I'M Free, I admit that it looks a little hokey but I watch that part of the movie for the emotional impact, not the effects. The musical performances are first rate as is the footage of the concerts as well. Let's face it, where else are you going to be able to see the Who destroy their instruments as they did during their early days? The Who is a classic rock band, one of the few that transcends the time that they were formed to still remain popular and relevant today. This group is not like other groups (cough...the Stones...cough) who have today become a parody of their glory days! To bring this back to the movie, The Who's Tommy shows why the group has continued to impress audiences the world over, with performances that include; Pinball Wizard, Eyesight to the Blind' I'm Free' and many, many more! Let's not end this without mentioning the performances of Eric Clapton, Elton John, Jack Nickelson, Keith Moon etc, etc! Remember, all the quest stars were in this movie because they liked the material, NOT for money or material gainTake my advice, if you have never seen this movie...rent it and watch it, if you saw it a long time ago...go watch it again. You won't be sorry!  "},{"Title":"Screw the Movie, Get the Album","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  How could The Who do such a thing as to let their classic get ruining by a hack director like Ken Russell?  This is just another example of Russell's self indulgence as he ruined the memories of so many fans who enjoyed one of the all time classic albums.  Also, I don't know how Ann-Margaret ever got nominated for her performance.  She is one of the greatest actresses of her era, but that all changed when she was associated with this garbage.  The only memorable performances in this film were turned in by Tina Turner as the Acid Queen, Roger Daltry as Tommy and Elton John as the Pinball Wizard.  At all costs avoid this film and get either the original album or the live performances of the opera on the re-release of The Who's Live at Leeds album or the recording of the band at the Isle of Wight festival. "},{"Title":"I grew up in the 1970's & 1980's......HORRIBLE MOVIE!!!!!","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Though I grew up in the 1970's I was not raised on the music of The Who but The Beatles as I had a brother 6 years older then I.I had heard of Tommy (boy) as a musical on Broadway. I had no idea it had been a film made almost 20 years before. If I had seen this before a Broadway Musical was proposed I wouldn't have let them make it.29 years later I found this one early morning on The Antenna TV network. What a horrible film. Yes this was a rock opera. A bad one that should never have been made.It is very easy to figure out what is happening as no words are spoken at all until the Lovely Legs competition. However it with bad music you figure out two people are falling in love, you have to guess they marry or are married to begin with never really sure. This was about 15 minutes into movie. Then the character breaks into a song of course this is a rock opera after all.I say this movie is overall bad and not watchable unless you are a fan of The Who. The music is grating and annoying. "},{"Title":"Somehow manages to ruin the music","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" This movie. Granted, I am not of the generation of kids who was alive when this was released, but please. I am a die-hard fan of the Who, and this movie simply destroys their music. The vocals are bad; any symbolism in the film, rather than insightful, is tasteless and bizarre. The remake of the music is poorly done, even if it is done by the band. The synthesizer is overdone, Keith Moon, while better than on the Who by numbers, is clearly already being affected by alcoholism as far as the ability of his playing goes. If you don't take my opinion on the movie, then take Pete Townshend's - he wrote the music, and he HATED this movie. It was an overdone blockbuster that simply ruins the music, which is very hard to do considering it is some of the Who's finest. Spare yourself the agony of being tortured for ninety minutes and skip this film. "},{"Title":"Stinker","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" I remember enjoying the TOMMY album when it came out. I also remember hating this movie when it came out. Seeing it again today in 2007 it seems like a silly idea. To try and wrap a movie around a couple of hit songs was dumb. In those days everything got made into a movie. Seeing it today I am surprised it was released at all. It's tedious, overblown, and Ann Margaret can't sing. Daltry looked goofy. A lot of this movie looks like it shares the same production values as an episode of THE MONKEYS. I think a lot of people felt ripped off when they came out of the movie. It's 2007 and I've often wondered why this movie doesn't play much on TV but now I know why. Probably one of the worst movies of all time. I've never seen that Sgt. Pepper's movie but I suspect they are a lot alike. "},{"Title":"Steaming Pile","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  Love the Who.  Love Ann Margaret.  Unfortunately, this is a steaming pile of dog poop.  I was really stoned when I saw it, so that wasn't the problem.  It's just a lot of disturbing imagery.  The only thing positive about it, perhaps, is that it portrays the desperate, frantic nature of drug addiction, directly and indirectly, through images.Then there's the Ann Margaret rolling around with the turds thing.  Truly appropriate.  What a turd-festival.Stay away like it has SARS. "},{"Title":"Tommy can you, hear me?","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  While I thought some of the performances and the music were great in this film (based on the Who Rock Album which is a masterpiece unlike this film), the story is somewhat questionable and stupid.  I mean, not much of it makes sense.  Except of course for having Who Guitarist Roger Daltry as Tommy (because Daltry can act stoned and stupid on and off camera) and Keith Moon as Uncle Ernie.  Sometimes entertaining, but usually ridiculous.  Later made into a opera by Pete Towshend.  B- "}{"Title":"BE very Prepared for this one","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" When I was 15 I saw this movie for the first time and it freaked me out..... I think because it was the first time I saw a movie in which everything was sung...Now almost 30 years later nothing changed.. Tommy is a strange, weird film...Nothing I can say is good about Tommy... Some of the characters are downright creepy too..The acting is terrible in my opinion...I will say Tommy at least has a storyline, but this is pretty bad too.. Vieweres prepare ourselves for one big acid trip!! I can only imagine how much drugs the Who did while coming up with this story.. The one thing that I did like about Tommy, and yes there is one thing Elton John singing Pinball Wizard!! "},{"Title":"Worst Ever","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" This is the worst movie I've ever seen, and I have seen a lot! I bought this movie because it is listed in the book 1000 Best Movies on DVD by Peter Travers. Also, the movie is in the superbit collection, which is supposed to have superb sound and image quality. Well, the sound quality is not that good. And the movie does not deserve to be among those 1000. I rate this movie 0 over 10, or 0 stars. The only think I liked is the Elton John number; and it's not that good either. This may be a good movie to The Who fans. But even them complain because they change the plot of the original story for this movie. The acting is awful, the music sucks, the story is lame, and everything else is a waste of money and time (I lost 110 minutes of my precious time with this, when I could have been reading a good book, watching a good movie, or listening to a good CD). I would not even pay one cent for this movie. I even hate the band The Who. They always make it to those Best Albums, etc. but to me they are a bunch of losers. If you like classic Rock, and conceptual albums or Rock operas specifically, try Pink Floyd and watch The Wall. That is a masterpiece. This is a wannabe that deserves no attention. "},{"Title":"Tommy","Date":"16 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" From director Ken Russell (Women in Love), I knew that this film was some kind of musical film, I didn't know it based on the album of the same name by The Who, the big name stars in it, or anything about the story, but I was up for it, as it has gained a reputation over time as a cult rock opera. Basically during the Second World War the plane of Captain Walker (Robert Powell) is shot down, he is presumed missing and killed in action, his wife Nora (Golden Globe winning, and Oscar nominated Ann-Margret) gives birth to their son Tommy. A few years pass and Nora meets and quickly gets married to shifty camp counsellor Frank Hobbs (Oliver Reed) while adolescent Tommy is attending Bernies Holiday Camp, but Captain Walker comes home, only to be murdered and witnessed by his son, his mother and step-father tell him he never saw or heard it, and never to speak of it, Tommy takes this to extreme and becomes blind, deaf and dumb. Grown up Tommy (Golden Globe nominated Roger Daltrey, lead singer of The Who) goes through many therapies and experiences to try and cure him, including attending a cult church that worship Marilyn Monroe, and crazy prostitute and LSD dealer Gypsie the Acid Queen (Tina Turner), but the parents eventually give up and want to leave Tommy with relatives. Cousin Kevin (Paul Nicholas) is sadistic beating and torturing the young man, and Uncle Ernie (The Who's Keith Moon) is a filthy alcoholic who molests children and rapes the young man, so the parents leave him alone for a bit, and goes to a junkyard where he finds a pinball machine, the device that will change his life, he plays on it all night until being found by the police and his parents. Playing the machine by instinct without hearing and seeing any distractions Tommy plays game after game, the family become rich because of his talent as the pinball wizard, and he is put in a televised pinball championship where he amazes and beats the Local Lad (Sir Elton John) with his high scoring, but inside Nora is still unhappy that her son is still disabled. Frank tells her he has found a doctor who deals with many kinds of disabled people, The Specialist (Jack Nicholson) confirms that Tommy's problems are psychosomatic and not physical, based on the emotional trauma of his father and step-father, Nora at home eventually shatters him into an awakening, and all his senses return. He realises many people are enlightened by his pinball playing, and being cured he has feels like a messiah, and creating a symbol with a T and a pinball he starts holding lectures and rallies, teaching them his unique perspective on life, ultimately he becomes the leader of his own religious cult. This however turns out to be both the family's rise and downfall, as Tommy preaches things the crowds do not feel enlightened by, including wearing headgear to make them blind, deaf and dumb like he used to be, the people eventually upset riot, destroying pinball machines and starting fires, Frank and Nora are killed in the attack, Tommy is only mildly injured and retreats to the place his parents spent a romantic time together, he greets the sun as it rises, and a new dawn. Also starring Eric Clapton as The Preacher, Barry Winch as Young Tommy, Victoria Russell as Sally Simpson, Ben Aris as Reverend Simpson, Fire singer Arthur Brown as The Priest, The Who's Pete Townshend and The Who's John Entwistle. Daltrey as the leading star based on his band's own album is terrific, Ann-Margret is good as the emotional mother, and Reed does good as the father-in-law going along with whatever, I agree the celebrity stars slightly overshadow the actors, John in his huge shoes, Nicholson as a cool doctor and Turner going wild, but this film is much more memorable for the often over the top imagery, absurd storytelling, and rhythmical rock singing throughout, for it's reputation it's certainly a worthwhile musical. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for Pete Townshend, it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy. Good! "},{"Title":"What a Bloody Mess!","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  I love The Who and Women in Love and The Devils directed by Ken Russell, but this thing is a monstrosity!  Talk about a bad trip!  There are spectacular actors in this - Oliver Reed, Ann Margret, and Jack Nicholson to name a few, but this is indescribably horrifying as a film.  I know there are people out there who adore this ghoulash, but I can't stand being in the same room with any human who gets off on this bad MTV video of a film.A 3 out of 10.  Best performance = Oliver Reed.  By 1975 I think Mr. Russell had lost it artistically which is a shame.  Ann Margret nominated for this - PLEASE!  A bad headache. "},{"Title":"Absolute Crap","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" Tommy, as an album from The Who, written by Pete Townsend is an great piece of work. Tommy, the movie directed by Ken Russell, is crap. The only relation between the two is the soundtrack, and even that has been ruined as the cast does the singing. Oh my God, had anyone told Oliver Reed that he couldn't sing, or Keith Moon (may they both rest in peace)? Russell has taken a series of shots and strung them together to fill time as the soundtrack runs. I know that the dressed in black, self important film students will be up in arms about these statements and artistic licence and all that but, having worked in the business for 16 years I know crap when I work on it, or see it. I have had more then one argument with DOP's and directors about artistic license. It still must work. The shots have to work and make sense once cut with the soundtrack as this is after all, a business and all business has to make money. Yes, I'm sure this film made money but only due to it's low budget and the popularity of The Who's music at the time. Lets see it made today and see if it makes a dime, or if a studio would be silly enough to back it. Not a chance. I love movies, and I love seeing great works shot in film, it is still be only medium that gives back the that richness. But sometimes you have to realize that a badly made movie is just that, badly made. Sure the musical was a hit on stage as well but what else has Pete Townsend done lately other then rehash his old stuff. We all have to make a living. Go out and buy the album (CD) of Tommy by the Who, put it on the stereo and turn it up loud. Sit back and listen to it as it was meant to be heard. This will not disappoint you. The movie on the other hand....... "},{"Title":"A big disappointment to this 1960s flower child.","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" The Who's Tommy. It is one of those movies you hear about on and off for years, but never get around to seeing it. Well, last night I did, on the TCM channel. What I got was almost two hours of strange story, strange songs, and strange acting. I cannot honestly say what it was all about when it was over. What the intent of the 'message' was. Maybe there wasn't any. I did enjoy seeing Ann-Margret and Jack Nicholson, both singing nicely in their own ways. Elton John, Eric Clapton, and Tina Turner had short cameos.The star of the movie is the Who's Roger Daltrey who was the adult Tommy Walker. Tommy became blind, deaf, and dumb when he was a small boy. But somehow, as a young adult, in spite of his handicaps, became a pinball wizard. Not just a very good player, but a genuine wizard, an idiot savant of sorts. Then later, he regained his senses, and became a cult figure. Overall, there isn't much I can say good about it, but I did see it! "},{"Title":"obnoxious","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":" When watching the usual output of Hollywood (endless derivative movies), originality can seem very important. But here's a movie with wall-to-wall originality and all I desired was a decent tune, or an idea that wasn't juvenile and twee; or even an idea that developed. Anticipating the short attention span of MTV by fifteen years, Ken Russell manages to make a truly obnoxious film about objectionable characters doing objectionable things; adapted from Pete Townshend's now-ignored rock-opera Tommy. Taking production conceits to their hopeless dead end, the movie is designed to overwhelm you with Ken Russell's visuals and a cast of 1975's biggest rock gods.Townshend, with one eye on A Clockwork Orange, devises a super-trite narrative about an over-sympathetic deaf, dumb and blind protagonist who eventually leads a pinball/self-actualization cult. All of it is couched in 1970s transgressive morality, in which things that don't really raise an eyebrow much anymore are depicted as seedy as possible, hookers, strip clubs, etc. Every ten minutes another character steps up to explain how sleazy and debauched they are, providing another tiresome, adolescent chance to knock over a strawman; a step-father, an uncle, a cousin, a junkie-whore, a priest, a therapist, etc. Townshend pounds you over the head with unsubtle, super-twisted character-songs (I'm the acid queen, I'm the school bully). Oh goodie, yet another song with someone describing their debauchery. There might be two songs that aren't absolutely horrible. Over 111 minutes, maybe fifteen minutes have musical potential. The minute you try to use rock to make a musical, you're really no longer in the realm of rock or rebellion. And it's certainly not rock when you're this deep into British details, flogging a conventional moral message.When you can get a director to go along with your big message about the redemptive power of pinball, that's just sad. Tommy is a movie for people who enjoy sensation more than thought, riding rock's ultimate dead end (the concept album) to the very depths of film-duds. Anyone who thinks this is art (or deep) is still a victim of the original PR of this event movie. Many other obnoxious movies owe this film a debt (Moulin Rouge). Although two very similar projects (Mr. Roboto from Styx, and the Bee-gees super-crappy musical Sgt Peppers) are despised and considered trainwrecks, they're really only slightly worse than this. "},{"Title":"Disapointment","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Musical","Review":"  The filming is pretty bad, and the signing sucks. And why did they change practically the whole album to synthisizer? C'mon. Okay, and the weird sound effects get annoying after a while. Ken Russle should burn. Altered States was OK, but any director could have done better with this. "}]