[{"Title":"Does Christmas smell like oranges to you?","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"88 out of 112 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The opening shot of Nashville shows a van with a loudspeaker offering platitudes from Hal Phillip Walker, Replacement Party candidate for President and the perfect middleman for the movie Nashville, which like the never-seen candidate offers a series of apparently disconnected vignettes that touch on deeper truths but remain enigmatic and yet, somehow, substantial and truthful.Nashville is the kind of film scholars champion and no one else watches, which is a shame because it has a lot to offer, and not just to pointyheads. I avoided it for years because of Pauline Kael's iconographic reviews in the New Yorker. If she liked it so much, it couldn't be that good. It was a film where Eastern intellectuals took their shots at country yokels like so many fish in a barrel. Boy, was I wrong.Nashville is an empathic, genuine-feeling soap opera set to country & western music, the kind they used to play before Faith Hill and the Dixie Chicks revamped Nashville into Hollywood East. The movie takes a while to get started, and viewers are required to stick with a seemingly random group of characters with the most tangential series of relationships to one another. Over time, however, the vignettes gel into a mosaic of related setpieces that seem to move in tandem, until by the end, they gain a sort of terminal velocity that feels almost like destiny.There are nearly 30 characters at the center of Nashville. Some are stars, like Ronee Blakley's fragile Barbara Jean and Henry Gibson's Haven Hamilton. Some are wanna-bes, like Gwen Welles' desperate and pathetic Sueleen Gay and Barbara Harris's red-dot-fixated Albuquerque. Some are good-hearted, like Barbara Baxley's Kennedy-loving Lady Pearl and Lily Tomlin's sign-literate Linnea Reese. Then there's folks like Michael Murphy's sleezy politico John Triplette, Geraldine Chaplin's sophistic reporter Opal, and Shelley Duvall's shallow and slutty L.A. Joan, whom one wishes weren't more representative of the human race.The nice thing about Nashville, actually the great thing about it, is how we see these people in such depth and richness. Haven Hamilton opens the film as a petty dictator of sorts, running his recording studio like a rhinestone Hitler as his eyes flash and roll for signs of petty trespass, but we grow to like his hokey showmanship and his genuine impulse to entertain and, at the end, see to it Nashville does not disintegrate into another Dallas. He's not a bad guy, he just has bad moments, and virtually the same can be said of nearly everyone in this film.Is Nashville a political film? There's Hal Phillip Walker, and a final act of political assassination, but it seems more cultural. Certainly it's not topical, though a Washington outsider did win the Presidency in 1976. We aren't really encouraged to take Walker too seriously, not with those wild-eyed Walker girls waving placards with their frosted Manson-girl gazes. Is it a satire of Nashville, or Middle America? It's far more brutal when it takes on the smarmy Triplette, or the transatlantic twit Opal, who seem the most contemptuous of Southern values. Talk about not having a clue.By the second half of the film, we are locked into all the personal dramas and moments of revelation, to the point we feel them more than the characters themselves. Like Linnea's moment of truth at a dive when Keith Carradine's Tom sings I'm Easy as a desperate come-on to her, while three other women think wrongly it is being sung to them and react in varying degrees of smugness. Tomlin can't sing gospel, and she's not as funny as she was in Laugh In, but her reaction to his performance in that scene fully merited her Oscar nomination. Her eyes are Garbo-inert, and her head seems stapled to the wall as she wishes with all her heart this cup will pass her by.I wouldn't say that's my favorite scene. It keeps changing with every viewing. I really reacted strongly to Barbara Harris's culminating performance of It Don't Worry Me after watching the film for the first time just after 9/11, though it does seem a trifle more apathetic than defiant upon reflection. Still, it has incredible power, because it's sarcastic, hopeful, and revelatory all at once. It's also a perfect note with which to end a rare film that manages to skewer and honor its subject simultaneously, yet ultimately manages to find the redeeming goodness in the blackest night.  "},{"Title":"An often-misunderstood masterpiece - full of life like no other movie","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"67 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Much like some of the other comments about Nashville that are circulating around IMDB, the reviews I've seen of Robert Altman's 1975 Oscar contender have been completely adulatory or completely dismissive. Contrary to some comments I've read, Nashville looks as prescient and magnificent now as it appeared to some critics nearly thirty years ago. Dated? Absolutely not. Nashville is a movie about people more than anything else, but a political campaign van that appears throughout the movie shows the unavoidable nature of politics in people's lives in the 70's. Has that changed since then? It's even more true now, with our war in Iraq and all of the conflicting viewpoints that exist. Annoying overlapping dialogue? To dismiss this unique trait of Nashville is to hate the trademark of director Robert Altman. Do people wait their turn as if reading from a screenplay in real life? Muddy cinematography? Certainly not - to show a Nashville vibrant with colors that don't really fit (a crime that most visually overachieving movies commit) would distract from Altman's amazing focus on the relationships of the characters that he builds so well. And the characters....the dozens of cast members lend terrific support to a film that moves forward constantly while never seeming to move too fast, leaving time for moments of poignancy and heartbreak, as well as unintentionally hilarious moments (as every good pseudo-documentary film has). Who can forget Lily Tomlin gazing at her deaf children tenderly as their father completely ignores them as they speak? Or the moment Keith Carradine performs his Oscar-winning I'm Easy in front of a night club crowd? Really, Nashville is filled with great moments ALL the time that make the nearly three-hour film unmissable, but nothing in the world can prepare the patient viewer for the film's breathtaking finale which seems even more moving today in the midst of everything. Forget the National Anthem or The Battle Hymn of the Republic. The gospel-esque strains of It Don't Worry Me make it the American song for the ages, in an American film that ranks among the best of its kind. "},{"Title":"Altman's Masterpiece The Damnedest Thing You Ever Saw","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"66 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Robert Altman is an extremely divisive director in the sense that you either get it or you don't--and those who don't despise his work and take considerable pleasure in sneering at NASHVILLE in particular. But there is no way around the fact that it is an important film, a highly influential film, to most Altman fans his finest films, and to most series critics quite possibly the single finest film made during the whole of the 1970s.According to the movie trailer available on the DVD release, NASHVILLE is the damnedest thing you ever saw--and a truer thing was never said, for it is one of those rare film that completely defies description. On one level, the film follows the lives of some twenty characters over the course of several days leading up to a political rally, lives that collide or don't collide, that have moments of success and failure, and which in the process explore the hypocrisy that we try to sweep away under the rug of American culture. If it were merely that, the film would be so much soap-opera, but it goes quite a bit further it juxtaposes its observations with images of American patriotism and politics at their most vulgar, and in the process it makes an incredibly funny, incredibly sad, and remarkably savage statement on the superficial values that plague our society.What most viewers find difficult about NASHVILLE--and about many Altman films--is his refusal to direct our attention within any single scene. Conversations and plot directions overlap with each other, and so much goes on in every scene that you are constantly forced to decide what you will pay attention to and what you will ignore. The result is a film that goes in a hundred different directions with a thousand different meanings, and it would be safe to say that every person who sees it will see a different film.In the end, however, all these roads lead to Rome, or in this case to the Roman coliseum of American politics, where fame is gained or lost in the wake of violence, where the strong consume the weak without any real personal malice, and where the current political star is only as good as press agent's presentation. For those willing and able to dive into the complex web of life it presents, Altman's masterpiece will be an endlessly fascinating mirror in which we see the energy of life itself scattered, gathered, and reflected back to us. A masterpiece that bears repeated viewings much in the same way that a great novel bears repeated readings. A personal favorite and highly, highly recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"altman's americana","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"55 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Nashville couldn't understand Nashville, and no wonder. Anyone who watches Nashville for insights to country music probably views The Godfather for tips about olive oil. Altman's 1975 film uses country music and the people who perform, listen to and produce it as a metaphor about America in the '70s, when, as Warren Beatty said in A Parallax View, released a year earlier, everytime you turned around, one of the best people in the country was getting shot. Anyone who has seen the film and visits the Parthenon, where the final scenes are filmed, may feel a sense of unease. Listen closely and you can hear Haven Hamilton pleading to the stunned crowd, Show them what we're made of! They can't do this to us here! This isn't Dallas; this is Nashville!The ending is astonishing, tidying up some plot lines and leaving others open ended. A star is born when the Albuquerque character and a gospel group minus its leader belt out a Nashville standard, It Don't Worry Me. The Sueleen Gay character, meanwhile, suffers one final indignity; Albuquerque, on the same stage and with the same ambitions, achieves the fame that might have gone to Sueleen, a waitress/stripper/wanna-be recording artist, had Sueleen gotten the microphone first.We never know what caused the Kenny Frazier character to crack; perhaps like Mark David Chapman (John Lennon) he was obsessed with the Holden Caulfield character in Catcher in the Rye, although we can feel fairly certain that he did not share John David Hinckley's (President Reagan) obsession with Jodie Foster since Taxi Driver would not be released for another year.Watching Nashville for the first time, you may feel protective of Barbara Jean's character for reasons you can't immediately explain but will learn all too well. I feel the same urge to shout at the screen, warning her character of possible danger, that I experienced in From Here to Eternity, knowing that Pearl Harbor was imminent and would change everything.Characters transform before our eyes. Del Reese (Ned Beatty), bored with his marriage to a Nashville superstar and as a father to hearing-impaired children, cares enough at the end to lead a wounded Haven Hamilton to safety. Hamilton (masterfully played by Henry Gibson) would stomp anyone in his path to create a hit record but is the first to care for Barbara Jean in her moment of need.Sure, some of the songs are terrible -- some country music is terrible -- but could anything be more poignant than Barbara Jean's rendition of My Idaho Home or Keith Carradine singing I'm Easy in a nightclub where four of his conquests look on equally with lust and bewilderment. Country singers, like stock-car drivers, inspire tremendous loyalty and jealousy among their fans, which Altman depicts beautifully when Scott Glenn, a devoted fan of Barbara Jean, leaves the Opry as Connie White appears to sing a tribute to her ailing rival. Hamilton's character is never better than when between songs he asks listeners to send Barbara Jean a card and tell her that Haven told you to write.Altman would rate among the greatest directors -- as the American Fellini -- if this were his only effort. Despite its convoluted plot structure, Nashville achieves greatness and searches for truth. If the 1970s shaped your life in any respect, this is a movie experience not to be missed.  "},{"Title":"a milestone in my filmgoing experience","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"36 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw Nashville when it was first shown, billed as Altman's birthday card to America on the occasion of the bicentennial. The greatest tribute I can pay is that, despite its frequent shifts of location, many individual scenes and characterizations, as well as the overarching story line, remained vivid in my mind over the years before I was able to purchase the film on video. When I taught Film History at my college I used Nashville as the final examination for the course. After having viewed the film, students were instructed to identify the elements of film technique previously studied(such as overlapping dialogue, jump shots, widescreen, etc) in order to forward the narrative, as they were employed by Altman. In general, they did very well; even those who disliked the film. There are too many admirable performances for me to mention; however, those that remained most vivid in my mind over the years were those of Gwen Welles, Ronee Blakley, Henry Gibson, and Lily Tomlin. One last note of appreciation regards the fact that all the characters were introduced within the first twenty minutes at the airport; their personalities brought out in the highway scene;and their being brought together again, cyclically, during the last twenty minutes at the Parthenon. It has been several years since I used Nashville for pedagogical purposes. When I purchased the DVD recently I found that, despite my numerous viewings and classroom analysis, the impact was virtually the same as when I first saw it in 1976. For me, it did not murder to dissect this personal milestone. "},{"Title":"Refreshing and Brilliant","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  After having seen this film for the third time - the first was in film school many years ago - I'm struck by the amount of action going on within many of the shots.  Mention is frequently made of Altman's use of overlapping dialogue in the sound but what struck me this time around is how often two or more characters, acting out different lines of the story are captured within the same shot - giving this film much of its sense of verisimilitude, a fantastic control of pace while feeling natural. Unarguably, much of its naturalism comes from the lens and cinematographic choices but part of it also stems from the choices made available in the cutting room, which give it an excellent pace and rhythm.Add to that some wonderful performances, especially by Henry Gibson and Ronee Blakely, and you have a quintessential American Independent film that speaks about America in terms that no marketing agency of the current generation would ever tolerate. "},{"Title":"Best Movie","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Nashville is a great movie.  It is so multilayered, you'll be able to watch it again and again and slowly peel back each layer to see more and more. Amazing all around--amazing ability to hand you dozens of different characters and make you feel like you know each and every one very well. Most movies today can't even make you like even one character, much less 20.Songs are memorable, some are hilariously bad, others are quite good. Hilariously funny at times, poignant and thought-provoking and heartbreaking.  Amazing film. "},{"Title":"One of the great films of our time","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"29 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I suppose the brilliance of Nashville is that almost 30 years after its initial release, Robert Altman's slice of Americana has lost none of its punch. Despite being made in the Watergate and Vietnam era, the film remains relevant as ever.In fact, one could argue, the film's even more relevant today in this age of celebrity-worship and apathetic, gutless American media who believe missing suburban wives are more pertinent and crucial to this nation's well-being than questioning facts and our leaders' motives for waging a needless, costly war.The film's about the politics of country music, families, stardom, search for stardom, political manipulation and populist political candidates. The unseen presidential candidate's spiel in Nashville could easily have been sound bites from contemporary populists; he could be seen as the cinematic trend-setter for the Ross Perots, Jesse Venturas, Howard Deans and Ralph Naders.The film is at once a political drama, musical and documentary all effortless woven together by a master storyteller, who truly is an American treasure. In Nashville, Altman's overlapping dialogue works to perfection as he captures this panoramic view of five days in Nashville through the eyes of two-dozen characters.With so many characters, it's Altman's genius that he keeps this an engrossing character study. Although he tosses aside all conventions of narrative storytelling, we get to know characters better in Nashville than we do in many contemporary dramas with fewer characters. There's Ronee Blakley's country singer; Lily Tomlin's doting housewife and mother; Scott Glenn's caring soldier; Keith Carradine's lecherous pop star; Ned Beatty's disinterested father; Keenan Wynn's loving husband; Michael Murphy's sleazy campaigner; and Gwen Welles' sad wannabe country singer, whose scene at a political fund-raiser is heartbreaking. And Jeff Goldblum's motorcyclist and Geraldine Chaplin's Opal are the threads that weave through all the lives in this marvelous tapestry.There are plenty of terrific songs in Nashville - some might complain too many - but the best are Carradine's Oscar-winning I'm Easy and It Don't Bother Me. They add to the nice sense of cynicism that layers the movie.Altman's one of the big reasons the 1970s is regarded as the greatest decade of American filmmaking. Look at just a few of his contributions in that decade - Nashville, MASH (1970), Brewster McCloud (1970), McCabe and Mrs. Miller (1971), Images (1972) and The Long Goodbye (1973). His films also influence other talented filmmakers, including Alan Rudolph (who worked on Altman films) and Paul Thomas Anderson, whose storytelling style - Boogie Nights (1997) and Magnolia (1999) - clearly is Altman-inspired. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films of its era.","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Can't believe I've taken this long to reply re Nashville. It is simply the movie that has had the biggest influence on my life since I first had the honor of viewing it one hot August day in Seattle in 1975. Leaving the theatre dazed, numbed and shattered, in a way only a truly great work of art is able to accomplish, at having seen something so unique and so powerful it helped this then 21 year old Canadian see life and the possibility of film in an entirely different light. That's a pretty lofty thing for a movie to do, but Nashville is the most defining movie of my lifetime, the one that all others were judged by or compared to. Over the years I have viewed this movie countless times in second-run, revival houses, and even on television where it's impact is of course diluted by commercials and indifferent presentations It was the first movie I bought on DVD, even before I owned a player and have scoured newspapers, books and magazines long before the access of the internet to read everything available on this film. Unfortunately, Nashville's reputation suffered during the dark years of the 1980-90s (the complete exclusion from the AFI's list of 100 greatest films of all time was especially vexing but rallied a bit with its availability on DVD. True, it is a love it or hate it movie, most great works of art do bring out these strong emotions and I have experienced both during the close to 30 years since the movie's release, but for those of us who love it, there are very few others that compare.  "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"21 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Director Robert Altman has assembled a massive cast of brilliant actors to create this rollicking and rambling masterpiece. While skewering the often intertwined worlds of entertainment and politics, Altman and company pretty much play it straight therefore heightening the satire. The various stories unfold at a deliberate pace - the movie is quite long - allowing all 25+ characters to fully develop. It's a technique Altman would later utilize with his '90s masterwork SHORT CUTS.The cast is excellent and many have what turned out to be their best ever movie roles. Among the standouts Ronee Blakely as Barbara Jean, the diva of the country music world. She's all aflutter as she attempts a triumphant return to her fans; Karen Black is her chief rival and has a very funny interaction with Julie Christie, who plays herself; Lily Tomlin is a gospel singer with two deaf children and a disengaged husband; Keith Carridine is one part of a folk trio who beds just about every female in the cast; Barbara Harris plays a struggling singer whose big break comes at a very unexpected moment; Henry Gibson is Haven Hamilton, a ego maniacal music legend; Geraldine Chaplin plays Opal, a BBC reporter doing an expose of Nashville and serves as a decidedly callous Greek chorus. She's uncomfortably intrusive in nearly every scene.The rest of the large cast includes Altman regulars Bert Remsen, Shelley Duvall and Michael Murphy along with Keenan Wynn, Jeff Goldblum, Ned Beatty and Barbara Baxley. "}{"Title":"Unique Masterpiece!","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"28 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I loved this movie. Loved it! I just saw this on widescreen DVD and had never seen it before.  It's the first movie I have seen in a few years that had me smiling from ear to ear as it ended, not because it was a feel-good movie but because it was so exhilarating  to see a work so flawlessly assembled, so marvellously written and acted, and finally one so overflowing  with the collective creative energy of the cast and crew. There are more memorable characters and vignettes in this one two hour and 40 minute movie than in all the movies from the movies I have seen from the year 2000.   M*A*S*H and The Player are the only other two Altman films I have ever seen, and  I hesitate to see anymore as how can any of them be as good as NASHVILLE?    "},{"Title":"We must be doin' somthin' right. But what?","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Somewhere between This Is Spinal Tap and Crash is a little movie about the American people, American politics, and the American capital of country music.Nashville is not a film that will likely appeal to everyone. It is over two and a half hours long with over an hour of country music numbers and a cast featuring 24 LEAD roles. The film is chaotic and muffled and difficult to follow. It is also the best example of political satire since Dr. Strangelove.It's difficult to explain just how this movie works. It's a portrait of various people (mostly musicians) in all walks of life. The anchor of the film is the primary bicentennial election. A political rally for Replacement Party candidate Hal Philip Walker is about to be held at Nashville's replica Parthenon. A van travels around the city blasting his speeches about what's wrong with the government. His views, for the most part, are right on the dot, but we see through his representatives and spokespersons that he is just as brutal as corrupt as any politician.We never actually see the man, or find out much about his politics, past his views on the smells of Christmas.Robert Altman, best known for Korean War comedy M*A*S*H, does a superb job combining Hollywood craftsmanship with an independent edge. Nashville is highly stylized while brutally honest. The music is more than just a backdrop to the plot, it is part of the plot. For example, there is a scene in which Keith Carradine performs a song called I'm Easy in a bar. He says he wrote it for someone who just might be here tonight. Four different girls in the audience beam with the knowledge he wrote it for her.Keith Carradine's character is the most obvious example of a sexist in the picture, but sexism is one of the resounding motifs throughout the film. It explores the subtlety of the concept. Women in the film are appreciated for their looks or their talent but never for themselves. Such is the case during a scene when singer Barbara Jean (Ronnie Blakley) is in a hospital bed after collapsing. Half a dozen of her closest friends come in, talk to each other for about 3 minutes, then leave. Later her husband/manager tells her, Don't tell me how to run your life. She realizes her only friends are her fans so during her next concert she compulsively makes small talk when she should be singing.The film is basically a great opening, an astounding ending, and tons of filler in between, but that filler is some of the most interesting film-making ever seen. This film provides no clear answers because that would just be more politics. This film could've been a train crash in the hands of any other director. It's chaotic and probably over a lot of heads, but It Don't Worry Me. PS Someone gets assassinated, I won't say who though. ;) 4 STARS "},{"Title":"Words Fail Me...","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Nashville was the first R rated film that my father took me to see.  At 14 years of age, I was many years from NYU film school, and a neophyte when it came to appreciating cinema.I am now 39, and to date I have seen tens of thousands of films, not to mention possessing a sizable video library.  Considering my love of social politics, there is not a month that goes by that I have not thought of this film for one reason or another.  There are some movies that you simply see, and there are the rare few that become part of the soul.Simply said, Nashville is a singular work of cinematic genius that has gone dreadfully under appreciated for the last 25 years.  It is a film chock full of life's little (and not so little) truths; some happy, some sad...all meaningful.Now that it is making a long overdue reappearance on DVD in it's original (and integral) widescreen format, it is my sincerest hope that people will avail themselves of the opportunity to discover this forgotten gem for themselves.Lastly, that this film did not make the AFI's 100 great American films is an absolute sin.  "},{"Title":"The Most Human Film of All Time","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I first saw Robert Altman's Nashville when I was 19-20 years old, during it's rounds in the cheap theaters.  I remember it impacting me but then promptly forgetting the details, but never forgetting the impact.  I saw it again when I was perhaps 30, and my wife at the time fell asleep halfway through it.  But again remembering the impact if not the details.  A few weeks ago I purchased the new DVD release, and I've watched it three times and all I can think about is watching it again.  At the age of 43, I am even more in awe of this film than ever.  The other commentary here is full of superlatives, all of which I concur with - so I will have to say something about it's special impact on me.  You see, I find myself growing to love all these characters in the film, for their imperfections and their human-ness. It is said truth is stranger than fiction, but the truth of the entirely fictitious Nashville is remarkably close to the real thing.  How can anyone forget scenes like Keith Carradine listening to his own songs while making love to a different woman in each scene... and on the phone to the next before she is even dressed and out the door?  How can anyone forget the frail Ronnie Blakley singing In The Garden from her wheelchair in the hospital chapel?  Or Keenan Wynn's silent reaction to news of his wife's death?  I am still amazed at how much can be told about the soul of a character in just a few minutes of screen time.  Like Kenny, the angry young drifter who seems aimless yet befriends the lonely Keenan Wynn character. Barbara Jean telling her life's story in just a few precious minutes while her frustrated band aborts for the third time, before being hustled offstage by her type-A husband.  I am even starting to love the songs, many of which were written by the performers themselves - one stroke of genius of many by Robert Altman to induce each actor to perform from the heart.  I truly feel sorry for the reviewer who walked out halfway through this movie.  If you watch for the first time, pay attention... and look for the first mention of the word Parthenon!  Then you will want to go back and watch the first half again, when it's over.  I recommend watching it alone, with no distractions.  There is no movie like Nashville -- it could be a little bit of American Graffiti, a little bit of Forest Gump, and even a little bit of Mad Mad Mad Mad World.  But mostly it's like nothing else.  Robert Altman was recently quoted as saying this movie just happened.  Thank you Mr. Altman, for letting it happen. "},{"Title":"This isn't Nashville...it's an insane asylum!","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Nashville is supposed to be Robert Altman's best movie. But I have to say, I just didn't get it! The movie is like some kind of surreal satire on the city of Nashville, and the state of America in the 1970's. It's Nashville...but it's like an alternate universe Nashville where the people talk endlessly, on and on, about nothing! It's like Seinfeld without the jokes or character development.This Nashville is filled with people who are completely clueless about how superficial their lives are, who seem to have no idea how stupid they are. A key scene early on involves a multi-car pile-up on the interstate. But instead of running around from car to car asking Is everyone all right? Is anyone hurt?, the people in the pile-up (who are all, by strange coincidence, characters in the movie) seem more annoyed that this accident will make them late for dinner, or to whatever they have to go to. They talk with each other, exchange phone numbers, buy and sell goods, eat popsicles bought from an ice cream. Nobody seems phased that they've just been through a massive near-death experience. These are not people, they are characters in a social commentary. Altman's take on the country music industry is very strange. In this version of Nashville, there are a lot of country music singers who can't sing! I don't just mean the wannabe singers like Suleen Gay (Gwen Welles) who is too stupid to realize she doesn't have any talent. I mean established country stars like Tommy Brown (Timmy Brown), Haven Hamilton (Henry Gibson), and Connie White (Karen Black), who are singing onstage at the Grand Ole Opry, but who have limited pitch ranges, and slide their notes up and down the scale as they sing. These country stars wouldn't last 30 seconds at an American Idol audition. Simon Cowell would eat them alive and spit them out! Most of the songs in the movie seem to be country song pastiches. (One song includes the lyrics, The pilot light of our love has gone out and If makin' love is margarine, then you're a slippery spread.) Only occasionally do we get a sincere, well-sung country song, like Keith Carradine's I'm Easy. Ronnie Blakely has a good role as a Loretta Lynn-style country singer who has an onstage meltdown at Opryland. But even her onstage meltdown seems phony -- it is a caricature of an onstage meltdown written by a Hollywood screenwriter. (Did she really need to make chicken sounds onstage to make the point that she was cracking up?) The city of Nashville seems to have gone insane, but nobody seems to notice. A sound truck drives around, blaring political arguments for a populist presidential candidate. A man (Jeff Goldblum) rides around on a three-wheel motorcycle, stopping occasionally to do magic tricks. An annoying British journalist (Geraldine Chapman) keeps showing up at parties and bars and sticking her microphone in people's faces, asking them questions and ignoring their answers.And of course, people talk, non-stop, about nothing in particular, in Altman's trademark overlapping dialogue, for two hours and forty minutes. This form of movie dialogue may be considered realistic, but in this case, I found it very boring.Yes, I know, Altman was making a comment on the times, and the 1970's were a very surreal and superficial time. But the fact that Altman captured the surreal, superficial qualities of the 70's doesn't necessarily mean it's an interesting movie. I found the characters dull, the dialogue boring, and the plot fairly nonsensical. If I ever pass through this Nashville, remind me to stay on the bus to Memphis. "},{"Title":"Nothing less than a snapshot of late 20th century America","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Robert Altmans lofty reputation seemed to me completely undeserved... until I saw this film, that is. 'Pret-a-Porter' and 'The Company' were taxing, to say the least. 'The Player' was entertaining, though a little self-referential (a filmmaker critiquing Hollywood), 'Vincent & Theo' quite moving . None of these prepared me for a recent screening of 'Nashville'. The film is a tapestry of intertwined lives set in that quintessential home of Americana; Nashville, Tennessee. The first 2O minutes are pure chaos. A rabble of barely-outlined characters metaphorically trod on each others toes. Altmans trademark overlapping dialogue adds to the bustle. Various celebrated and unknown out-of-towners and down-home locals arrive at the airport for a country music fair, looking to make their name, make a story, make a president, or simply to make a killing. Meanwhile, studio-based recording stars Haven Hamilton (a rhinestoned and coiffured Henry Gibson)and Linnea Reese (Lily Tomlin) battle to be heard over sub-par piano players, studio hangers-on and gospel choirs. The ensuing motorway pile-up seems to epitomise America as a collision of competing attitudes, creeds, colours and cultures, a circus of noise, vulgarity, greed and showbiz. SPOILERS AHEADAnd yet...from here, beginning with the oddly comforting oasis of Reese's deaf son miming and signing his pleasure at swimming (yet another voice struggling to be heard), the characters branch off and re-combine, each gaining their own colour and depth until, at films climax, their attitudes towards the city and their reason for being there have supplied the viewer with empathy and insight into the whole troupe. The overall feeling I gained from the film was of everyday people struggling to stabilise their society and improve their lot in the face of interference from powerful outsiders (e.g. sleazy political fixers who denigrate them as 'hillbillies', patronising marble-mouthed BBC reporters), and their own prejudices, flaws and resentments. Both Reese and her husband, pillars of the community, are tempted to infidelity. Waiter Wade Cooley (Robert DoQui) grudgingly serves his well-off white employers until he can leave for (predominantly black) Detroit. He drunkenly berates black country singer Tommy Brown as a sellout the whitest ni**er in town. Talentless Candide-figure Albuquerque (Barbara Harris), a would-be singer, is exploited by misogynistic businessmen. Hamilton's wife tearily laments JFK's assassination and rails against the pervasive anti-catholic feeling she sees as the motive. Sexism, racism, religious bigotry- no wonder Tenneseeans reacted so badly at the time of the films release.A friend of mine recently visited Nashville and noted the genuine humility, mannerliness and lack of cynicism people displayed there. Everywhere in this film we see the same, despite the divisions and hypocrisies. Even Hamilton, a seeming despot at films start and a hokey sentimentalist on stage, is trying to contribute to a renewal of his community. He grooms his son to be a lawyer and leader, to escape the poverty and powerlessness of his own upbringing, and considers running for political office in a devils bargain with the mysterious, messianic presidential candidate Hal Philip Walker. If the film has one central allegory it is the non-appearance of this 'Replacement Party' redeemer, who, among his campaign promises, intends to gut Capitol Hill of casuistic, Machievellian lawyers and reform the electoral college system (I suspect he'd be a shoe-in, even today). In his place, what do the plain folk of America get? Casual, meaningless violence, the shocking scapegoat-killing of the powerless, the infirm and the innocent, and a cynical, vacant exhortation to carry on as normal. No matter what fresh outrage, what abuse of power, no matter how deep the divisions, as the song goes, it don't worry me. A new singer steps up to the mic, a new star is born to distract you from your problems. The song remains the same to this day, and that is why I would urge anyone interested in American democracy and society to watch this film carefully.A change is gonna come. "},{"Title":"the forgotten masterpiece","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Robert Altman's stunning collage of American life and politics in the mid 1970's.  Using interwoven stories Altman speaks eloquently of the meanings and workings of fame.  And, how it interjects with that, a lot to say about all of us.  It's a comedy, it's a drama, it's a musical and it does it all so well.  The last ten minutes are sheer genius.  Using editing and a great cast of actors Altman creates the Great American Film.  Sadly, this work of visual art has been almost completely forgotten.  See it.  Lay back. Relax. And THINK. "},{"Title":"A wonderful portrait of the American society","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Rating **** out of ****There are many things American people love football, baseball, movies, music, politics, etc. Director Robert Altman picked up the two last and made this wonderful film that is Nashville.First of all, you don't have to like country music to enjoy Nashville. I hate the first, and I loved the second. Second thing it is not a film about country music. Nor about politics. Everything serves as a background to show some real characters of American society. Everyone is there the loser, the winner, the decadent, the sad wife, the ingenuous dreamer, the lunatic. It becomes such a great film to make a brilliant, true, but in the deep optimistic mosaic of the ecletic American society. There is not a central story here; there are many stories connected, but each one has its importance in the film. The funny thing is that Robert Altman almost always succeeds in doing the same thing- telling many intersecting stories about different people, with no solid conclusion. Maybe Nashville is his best film, but Short Cuts, A Wedding and The Player, all of them similar to each other, have their unique qualities.When I saw the American Film Institute list of the 100 best American films of all time, it was a sad surprise that Nashville wasn't present. It is a true classic, an epic masterpiece, that should be seen by everyone. It's like an American Beauty for the '70s. The end (without spoiling you) is one of the most amazing of all times in my opinion. There's no big twist as in The Sixth Sense or The Usual Suspects, or something that will make you think for the rest of your life as 2001 A Space Odyssey, but it is a conclusion (not a solid conclusion, because you don't know in fact what will really happen) that will make your eyes get bright, even cry, for its emotion, grandiosity and beauty. I said that it is not a solid conclusion, but if you think a little bit it is. What happened to the decadent? What happened to the ingenuous dreamer with no talent? What happened and will happen to the talented dreamer? Well... Watch the film! "},{"Title":"unique","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Nashville isn't for people who insist that movies be literal or formulaic. There are no good guys or bad guys.  There's no familiar plot involving rescuing anyone, getting the young couple united or adversity to bravely overcome.  The characters in Altman's films are often ugly, but sympathetic. The plot is an episodic maze of moments.The critique of American culture implicit in the movie is a bit much for some people to take.  The characters of the me epoch are odiously self-absorbed.  Devotion to a creepy dream of star-glory and cheap commercialism animates half the people in the cast.  Altman is scathing in his examination of waning of political consciousness in America - as various people in the movie decide where they stand in relation to a loony candidate for anything but political reasons.  ( Kieth Carradine's character is the only one reputed to have any strong feelings about politics and all we see of this is a heartless, smartass remark he makes to the Private at the beginning of the film.)  And there is all the free-love going around, about which the movie is both brutal (Carradine) and whimsical (Duvall), but generally condemned as being the pastime of most shallow of the cast. There are pointed attacks on American provincialism, gross over consumption and, most of all, celebrity. But the movie isn't one big frown.  It's hilarious and tragic for long stretches, cuz as much as one may dismiss the whole bunch as parasites, delusional morons, crazies and vampires, they are recognizably human and sympathetic.  So there are moments in the movie where Altman gets laughs out of a completely tone-deaf wannabe and then makes you want to die as she finishes her act as a strip show.  When Lily Tomlins character gets her turn with the resident swinger, it's her most sympathetic moment and his least. When the Private finally bursts out his whole reason for lurking around the plot in an infectiously joyful speech, the man next to him is trying to come to grips with the death of his wife.  And when the crowd watches yet another prominent person get shot, they leap at the opportunity to forget it all with a flaccid tune.The timing is masterful, the acting flawless and the collage of dialogue is perfect.  Like all Altman's best films, repeated viewing is a requirement.  "},{"Title":"A lot of country music","Date":"3 May 2010","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The movie Nashville was directed by Robert Altman. The plot of Nashville revolves around the lives of several people in Nashville over the duration of about a week. The movie does not do much on the level of plot and it seems that the movie itself gets bored with what is on screen and goes elsewhere to find something more interesting to film quickly leaving one set of characters to go stalk a different set. That being said the major selling point of the film is the wide range of characters, the only problem i had was that i couldn't bring myself to like any of them. They were all either selfish, stupid or naive. finally this is a petty grip but i personally loath country music and this film is breaking at the seams with country music, not three minutes go past without someone pulling a guitar out of nowhere and breaking into song. To conclude i cannot really think of any movies i would recommend if you found some way of liking this film, Nashville is nothing if not unique. "}{"Title":"Rich and Poetic","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" You don't have to like country music to enjoy this film. You gain an appreciation for how deeply important the music is to the characters by watching this movie; a lot of the time they seem to be in a trance as they are either singing or listening to other people sing. It is ceremonial, from the scenes at the Opry to the scenes in church, to the scene in the club with Keith Carradine singing that wonderful song. Character actor Henry Gibson hams it up as the oddly named Haven Hamilton, an amalgam of male country singers with enormous hair and t.v.-preacher mannerisms as he wanders about the stage like he owns it. It doesn't matter that he has a terrible singing voice, it's his confident delivery that at once charms and fascinates, even as one ignores his cartoonishly mismatched toupee. The audience watches in rapt attention, humming along to his songs. It is one of Gibson's best performances.One of the most memorable scenes in the movie is when Keith Carradine, looking like a California surfer, sings I'm Easy while scoping out Lily Tomlin in the back of the club. All the other women in the club look around to see who he's checking out, and the camera moves back to Lily, a strait-laced mother out for a possible fling with an unknown admirer, and she suddenly realizes it's the man who's singing that asked her to come to the club. It's a wonderful scene.The acting is wonderful all around. Altman has a way of bringing out the best in actors, and Karen Black as Connie is no exception. Lily Tomlin and Ned Beatty as a married couple are just wonderful, there is an incisive scene which is illustrative of their marriage, when Tomlin is listening to her deaf son tell a story through sign language, giving him her full attention, while Beatty struggles to pay attention, knowing that it's the right thing to do while wishing he were somewhere else. Through all of this, the characters and the story weave in and out, the camera pulls into conversations and pulls out again to other conversations, there are quick cuts to other scenes, all this is typical Altman, his trademark directorial style which creates an eerie sense of realism, like you're actually watching everything happen. Altman has the ability to create a complete world. The characters don't speak perfectly, they are flawed, they misunderstand each other, are lost in their own world. It is hard to believe that Altman films have a script, but if they do, it is remarkable that the sense of improvisation inherent in his films is able to survive the process intact from script to screen. "},{"Title":"Superb and sweeping","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Robert Altman directs a sweeping view of a large group of people, mostly musicians, wannabes, and hangers-on, in Nashville during a third-party presidential campaign. Many people complain that this movie has no narrative, but in fact, each of its many characters has a clear narrative arc, often an engrossing one. Most are driven forward by a single, compelling goal that blinds them to reality and the people around them. Many are overlaying a strong personal interpretation on reality, so that the Californian has no idea who these country music freaks are, and the country star has no idea who Julie Christie (in a cameo) is - she cannot be a star, because she doesn't dress like one. The single-mindedness, selfishness, and sometime insanity is highlighted by Ronee Blakley, who plays Barbara Jean, the biggest star in country music. While every other character is racing towards what Barbara Jean has, Barbara Jean is spiraling away from it; collapsing under its weight. Outstanding performances by an enormous cast, with especially good turns by Keith Carradine, Ronee Blakley, and Gwen Welles as a tragically deluded woman who cannot be dissuaded from her belief that she can sing. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A Multi-layered slice of the American Spirit","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The first time I saw Nashville, I had seen few Altman films. I knew who he was and what many people had said about him. Many people I know who claim to love movies think Altman is dull. In fact, me even watching Nashville was a coincidence. I came across it at a video store and thought Hey, I want to watch something by this guy; see if he's as dull as everyone says.Now, I've seen Nashville countless times and I still discover new things. It's one of my favorite films, and might be my favorite Altman film (I go between this, 3 Women, and Short Cuts). This is a story of America under the microscope. There are so many characters, so many things happening, and so many ideas expressed throughout this masterpiece of a film. It's clearly indescribable and warrants the experience of watching, so I won't spoil it. It can't be spoiled.The characters are all flawed, quirky, original, and they want to be liked, for better or worse. Take Haven and Barbara Jean, they want to sing to their fans without making a statement so it's they that are at the center of attention. Tom is part of a folk-rock trio, he wants to be the adoration of every woman in the room. Every character in this has a motive whether it be fame, love, acceptance, position or even money. They all think that being in Nashville can get it for them because of the country music boom going on there. Watching it, I think of Mods in England, the Punks in New York, and the surfers and hippies out in California; all at various points in pop history. Everyone in this film wants to capitalize on what's going on, what's more American than that?When it comes to what actually happens in Nashville, that's almost the easy part. A lot happens to the characters. A lot of them meet and interact, some keep to themselves, a few of them sleep together, but the real punch is that they all stay true to their motive. Most of the characters don't succeed, some do, some break even, some are just trying to hold on and sustain what they have, and one character's objective is never quite given the chance to be addressed. The overlapping dialogue is probably the best demonstration of the smarm within all of these characters. They're all trying to be at the center without realizing that they're already there. I like the scenes at the Grand Ole Opry and Haven's house the best. There is a certain immediacy and intimacy going on throughout the film like you're catching that moment in history when something important is going on.There are also many ideas in this film. Ideas about film-making, politics, love, aspirations, and America. To go into them all would miss the point. This film needs to be experienced and to those who've not experienced it, I envy you. "},{"Title":"Resplendent Realism","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Deliciously rich in cultural realism, Nashville is a cinematic time capsule to the U.S. of thirty years ago. The film's clothes, hairstyles, and cars accurately convey a visual portrait of 1970's eclectic Americana in all its kaleidoscopic chaos. Realism extends to the film's quasi-improvisational dialogue, with chatter that overlaps in a naturalistic way. That might irritate some viewers, but I found the talk to be totally not canned and, therefore, refreshing. Part of the film takes place in an outdoor concert setting, amid crowds of real people, not actors. And that too lends a wonderfully authentic sense, and makes the film almost a documentary in the fashion of Woodstock.The ensemble cast includes Lily Tomlin, Henry Gibson, Ned Beatty, and Barbara Baxley, all of whom are more than credible in their respective roles. But the standout performance is Ronee Blakley, genuinely persuasive as the fragile, middle-aged country singer consumed in the vanity provided her by adoring fans.Another plus is the film's sharp and crisp editing which induces interesting contrasts, and provides a pace that is neither too fast nor too slow. Despite the lengthy runtime, the film does not seem long, and I credit mostly the editing for that.The film's music runs the gamut from wonderful to corny. But even the corny music has its amateurish charm, like the two females who sing a toe-tapping, hand-clapping gospel, in a smoky bar. Arguably, the best musical performance is by Keith Carradine. His voice is perfect as he sings the award winning song I'm Easy, which he wrote. My personal favorite, however, is at the film's finale when Barbara Harris, in a soulful performance reminiscent of Janis Joplin, sings the rhythm and blues sounds of It Don't Worry Me, accompanied by an all Black choir. Marvelous.Some viewers will criticize the film for its minimal plot. Indeed, the ensemble cast is not conducive to having a film protagonist progress through myriad logically connected events. But unlike most films, Nashville mostly is a cinematic snapshot of multiple characters at various times over the course of a week, as they come and go, and live their lives for better or worse. And Director Altman executes this non-conventional style very well.The one criticism that I do have is the large number of acting roles. The film seemed cluttered in that regard. To have deleted two or three of the acting parts might have added some clarity and focus.I can't think of a better film than this one to represent American culture in the 1970s. Nashville captures the banality, triteness, and tedium, and does so in a way that is entertaining. Yet, underneath all the superficial turmoil and chaos in character's lives, there is a poignant longing for individual truth, justice, and peace of mind. The film's theme thus runs deep, and provides lasting value even for contemporary viewers. "},{"Title":"**** out of ****","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Robert Altman's best film is a fascinating look at twenty-four people whose lives all revolve around a political rally in Nashville.  Somehow manages, in two and a half hours, to take a detailed look at all of the characters, comment on politics and our obsession with celebrity, and capture the essence of everything that is American.  The loose structure of the film makes it difficult for the first third of the movie or so, but once we start to know the characters it becomes emotionally gripping, with some truly moving scenes.  Not without its flaws, but a one of a kind film nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Powerful commentary on 70's America","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If not the greatest, it certainly is one of the cleverest movies ever made, in the same league as Citizen Kane or Dr. Strangelove. This movie is jam packed with messages that hit the audience like a machine gun via its many interweaving vignettes, songs and witty dialogue. Cannot recall another movie that has so much all bundled up in one. I will not be able to discuss all the wonderful scenes in the limited space here, but one stands out in my mind is the lady-killer Tom Frank's mesmerizing rendition of his own song I'm Easy to his many women admirers. The intense facial expressions of all involved spoke more than words ever could. The sad irony is that such a sensitive, talented and handsome guy is in fact the most selfish heartless male chauvinist in the whole movie. That scene has not dated one bit after so many years and probably won't for a while. This is a film some will love and some will hate. But regardless, it's a must-see for all and definitely a landmark movie that will stand the test of time. 9/10(1 point off for lack of a plot).  "},{"Title":"Where to begin?....","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Where do you start with a movie you love so much?  I don't think I'm even going to try.  Suffice it to say that Nashville captivates from beginning to end.  It exposes everything I love and hate about America, wrapping it all into one big complicated deliriously funny firework of a movie.Give it a chance--if you're unfamiliar with Altman's work, just know that he doesn't develop a movie in the traditional ways, and it can be frustrating at first.  But try to watch this film not with the expectation of seeing a plot unfold from point A to point B, but rather with an eye for associations, similar themes, irony, and juxtapositions. And don't be afraid to laugh.  This film is a hilarious human comedy, and we're meant to laugh at it, even if we're uncomfortable for doing so.People will argue with me of course, but I think Nashville is perhaps the best movie of the last 25 years, and one of the best movies in the history of film making. "},{"Title":"A true American epic","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Nashville is Robert Altman's magnum opus. This is saying a lot considering how influential a director Altman is and how many fantastic films he has directed in his career, yet no other Altman film can reach the funny, tragic genius that is Nashville. Some like to box it into the musical category, but Nashville is about so much more. It is at once a political film, a piece on the relationships (or lack of) between people, a music movie, and one of the greatest depictions of America to ever be captured on film. The soundtrack is one to be cherished, especially the beautiful It Don't Worry Me and I'm Easy, which triumphantly received the film's only Oscar for Best Original Song. The entire cast is fantastic, especially Ronee Blakely's tragic character, Barbara Jean, and Lily Tomlin's confused, gospel-singing mother. Some people, including my mother, don't understand the comical manner at which the film means to mirror, not parody, the music and attitudes of Nashville in the 70's. These naysayers just think it is a long, stupid movie where people talk over each other and sing songs that are far from stellar. Nashville is truly a wondrous representation of America represented through not even a week in Nashville, Tennessee, where 24+ characters play not-so-nice together and eventually come together in a final scene so poignant that every American needs to witness the film once in their lifetime. After all, what's a better National Anthem line than You may say that I ain't free but it don't worry me? "},{"Title":"Avoid 'Nashville', pick up 'The Player' instead.","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I think the problem with this film is Altman's obvious disdain for his subject - Nashville. And almost nothing in his portrayal rings true, except as it might to those who are unfamiliar with Nashville, or have an axe to grind with its culture. It is as if the characters are all based on two-dimensional negative stereotypes gleaned from listening to the Grand Ol' Opry, a few visits to Nashville itself, or speculations into the motivations behind a culture that - according to Altman's portrayal - can have no good or understandable motivation.That said, Nashville - especially in its bloated 1970's incarnation - was and is deserving of some pointed criticism. But Altman was not the right man for the job. Good criticism requires a real understanding of its subject - its motivations, its positives as well as its negatives. Altman's unfortunate conclusion about his subjects is that to teach them anything you've got to crack their skulls (in the words of 'Nashville's Madame Pearl).This lack of understanding is in marked contrast to his complete understanding of his subject in 'The Player.' Here, Altman is at his best. 'The Player' is an informed, biting criticism of a culture Altman obviously understands, and can't help but love in spite of himself. A similarly brilliant cinematic slice of 1970's country music life exists, but not in 'Nashville'; for a deeper and more heartfelt portrayal I highly recommend 'Tender Mercies.' Altman's style, when properly applied as in 'The Player' or 'Short Cuts', produces brilliant results. In 'Nashville' it falls flat - snippets and asides that were conceived (with much smirking condescension I would assume) as biting and insightful, ring patently hollow, especially 30 years later. This film is almost unwatchable today for anyone with any real knowledge of Nashville, but will surely satisfy anyone looking to reinforce their uninformed negative stereotypes of Nashville culture.Altman is a brilliant if uneven filmmaker, and as someone who has lived in both L.A. and Nashville, I can highly recommend 'The Player' and urge you to steer clear of 'Nashville'. "},{"Title":"Weren't the 70s a time?","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In the 70s, before Star Wars, there was a sort of renaissance going on in Hollywood.  Vietnam was over, we could finally put some of that stridency aside (regardless of which side you were on), and we could start enjoying some of the more subtle aspects of life.Robert Altman was the experimentalist of the bunch.  I saw this flick after a summer of feverishly reading William Faulkner and seeing Brewster McCloud, so I was primed and ready for it.If you don't mind movies that don't have traditional plots and protagonists, movies that find epiphanies where you're not supposed to be looking, they you're probably going to find something of value here.  On the other hand, if this sort of thing bothers you, or if you're a serious adherent to the Nashville music factory's party line, you're probably going to hate this movie.  If you can't love your tacky relatives in spite of the way they irritate you, you're probably going to hate this movie.Now I love experimentalism almost as much as I love country music, so this is like heaven for me.  There is a lot of disparagement because these characters act so self-centered, like with the knowing gazes from the women Tom Frank has boinked, as he sings I'm Easy.  But we know that these are good people.Linnea (Lily Tomlin) is dedicated to her children and her church.  Barbara Jean is an artist whose dedication to the music and her fans is driving herto psychotic exhaustion.  Even the pompous Haven Hamilton has his moment of heroism when he shields Barbara Jean after she's been shot, with a bullet in his own shoulder.  Later, he steps to the microphone to reassure the crowd, but he knows he needs help, so he cries out for it -- Somebody sing something!Some people need their heroes to be one-dimensional, as if they never had a single longing for a personal gratification like a lover who cares, a voice that wants expression, a little comfort or some recognition and admiration. I don't know where these kinds of saints live, but if they are somewhere, I sure don't want to see them because they're going to make me feel like real heel.Now I'd like to say something about what is known in lit circles as the Faulkner woman, Barbara Harris' portrayal of Albuquerque.  Tattered and apparently clueless, she's a woman on a mission, guided by a vision that the rest of us can only see as delusional.  When that microphone ends up in her hand and she sings, we finally understand who she is and how much we underestimated her.Our joy in finding the power of her voice is what this movie wants to reveal to us, but only after guiding us through the vanity and sorrow of everyday life. "}{"Title":"who said it's not a comedy ?","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I grew up in Nashville. I laughed myself sick when I first saw this film. It is funny start to finish. Sometimes, the humor's cruel, sometimes it falls flat, sometimes it is tongue-in- cheek, sometimes it is outright hilarious.There is a scene where there is a multiple car pile up on the interstate. People get out of their cars and start selling things and fighting and going on with life with an utter unselfconsciousness about themselves - like they have no memory about the situation - it's like watching a dog lick its own ass ! They don't think, they just exist in the moment. That scene is at the beginning of the movie and the movie just gets better.I was twelve when Nashville premiered in Nashville. It was a BIG DEAL of course. And it was a huge scandal afterwords because Nashville had put out the red carpet for Altman to make the film. . . and then to see it - it was scathing! It makes fun of bumpkins and the superficiality of country music and the pettiness of people and their sad delusions of fame and talent and the exploitive nature of the music industry (and politics). It skewers Nashville. Thing is - many Nashvillians came out of the theater not quite getting it. It's like the joke was over their head. THAT'S HIS POINT - RUBES !! To be fair, this is a movie which could have been made any number of places. A number of times Altman tried to do just that. After all, how many communities center around self- important people who believe they are more righteous and more important and live better than anyone else or at any other time ? Plenty, that's how many.It's just that In Nashville, everything came together. The country music industry was at a nadir; its product was falsely folksy lyrics set to over-produced sound. All (but one) of the actors in this film wrote their own songs so convincingly that the parody is not obvious. For example, Henry Gibson's For the Sake of the Children relates directly to Lorretta Lynn's One's on the Way, which was a #1 hit in 1971. How do you parody something which already seems a parody of itself (or at least those who listen to it)?Country music seems to glorify being uneducated and poor, just like mid-1970's fashion produces the ugliest and most awkward clothes imaginable. (We knew that at the time, right?) To top it off, the hoopla of the upcoming 1976 Bicentennial broadened the scope of the message to apply to America as a whole. The movie anthem We must be doing something right to last two hundred years, resonates today as we exclaim We're #1 as if we are playing (and winning) some big football game with the world. We make our deals and exclude outsiders and live in the ignorant belief no one else could be so wonderful. Robert Altman's Nashville is if nothing else a comedy. It tells us this - from the scope of our national psyche to the most personal aspects of our own egos - when we take ourselves too seriously and can not laugh at ourselves, then we are just sad. "},{"Title":"A scarily prescient, insightful film","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film manages to encapsulate all of the turbulence of the years leading up to 1975--it's no coincidence that dear Lady Pearl weeps for the Kennedy boys--before going on to foreshadow many of the events yet-to-come in America. It's one of our country's most important films from both a cultural and a historical standpoint.My favorite moments Tom Frank (Keith Carradine) sings I'm Easy to wound his audience Mary (Cristina Raines), Opal (Geraldine Chaplin), L.A. Joan (Shelley Duvall) and Linnea Reese (Lily Tomlin); Sueleen Gay (Gwen Welles) sings in her wonderfully awful style; Barbara Jean (Ronee Blakely) breaks down at the fairgrounds; Haven Hamilton (Henry Gibson) goes on an egomaniacal tirade while recording 200 Years; Albuquerque (Barbara Harris) gets her big chance; Connie White (Karen Black) sings those ridiculous songs with a straight face; and of course the stunning end sequence, which reunites every member of the cast.Without giving it away, that ending reveals director Robert Altman's genius--we've come to know each of the characters, so that every shot contains gravitas and emotion. Each gesture counts, every movement contributes to the effect. Nothing is offhand or extraneous. It's extraordinary, and a testament to the power of ensemble-driven films.If you've seen this film once, see it again. If you've seen it many times and love it, Jan Stuart's The Nashville Chronicles is definitely a worthy read--he's researched the making of this film and found that the behind-the-scenes story is every bit as fascinating as the film itself. "},{"Title":"A Vision of Enduring Human Qualities.","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"   In a decade of great films, this is one of the greatest.  Yes, it's an examination of America at particular time seen through the lens of politics and the country music industry.  But that's only the beginning.  More important, it's about enduring human qualities.  Aspiration, disappointment, ego, greed, madness, arrogance, narcissism, love, defeat, tolerance, empathy, pity,  moral and intellectual obtuseness - all are present, all are embodied and illustrated succinctly.  There are innumerable examples of these illustration,  but here are a few that stand out in my mind  the scene in which Lily Tomlin listens intently to her deaf child's recitation of his swimming lesson; looking on impatiently, somewhat callously, is the kid's father,  Ned Beatty.  Then later she knowingly takes part in a  loveless, sham liaison with Tom (Keith Carradine), whose goal seems to be to sleep with every woman in Nashville, though this cynicism contrasts jarringly with the sincerity of his signature song.   The scene is which Wade tries to talk Sueleen, fresh from her humiliation at the fund-raiser, out of her goal of becoming a singer.  Bud Hamilton, Haven's son, sincerely crooning his song to Opal, who is busily scanning the crowd for someone more important to talk to.  Haven and Connie White, secure in the narrowness of their world, dismissing Julie Christie as someone who can't even comb her hair.  There are dozens of other memorable, insightful scenes.  These characters and scenes make Nashville affecting and hilarious at once, as is the work of art it reminded me of on this viewing -- Ulysses.   Like Ulysses, the narrow milieu of setting is only a platform.  Dublin on a particular day on 1904 is fascinating, as is Nashville on one weekend in 1975, but the two cities serve as a means of examining greater truths of human life.  And like Ulysses, Nashville is imbued by a deep and profound humanity.  Whatever these peoples failings, the movie doesn't judge them too harshly.  It accepts them, as we all want to be accepted.  "},{"Title":"One of the most moving films I've ever seen","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time at the age of thirteen, and just cried. At the time I couldn't figure out exactly why I had such a tremendous emotional response to the film, but have now come to realize that the shear beauty of Nashville is simply overpowering.You see, Nashville is a movie about America, and its people. The themes studied are as broad and varied as its story's twenty-four main characters. However, as the result of Robert Altman's brilliant direction, the picture never becomes didactic or unfocused in any ways. Instead, it is the most realistic depiction of our nation captured on film.I cannot put into words the tidal wave of emotion the viewer experiences in the movie's final scene when all the story's characters are united for a single moment in song. Just thinking about it brings tears to my eyes. No, I never lived through Watergate, Vietnam, or Kennedy's assasination, but I don't think that could matter any less. I believe Nashville is as relevant to America today as it was twenty-five years ago. If you have never seen this, go out and rent it NOW! It is only the greatest film of the 1970's, and still is the most important movie since Citizen Kane "},{"Title":"My Pick for Best Film of the 1970s","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Nashville is a whirling dervish of a movie that comes blaring out at you from the first moment of its opening credits and never really lets up. Like much of Robert Altman's best work, it's not necessarily about any one thing, but is rather about a bunch of little things. It's a film that is as much about a general spirit as it is a grand theme -- its anarchic tone manages to convey both what is best and worst about American culture.Nashville is so in tune with its time, and it feels so immediate, that it's been forgotten today, when other much more manufactured films from the time are fondly remembered. It's somewhat understandable -- it's an ugly film, though in this particular case I mean that as a compliment. The actors in it don't look like actors, and Altman incorporates real locations and real Nashvillians(?) into his film in all their unattractive 1975 glory. The sets don't look dressed, the costumes are hideous, all of the interiors look like they're illuminated by unforgiving fluorescent lights and the exteriors exude humidity and sweat. Watching this film is like flipping through a family photo album and making fun of the leisure suits and awful hairstyles.But Nashville is one of the most consistently relevant films to have emerged from the 1970s, and I wish people would rediscover it. As the mysterious Hal Philip Walker, who provides the film with its running commentary, might say, When more people vote for 'American Idol' than in the latest presidential election, that's politics. Our obsession with fame and celebrity seems only to increase, and, perhaps because of the sheer pervasiveness of our media, Americans seem less able than ever before to think critically about information and images being presented to them. Kenny, the assassin in the film who shoots Barbara Jean at the finale, seems to be attaching meaning to her that she doesn't warrant; right before shooting her, he looks from her to a giant American flag behind her, back to her. He seems to be making some connection; the way the shots are edited asks asks us to make connections too. What exactly does Barbara Jean stand for? What does the American flag stand for? Barbara Jean isn't a politician, but she has almost the same amount of influence, maybe more, over her followers. Under what obligations does this put her, if any? I half way suspect that if Oprah Winfrey ran for President today, she could win. So is Oprah an entertainer, a politician, or some strange hybrid of the two?Altman has never been interested in answering questions, only asking them. One of the best things about Nashville is its ambiguity. It feels American, but I can't put my finger on exactly why. Maybe because it's confusing and at times infuriating and at other times beautiful, sometimes sad, sometimes hilarious, but always glorious.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"When The Underrated Cannot Be Overstated","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't know why this movie is obscure.  Maybe, it wasn't able to keep up with the 1975 explosion of  JAWS.  But, please, be patient and watch this film.  For anyone that wants to work in the medium, I consider NASHVILLE an essential part of your education.    And, the music is beside itself.  The music makes the characters and adds to the story in ways that are truly impeccable.And the actresses are so hot.    "},{"Title":"A case of the setup being larger than the payoff","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Let's get the obvious out of the wa first. Nashville is a Robert Altman film and that's as close to a guarantee of a well directed, well acted film as one's likely to find in 70's cinema. However Nashville is also an almost three hour film and for its duration and amount of talent involved the payoff is not what one would expect.Now what is it that we all look for in movies of Nashville's calibre? Why do we ask in exchange for our money and undivided attention to the screen? I'd say it's little moments of insight; into ourselves, human nature, the world by and large. Nashville has them. So what's the problem you say? The problem is that they're buried and suffocating under the enormous weight of the rest of the movie, a barrage of country and western songs, five or ten actors crammed in every other shot, three or four people talking one over the other, a narrative slump of miniplots that criss cross in every scene. Typical Altman quirks yes but here they trump what in other cases they help surface substance.The double axis Nashville revolves around is music and politics. An interesting combination subject in and off itself. Altman follows a reverse process, he wisely takes these two universal concepts and limits their scope significantly, music becomes the country scene of Nashville and politics a political convention of the Replacement Party. Altman lets the universal spring from the specific, for in the end of the day, despite man's countless efforts to prove the opposite, we have more in common than not. A naive, almost pathetic waitress's dream of becoming a country singer should resonate as powerfully in every culture. In that sense Nashville is more about human beings, their dreams, ambitions, secrets and inadequacies than it is about music or politics.The politics part of Nashville is handled equally breezy and smart. Politics is largely an abstract concept for the average person, an unseen, unknown force that magically appears in television screens, newspapers and radios and governs our lives. Altman translates that same essence in the form of a political campaign van that appears throughout the movie, the unseen speaker making promises of change with a monotonous voice. The actual presidential candidate he represents never appears in the movie. He remains elusive and unseen.However well crafted and intelligent in the handling of theme Nashville may be, in the end it's those little moments of insight into human nature that count. The charming, young country singer talking on the phone with his girlfriend while the older, married woman he just had sex with prepares to leave the room, unable to hear what is being said. The husband of said married woman who has his suspicions about the strange phonecalls his wife receives hits on the naive waitress that wants to be a star. The waitress whose lack of talent is only surpassed by her naive ambition that is driven to do a striptease in a room full of men with the promise of singing with country star Baby Jane. Baby Jane is a popular and beautiful country star only on the outside, on the inside she's fragile, neurotic and empty.The problem with Nashville is that those little moments of insight are dwarfed by the entirety of the movie. Many of the singing scenes for example should have been left on the cutting room floor - not everyone is a country fan after all, we get the gist now move on. In the end the way I see it is that if I'm gonna give you almost three hours of my life, you better have something really important to say. Nashville is only mildly important and not as entertaining as it would have you believe. "},{"Title":"Great (and spot-on) film","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I finished watching Nashville a few minutes ago, and I have to say this among the best films I have ever seen.  At first I found it extremely frustrating to watch, but then about a third of the way in, it snapped together and it all worked perfectly.  There's some powerful yet subtle acting here, and the music really ties all of it together.  For those bored by the several long scenes of nothing but songs, pay close attention to the lyrics, because they advance the various plotlines every bit as much as the dialogue.  In fact, I'll even go as far to say that the songs are even more important than a lot of the dialogue, most of which is only half-heard, like we're eavesdropping on dozens of conversations.I also think this is an accurate portrayal of the city of Nashville itself, although non-Nashvillians should take note that there are many, many people here who do not aspire to be a songwriter or even could care less about country music, myself included.  But I don't think Altman was necessarily trying to portray the city itself so much, but more to use it as a prop to simply show what life was like in the United States at the time, much like how he used Los Angeles in Short Cuts to show the simmering anger and frustrations of the early 90's.  At the time Nashville was made, the craziness of the 60's sexual revolution was sliding toward self-doubt and moral incertitude, and the movie portrays this with stunning accuracy. (At least, judging by the comments and various reviews, it seems it does; I was 3 when the movie was released.)At first I was afraid Altman was going to take a more condescending tone(gee, look at the silly Southerners!), but far from it.  He obviously loves all these characters very much, even when they are at their most degraded and unhappy, especially compared to the cynical shout-fest Short Cuts.  I realize much of the dialogue in Altman films is improvised, but I thought Nashville just seemed more hopeful for some reason, even with all of its great satire.  For those looking to see a great interpretation of what it was kind of like in the United States outside of the discos in the 1970's, this is the movie to watch. "},{"Title":"A biopic type film of drama that spreads a message of life thru music all while connecting with politics and people!","Date":"17 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Finally watched the 1975 classic Nashville and it is some pretty wonderful work from director Robert Altman. As it's a tale a biopic type tale of folks based in Nashville, Tennessee who live for life thru their music and the drama lies around them all in the form of secrets and the intersection of how their life connects up with each other. Thru the whole film the spin and tease is that of politics and the songs during the film tell a lot about the characters life and the current drama and struggles that each are facing. The cast is probably at least B plus with Ned Beatty and Keith Carradine, Lilly Tomlin and most the two standout performances are that of Karen Black and Ronee Blakley. Black hams it up as a Nashville beauty queen who has a way with words in her songs, and Ronee Blakley is fine and sweet as Barbara yet doomed with fate that's tragic. And the male leads that Beatty and Carradine play have life issues with the ladies which involve bed hopping and cheating. Overall well done film that brushes life, social issues, politics, and tragedy all while the characters come of age with the times. "},{"Title":"Nashville - the zeitgeist of 1970s","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Robert Altman's insightful dissection about Nashville, the cradle of American country music, astutely captures the zeitgeist of 1970s and deploys a kaleidoscope of motley characters. A red hot country superstar (Blakley) who is plagued by her feeble health condition and the straining relationship with her agent-husband (Garfield), who has to cater to another country diva (Black) who comes to supplant his ailing wife for a public concert; a pompous and loudmouth BBC journalist (Chaplin) who comes to shoot a documentary about Nashville; an uprising folk trio TOM, MARY & BILL (Carradine, Raines, Nicholls) with their chauffeur (Arkin) while Tom is the sleaze-bag philanderer and the married Mary and Bill undergo some connubial crisis; A housewife and gospel singer (Tomlin) whose husband (Beatty) is an agent who tenaciously introduces a politician lobbyist (Murphy) to the music moguls in order to get some big names to sing publicly for the presidential candidate and his main target is a honorific but over-the-hill country star (Gibson) with an astringent wife (Baxley) and an unworldly son (Peel), and fellow musicians (Brown, for example) as wellThere is also a glut of ordinary people, two young singers-wanna-be, one is a runaway wife (Harris) seeking for an opportunity to sing in front of a large audience, another is a southern beauty (Welles) who optionally chooses to ignore her unmusical voice and insists on carrying her pipe dream at all hazards (a striptease in a local bar is just the beginning for the poor dim gal) albeit the eloquent persuasion from her friend (DoQui); two young lad, one is a reticent pfd. soldier (Scott) who is obsessed with Blakley, the other one is a self-claimed musician (Hayward) totes his guitar box where conceals a dangerous weapon will later trigger the awesome finale; the last pair is a local old man (Wynn) and his vampy niece (Duvall), who flirts with every young man she meets including a weirdo-looking tricycle rider (Goldblum), never care too much about her dying auntie in the hospital.To engineer and channel a huge cast like this is Altman's strongest suit, the assemblage of hustle and bustle inducts audiences into a multivalent prism which bravely refracts an ideological society status, with whimsical banters abound and of course the music renditions. Despite that I have no honky-tonk root and my upbringing is immune to the genre, and from a standpoint of now, its traditional sense of worth oozing from the songs is grating and behind the times, the live-performances never cease to purvey vim and vigor to be appreciated. Notably from Blakley and Black, not to mention Carradine's Oscar enthroned folksy I'M EASY, magnificently stipulates the high bar of music's sex appeal. Performance wise, Oscar-nominated Blakley is also in the top-tier, whose sensitivity is so authentic and whose aftermath could not be more shocking (god bless Loretta Lynn); Tomlin (owns her Oscar nomination simply by her gaze towards Carradine during his solo show), Chaplin (so obnoxious is the character but she is superb in presenting her into a wacky laughing-stock) and Wynn (savings the gratuitous nude scene, she manages to squeeze a veritable sense of mettle out of her levity and shallowness) are all great in their respective terrains; Gibson and Garfield are my picks for male counterpart, but it is indeed a female's spectacle. I cannot say it is my favorite Altman's work (GOSFORD PARK 2001, 9/10 still holds the slot), but no doubt it is a monumental achievement at its time and in Altman's career path, the cogent political messages are being propagated from stem to stern, obviously it has a broader insinuation which even today one can hardly pass over. "}{"Title":"Altman's So-Called Americana","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Over the course of a few hectic days, numerous interrelated individuals prepare for a political convention as secrets and lies are surfaced and revealed.I like to picture Hal Phillip Walker as an early Alex Jones (as seen in the films of Richard Linklater). Traveling around, blasting his unorthodox views to his unsuspecting audience. Is this a southern thing, or just a coincidence?The music is both central and completely unimportant; on one hand, it is Nashville and music is what defines the city. But on the other hand, it is the relationships that really make this film -- the songs could have been anything. Indeed, Altman says that the cast wrote their own songs without any regard for whether they would be good or bad. This was unimportant (and Altman, oddly enough, was never a fan of country music).What makes the movie real is that much of the film was spontaneous and improvised... actors were given a basic plot and scenario, but actual conversations were largely unscripted. Altman says the film is what it is because of the casting -- had Robert Duval been cast rather than Henry Gibson, that character would have turned out completely different.Karen Black shows where the music meets the casting. She wrote her own songs and performs them remarkably well. She could have the best performance of the film, and it could be her best performance of any film. Had another person filled her shoes and wrote her songs, it could have been different.Oddly, Gary Busey wrote one of the songs and was supposed to be in the film, but was picked up for the television series The Texas Wheelers alongside Mark Hamill. Never heard of this show? Me, neither, and it disappeared after eight episodes.The film itself is rather divisive among viewers. Pauline Kael described the movie as the funniest epic vision of America ever to reach the screen, and both Roger Ebert and Leonard Maltin gave the film four-star reviews and called it the best film of 1975. In his original review, Ebert wrote, after I saw it I felt more alive, I felt I understood more about people, I felt somehow wiser. It's that good a movie. Not sure I loved it on quite that level. While I think there is a lot of good in it, there is a lot of... well, just things I did not care about. Could this have been trimmed down to two hours? Probably. Did it need twenty-four main characters? Probably not. "},{"Title":"Oddly Very Watchable...","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Why, oh Why isn't this audacious film from Robert Altman available as a region 2, effectively barring it from the vast majority of UK audiences? Only it being shown on Sky Movies recently can I enjoy it (again....)The 160 minutes waft on through like a distorted, strange dream, but one that is strangely highly compulsive. On my most recent (fifth?) viewing, whilst I no longer mop up every word with the earnest enthusiasm I once did, the film as a whole just gets more perfect.Its loose structure, with ebbs and flows that are akin to one's own levels of concentration throughout a day and just when it gets a bit too comfortable, it changes tack and submerges us into another scenario, some predictable but many not. Such as the prim and naive (& annoying) lady researcher from the British Broadcasting Company - a glaring mistake that always annoys me - who wanders around a bus graveyard, likening them to the dinosaurs and goes off on one tangent after another, including the bars of Nashville where stand-up country singers take to the mic, with variable 'performances'....There is absolutely no need to love, or indeed, like country music. This microcosm on this part of America at a just post Vietnam era is far less searing than Altman's later Short Cuts, but actually says more.Nashville, to me is like a meandering river; swollen and bloated at times, pushing its boundaries at others but always serenely watchable. "},{"Title":"A stunning achievement.","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Leave it to Robert Altman to make a 160 minute musical drama about country music that somehow doesn't bore me to tears. On paper, Nashville should have been a dire experience for me; an almost three hour epic character drama about southerners gathering around a political convention that encompasses many originally written country songs. In fact, the reason I had avoided it for so long was because I blindly assumed that it would be a brutal endeavor for me to try to take part in. My reservations were destroyed almost immediately, as this is a stunningly created portrait of a small town loaded with interesting characters who collide in situations both hilarious and heartbreaking.The extensive running time allows Altman, screenwriter Joan Tewkesbury and their talented cast to flesh out these characters so well, creating an operatic piece for them to play out their parts. There's an abundance of themes, political, societal and personal, that are at play from the vanity of celebrity to the fear mongering that drives politics, all incredibly wrapped around this country music town playing host to a convention for a politician running in the Replacement Party. Altman's approach to crafting this piece is almost as interesting as the characters themselves.The dialogue is almost entirely improvised, with the script only setting the outline for the situations and global themes, and each actor who performs was required to write their own songs and perform them live, rather than in a studio that would get dubbed over the video track. It gives an authenticity not only to the musical performances, which range from delightful to hilariously bad to absolutely devastating, but to the acting overall, as each actor lives and breathes their character as if they were living in their own skin.The entire cast excels, but I need to give particular mention to the wrenching, sympathetic Ronee Blakley, the heartbreaking Lily Tomlin, the energetic and wonderfully incessant Geraldine Chaplin and Gwen Welles, who like her character starts off quite annoying but slowly becomes maybe the most tragic figure in a field loaded with them. I could honestly go on all day about the cast, it's without a doubt one of the finest ensembles to ever grace the screen, the credit of which should go to not only the actors but to Altman himself.The way he stages the whole picture, with a million different things going on, is breathtaking. He's got so much happening in this town but it never loses the audience for a second, gliding in and out of the characters with a wonderful fluidity that never feels forced or arranged. The cuts to new characters are never awkward, each new scene is a perfectly natural progression from the last, which for a drama of this magnitude with this extensive of a cast, is an achievement for the ages.Everything in Nashville comes full circle in the convention itself, which is a culmination of the massive achievement that everyone was able to accomplish here. It is at turns tragic, at others heartwarming and at other downright hilarious, with a bittersweet irony in the end that resonates deep. This is a magnificent work from Robert Altman and his cast, which deserves it's place in cinema history and has never quite been matched, despite all those who have tried. "},{"Title":"Significant or Operation Boredom?","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Nashville is one of those movies where it is about real people going through day to day life in some unusual circumstances during some pretty crazy and hectic times such as the post death of JFK to the Vietnam War. It takes place during a very confusing time in United States History and it shows that life goes on as it is demonstrated at the end of this film. Life doesn't stop for anyone or anything, 'the show must go on' is one of the many themes that Nashville talks about and in a way Nashville is a brilliant movie in that it is one of the first films that uses the 'documentary style' filmmaking that Robert Altman has gotten very known for, with the overlapping of people talking, getting as authentic as possible with everyday life and conversations. When there are laughs, they are big laughs because they are so true to life such as the scene where the young son of Henry Gibson's character is pouring out his heart and soul, by singing the one and only song he's ever written, to a female reporter who kept persuading him to sing it to her, and so he finally does, it's a very touching moment, but being the ding-dong that she is, in the middle of him singing this song that means everything to him, the flaky reporter sees Elliot Gould and interrupts him and says That's Elliot Gould as she then leaves to go talk to Elliot Gould. Very funny situations like this(and they're funny because most of us can relate to them) and there are some of these situations throughout the whole movie, and in a way, I'm glad those kinds of situations aren't overdone in Nashville because as in life, they don't come around too incredibly often. And without this movie, we probably wouldn't have any of the Christopher Guest films that we have today, which I'm a huge Christopher Guest fan, so I'm thankful for Nashville in that sense as well. However, Nashville is a good film, but it's not a great film, there's no solid connection at any given point, and I always believe there has to be some kind of real connection and if there's not that solid connection, then the movie better be very significant in a historical or cinematic way, which one could argue that Nashville is very significant with what's going on, and how it deals with what's going on.And even though Nashville is a pioneering film in the 'documentary style' way, in my opinion, I don't think that pioneering aspect is of extremely great importance, not extreme significant importance like the films like The Best Years of Our Lives, Citizen Kane, Casablanca, just to name a few(Also The Best Years of Our Lives really deals with what's going on in the most significant way and in more ways than one, which Nashville doesn't do). Also, Nashville is a very long and a very boring film. It's almost 3 hours long and it drags a lot of the time throughout the film. The Razor's Edge with Bill Murray is a good movie in the same way of Nashville in that it has some great moments, some great comedic moments as well as some very great dramatic moments, just like Nashville. But, overall Nashville and Bill Murray's The Razor's Edge(even with those great moments) don't come together and connect in the way that you hoped they might have, to make them great films. Now I will say, and I can say this subjectively, I like country music, but I'm not a huge die-hard Country Music fan. Now for any die-hard country music fans, those types of viewers will probably love this film as there are a lot(a lot) of songs sung in this film(from there very beginning to there very end). There are a few of the songs that I really enjoyed, especially 'I'm Easy' that was written and sung in the film by Keith Carradine, a fantastic song, and one of the best scenes in the film for that matter, but other than that song and a few others, I would find myself getting to the point of 'how long is this song and when is it going to end for crying out loud?' Not a film for everyone, but perhaps worth a glance. Better Altman films in my opinion are M*A*S*H and The Player. "},{"Title":"Ambitious but not entirely successful","Date":"13 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Nashville is one of Robert Altman's trademark sprawling ensemble pieces. In this case, the large cast of characters is made up of people in and around Nashville's country music scene. However, these characters really represent a microcosm of the country as a whole around that time.Even at 160 minutes it isn't easy to juggle 24 characters and give them all sufficient character development. Some motivations are cloudy and certain story threads are vague or unresolved. Overall, I don't think the film shows the same level of refinement as a later movie like Short Cuts.The music might also be a bit of a question mark for you. I like some country music but most of the material showcased here just isn't that good. Frankly, a lot of it is the sort of thing that the 'outlaws' of country music were rebelling against at the time. Ironically, the film's best tune, the Oscar-winning ballad I'm Easy, is actually a folk-rock song.I've got to give Altman credit for assembling a fine group of actors, though. Several individuals were recognized with Oscar, Golden Globe and/or BAFTA nominations. Altman's deft direction was also justifiably recognized by awards bodies. This certainly wasn't a simple movie to pull off and Altman did a pretty good job overall.Ultimately, I think that Nashville is an interesting film but Altman has done better work elsewhere. At the very least, I can say that the movie's intriguing for its entire duration, even if it didn't leave me completely satisfied in the end. "},{"Title":"A great American film.","Date":"16 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Brilliant, funny, sad and epic look at 1970s America, following 24 characters over a few key days in Nashville. An amazing combination of political satire, hysterical send up of the country music business and touching and moving character studies.If one wants to quibble there are minor flaws; overstated performances at moments, ironies that are a bit too easy, but the overall sweep, power, the great performances and the sheer number of moments that make you want to laugh and cry simultaneously, are overwhelming. Certainly one of the great films of the 70s, and arguably among the greatest American films ever made. "},{"Title":"The Song of America.","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Nashville is a sprawling, energetic and lively pictorial exploration of the American dream and its consequences through the eyes of two prominent sections in our society politics and music. Director Robert Altman draws significant parallels between the two but I think the central aspect to understanding this film is to see how each section views itself and what they believe are their intentions for doing what they do. Each has ideals but to follow those ideals is rather tricky.For Altman, politics remain in the background in Nashville while the music takes front stage. And what a cast of characters to follow around! Never in another film have I seen such a diverse group of the same people; wanna-be singers combined with reporters, groupies, fans, family and others. To simply highlight the incredible cast, I must mention Lily Tomlin as a struggling housewife, Geraldine Chaplin as a British reporter who ultimately misses the big story due to her inane ability to ramble on about the unimportant details, Ronee Blakely as a star on the fall Barbara Jean, Henry Gibson as the glib and arrogant legend Haven Hamilton and Keith Carradine as a womanizing, self-absorbed musician who reveals his own insecurities and problems with one magical song in one magical moment.Perhaps the best part of Nashville, aside from Altman's ever-important deft touch, is the music. I am not personally a big fan of country music but much of it here (written by the actors themselves) feels more authentic and genuine than the conventional trash made today. There is real feeling and warmth in each performance, particularly in what I think is the best song of them all, I'm Easy by Carradine. Some will criticize the ending or the accuracy of the film's portrayal of country music but I think Altman was more focused on being accurate in portraying the human experience. Through music, America's persona is revealed and at the end we come to understand a little better what lies at the heart of this country. People will remain the same no matter what crisis, who's in the White House or the personal problems they will face. This is the song of America. "},{"Title":"The movie that made me love movies","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  For the first time in my adult life, I completely lost myself inside a film. I wasn't sitting there watching it...I was overhearing these private conversations, seeing the interplay between people drifting in and out of each other's lives.  It did, and still does, take my breath away.  After so many viewings that even I have lost count, Nashville remains my favorite movie of all time.  At the time of it's release in 1975, I was 4 years old...but when I discovered it as a teenager in 1986, I was hooked.  The story is so loose and free-flowing, and the performances so original, that I get excited whenever I can coax a friend of mine to give up 2 1/2 hours to experience this film.  But to really appreciate it, you have to watch it more than once.  There is simply so much going on that you miss tiny moments that grab you on a later viewing (i.e. Lily Tomlin watching from the background as her husband Ned Beatty leads his star client away from trouble instead of her- It took several viewings before I caught this one.  Both Lily and Ronee Blakley deserved their Oscar nominations (and either one should have won) ,but Henry Gibson, Gwen Welles, Barbara Baxley, Keenan Wynn, and Barbara Harris all perform at such a level that they create complex individuals rather than just characters.  The 70's left us many films hailed as classics today, and Nashville is a true American classic. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Film","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In my opinion, this is one of the greatest films to ever come out of America.  This is a masterpiece.  I can find no fault with this film. Robert Altman created a stunning portrayal of American politics and celebrity.  Funny, tragic and human all at once. Great cast!The video transfer by Paramount is terrible.  If ever a film deserves to be preserved on DVD it is Nashville.   "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I LOVE this movie.  How can you go wrong with Karen  Black, Shelley Duvall & Gwen Welles all in one film????   "}{"Title":"Outstanding, one of the best films of the 70's","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What a great film this was, with a huge cast and director like that you just cant miss. I was very surprised that I enjoyed it as much as I did, knowing that I usually dont enjoy musicals or country music, but somehow this film was excellent!! Maybe it was the way we got to know all of those characters, especially Tomlin, who was phonomonal, and her relationship with that singer.  So many familiar faces in this film also made it extremely exciting, Jeff Goldblum on that tricycle was hilarious.  To sum it up, this film is a must see.  9 1/2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's America, all those cars smashing into each other...","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Perhaps I should start this off by just going ahead and admitting my bias  this is one of my all time favorite movies; it holds a very secure position on my personal Top 10 list.  Nashville is Robert Altman's masterpiece and it's arguably the best American film of the 70's.***POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD***What is Nashville about?  Ostensibly, it tracks the interplay between 24 people as they mill about the environs of the title city over approximately three days (or four? five? I've never been able to tell, exactly).  Several country and rock stars (with accompanying managers, relatives, hangers-on, groupies) happen to be in Nashville at the same time that a huge political rally for third-party presidential candidate Hal Phillip Walker is being put together locally.  The beginning and middle of the film show the two or three degrees of separation between the various characters  an intricate spider's web of emotional and business connections that culminates in the rally at the movie's end at which all the characters are brought together and at which the movie's loose ends are made looser (sorry, this is AltmanLand which, like real life doesn't have a lot of tidy resolutions).  That's basically the entire story.But, as with most Robert Altman films, the plot is beside the point. What's fascinating to watch is the on-screen realism he achieves.  By using overlapping dialogue (the famous Altman trademark) and by encouraging improvisation among his actors, Altman delivers the spontaneous rhythms of real everyday life.Nashville's importance also lies in its historical significance.  27 years after its initial release, the film remains an essential part of America's cinematic heritage as it accurately reflects the country at a particular point in time  the mid 70's, when America was reeling from the fallout of Vietnam, Watergate, and the social upheavals of the late 60's/early 70's.  The characters are, at best, ambivalent about life in general; people aren't able to find anything to believe in, or perhaps worse, they're willing to accept mediocrity.  Mistrust of politicians/government is represented by Hal Phillip Walkers campaign van that prowls the streets of Nashville throughout the movie, blaring the candidate's inane aphorisms from a loudspeaker (interestingly, the ubiquitous van also functions as Nashville's narrative device; subtle foreshadowing of plot points can be found in Walker's folksy ramblings).Some of my favorite things from Nashville (hopefully without giving away too many wonderful details)The opening credit sequence that switches back and forth between two simultaneous performances in a recording studio  1) pompous country singer Haven Hamilton (a very funny Henry Gibson) sledgehammering his way through the unintentionally hilarious lyrics of an ostentatiously patriotic ditty, and 2) a soulful, joyous rendition of a gospel song by a church choir.A handful of the marvelous characterizations  Opal, the celebrity-worshipping BBC correspondent (Geraldine Chaplin), Albuquerque, the somewhat spacy aspiring singer (Barbara Harris; her bit about flyswatters and the industrial revolution never fails to make me laugh), Delbert and Linnea Reese, the couple poignantly juggling familial devotions and marital infidelities (Ned Beatty and Lily Tomlin), and most affecting of all, Barbara Jean, the frail, neurotic star being driven crazy by fame (Ronee Blakley).The music  for the most part, the actors themselves wrote the songs that they perform in the film.  I've noticed several of my fellow IMDb'ers saying that while they're not great fans of country music, they nonetheless love the music in Nashville.  I feel the same way.  The songs are fantastic; listen to the lyrics and you'll hear how they help to identify the character who's singing them.I can't think of anything else to say except that this is a great, important film that is also extraordinarily entertaining.  Deserves the maximum amount of stars or thumbs up that are available. "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzz!","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" What a colossal overrated bore this movie was! I just watched it for the first time with fairly high expectations (and a completely open mind) because I'd always heard good things about 'Nashville', and what a letdown it was! Totally aimless plot, poor acting, overly-long, lame music, and mostly unlikeable characters. What a total waste of an all-star cast! And that candidate's voice droning on throughout the movie got really old after a while. It's only saving grace for me was the mid-'70s clothing, hairstyles, cars, etc., but you can already see all that in 'Smokey And The Bandit', which to me is far more the classic that everyone claims 'Nashville' is! "},{"Title":"people watching","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" There are dozens of relevant characters as they spend their time in the city of Nashville. The stories weave an interconnected tapestry. There is a forthcoming political rally for Hal Phillip Walker as the Replacement Party candidate for President which is omnipresent throughout the movie.I disliked this movie the first time I tried to watch it. There are so many characters that it's hard to follow anything. It's story chaos. It's not just a matter of being lost. I couldn't see the point of not following the lead characters. After a few half-hearted attempts, I finally gave it a serious try. There is a zen feel about watching this movie. I could lock onto a couple of characters especially played by some of the most recognizable actors. I let the movie wash over me. The singing gets me zoned out. It's a hypnotic form of people watching. It's got the Altman style. I'm not sure whether most modern audiences could ever truly love this. "},{"Title":"Altman's Coup de Grace","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" What is this movie even about? I'm aware asking such a question is reductive in the face of such a vast and overwhelming cinematic accomplishment. Yet despite its melodious and melancholic emotional core and its initial impact as one of the defining films in a decade full of defining films, I still can't help but think Nashville is not meant to be interpreted. This poses a unique challenge for me as a semi-professional critic. The film is not only best appreciated by an audience that treasures experience over contemplation, emotion over logic, but gazes through the slice-of-life story with a lens trying to make sense of post-Watergate era Americana.The story, if one were to find one, follows the lives of numerous interrelated human-beings. All descend on the city of Nashville, Tennessee and all involved (or want to be involved) in the country music industry. Among the crowded field of primary characters is Haven Hamilton (Gibson) the presumed king of Nashville's music scene who also has political ambitions. There's Del (Beatty) and Linnea Reese (Tomlin) a struggling married couple; one's a lawyer the other a gospel singer. There's Tom Frank (Carradine), a self-absorbed folk-rock musician and Barbara Jean (Blakley), a famous and emotionally fragile country talent. Then there are the musical up- and-comers like Connie White (Black) and Tommy Brown (Brown). There are wannabes like Sueleen (Welles) and Albuquerque (Harris) and sycophants like Opal (Chaplin) and L.A. Joan (Duvall), all looking for absolution in a city that promises good times and possible fame.All the characters that I just listed are but a sample of the characters that drift and cross paths between Nashville's seedy nightclubs, cluttered highways and the pristine Grand Old Opry. But lest you think the narrative is too cluttered, every character has their moment to show the audience who they are and how they're changed by events larger than themselves. Meanwhile director Robert Altman captures the pathos of Nashville's microcosm in confident fashion. Characters make decisions that are at times solemn, desperate, tranquil, kind and despicable yet Altman's even hand and watchful eye looks on with fair-minded kindness and humanity.Many of Altman's detractors object to the directors presumed cynicism towards human nature which arguably interjects in some of the director's most famous works. One can't help but take a cursory look at films like M*A*S*H (1972) and The Player (1992) and wholly agree with such an assessment. Yet after my initial trepidation of consuming all things Altman, that criticism holds less sway. Altman seems to immerse and undermine systems not people. You only need to compare the visual hyperbole of M*A*S*H with the drowning pessimism of Catch-22 (1970) to see Altman doesn't dwell on the insignificance of man but rather the folly of social constructs. In M*A*S*H it's war; in Buffalo Bill and the Indians (1976) it's subjugation of native peoples; in Nashville it's dichotomic politics.In the case of Nashville, not only does Altman attack the binary of American politics in the story (fronted by an unseen pseudo-populist political campaign), he attacks it in how he tells he story as well. The film's narrative can be best described as post-structuralist narrative, that is to say not beholden to an underlying theme or framework. Any attempts to decipher the film would yield a bevy of contradictions that threaten to unravel any theory one can posit. Even if Altman is the director and ultimately the author to the film, all the music in the film was written by the actors themselves. The cacophonous sound design was the product of USC wunderkind Jim Webb who miked everyone to allow for a breadth of experience. The editing done by first-time Altman collaborator Dennis Hill gives perspective while restraining a point-of-view. Nashville gives the audience the feeling that no one is at the wheel. Even by approaching the film as a product of Robert Altman's assumed overarching modus aprendi to undermine systems has it's problems.Nashville transcends but not in the way you would expect. It accurately captures the antipathy, the uncertainty and most importantly the humanity of a certain place in time. The film has aged though in the way an autochrome photograph would. Modern audiences can appreciate it as a textured and awe-inspiring cultural accomplishment which dares to challenge film form, story structure and (maybe) the systems which bridles our lives. Without Robert Altman's subtle but indelible contribution to film, there'd be no Richard Linklater, Jim Jarmusch or Paul Thomas Anderson. Nashville showcases Altman's gentle hand, sharp wit and deep love of humanity which we all benefit from. "},{"Title":"A Great Film!","Date":"6 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The Late/Great Robert Altman's 'Nashville' is A Great Film! A riveting tale based upon the undying spirit of mid 70's America. Altman, with an ensemble in top-form, deliver a film that's entirely engrossing.'Nashville' Synopsis Over the course of a few hectic days, numerous interrelated people prepare for a political convention as secrets and lies are surfaced and revealed.'Nashville' is about people & their actions towards the society we live in. Its all about people exploring themselves, with politics & music as its satire. Altman handles this extremely ambitious story, with panache. He has directed the film, that's nothing short of a magnum-opus. The Legendary Filmmaker has handled each & every sequence, with detailing & maturity. Joan Tewkesbury's Screenplay is eventful, as much as its melancholic. I was moved by the journey of its multiple, multi-faced characters. Its interesting to see so many characters within one story, with each standing out, due to their diversities. 'Nashville' boasts a magnificent ensemble & all the actors pitch in tremendous performances. But, the one performer who stands out, its Lily Tomlin. In her portrayal of Linnea, a gospel singer, a wife & the loving mother of two deaf children, Tomlin gets into the skin of the character & delivers what truly can be defined as a masterclass in acting.On the whole, 'Nashville' is a richly made classic. Strongly Recommended! "},{"Title":"Tone-deaf rough-as-guts dog-eared bona-fide classic.","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" More than any other film, Nashville will play better the more tone-deaf you are. It features plenty of long scenes where actors portraying professional singers sing dreadfully, over- singing, forcing every. single. note. As someone who sings myself, this aspect really pulls me out of Nashville. For a movie that is famously about Nashville, it finds more joy in soul and folk music than in country. The film's heart is a scene which contrasts a sincere and moving folk performance by Keith Carradine with a terrific and sad scene where Gwen Welles' realises she had been hired to strip instead of for her singing ability. The song featured in this scene It Don't Worry Me became a hit apparently. There's also the opening scene which contrasts a pair of recording sessions a lively gospel one + bad singing by the charming Lily Tomlin with a cold propagandistic country session with Henry Gibson.Its rough as guts, with some scenes set-pieces such as the airport scene early on seeming carefully choreographed, but all the acting has the loose improvisational style common to both Altman and Cassavetes films, which you either love or hate. I tend to find the actors higher calibre in Cassavetes, so Altman sometimes grates on me. Nashville is famous as a trope-originator for Altman's sprawling long films that are broader than they are deep, sort of like Love Actually, where you don't get a full Sleepless in Seattle thing, you get a bunch of tiny versions of it. Here, you get a bunch of musical bio-pics in one, but here there's no attempt to give each the same arc like in Love Actually, its more in Altman's slice of life style. Its absolutely a landmark film, there's not many others like it, and it is entertaining. Your mileage may vary with how picky you are about actors being cast as singers and having several protracted singing scenes that are often squirm-inducing, yet you get the feeling they weren't supposed to be. I've got it on VHS and don't love it enough to upgrade. I've watched my VHS copy twice and have grown attached to its pan and scan ugliness. For me its a picture I like and find fascinating, plus an extra point for being so unique, so 8/10. "},{"Title":"Altman's Parody of Americana!","Date":"7 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Nashville is seen in high regard and is often voted as Robert Altman's best film. Now to the date of this review, I've only seen one other of his films and that is MASH. But I would have to say that this film is better. It's a complicated film that may be worth more than one viewing, but the parody of country music is there and is done quite well. I was laughing quite a bit, but there is an explosive ending and one that came out of nowhere. Despite being a parody, the movie has quite a few excellent songs namely the one sung by Keith Carradine. There is a lot happening in the film, but this character piece is worth the initial confusion.Altman's feature film doesn't really have a defined plot. It is pretty much a tale of what goes on in Nashville, the country capital of the world for a span of several days. There are twenty-four characters whose stories are interwoven with each other. This kind of gave me a sense of what a country-style Woodstock would be like.The film doesn't have any big stars, or whom weren't at its 1975 release date. Elliot Gould may have been the biggest star, and he was just a small cameo. There are many characters here to mention, but I do have a few standouts. Lily Tomlin was excellent as the mother of several deaf kids. Keith Carradine was fabulous in his role of the womanizer. Ronee Blakley was very good as the popular country singer who is plagued by injuries. Finally, Henry Gibson as the popular country singer who always wore white was also great.Overall, Nashville is a very good movie with musical and even political overtones. That last scene reminded me of a certain historical assassination, so that was an interesting finale to watch. The music is great as I found myself singing and dancing to some of the tunes. It may not be obvious at first, but Nashville is a parody and a pretty darn good one of Southern music. Quite frankly, even with so many films under his belt and I need to see, this may be Robert Altman's best film. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"degree of separation","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Nashville Was a crazy movie about the small connections the everyone has in the town of Nashville all centered on the upcoming political campaign. It follows the story of Barbara Jean and her connections to everyone else in Nashville. Barbara Jean ends up having a break down and not being able to perform for several shows. This movie jumps around a lot but the connections are clear and the jumps make since when you get to the end of the movie. This movie is kind of set as a musical because you have a lot of songs and all the way throughout the movie and it ends with a song. I find it funny that you never see the political candidate you only hear his voice from a van that roams around town. The movie has so many connections that it is very easy to miss some of them the first time through. There are small parts like the solder that got back from Vietnam that he has maybe just a few lines but plays a big role in the end of the movie. There is also the bicker who never talks but shows up in a lot of shots tying the movie together. The whole of the movie is about people and the connections that they have to everyone else. It is said that there are seven degrees of separation from you and everyone else in the world this movie try to play in to that. I would say that in this movie there is just one degree of separation from all the characters in this film and that one character is Barbara Jean. "},{"Title":"A Whole Nother Nashville.................with politics............","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is definitely not the Nashville I know. This film may have a deep message at the end, but after a hundred and fifty-nine minutes of almost continuous singing, I think I could live without it. I agree this film has some underlying and at times dark messages about government and the straining process of politics. Not exactly my cup of tea, but this film does present a rather interesting political landscape. However, it is hard to see past the music, I almost felt like I should have been singing as well, like a sort of sing along picture. Now, the performances here are all well rounded, and I will give the actors credit for their singing talents. As well some of the actors wrote their own songs, which is also not any less impressive. The ending I suppose was meant to be a take it or leave it, throw it at the audiences face, scenario. I personally am not impressed by this move possibly seen as creativity. I felt no sense of shock or awe from the conclusion. The film does shine in its ability to create an entire other world without filming in odd locations or sets. It creates a politically harsh world full of those corrupting and those being corrupted. The style in which the film was shot was rather unique. The camera angles provided this raw sense of reality once again adding to this surreal vibe. This film definitely suffers from being to long as well in the long run somewhat repetitive in its musical displays and its ever recurring theme. Overall this film is bold in its attempt to create not just a political message but a whole new political world. However it seems to me to drag out this message way too long and use its creativeness against itself. "}{"Title":"Nashville","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Nashville was one of the films I had to watch in my film history class and it is one of the few that I liked. It was very strange and stuff but I really enjoyed how recent this film was especially compared to the ones we've been watching. It was very refreshing in a way. It also was filmed here in America and in Nashville on top of that. I have lots of family in that area so I felt that that was very neat. This movie follows many different stories of different singers and people trying to make it in the music industry. It basically goes through their struggles and their good times when they are finally cut a break. One girl was really sad though because she just absolutely could not sing and the only reason they let her even keep trying was because she wanted to be famous and wanted to be able to sing so badly she would literally do anything to accomplish that goal. Even humiliate herself at a bar full of men. All they wanted was to see her get naked. They booed her for her poor singing but yet she did undress and give them the peep show they were after. This woman was just a sex object and she had no backbone to stand up for herself or maybe she was really just too blind to see the reality of her situation. The movie also has a sad ending with the shooting. I'm still not sure that if she died or not. They never really show that or update you on it anywhere. I mean I am pretty sure we are just supposed to assume that is what happened. This movie though was very entertaining and easy to follow. I would recommend seeing this film. "},{"Title":"Classic Altman ensemble piece","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Robert Altman's Nashville is a film that requires multiple viewings, if only to keep all the characters straight. There are about eighteen characters, with others interacting with them. In the beginning of the film, all the characters collide in one big car accident and then again at the rally for the unseen, faceless politician, Hal Phillip Walker. This film is basically an anti-musical, in which it confronts the idea that not everything is happy and cheery.For someone who dislikes country music, the film will seem very long. It is just under three hours, with several performances with full length songs. However, for someone who likes the music, the film will not seem long enough! The idea behind country music is a major theme, as the Music of the Heartland and of right-wing America.Altman utilizes cross-cutting to cut between all the characters, which emphasizes the relationships between the people. The film tackles so many topics, like race, gender, class, sexuality. It covers the lives of these people over the span of a few days with a fantastic cast. I would probably say the most notable is Ronee Blakely who plays Barbara Jean, America's Sweetheart. Barbara Jean was just released from the Baltimore Burn Center after an accident with the flaming baton, and she is recovering. However, she is not returning to her full form. Because of her abusive husband/manager, as well as the stress of being a star, she slowly breaks down throughout the film.There are appearances from other greats like Shelly Duvall, Jeff Goldblum, Henry Gibson, Lily Tomlin, Ned Beatty and many more. Altman gives the audience a glimpse at each character, and leaves them wanting to know more about them. If you have the time to sit down and pay attention, I highly recommend looking at this film because of the complex script and the interesting, fame-hungry characters. "},{"Title":"Good movie just not my cup of tea.","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I saw this film for film history class and even had a special guest speaker come and talk to us about the film. It was a good film with a lot of cool ideas, but I just couldn't get myself to enjoy the film. The character cast was vast and massive. The music numbers were interesting to say the least. I liked all the controversy and hypocrisy the characters represented and presented. The intro with the politician speaking through the van speakers was interesting, showing the disconnection of the characters and all. I loved the intro with the differences in the two songs going on; especially when the lead singer tells the hippie to go cut his hair. I really did get a good laugh from that since he was singing a song about America and doing something right. He was a total star crazed person who only wanted attention. I couldn't help and see Jeff Goldblum as the only person I recognized and just focused on him for half the time and tried to remember other movies he was in. The movie does have a lot of funny stuff if you look and listen carefully. Each character has their own quirks and parts of the movie. In the end they all come together to bring the whole idea together as a whole. Before that they pass each other not knowing them in public places. Over all it was a good movie, but I just couldn't get in to it for the life of me. I recommend everyone see it and just come up with their own opinion. Some will like it and some will hate it. It did have a lot of good symbolism if you look for it. "},{"Title":"Nashville","Date":"7 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I think that Nashville was heartfelt and hilarious at the same time. I loved the cuts from one scene to another, especially when you didn't even know if the scene was over or not. I think that the quirky characters and the setting are perfect together. My favorite character is the British radio host; she seems to invite herself to every country music event that she can get her hands on and attempts to make friends along the way. There is also tragedy in this film; Barbara Jean has been working since she was just a young girl and is almost completely burnt out. It seems like she never really had a childhood and because she has been working since she was so young, she has really missed out on the freedoms and friendships of people her own age. At the end when she is shot and killed, it's almost a relief because she probably felt so trapped in her own life and this was possibly the only way that she could be released from all of her pain and anxieties that were caused by her fame. To go along with that, her husband was no help for her. He was more of a manager than husband and it even took me a while to realize that they were married because of the way that he would talk to her, as if she were a child. "},{"Title":"A dark musical...","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Nashville Nashville was my introduction to Robert Altman. I first heard about Robert Altman many years ago while reading up on Magnolia, a movie I had just watched and fell instantly in love with. When I learned that Magnolia, in a way, was an ode to Altman, I had to instantly check out who this guy was. Ever since then, I have been a big admirer of Robert Altman.One of the things that makes Altman a genius is his ability to dissect a society and expose its inner elements, exploring and examining it from inside out. However, Altman does so in a very matter-of-fact, almost nonchalant way, standing by as an almost objective witness to the surrounding events; of-course Altman is far from objective, but does not feel manipulated when watching his movies his approach to making a statement is very subtle, yet extremely effective. In Nashville, Altman's target is the country music industry of the great city of Nashville. Like in all his movies, Altman lets the camera float across the world of the movie, shifting from one set of characters to another. There are rarely any close-ups as an audience, you are made aware of the interconnectedness of the numerous characters and the vast spaces they occupy. The style might seem a little avant-garde for someone who had never seen an Altman movie, but once you get into the flow of things, you will be immersed in the world of Nashville. One might view Nashville as a highly pessimistic and irony laden movie; while I do agree with that assertion, I also feel that there is a tinge of hope and optimism, for while it rebukes a society for its hypocrisies, it never demonizes it, because after all, at the end of the dark tunnel, there is light. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Character Study","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Nashville is most assuredly a movie you should see twice. Altman, who specializes in these wonderful character driven epics, is in top form here. Nashville follows around 20 characters as their lives intersect over a course of five days in the country music capital of the world. Some characters are only on the screen a few moments, others like Barbara Jean (Ronee Blakley), a very famous singer dealing with emotional issues, are the emotion core of the movie. Nashville doesn't sugar coat the hypocrisy of the city or the music that it creates. But at the same time, it doesn't feel like Altman is picking on Nashville, it is just a bit less clichd than to look at Hollywood with the same film.Which in itself is another way that Nashville is brilliant, it takes place there but the message is universal to politics as well as pop culture. We are the entertained of this nation and we are subject to only the best of the stars, not the seediness of their personal lives. Altman wants to expose the darkness that goes hand in hand with popularity but does so in a way that isn't obvious. One of the singers in the film, Haval Hamilton, sings about family when at the same time he ignores his son and cheats on his wife. The hypocrisy is subtle but still there and still revelant today as our culture is at the brink of celebrity obsession.The movie takes all different aspects of stardom and displays them on the screen for this us to cringe at, but at the same time he isn't preaching to us. Altman isn't saying look at these people whom you idolize no he is establishing characters and letting the audience deal with each individually. Nashville is one of those movies that doesn't live in the era it was filmed. It will remain culturally realvant as long as there is pop culture and politics. "},{"Title":"Nashville","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" From Oscar and Golden Globe nominated director Robert Altman (MASH, Gosford Park), this is one of the only films I have seen that isn't trying to tell a specific story, and it is all the more great to watch. Basically, it is filled with two dozen character, living in Nashville, both connected, disconnected and reflecting about both the country-and-western music craze (what Nashville is best known for), and a political debate. What makes this film stand out is not only the fact there is no real story, but the unconventional use of overlapping sounds, especially during dialogue, and the fact that this film is pretty hard to give a genre, because it has many musical, comedy, drama and tragedy. I personally remember this film more for the great music, with songs made apparently by the actors themselves. Starring, in alphabetical order David Arkin as Norman, Barbara Baxley as Lady Pearl, Ned Beatty as Delbert Reese, Karen Black as Connie White; Oscar, BAFTA and twice Golden Globe nominated Ronee Blakley as Barbara Jean, Timothy Brown as Tommy Brown, Keith Carradine as Tom Frank, Golden Globe nominated Geraldine Chaplin as Opal, Robert DoQui as Wade, Shelley Duvall as L. A. Joan, Allen Garfield as Barnett, Golden Globe nominated Henry Gibson as Haven Hamilton, Scott Glenn as Pfc. Glenn Kelly, Jeff Goldblum as Tricycle Man, Golden Globe nominated Barbara Harris as Albuquerque, Michael Murphy as John Triplette, Cristina Raines as Mary; Oscar, BAFTA and twice Golden Globe nominated Lily Tomlin as Linnea Reese, BAFTA nominated Gwen Welles as Sueleen Gay and Keenan Wynn as Mr. Green, with cameos by Elliott Gould and Julie Christie. It won the Oscar for Best Song for I'm Easy (also won the Golden Globe, and was number 81 on 100 Years, 100 Songs), and it was nominated for Best Picture for Altman, it won the BAFTA for Best Sound Track, and it was nominated for Best Screenplay, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay. Very good! "},{"Title":"It's about more than Nashville, for goodness' sake","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" 'Nashville' is about the romance of an industry, and the power plays between people around it the exploiters and the exploited, for power, sex or money. The point about the music is that it's the one shared experience of all the characters - some are good at it, some are bad, never mind what sort of people they are. And the point about the shooting at the end is that politics - in the broadest sense as Altman and Tewkesbury depict, and as it was to Sueleen's self-deluded show, and which you *can't get away from because there might as well be a loudspeaker van on every street corner* - is death to an art that love inspires. (They also needed a big finish).Nashville happens to be a town where music is the dominant industry, same as Baltimore had the docks or Detroit had cars. Those are industries without much in the way of dreams or romance, but music, while an industry like any other, has the power to connect to people's hearts. Don't approach 'Nashville' as though it's 'Spinal Tap', 'Taxi Driver', or even 'The Player'. 'Nashville' is a wry, sad, sympathetic look at real, imperfect human beings - some more imperfect than others.Yes, the songs are mediocre. While he would have welcomed a breakout hit, I'm sure, If Altman had filled the soundtrack with classic or contemporary country hits it would have diluted his point. There are hundreds of songs recorded every week - day? - in Nashville that the writers and singers think are the best things ever put on record, that never get to the charts or airwaves. That's part of the tragedy. Not every country song released is an (Dolly Parton's) 'I Will Always Love You'. Tewkesbury and Altman saw the irony of a universal art form being suborned to politics and industry. Look beneath the surface and you'll see it too.As good as film gets. "},{"Title":"Gleefully fun and thought-provoking.","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" A splendid breeze of a film, with the 160 minutes not feeling too long at all. The fact that none of the songs is familiar makes it easier to sit through the numerous musical performances, many of which are quite skillfully played and sung. A slice of life rather than a story, most viewers will have no problem appreciating Nashville on its own terms. The film holds up very well over time; perhaps being a superior presentation in another era, as a strict parallelism of the characters and events is no longer forced onto the film by its new generation of viewers.Favorite scene Keith Carradine (Tom) tells the servant to write himself a hit as he passes the guitar so as to make a phone call. The chauffeur rips off some very tasteful chords...he might very well have a hit! "},{"Title":"Definition of Greatness","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" With the recent passing of one of my favourite directors, Robert Altman (1925-2006), I decided to hold my own little memoriam by watching his masterpiece film Nashville. The story offers an inside look behind the scenes of the 70's country music scene, as well as a subplot involving a political rally that helps maintain the overall continuity and ties together the many intertwining story lines. Considering my long standing love affair with classic country music, and with a star studded cast that wrote and performed their own songs, this is a film that definitely strikes a chord for me. It's an incredibly busy and fascinating film, with most of the scenes offering multiple conversations and overlapping dialogue, of which Altman became quite famous for. This helps keep it fresh over repeated viewings as you're guaranteed to see or hear something new you missed the last time. A delight to watch and highly recommended - go check it out for yourself! "}{"Title":"One of the best, for sure. . .","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I was recently asked by a film student on campus to list my five favorite films of all time and Nashville was 2nd on my list. I would agree with the previous comment about how rich the film is in both thematic issues and in a rich cast. Also, I would have to agree with the seemingly effortless way Altman manages an enormous cast.But I have to hesitate in calling it the best. I hesitate not because of any flaws that I can readily call out that makes Nashville second to Citizen Kane or Chinatown or Bonnie & Clyde. . .I guess my reservation ultimately comes to the conviction that film is such a rich medium for expression and for ideas, I could never pick ONE that is the best. I do wish Nashville could be revived for theatrical release. The closing shot of the American flag speaks to us as much today as it did in 1975. The tensions surrounding success and the politics would resonate with audiences today. If anyone hits this comment who has NOT seen Nashville--then your homework is to see it tonight! "},{"Title":"Film Fugue","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I watched this movie one drizzly night when I had nothing to do. I wasn't sure, even while I was watching this film, whether or not I liked it.Modern-day Rambo fans will find this movie flat-out boring; cerebral types will love it, even if they don't REALIZE they love it at the time they watch it.Everything Gary Taylor says about this film is true--every word. I won't attempt to re-invent the wheel here. He said it all better than I could have.The weird thing about watching this movie is that you don't seem to know what you're watching, at the time you're watching it. It's a kaleidoscope of a movie. After watching it, I thought,What a weird movie. What was THAT all about? The next day, after everything had sunk in, I thought,What a masterpiece! I think most people would reach the same conclusion.I nominate this film as the ultimate film fugue.I knocked this movie from 10 stars to 9, only because the sound is problematic for those of us without home theater systems. The conversations are so complex that a whole lot, apparently, is lost on an inferior system. "},{"Title":"THE CROWDED EMPTY SCENES OF NASHVILLE","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" THE CROWDED EMPTY SCENES OF NASHVILLENashville may be a partial parody, but it comes from a veryrealistic, documentary style. The film places emphasis on themusic industry as a whole and reserves critical acuity towardsindividuals for cinema verite films such as Don't Look Back (1967)and Gimme Shelter (1970). Although Robert Altman provides aglimpse into 24 different characters' experiences in the convolutedmusic scene of Nashville Tennessee, he is not painting 24separate pictures; Altman is telling a story about one possiblecharacter through the lives of 24 characters. Stylistically Altman achieves this communal image via a montageof not only many complex scenes but also by creating an entirekaleidoscope of dialogue, music, character, and place. It's achallenge for any film buff to watch Nashville a single time andkeep track of all the characters' complications, yet Altman is awareof how the audience is able to selectively remember certain partsof the story and ultimately puzzle together one plot among thepossible number of plots. It is not important which charactersleeps with another, which character becomes a sensation, oreven which character is murdered. All the characters in Nashvilleare one. When Barbara Jean (Ronee Blakely) is shot it is not onlythe death of one country singer sensation; it alludes to the fate ofevery `main character' in the movie.Actual cinema verite, that style of filmmaking which Altmanmodeled Nashville after, such as Don't look Back and GimmeShelter are much more intimate in scope and as a result tend toalienate viewers unfamiliar with the artists. (Go with me here; it'spossible your great aunt Beatrice has never heard of Mick Jagger.)It's clear that Don't Look Back is about one individual, namely BobDylan. And at he core of Gimme Shelter was the Rolling Stones.Nashville commands a much larger audience because it has ascore of generic `main characters' that even your aunt Beatricecan sympathize with. That is if Altman didn't force a cold voidbetween the viewer and the characters. How can anyone careabout these money grubbing, star gazing, selfish characters?When Barbara Jean is murdered there is no feeling of sympathytowards her. This goes doubly for the supporting characters andher fans, as well s the audience watching the movie unfold. Altmanachieves this distance by avoiding extreme close ups andoverlapping faint, jumbled dialogue. Nashville is one of thegreatest slices of film Americana of all time; it is also aconglomeration of soulless phantoms. Food for thought.-Nathan Danilowicz "},{"Title":"Question that needs answering...","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  First off, this is the first Altman film I have ever liked at all - and I liked it a lot.  But that is not what this posting is about.  This post is about a huge error in the script that I can not believe made it through.  The underlying thread throughout the movie is the campaign of a Ross Perot like candidate from a third party, The Replacement Party.  It is essentially the strand that holds the narrative together.Now, toward the end of the film, right before the big climactic political rally, there is a shot of someone watching a newscast.  (It's a beautiful shot, by the way)  Anyhoo, the newscaster is explaining this third party candidate has won 4 states in the primaries and is now going for Tennessee.  Wait a minute... a third party candidate in the primaries?!? What?!?  How on EARTH did this script make it through and entire production with no one catching this kind of oversight?  Does anyone know anything about this?  It is otherwise such an intelligent and insightful look at the U.S. that this is just unbelievably glaring and really, unfortunately, takes a lot away from the previously mentioned intelligence.  "},{"Title":"Robert Altman's greatest film?","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Nashville is Robert Altman's essay on fame. It uses a political campaigner, a Country star, the successful and the wannabe's to illustrate our irrational obsession with celebrity. This should definitely have won the Oscar and I'm sick of not finding it in Video Libraries! "},{"Title":"A original film!","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  While people under the age of 30 are being blown away by the new P.T. Andersen film MAGNOLIA.  They should take a look at the film that influenced Andersen to make his latest masterpiece, and that film is NASHVILLE. I was fortunate to catch this film on the big screen this weekend, and saw Robert Altman's classic masterpiece in all of it's glory. This was a highly original film back in 1975 where most movie audiences were use to films where they either told the character's entire story from start to finish, or a film where there are so many people and a crisis or disaster happens. NASHVILLE is different, it's a film that tells 24 peoples lives in Nashville during a presidential campaign. There are so many different stories in this film that it's rather hard to explain what the film is about.  But it's pretty much about the look at the lives of people who either reside or are visiting Nashville.  There's Delbert Reese who is organizing a presidental candidate's visit (Ned Beatty).  His gospel singing wife, Linnea,  who is having thoughts about having a affair with a man, Tom, she met years ago (Lily Tomlin).  Tom, who's a folk singing musician who sleeps with various women (Keith Carradine).  The other members in his group, who are married, yet the wife, Mary (Christina Raines) loves Tom. The famous successful singer from Nashville, Barbara Jean, who's suffering a nervous breakdown (Ronee Blakley).  Her cruel and loud husband, Barnett, who is also her manager (Allen Garfield).  Barbara Jean's competition, Connie White (Karen Black) who is getting the success since Barbara is in the hospital.  A local and successful singer, Haven Hamilton, who's very egotistical and mean (Henry Gibson).  A waitress, Sueleen Gay (Gwen Welles) who has the looks but not the talent. Her protective co-worker, Wade, who's always drunk outside of their job (Robert DoQui).  A BBC reporter, Opal, who's doing a documentary onthe music scene in Nashville (Geraldine Chaplin).  A political man who's visiting Nashville, John Triplette, (Michael Murphy) who's representing the presidential canadidate.  A mysterous and quite soldier, Private Kelly (Scott Glenn) who's always around Barbra Jean.  A woman who's down on her luck, Albuquerque (Barbara Harris) who appears from place to place.  And a mysterous man, (Jeff Goldblum) who can perform magic and appears a different places from time to time. This movie is a monumental achievement in filmmaking and story telling.  Robert Altman uses a advertisement like commercial in the beginning of the film to tell who's in the film.  Then there's the interweaving of characters from here and there, where when the character see's some crazy people, the viewer knows what everyone's situation is.  It's like if Robert Altman put the viewer in the seat of God and has the viewers watch the people's lives in Nashville for a few days. The acting is excellent, Ned Beatty, Lily Tomlin, Ronee Blakley, Allen Garfield, Karen Black, Henry Gibson, Geraldine Chaplin, Scott Glenn, Barbara Baxley, Barbara Harris, Gwen Welles, Kennan Wynn, and Keith Carradine are all excellent in performing their character's to make them look believable.  But my personal favorite is Michael Murphy, who's the devlish and crafty campaign aide, who has the language and look of a true politician.  He'll sweet talk any musician just so they can perform at the presidential canadidate's rally.  It's like the devil wandering around trying to have people sign for their souls.  And in the end of the film, it comes to a unexpected and memorable climax. NASHVILLE is a ture art form masterpiece that should been seen. Even P.T. Andersen would agree, he casted two stars from NASHVILLE (Henry Gibson & Michael Murphy) in MAGNOLIA. It's the first film of it's kind that tells the plot different and entertaining.  The music is also quite very well done (and I personally don't like country music!)  And what makes the music even more good is that the actors who sing the songs also wrote them!  This will be on DVD through Paramount pretty soon.  I highly reccommend that you either buy it, or at least rent it.  You'll be in for a original treat!  ***** (out of five) "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies of all time","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Robert Altman is the greatest director working in  movies today.  He is one of the five greatest  directors of all time, as far as I am concerned.   Only D. W. Griffith, Jean Renoir, and Orson Welles  have made a greater impression on me.  And this I  think is Altman's greatest movie--and one of the ten  greatest of all time.  I don't think there is a  denser sensual experience in the movies than the one  Altman offers.  The overlapping sound, the probing  camerawork, the acting that does not seem like  acting, the refusal to direct our attention to any  one thing, the insistence on seeing the full picture  and have onlookers drink it all in in one  shot--these elements are all there in movies like  M*A*S*H, McCabe and Mrs. Miller, California  Split, and this one.  Added to the usual masterly  touches is the benefit of the actors in Nashville  writing songs that define the characters they are  playing.  The most gifted of them is Ronee Blakely  as the delicate, physically drained Barbara Jean.   The best songs from a movie released in 1975 were  Blakely's songs Dues; Tapedeck in His Tractor;  My Idaho Home.  And one of the most poignant  moments in the movies is her rendition of In The  Garden.  The sight of Blakely singing softly in a  wheelchair in a hospital chapel will stay with me  forever.  (The only performance by an actress that  surpassed hers that year was Isabelle Adjani in  Francois Truffaut's The Story of Adele H.)  She isn't alone.  There is Lily Tomlin in a role  that won her the New York Film Critics Award for  best supporting actress, and rightly so.  When  Tomlin lets loose in the recording studio with  fabulous gospel singers blazing through one of  Richard Baskin's songs, you want the camera to stay  with her--and them--until the credits roll.  There  is Barbara Harris, running from her husband, looking  for a singing gig, trying to sing over the din of a  stock car race.  There is Henry Gibson and Keenan  Wynn and Jeff Goldblum (in the longest motorcycle  I'll ever see) and Scott Glenn and Karen Black and  Keith Carradine and Christina Raines and Robert  Doqui and Gwen Welles--all serendipitous.  There are too many pleasures to succumb to to write them all  down in detail here.  Nashville is sprawling, an  awe-inspiring work.  There is nothing like it in  film history, and I don't think there ever will be.    "},{"Title":"It's funny because its so true!!!","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Nashville stands out as Robert Altman's best work to date!  Watching this film is like watching a gory car accident.  You aren't sure why, but you just can't seem to take your eyes away.  The lives of twenty four characters are interwoven into this complicated piece that captures the essence of country music, the 1970's, and the tragedy that is the American dream. These actors give the performances of their life.  Henry Gibson plays Haven Hamilton, country music royalty, who's star has faded.  Ronee Blakely is Barbara Jean, a Loretta Lynn-like figure, who falls apart, while Karen Black's Connie White (with a big blonde wig) takes the spot light.  Lily Tomlin is the housewife/gospel singer, who gives so much, yet wants so badly to get something in return.  And Geraldine Chaplin is Opal, from the BBC, who's own warped view on the world prevents her from seeing the true essence of the kooky town she is doing a documentary on.  Nashville is filled with clever scenes and brilliant writing, allowing a multitude of characters to interact and to grow right before your eyes!  Certainly one of the best films I have ever seen! "},{"Title":"Robert Altman's outstanding slice of Americana...score 10 (out of 10)","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Robert Altman's Nashville (1975) is on my top ten list of films from the 1970's.  Not since Frank Capra directed It's a Wonderful Life (1946) has there been a better character study of American culture.  Set against the backdrop of a small town, the film focuses on 24 characters and all from different walks of life (typical for most of Altman's films).  The film combines country music, politics, and satire into one huge climatic finale at Nashville...Hey, this isn't Dallas...this is Nashville!  score 10 (out of 10).   "},{"Title":"a real classic; watch for...","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is a real classic, a wonderful, sprawling mess of too-real life that magically (and poignantly) comes together at the end. Watch for Keith Carradine (and his great original song material), Lili Tomlin, Henry Gibson (his best work ever) and a barely recognizable Scott Glenn. Enjoy your trip to Nashville! "}{"Title":"One of the best films of the seventies","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  No one can do it like altman for character study.brilliant study of human emotions in this altman classic catapults this above everything else. terrific cast handle the dialogue beautifully though a lot was improvised making things even more natural.ronee blakley gives a tragic unforgettable performance.the ending will stick with you forever great film. "},{"Title":"Recollection of filming","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Just wanted to offer my recollection of the filming of a segment of Nashville. All were scattered on the lawn in front of The Parthenon, the focal point of a park located next door to where I lived in Nashville at that time. I remember being able to walk among the stars involved in the production as they sat casually on the grass. Geraldine Chaplin was particularly captivating. I'm glad it became such a classic! "},{"Title":"Top of the line","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" If Stephen Sondheim were to be approached to turn this into a musical, he would be quite right to shrug it off as he already did Sunday In The Park With George.Bits and pieces, coming together into one massive quilt depicting a brief moment of human existence in the United States. Very much a document of its time, the film is as we were, scattered, splintered, a herd of cats wandering across the land, and all hearing the siren call and responding.But to which siren do we respond? Fame and fortune in the music industry, power in politics? The call to faith? Sex and pleasure? It is all here, all at once, all at the same time.This film is possessed of the zeitgeist, and there is a sense that the fourth wall keeping us from it is slowly melting. The opening sequence, sounding like a K-Tel commercial, reminds us we are in a commercial venture, a performance of an artificial reality but, by the end, that artifice is shattered repeatedly, an assassin's bullet hitting bone and ricocheting around and around.Having seen much of his work prior to this film, it is here, without any flinching or concern of response, that I stand firm. From here, Nashville, the term Altmanesque is fully realized. Not only does the rest of the body of his own work pale in comparison, but this is his true above-the-rest master work, his magnum opus. (Short Cuts is a brilliant reminder to himself, and us, that he had the capacity to do it more than once. Thank God the plane didn't go down after Nashville! The generation my generation bred needed their own, and they got it.) Much has been written about the use of overlapping dialog, and it is interesting to me that one hears it used to brilliant effect in Citizen Kane (possibly the single finest moment of radio drama if you ever get the chance, ignore the visuals and just listen to Citizen Kane. A most enlightening experience). What is missed in this damnation by the faintest of praise is that the dialog overlaps the way the individual stories do, and often at the moment in which they must to propel this mad, mad, mad, mad world towards its most brilliant conclusion.Altman had a dual career both hit and miss. The sheer momentum of this film, its unswerving gaze, its slow steady build makes it a massive hit, making it possibly the true Important Film of his career. It is Altman's Casablanca, one watches again and gains more from every viewing, it is a living entity, growing and evolving with every frame. It is Altman's Lawrence Of Arabia and Malcolm X, sweeping in majesty and grandeur and telling the greater tale in the focus of the faces of the average man. It is Altman's It's A Wonderful Life, presenting itself without flinching (everyone seems to forget that the standard Christmas chestnut deals with a man contemplating suicide). It is Altman's Intolerance, only watchable and pleasurable. It is Altman's Metropolis, important, powerful and a crowning achievement of the medium of film. "},{"Title":"discovers a unique way to be moving","Date":"24 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The film seems to announce itself as a parody, even mockery, of Nashville (from the hyperactive radio ad in the opening moments onward). But from there, it finds a way to be moving and complicated about its characters and subject matter.The pattern repeats itself. Haven Hamilton initially comes across as a buffoon, but at the climatic crisis acts selflessly and heroically. Family life in Nashville seems banal and two-dimensional until we meet Lilli Tomlin, with her difficult task of managing her distracted husband and her deaf children. Throughout, the Geraldine Page character is used to represent the blinded attitude toward Nashville (and Middle America) that detractors accuse the film of adopting; similarly, the sophisticated Keith Carradine character sneers at the locals and righteously postures as an anti-war guy, and is slowly revealed to be selfish and shallow.Throughout Altman seems to be saying here's a stereotype; and here are its complications; what do you make of them? This motif appears in the tiniest things, as in the church-going montage, when the friend of Sueleen Gay, the African-American Wade Cooley, turns up in the Catholic instead of the Baptist church. The music itself is that way. The songs at first seem like they'll all be ludicrous and intentionally inept. But then there are the beautiful ones by Ronee Blakely, and the brilliant musicianship of Vassar Clements, etc. There's no simple way to take the meaning of the music.These little things are part of what makes the movie great. Them, and the concluding pan upward to the washed-out 1970s sky. "},{"Title":"More Questions than Answers","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I loved Nashville, and somehow feel compelled to watch it again and again, searching for some meaning behind it all. But my questions go beyond those emanating from the film itself, and now include what one might term meta-questions about some of the comments I've read in my search for insight. Maybe I am dense, but what clues are there that Kenny Frasier was intending to instead assassinate Hal Philip Walker? Yes, I saw the literature in his car. What are we to make of that? Could he possibly have just been a supporter of this candidate? Or maybe opposed to this candidate, to the point that he took down these flyers and collected them in his car? He did walk right by that building from which the van emerged, so apparently he had his shot. I also heard that Haven Hamilton was a fake. Why? One comment said something about his wife leaving him -- I don't recall this at all. Subjectively, I have heard how bad the music is. And I am no fan of country music. But I love 200 Years, Blue Bird, and Memphis, and like many other songs. Why such negative feedback about the music? Why did Barnett want to beat up Connie White's Barnett counterpart? Why is Connie White considered so manipulative? She replaced Barbara Jean, sang some songs, and did not recognize a star, and criticized her hair. I'd do worse than that if I'd just had a root canal! "},{"Title":"Epitome of Altman's work and great films.","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I've seen this picture a number of times, but recently saw it again for the first time in several years.I have never seen an Altman film which I didn't like, and this one stands as a crowning work, and one of the best, ever, by anyone.There isn't a single character, actor, performance or scene which I failed to enjoy - and Keith Carradine's stands-out most, among all the outstanding ones presented.The music, story, and Altman's fascinating cacophony of dialog, and the feel of both the storyline, and its Nashville setting, all are superb. This film will continue to remain with the likes of Casablance, Citizen Kane, Gone With the Wind, and The Godfather, etc., for decades to come.Like true classics, as time passes and one watches it anew, it has an increasingly nostalgic bonus - viewing the period when it was made and which it portrays. "},{"Title":"one of Altman's best -- maybe the best vision of  70s America","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Robert Altman made great films that dealt with singular protagonists, like The Long Goodbye and The Player, but his ensemble pieces like MASH and Short Cuts have an energy unique to themselves. Nashville is likewise a one-of-a-kind original in this respect and genuinely weird -- it's impressionistic and musical, built on moments of you-have-to-pay-attention comedy and bleak smallness. It's easy to say that's it's a vision of the '70s (a Nixonion bicentennial era); a quagmire of nazel-gazing hopelessness, but that ignores its bracingly relevant themes of celebrity obsession, political change, and the way they both intersect over and over. Altman balances a cast of over 24 characters but rarely delivers a conventional dramatic scene and moves his camera off Lily Tomlin and Henry Gibson and Geraldine Chaplin (wonderfully daft), Karen Black, Allen Garfield, Ronnee Blaklee, Timothy Brown, Barbara Starr, Keith Carradine, Michael Murphy, Ned Beatty and even Jeff Goldblum before we can really know them and yet we do know them because we still bump into these people every day of our lives. That is Nashville's genius -- and Altman's -- the truthfulness of the dumbest country-and-western song, an inane patch of everyday dialogue, and the most irrational act of violence. Altman was always asked why the loner shot who he did instead of his obvious intended target... you should figure it out. "},{"Title":"one of the most unconventional American musicals ever made","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" What a mighty sword that Robert Altman wields! And it doesn't even seem like he's trying (actually, a lot of his method is to let his actors do their thing, while seamlessly being the intricate voyeur and conductor in the editing room), even when he makes what might be his most striking achievement yet, at least in his 'multi-layered' film area of work. It's staggering in part because of how he defies the ideals of having a normal 'balance' with the narrative. In fact, his film could be considered in a sense a masterpiece of contradictions. It celebrates thumb-nosing at the system and the parts of the counter-culture and sexual revolution and the disgust at rhetoric in politics, while still trying to reach for some level of worth and pride in this country. There's moments of nuance and detail and little emotional notes that will probably need a repeat viewing (or more) to totally grasp, while also encapsulating what is an archetypal Altman-esquire film with lots and lots of things going on in scenes, with the spontaneity of life bouncing around the conversations and characters and big crowds. It's grandiose and epic, somber and uproariously funny, and it leaves at the end the feeling that this country should be loved while also criticized to hell.Any other director might collapse at trying to achieve so much as what is done in Nashville, but Altman accomplishes it because of not just his own intuition and grace with his style- and I've rarely seen his style so attuned to an aesthetic that works for the material (in a sense documentary, but with the gravitas of drama)- but with his sprawling cast. We get all kinds of personalities, as opposed to direct 'stories', all in this small city in Tennessee where country music reigns and southern accents aren't hard to come by. There's a mother of two deaf boys, Linnea Reese (Lily Tomlin), who also sings in a gospel choir and may have a mail suitor trying to court her even as she's married to a Mr. Reese (Ned Beatty). He is the sort of assistant to a political consultant (Michael Murphy), or at least how he appears to be, when he's also not trying to look after his interests for his politician in town. There's also the galley of female singers, including Sueleen Gay (Gwen Welles at the peak of her powers), who can't sing well, and Barbara Jean (Ronee Blakley), who sings very well, but is in the hospital for a spell after collapsing, and may or may not have a couple of screw-looses. Still, she is somehow the most cherished country singer around.Meanwhile, a BBC reporter (Geraldine Chaplin, a candidate for consistently funniest oddball of the lot) who roams around, a man who is easy as the song literally goes takes his pick of women (Carradine, in a class-act of a 'hunky' performance), a very successful singer tries to keep the balance of things all musical in Nashville (Henry Gibson, with killer sideburns), and others like a tricycle freak (Jeff Goldbum, hilariously funny with those glasses) and a wanderer (Shelley Duvall) make up the patchwork. There's also a very strong performance, one of my favorites, by the control-freak husband of Barbara Jean (Allan Garfield), who loves her and cant stand to see her crumble- just like the audience, to an extent. All the while these characters are 'woven' together- for lack of a better expression- into what Nashville is, which has no real story to speak of, but really doesn't need one, in all reality because, frankly, Altman's getting down reality minute by minute. It might sometimes be absurd or bleak or crude, but it's a kind of reality nonetheless that bares probably little relation to the script (hence the documentary feel).But most of this would seem trite if the music didn't work either, and it's here that the idea of America's tragic, lovely, fun and oddly uplifting moments all in one package. It also helps that the country music, more often than not, is loaded with classic melodies and singing- and this is coming from someone who usually can't stand country music- particularly the song that's played by Keith Carradine and his two friends up on-stage *before* I'm Easy, Barbara Jean's songs, and at least one of the bits from Henry Gibson. There's always a sense with the 'good-old' American music that it conveys messages and meanings for us that wouldn't be totally recognized otherwise, if only in inflection and voice and lyric and such (not to get too preachy about it). And somehow it connects where a lot of times politics or relationships just cannot, which then adds that extra layer of bittersweet (more for the bitter) with what happens at the end at the show with Barbara Jean, and the final song It Don't Worry Me. Everything combines together, and the detail and various conversations with characters become illuminated more by the persistent, engrossing use of zooms and delicate pans on the characters. All Altman needs is that little note from the camera on the actor, and for the actor to be right there, and it works wonders. Filled with abrasive notes of symbolism, including an opening wink at the audience involving the soundtrack, and pitch-perfect moments, this is one of the great 70s films, and one of the top high-points of the late director's career. "},{"Title":"A Tribute to Robert Altman, NASHVILLE 1975","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I am 56 years old. I was personally required to view this movie twice on opening day in January 1975. The Movie runs 159 minutes. It was tough then, tougher now. Most will not understand the movie until viewed twice. It is so important in 2006 that people see this movie. Robert Altman was a complex man who directed a movie that is so remarkable, 31 years later, it's message is being revealed today. I will say no more other than, it is not about Nashville, it is not about country music, and the last musical lyric in the movie, tells it all. Some people say that we ain't free, but it don't worry me..... Chilling.I purchased the VHS and DVD over ten years ago and have loaned it to many, many people....very few understand...I salute the late Robert Altman and offer these words as a partial eulogy from a dedicated fan.David DunawayLake Toxaway, NC "},{"Title":"An Altman classic","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I saw this film during it's initial theatrical release and have seen it several times since but not in along time. Director Robert Altman was doing films for United Artists and wanted them to produce the film Thieves Like Us. They agreed if he would agree to direct a story about country music that they had a script for. He rejected the script and said he would offer them another so he sent Joan Tewkesbury, who had been his script supervisor on McCabe and Mrs. Miller, to Nashville to do research. Her script was submitted by Altman to United Artists which they rejected but Thieves Like Us ended up getting made anyway. Altman got Jerry Weintraub to get the Nashville script to Marty Starger at Paramount to get the green light for it's production there. Altman added the politician to the script as well as what happens to the character Barbara Jean. Polly Platt, who had done The Last Picture Show and Paper Moon didn't like the additions and quit the film. Susan Anspach was cast as Barbara Jean but a money dispute led Altman to look elsewhere and found an unknown Ronnie Blakley for the role. Blakley was working as a backup singer to Hoyt Axton and had once did a film score but hadn't been an film actress. She ended up getting an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actress but found only a handful of lead roles after Nashville. Louise Fletcher was originally in mind for the role that went to Lilly Tomlin who in her first film role also received an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actress. Gary Busey was originally slated for the Kieth Carradine role but Altman ended up casting Carradine who he had cast in Thieves Like Us. Carradine would win the films only Acadamy Award for Best Song. Robert Duval was originally considered for the Henry Gibson role. The film was also nominated for Oscars for Best Picture and Best Director. It was critically acclaimed and received 11 Golden Globe nominations including an astounding five actor nominations. it was also nominated and awarded by the Writers Guild, Directors Guild, National Board of Review, BAFTA, National society of Film Critics and both the L.A. and New York Film Critics Associations. The Blakley role is patterned after country singer Loretta Lynn, Gibson's is a Roy Acuff, Barbara Baxley is a Minnie Pearl, Karen Black is a Tammy Wynette, Timothy Brown is a Charlie Pride and Keith Carradine is a Kris Kristofferson character. also among this huge ensemble cast are Jeff Goldlbum, Scott Glen, Shelly Duvall, Ned Beatty, Barbara Harris, David Arkin, Gwen Welles, David Hayward, Keenan Wynn, Elliot Gould, Julie Christie, Michael Murphy and Geraldine Chaplin as a character based on the film's screenwriter Joan Tewkesbury. Cinematographer Paul Lohman who drew attention for his photography of the concert film Fillmore and had worked with Altman before on California Split does a great job with the film's cinematography and would go on to a successful film and television career. Nashville is show business, country music, politics and a microcosm of America. The actual Nashville country crowd hated the music as not representative of Nashville because of actors doing their own singing to unknown songs, many composed by the actors and Altman, done live in front of camera which they saw as far inferior and amateurish to Nashville standards. The presidential candidate character would soon become similar to both the campaigns of Jimmy Carter and Ross Perot and the the film would also envision celebrity stalking. I would give this a 10. "}{"Title":"My experiences in Nashville.","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" About two years ago I moved to Nashville (having never been interested in country music and never actually had any real interest in the city itself) so that I could learn audio engineering. Seems like a strange choice, I know.Anyway, my very first day was spent at the Opry backstage (a long time friend was down there playing drums for the up and coming Gretchen Wilson) conversing with country stars whom I had no clue who they even were. I even accidentally tripped Leanne Womack... I wonder if she remembers... ANYWAY...Later that week I witnessed and pretty bad car accident on the highway (involving furniture not properly secured in a pickup truck)... over the year and a half I spent there I met a lot of people involved with the music industry and saw much of the insanity surrounded it. Sometime during that period I saw Alltman's Nashville.So there were quite a few parallels to my own experiences in Nashville to what was caught on film. However. It was quite interesting to see the incredible changes to the industry in this time, especially from at outsiders point of view. Some for the better, some for the worse.Its also interesting to note that most of the locals seem to like that movie, though admit that when it came out there was a lot of complaints about the music. However, over time, they realized it was not about the music, but about the people of 1970's Nashville in general.I moved back to Chicago about a month ago, and I miss Nashville deeply. "},{"Title":"Thought provoking and timeless","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I recently saw this film for the first time in over ten years for its 25th anniversary re-issue at the cinema. Nashville now was a completely different experience from what I remember, but not in a negative way. This is one of those rare films that can stick in your brain for days after you've seen it; you're still processing what the film expressed and adressed. This film is still so necessary and relevant. Definitely one of the reasons why I love cinema. "},{"Title":"Like the Everready battery","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Every one of the 5 or 6 times I've watched this, I notice things I hadn't paid enough attention to before, but then there is so much in it. It is an extremely generous movie as well as one that combines anguish over the state of US life with forgiving humour. Not a film to see so much as one to see again! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies ever","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A stunning achievement. A sprawling, colorful, disgusting display of country music, politics, country music as politics, politics as country music, the American heartland at the funeral of the '60s, and the obsession that comes with working in a one-note town. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of that year....","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" ... by far!  Should have won the Oscar that year.  Truly a classic American film and story.  Anyone serious about films, should see this one. "},{"Title":"Nashville as a microcosm","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is an extraordinary creation. Having a covey of Thespians basically ad-lib for almost three hours was unheard of till Robert Altman made Nashville. Still there is room for so much more in depicting the social, moral, and political structure of the international capital of hillbilly music built by the likes of Roy Acuff and Fred Rose. Except for the songs written and performed by Keith Carradine, the other self-penned ditties are travesties and spoofs of real sh*tkicking music, which is actually what Altman intended. Otherwise he would have hired professional Nashville songwriters to provide the score. I'm certain even Altman was surprised to find that Carradine had not only real talent for songwriting but also had the feel and touch necessary for true country music. His I'm Easy deservedly won the Oscar for Best Music, Original Song.Some of the scenes in Nashville come close to rivaling sequences from Altman's masterpiece MASH In particular the interstate pileup which shows an assortment of characters whose lives will intertwine in hilarious situations including a guy selling treats to the by-standers. It's not uncommon for those among us with rush hour mentality to want to see the blood and gore of a deadly highway crash. What is one of life's major tragedies is turned into a circus by cold, unfeeling humans who value entertainment, partying, and fun and games over all other items, especially those metaphysical.Overall, Nashville reminds me of Federico Fellini's 8 l/2, though Fellini's creation has more depth and clarity of purpose. Altman's film uses more satire and buffoonery but still attempts to dissect American society during the bi-centennial celebration by using Nashville as a microcosm to spoof and lay bare the bones of U.S. cultural and political hypocrisies much as Fellini did for Italian society at mid-century. Still Altman's movie is difficult to classify. Is it surrealistic? Is it New Wave? In reality it's a creature of its own streaming from his mind, brilliant, seductive, illusive, and hilarious. "},{"Title":"A mesmerizing technical and artistic achievement.","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Credit for the success of this sprawling film must go writer Joan Tewkesbury. Though the look and feel are spontaneous and the dialogue mostly improvised, underneath lies a tightly constructed story line - no easy task considering the vast number of characters and subplots. Likewise, editing the pieces into coherent form requires considerable skill, especially with the shoot-from-the-hip, no-chance-for-second-takes conditions of location filming with largely uncontrollable crowds of extras. It was a daring undertaking which, unlike some of Robert Altman's other films, comes together beautifully. The musical numbers are sublimely interwoven with character development while wryly commenting on the Nashville music scene. And Ronee Blakely just doesn't know how talented she is - her commanding singing performances are juxtaposed with convincing emotional frailty. All the acting is outstanding - even minor players get their star turns. This film is a mesmerizing technical and artistic achievement, comparable to few others. "},{"Title":"Keep A Going.......","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This film remains unique, not only for it's constant ability to attract serious comment over 30 years after release, but also for it's undoubted quality as a study in fame, power, comedy and love.Centered around a political rally in the world capital of country music, Robert Altman's masterpiece brings maximum rewards as he lets the viewer eavesdrop on the ups and downs of a couple of dozen characters who casually - and perhaps unwittingly - team-build a patchwork of immense story telling through music, candid dialogue, joy and tears.The country music icons, notably played by Keith Carradine, Henry Gibson, Karen Black and Timothy Brown effectively lead the tale, bolstered by a political machine over-lorded by the Primary seeking hopeful (and anonymous, as he is never seen) Hal Phillip Walker, with his duo of sycophantic, in your face supporters, played effortlessly by Ned Beatty and Michael Murphy.The performances of the country stars, coupled with political stunts to bring Walker into office, blend in to a climax at a star-spangled vote-for-me open air freebie where a twist in the tale leaves the viewer feeling short changed and shocked. I say 'short changed' because there is a brilliantly acted assassination which is never truly developed in terms of why it happened; a possible flaw in the plot, but one that is a minor impediment as the reaction to this horror, through a mass anthem led by an underrated country music wannabee (played superbly by Barbara Harris) is one of steadfastness, resolution and American spirit.The film is, however, stolen by one central performance. Ronee Blakely as the neurotic, driven but broken and manager/husband abused Barbara Jean is simply magnificent. She does not appear to be acting at all as her character is totally natural, letting us glimpse her weaknesses, strengths, fears and hopes. Ably assisted by her slave-master Its me who takes care of yooooo honey.... Allen Garfield, excellent as 'Barnett', she is tragedy and triumph rolled into one. Memorable songs of the movie were Blakely's self written/performed 'Dues', My Idaho Home', 'Tapedeck in his Tractor' and a soft, wheelchair bound rendition of 'In The Garden'.Other reviews here have highlighted the musical and narrative merit of Keith Carradine's 'Im Easy' and I can only agree that the club scene when he delivers this lilting song is worthy of continual re-visit. Lily Tomlin, with a motionless, haunted expression and a brief pause for breath is effectively turned into stone in this scene, absorbing the lyrics as she realizes the song is a tribute to her - even though the camera pans and tilts to reveal 3 other women in the crowd who believe the piece is a personal message to them, without a single word being said. Screen Genius.The film is (still) not available in England on DVD, so I recently imported it via Amazon.com - MONEY WELL SPENT. "},{"Title":"Hated first time, understood and respected after listening to Altman's DVD commentary","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  As an entertainment movie, Nashville is quite bad.  I rented the DVD (PS, I was born one year after it came out and I just saw it) and was so bored I was going to give it a 3.Then I threw on Altman commentary and rewatched the movie.  And I began seeing it as in the same vein as Warhol's art.  That there isn't supposed to be a narrative.  There is no story.  It is just a capture of mood at the time.  The mona Lisa tells s nothing about her contempories.  But this just captures an attitude.Lot easier said than done. Not for everybody though. "},{"Title":"This is one of the reasons I love movies","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this when I was fifteen, and let me tell you, it made a hell of an impression.  I had never seen anything even remotely close to this. People talking like they really talk, sometimes all at the same time?  Really, it was all new.Some great scenes, great actors and great songs.  Barbara Harris stands out, for me, anyway.  Her song to end the movie was heaven. I was also glad Keith Carradine won the Oscar for Best Song for I'm Easy because that song was great too.  All around, it was one of the highlights of my life, at the time anyway.  "}{"Title":"Superb","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Brilliant.  Altman manages to make an almost 3 hour film about 23 or so characters in Nashville over the course of 5 days.  I almost didn't see the film because I hate country music, but I decided to give it a chance.  I ended up loving it!  The music wasn't bad at all (I'm Easy won Best Original Song at the Oscars) and the songs seem to be making fun of themselves (Karen Black and Henry Gibson at the Grand Ole Opry especially).  All the acting is good, direction is (of course) superb and the film is never boring.  If you asked me what this movie means, what the point is, etc etc I couldn't tell you.  All I can say is I've seen it at least 20 times and I've been blown away each and every time.  If at all possible see this on a wide screen (like I do, at a revival theatre) or letterboxed.  That's the only way to see it--the full screen version on TV is unwatchable.  Whatever you do, don't miss it!  A true classic of the '70s. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, sheer joy to watch.","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'll admit, I like Robert Altman movies in general. But from the first time I watched this movie back in 1975, this has been  one of my favorite movies of all time. The actors are all excellent, the music is great, and the way Altman brings all the seemingly dissimilar plot lines together at the end is incredible. If you never watch another movie, you'll never see Robert Altman's Nashville. So please, see another movie, and make it this one. "},{"Title":"Altmans bicentennial masterpiece.","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  1975 was one of Hollywoods greatest years, perhaps only equaled by 1993 and 1980, and surpassed only by 1939.Whether Nashville, One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest, or Barry Lyndon should have won the Oscar is a moot question; there is no question, however that Nashville is Altmans supreme masterpiece.. It is not only one of the greatest films ever made about the American entertainment industry, it is also one of the greatest films ever made about American politics( which seem to be rapidly becoming the same thing). Altman is often accused of soullessness' or of lacking a sense of structure.However, a careful viewing of this terrific film is enough to disprove those canards. Altman expertly (and compassionately) follows 24 very different human beings through  5 days in Music city during a presidential election year. Most of the characters are portrayed compassionately and intelligently.  Only the sanctimonious, Hank Snow like Haven Hamilton and ,the moronic  Brit reporter and the smarmy political advance man  receive his full, unrelenting contempt. This is also a film full of very fine  performances, many by actors who were never heard from again (Where IS Ronee Blakely?).This film still has a terrific emotional impact, and many of the questions it raises about American politics and culture have still not been adequately addressed. One of the ten or twelve best films of the seventies , and one of the greatest American films of all time. "},{"Title":"One of Altman's best films","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Nashville typifies the style of filmmaking that has come to be associated with director Robert Altman multiple characters whose lives intertwine in ways that are sometimes unusual, sometimes mundane; overlapping dialogue that virtually demands repeated viewings to catch everything; a sense of capturing what might otherwise be unobserved, quiet moments from everyday life.  Altman sees the great country music city as a microcosm of American life as the nation approaches the bicentennial, and carefully studies the behavior of the variety of characters whose orbits are about to meet at a political rally.  Many of the actors did some of their best work in this movie, and I particularly like Henry Gibson, Ronee Blakley, Keith Carradine, Lily Tomlin, and Keenan Wynn. "},{"Title":"The vaunted status of this movie as director Robert Altman's finest achievement escapes me.","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The director casts a mean-spirited look at 24 dislikeable characters that for the most part behave atrociously throughout this interminable film.Marriage, family, romance, music, politics, fashion, celebrity, religion, aspiration, and the media are pitilessly skewered. Geraldine Chaplin as a BBC reporter making a documentary about Nashville is a blathering idiot. Gwen Welles, ludicrously self-deluded in her belief she could become a singing star, sacrifices her self-respect for ten minutes of notoriety as she is cajoled into stripping for the boorish men at a political funders. Keith Carradine expresses his self-loathing by ruthlessly bedding any woman in sight. Lily Tomlin (blazingly real, but she is not given enough screen time to save this picture) and Ned Beatty grate on each other as a bored married couple struggling to raise two disabled children. Barbara Harris careens wildly out of control as a chickie-boom-boom girl looking for a break, Ronee Blakley collapses as a brittle singer buckling under the pressures of fame that include her abusive manager-husband, Henry Gibson preens as a marginally talented icon who has made it by cynically exploiting popular tastes. Barbara Baxley, stuck in a time warp as his washed-up wife, endlessly rehashes her glory days as a volunteer in the Kennedy presidential campaign. Keenan Wynn, the only decent character among the lot as an elderly man facing his wife's imminent death, seems mainly concerned with hopeless attempts to corral his uncaring groupie of a niece, played by Shelley Duvall, into a properly mournful mode. Michael Murphy wanders wide-eyed as political operative who looks on this freak circus with cynical wonder. And on it goes. Playing themselves in cameo roles, Elliot Gould and Julie Christie--of all people--turn up mainly to contrast these second-rate performers who rank as stars in their limited sphere with the genuine article. Their surprise appearances serve little purpose in the storytelling and jar the viewer right out of the film.Originally, Joan Tewkesbury seems to have written a quirky ensemble comedy about some colorfully eccentric characters that habituate the country music milieu in Nashville. Somehow, Robert Altman, deeply disturbed by the revelations of the Watergate scandal in the Nixon White House that were unfolding at the time, saw in this stew a vehicle for a dark parable about the rot at the roots of the American body politic. He tried to turn the froth into a cautionary musical outing with a theme similar to CABARET, that is, perpetual partying and mindless entertainment can corrode the soul of otherwise decent people who become numbed to growing social evils by it. Whether the highly specialized Nashville music scene could be considered representative of contemporary America in the 1970's when this film was made is questionable. Nor does the sinister overlay really work. The shocking act of violence at the end stuns the viewer with its complete arbitrariness, bearing no relation to anything that has gone before in the depiction of the characters and their motivations, or in what exists of the storyline.Country Western music has given us some world-class artists Johnny Cash, Patsy Kline, Willie Nelson. Perhaps the saddest aspect of NASHVILLE is its scorn for the people who produce the genre and how it dishonors the music itself. I am decidedly not a country music fan, yet even I found the shabby treatment of the music disheartening. Some of the cast (Ronee Blakley, Karen Black, Henry Gibson) wrote and performed their own songs for the film--and it shows. Their weak and quavering voices hardly do justice to their own material. Perhaps that was the point, as none of the characters is meant to be especially talented. But why depict that by embarrassing your stars, Mr. Altman? Furthermore, there seems to be no compelling reason why the characters should be dubious talents. Singers whose genuine gift is offset by unattractive offstage behavior might have made the film vastly more interesting, not to mention musically bearable.Yes, Keith Carradine did write the Oscar-winning I'm Easy, a passable entry. Carradine's terrific It Don't Worry Me, should have been the Oscar winner. Barbara Harris' electrifying rendition of the song at the climax finally brings into focus the ironic bite that the film has been groping for all along. But by then, we hardly care.I assume many revere NASHVILLE for its improvisational-style ensemble acting. Now an established device in our cinema lexicon, this film first brought Altman's approach to mainstream attention as a startling new technique. After many Altman movies in the decades since, the approach seems less original, but no less compelling to watch. Only Chaplin seems stilted and scripted, but that is the nature of her character, the incredibly annoying ersatz journalist lost in her own incoherence. The rest of the actors truly listen and play off each other, being fully present in the moment. Altman has a great knack for helping players find one throwaway gesture that vividly reveals everything about a character. For example, catch what Carradine does right before the cut in the scene where Tomlin departs from his motel room. Or, to cite an instance from another Altman film, watch Alan Bates' salute in the mirror in GOSFORD PARK as a textbook piece of bravado acting.For those who enjoy fine acting, NASHVILLE is a gem. The cast is top-notch, and Altman is a force to be reckoned with as a director. But for Altman's pinnacle film-making achievement, I'd recommend GOSFORD PARK, which has more sympathetic characters with some genuine humanity, a less repulsive setting, and a beautifully designed storyline. "},{"Title":"It Don't Worry Me?","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Robert Altman's films are strange experiments, and even the best ones usually have elements that disappoint, or at least confound. That's what makes it such a surprise and pleasure that Nashville, one of his most ambitious undertakings, turns out to do everything right. It works on several levels &#150; as character study (for once, there's hardly a character in the film who doesn't get his or her due); as quasi-musical (with Ronee Blakley's and Keith Carradine's songs standing out in the wonderfully good category, and Gwen Welles's and Henry Gibson's in the wonderfully bad one); as comedy (with Geraldine Chaplin's unforgettable Opal from the BBC), as tragedy (with Keenan Wynn's quietly painful Mr. Green), and as a sometimes uncomfortable mix of the two (Barbara Jean's breakdown, Sueleen Gay's degradation, etc.); as realistic cinema, and, especially, as political allegory. Pauline Kael might have been the first to point out the parallels between the country song and the political speech &#150; both are essentially populist art forms, and one finds examples of earnestness and (more often) hypocrisy in both. (As usual, Kael was right in pointing out this detail, but more remarkably, this time she was right that it's a good movie too.) Altman takes this parallel and works it into his slice of American life effortlessly, whether it's in the scene where Barbara Jean and her husband argue about his listening to the opposition on the radio, or in the twin scenes where the soldier talks about following Barbara Jean because his mother loved her, and Bill chides Mary about being a registered Democrat simply because her father was. And then, after the climax, Altman closes by having his ordinary Americans respond to the horror by spontaneously singing the words You may say that I ain't free/But it don't worry me. It's hard to imagine a better example of willful ignorance in the face of a tragedy &#150; or a better example of optimism in the face of it. That, to Altman, is America, and Nashville ultimately has as much of a ring of truth to it as any film of his I've ever seen. 11 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Just as affecting today","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"    I'd be beating a dead, DEAD horse if I went on about how brilliant this movie is; I can also see why people hate it-it's definately not for all tastes.  The film has a beautiful soul and optimistic message by showing the good and the flawed in every character.  There's far too much here to go on about, instead I would like to focus on one small detail  the refreshing non-theatricality of the actors.  I know it's a staple of Altman's to display an almost documentary-like show with his performers but I would like to comment on how important the use of silence and stillness can be.  In the classic 'I'm Easy' scene, we see Lily Tomlin blink once (maybe twice),gulp, and take a deep breath and we know everything about her character.  She never speaks or moves.  The effect is breathtaking and a great example in the art of listening.  It can also make you cry. "},{"Title":"Scattershot satire does unveil one terrific new talent...","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Robert Altman's sprawling put-down of the Capitol of Country Music features a headache-inducing amount of overlapping dialogue recorded in a fuzzy, pseudo-documentary manner. Add to that an over-abundance of colorful characters and muddy cinematography, and Nashville almost self-destructs before the second-half. Saved in the end by terrific performances, Altman gets superlative acting turns from Shelley Duvall and Keenan Wynn (in the film's most moving side-plot), Henry Gibson (perhaps doing a Conway Twitty), Lily Tomlin (excellent), Gwen Welles as a would-be singer who ends up stripping, and of course Ronee Blakely (modeled after Loretta Lynn). Blakely's breakdown in front of an outdoor audience is unforgettable, her sanity slipping away as she babbles along happily. Otherwise, the picture is dated, occasionally shrill and sour. Professional criticisms in 1975 were downright split between glorious and hateful. It certainly isn't easy faulting a film that begins with a plug for its own soundtrack (clever...almost too clever), and as a vehicle for the talents of Ronee Blakely, who never got a chance like this again. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"among the best American movies","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is truly one of the great American movies of all time, by the great American director Robert Altman. I must have watched this movie 10 times, and am ready to see it again anytime. I was 15 when I first saw it, and it had an enormous impact on me, and continues to do so to this day. Ronee Blakeley, Lillie Tomlin, Ned Beatty, Barbara Harris, Henry Gibson, Karen Black, Gwen Welles and Michael Murphy all give great performances. There are remarkable musical performances, primarily by Ronee Blakeley. That she didn't get an academy award for her performance in this film is a crime. The film has the classic Altman technique of an overlapping and very busy soundtrack (the spoken bits). You need to pay attention to get it all. This slice of life view of Nashville over a few days is really about America, post Vietnam, post-Nixon and the petering out of the counterculture. The movie is about 2.5 hours long, but you've got to hang in there till the end. Altman's magnum opus, you must see this movie! Altman's great movies include Nashville, McCabe and Mrs. Miller, MASH, Come back to 5 and dime - Jimmy Dean - Jimmy Dean, Streamers and Short Cuts. And there are many more very good movies. He was one of our great filmmakers - and sadly under- appreciated. He was an auteur, and had a unique voice and style. "},{"Title":"Upheavals in Nashville","Date":"4 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This amusing musical is a striking example of Robert Altman's movies, huge amount of characters, some intertwined and some don't gives us the feel of chaos but as the film continues Altman grip it thoroughly and we can feel his unique work at it's best.The plot is a mosaic of country music scene in it's hinterland, Nashville. The songs fits in perfectly and, to my opinion, are great hits for themselves, make the film highly entertain. This parts of American society, southern culture, is often not on the spotlight of Hollywood film makers, hence given us the opportunity to expose through it, though, from obvious reasons, the country music industry denounce the film as totally fiction.Don't miss it! "}{"Title":"One of the finest American films ever made","Date":"28 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Films with multiple story lines and an ensemble cast are commonplace nowadays, but it all stems, really, from this film - Robert Altman's formidable Nashville. Sure, there were films before that handled large casts before, but never before had a film so successfully told an overlying story using so many characters, and have their lives so delicately intertwined. These characters have full histories and complex natures, yet they are only glimpsed and suggested in short scenes that say more in two or three minutes than most films can manage in a feature length running time.The film takes place over the course of five days in Nashville, Tennessee, and focuses around the minor and major players in the music business, and the hangers on that seem to always be around. The key characters are Haven Hamilton (Henry Gibson), a spangly-suited veteran singer with political ambitions, Barbara Jean (Ronee Blakley), a mentally unstable country music darling returning to her home town, Tom Frank (Keith Carradine), a member of a folk group trio who is trying to make it on his own and having as many woman as he can along the way, Linnea Reese (Lily Tomlin), a white gospel singer who is being pursued by Tom, and Del Reese (Ned Beatty), Linnea's manager husband, who seems to be oblivious to the strain on his marriage. All their lives are interconnected and are usually linked by an incident or a set-piece.The first scene of the film sees the campaign van for Presidential candidate Hal Phillip Walker setting off for a tour around Nashville, and appears throughout the film. The film even climaxes at a political rally for Walker, with Hamilton and Barbara Jean both appearing on stage, and the scene brings together nearly all of the films' characters. Although I didn't get from the film that it is necessarily making any kind of political statement, it was made soon after the Watergate scandal, and was released to an America that was looking for answers. I think Nashville is making both a warm and cynical statement about the optimism and the arrogance of America, and also the confusion and the uncertainty that came with the 1970's.Such is the beauty of Nashville. I couldn't sum up what it was about in one sentence, and couldn't describe a clear aim or message it was trying to deliver. It is a number of things, and touches a number of emotions. The real greatness is in its small moments, such as talentless and desperate aspiring country singer Sueleen Gay (Gwen Welles) singing to a room full of men, and then being told that she was brought there to strip; the cold detachment that Tom deals with Linnea when she reveals she can't stay any longer; the various characters who all think that Tom is singing to them in a crowded bar, as he gazes over them all to the back of the room; or the uncomfortable scene in which Barbara Jean keeps talking to an uneasy crowd rather than singing a song, as it becomes clear that she is truly losing her mind.Nashville is one of the key films of the 1970's, and one of the finest examples of the American New Wave that emerged in that time, and produced some of the finest films to ever come out of the country. Although Altman had been around for a while at that time (he had already done the brilliant MASH and the thoroughly underrated revisionist western classic McCabe & Mrs. Miller), this is the film where he truly found his forte. It's been imitated endlessly, but never has a film managed to do so much with so many different stories. An absolute great, and one of the finest American films ever made.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"one of the pinnacles of the 1970s","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The eve of our country's Bicentennial saw the release of this wildly idiosyncratic celebration of the American state of mind, mixing two-and-a-half hours worth of comedy, tragedy, romance, politics, social commentary, sex, and country music into an amazing kaleidoscope of action and incident. It's certainly one of the busiest films ever made, and with more than two-dozen characters (and half as many plot lines), the experience can hardly be contained on a cinemascope screen. Surprisingly, none of the intertwined stories is lost in the shuffle, thanks to the efforts of director Robert Altman, who found at last the perfect vehicle for his improvised cut-and-paste collage technique. The film can't help but have a dozen loose ends (there's no way so many stories could be tied together neatly), but it's strictly a case of art imitating life in all its messy, inconclusive glory. This is one film that needs to be seen more than once (and on a big screen), if only to assimilate all the details. "},{"Title":"Master of Chaos","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Others have tried to achieve what Altman achieved The effortless surfing of the subatomic ineluctable. Nashville captures this, perfectly.I first saw Nashville when it came out. I was about 21 years old; politically naive, a mere tadpole, spiritually speaking.Admittedly belatedly, I watch Nashville and realize it newly numbers among my canon of prophetic films. America Watch and Tremble.Specifically Watch how Altman carves sound, light, and time--like an (at the time) young master. How he did it is beyond me How much did he plan to have the audiovisual data he needed available to hack and hew it into a perfect artifact.Much thanks, Robert. "},{"Title":"Altman's Nashville","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" When this film first started I said to myself Ug here we go again, not thinking I was going to like it. As the movie continued on I became more and more interested.The musical-like atmosphere I feel like, the film could have gone without. Robert Altman, did however, choose a great cast that perfectly reflected the essence of the film that he wanted his audience to capture. This film is pretty comedic too. A scene that I think displays this is one that we viewed in my film class as well. It is the scene when they are at the drive-in in there truck. The interaction between all of the actors is phenomenally great. I feel like it was their improvisational acting skills that helped factor into this. A guest lecture for our film class stated that the whole talk about mosquitoes was another one of their improvisational tricks up their sleeves. It makes it even funnier because everyone and anyone who has ever been to a drive-in know that this is so true. Also, politics are heavily linked throughout the film. This film is a political drama, musical as well as a documentary all tied together. I enjoyed this movie and would highly recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"We Must Be Doin Something Right...","Date":"25 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I saw the river playing in the valley Rushing 'round a bend and skipping stones I saw the meadow wobble in the moonlight I've come to get my girl and take her home Her doorbell plays a bar of Stephen Foster Her sister never left and look what it cost her We're gonna live in Nashville and I'll make a career Out of writing sad songs and getting paid by the tear Marry me and leave Kentucky Come to Tennessee 'Cause you're the only ten I see You're the only ten I see I've looked through offices and honky-tonks for men man enough to be Mr. and Mrs. Tennessee Mr. and Mrs. Tennessee Punk rock died when the first kid said Punk's not dead, punk's not dead You know Louisville is death, we've got to up and move Because the dead do not improve Goodbye you suckers and steady bad luckers We're off to the land of club soda unbridled We're off to the land of hot middle-aged women Off to the land whose blood runneth orange... Marry me and leave Kentucky Come to Tennessee 'Cause you're the only ten I see You're the only ten I see -David Berman, The Silver Jews, Tennesse "},{"Title":"Take a look at the master's masterpiece!","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Y'all take it easy now. This isn't Dallas, it's Nashville! They can't do this to us here in Nashville! Let's show them what we're made of. Come on everybody, sing! Somebody, sing! Robert Altman's 'Nashville' is simply one of film's greatest achievements. Combining improvisation, drama, and comedy to forge Altman's best and most un- forgettable movie experience.The rotating plot centers around the city of Nashville, TN. the country music capital of the world. A mysterious van campaigning for politician Hal Phillip Walker circulates the city spouting off campaign promises. The unseen Walker is trying to win candidacy for the U.S. Presidancy. He belongs to the newly formed Replacement Party.Of the many plot threads, my personal favorites werethe tale of Barbra Jean (Ronee Blakely), a country queen who just suffered a mental break down. She is also idolized by a solider (Scott Glenn) who trots along like a loyal puppy.Linnea Reese (Lilly Tomlin) the choral singer and mother of two deaf children, who shacks up with music sensation Tom (Keith Carridine), a womanizer.Mr. Green (Keenan Wynn), a man who brings his niece, Marthe (Shelly Duvall), to care for his dying wife. She cares more about celebrities, (including Tom, who she also shacks up with), then her dying aunt. Green also rents a room out to a mysterious stranger (David Hayward).And finally Haven Hamilton, (Henry Gibson), an egotistical, aging, S.O.B. of a country star.All mentioned above do splendid work, especially Wynn, there are some heart-breaking scenes in the hospital, where his wife stays.For the climactic assassination scene, Altman knows not to underscore the scene with music, but with crowds, movements, faces and cutting. Altman is a master he makes you know why in that scene alone. "},{"Title":"too good for one line summary","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Nashville is just about everything I've wanted a film to be. I'd seen short cuts first and was more than impressed with Altman's ability to handle, coherently, a whole slew of storylines. I was shown Nashville in a film class and it blew me away, though most of the others around me didn't get it , hated it, or fell asleep. I hate country music, and I love this film, that's how good it is. Plus, hearing actors write and sing their own material was an  unbelievably effective tool, employed by altman, to further push the actors into character. A great script, a great cast, a great attitude. Nashville is almost as good as it gets. "},{"Title":"How to make sense from chaos--Robert Altman","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In handling the camera I feel that I have no peer.  But what De Sica can do, that I can't do.  I ran his 'Shoeshine' again recently and the camera disappeared, the screen disappeared; it was just life . ..Orson Welles, 1960And thus, the first duty of a filmmaker is to make an orderly, understandable sense from the chaos of life.  This sounds like a big, awkward generalization, sure, but if you take a minute to think about it, it's the truth.One thing that kills a film is a feeling of manipulated, mechanical precision.  (Think how much we resented Empire of the Sun and Hook compared to how much we admired Schindler's List).While a director must have complete, omnipotent control over every aspect of his film, the best of all directors make it look easy.  (In fact, that's true of all artists  dancers, singers, musicians--to make the difficult look easy).  Life is sloppy, misshapen, like a lump of clay with air pockets, and if a director puts 'life' on the screen in a convincing, compelling manner, he has a successful film.It is the ability to do this which makes Robert Altman one of the best film directors of our time, and Nashville his best film. His storytelling seems free and easy, but on closer inspection this film reveals a greater skill--I'll dare say genius--that any serious film student should study with zeal and vigor.  The harshest words we can use against Altman's failures--Pret-a-Porter or Popeye--are 'eccentric' and 'outlandish'. Even his most conventional effort, the filming of John Grisham's screenplay,  The Gingerbread Man, was better than over half the other legal thrillers floating around, which are plenty.Some of my favorite directors, Stanley Kubrick, Oliver Stone, Martin Scorsese, Federico Fellini and Alfred Hitchcock, are interested in set pieces and carefully constructed scenes which show their cleverness  (mind you, their best films are as great as anyone could hope).  However, their styles are too often broken down, overanalyzed, and imitated by lesser filmmakers.  Young film majors ought to study Altman, Vittorio de Sica, Louis Malle, Jean-Luc Godard, Satyajit Ray, or Jim Jarmusch and Todd Solondz of today. They might get the message.  You can't copy their styles, because their styles can't be labelled or pigeon-holed.  You've got to make up your own, or you won't survive.To sum up, Nashville is as good a film as any other I can think of. "},{"Title":"The movie don't worry me much, but it's still out there bothering other people.","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Opening credits reads for a very long time, but once it's starts, it's really does start. It captures the time and place so vividly. A film on superficiality and hypocrisy of the American people for how is created. This is a riot. Even if Robert Altman is exaggerating about how loose this was, it is amazing how much of this was done essentially the fly and assembled in the editing room. The musical film follows country, gospel music stars, and 24 near normal people in Nashville, TN. The movie is full of musical numbers, and multiple story lines. Having 24 characters in a movie for the audience to watch, and care is hard to follow. It get somewhat confusing, and the story only have a overaching story arc with each character trying to become somebody. Most of the characters come together at Parthenon in Nashville to witness a outdoor concert for a populist running for President of the United States on the Replacement Party ticket. The overarching plot takes place over five days leading up to a political candidate Hal Phillip Walker ralley, who is never seen throughout the entire movie. Hal Phillip Walker's folksy political aphorisms is mixed with overblown songs juxtaposed with country superstar intended to commemorate the upcoming Bicentennial. The most popular country singer is Barbara Jean (Ronee Blakley) just return to Nashville who just agree to join the ralley despite having health issues and the 'Main' Main character. Barbara Jean continue to struggle in her return to the point that she refuse to sing songs, and rather rambling stories about her childhood. After several false starts, Barnett escorts her from the stage and tells the disappointed audience that they can come to the Parthenon tomorrow and see Barbara Jean perform for free, thus committing her to the Walker concert. Without spoiling the end-- the Climax at the Walker concert is one of the most deep movie ending ever. It's still chilling to watch even today. Other key characters are Opal (Geraldine Chaplin) a wacky, celebrity-obsessed, self-absorbed radio reporter. As a surrogate for the audience, she provides an outsider's perspective on the business of music. She is never seen with a film crew, to the point she may not even be a filmmaker but just a groupie who uses fake credentials to gain access to famous people. Haven Hamilton (Henry Gibson) Grand Ole Opry star. His political ambitions play a pivotal role in the film's plot. Pfc. Glenn Kelly (Scott Glenn), a Vietnam War veteran looking forward to Barbara Jean performing in a stalking type of way. Sueleen Gay (Gwen Welles) a pretty young waitress at the airport lunch counter and a talentless, aspiring country singer. Her refusal to recognize her limitations and face reality gets her in trouble is one of the best characters in the film. What a great character! I felt such pity and embarrassment for self-deluded Sueleen, but the scene at the stag fund-raiser was heartbreaking, nonetheless measure of control of of the rheum. Several characters are based on real country music figures Ronee Blakely's Barbara Jean is based on Loretta Lynn. There are also cameos from real stars Elliott Gould, Julie Christie, Vassar Clements and others all playing themselves. The actors and actresses composed some of the songs they performed in the film. The movie has some of the best songs, Since You've Gone This beautiful song, performed by the fictional folk trio Tom, Bill and Mary written for the film by Gary Busey. Weird. The whole sub-plot affair between Tom Frank (Keith Carradine) and Lennea Reese (Lily Tomkins) can be solve by the song 'I'm Easy which won Best Original Song at the Academy Award. This song still holds up and to think that it was actually written by an actor like Keith Carridine. Such a poignant moment in the film. He had all those girls fooled into thinking he liked them individually and he called up another gal while Lily Tomlin's character was getting ready to leave. Lily's face near the end is absolutely heartbreaking, that scene had to have gotten her the Oscar nomination.Carradine also wrote It Don't Worry Me, which is heard on the soundtrack throughout the film, and is the closing number performed by Barbara Harris onstage at the Parthenon. She sang it beautiful, it's a shame Barbara Harris didn't go on to greater things - she's a country gem. She plays as an aspiring singer-songwriter who failures to get a break, comes in the end, and opportunity is calling. Sueleen Gay, leaning against the post watching Harris performs, coming to grips with the fact that her big break is not happening. But still patiently waiting for it. You could look at it like that, or you could see the indifference as rather the ability of Nashville (or even, the country at large) to carry on with the show, despite the tragedy - which would signify, fundamentally, a collective belief that the show must go on. Altman's film remains, to me, the greatest example of cinematic Impressionism (it's not really made up of multiple overlapping stories --but he just touched on every right moment for each character and you caught that. Still it's spotty. The movie was widely despised by the mainstream country-music community at the time of its release; many artists believed it ridiculed their talent and sincerity. Of course almost all of those people have since passed. Nowadays country music is just rock n roll with a twang anyway. Then there are those that says the politics really hurts the movie. Everybody thought that the South's time was over but it sound like Altman's was saying - America is the South - parody does not mean offense. That's why Nashville keeps being the masterpiece it is. It is simple and complex at the same time. Mr Altman leaves everyone free to form an idea of his/her own about the story told on the screen "},{"Title":"American classic","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is an American classic and will hold up years from now. One of the best casts ever assembled all do terrific work, especially Ronee Blakely, who was Oscar-nominated and should have won.  Also, great bits by Karen Black and Julie Christie.  Robert Altman has never topped his work in this epic. "}{"Title":"A little too easy","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Unlike some films that head in all directions at once and arrive nowhere, Nashville heads nowhere at various times and ends up probably somewhere unimportant. After a good 45 minutes of setting up the story and finding the right feel for the film, we're ready to go...too bad the film hits a plateau and only sporadically gets anymore interesting than a backstage pass to a concert that was last week.It's the work of an old pro after he'd only just begun to get good. Thing is, the movie is so busy trying to be a hip, slick, relaxed, assured piece of directorial brilliance that it forgets to DO anything. And the movie isn't even fun to watch on an all-style no-substance level. Keith Carradine is semi-interesting and Lily Tomlin owns the picture, but neither of them are given the chance to do anything. In the interview that comes along with the DVD, Altman says that the spine of the script was on the basis of one woman's experiences, and says more than a few times that ideas and characters were quickly thrown in the mix, and he says it proudly, as if simply fitting in random story ideas due to circumstance is enough to make the movie itself accomplished and worthwhile.The film contains more than an hour of music, and even for someone like me who's fond of good country (and don't mistake what you hear on country radio for country music -- it isn't, it's pop with a slide guitar and the occasional banjo), the only song that gives the film a real kick is one of the last, the one Carradine won an Oscar for, I'm Easy.One of the more observant, if pedantic and wrong-headed, reviewers on this site noticed the connection between country music and Altman's storytelling. Whereas popular country music is often simple story-songs, Altman's interests in relaying his narrative are anything but simple (for the time, that is).For a movie so roundly praised, I can't help but feel as if I needed to experience the film when it was first released to fully grasp what it meant means. If for nothing else, I'm glad I watched the film to see the unlined face of Scott Glenn and a few images where Shelley Duvall is actually sort of cute.** "},{"Title":"Its Not Dallas, Get Frog Instead","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Film is engaged in a battle to evolve as a new art form, as a new way of shaping narrative. That's why we celebrate any of the evolutionary steps, no matter how small. Nashville is a small but important step.The town Nashville and the subject country music are not accidental. Country music is the lowest form of narrative in music -- country music is based on stories. These are regular old simple stories that last a minute or two, have a beginning, end and usually a moral. Real, rich music is to country music what Altman and many others hope future film can be to simple storytelling movies.So he places the narrative right in the Dogpatch of narrative, just as he placed his peace film right in the midst of the artifacts of the destruction of war. The people are ridiculous of course, but that's incidental to the real reason for this to exist.There is a complete desconstruction of any narrative -- it is all connective tissue instead various people and symbols moving through episodes. This is NOT like what P T Andersen thinks it is (he reverts to the bedrock of story). It is deliberately storyless.Some underscores (apart from the obvious contrast between the two recording sessions at the beginning)--the car wreck which stops progress and the car graveyard (mirrored by the aspiring singer later drowned by racing cars)--the political candidate who would `replace' the current order of things (mirrored by the Gibson and Blakely characters who would preserve it)--the deaf children who cannot hear the stories but have their own to tell visually (mirrored by the actors who ad lib to fill in the holes left by narrative silence)--even the business about flyswatters (mirrored by the insessant buzzing of the journalist in search of a story)Altman should be celebrated not because he makes good films, but because he is a kickass revolutionary who undermines the insipid while hardly anyone notices. Unfortunately, this is not a particularly accomplished film visually -- that would come later.  "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Sorry to say, but I just got through watching 160 minutes of pure garbage. What an awful movie. There was absolutely no plot at all. The movie was just one bad musical performance after another.      There was no story, the characters were not developed at all, the acting was bad, and each scene had nothing to do with the next. Want me to go on? I can't believe that this movie is actually considered a classic. I gave it a 1 rating and I was being generous. Avoid at all costs "},{"Title":"Slow moving story and lengthy,but not a total waste of time.","Date":"5 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The film was a little slow in getting off the ground for me because all I could think is,I'm seeing Henry Gibson singing country music and I'm seeing Lily Tomlin sing gospel.Seeing both of those ideas carried out made me me feel like I was in a parallel universe.I would never think of either as singers,let alone singers of the chosen genres.When they stopped singing and began acting,their performances were above average.I liked the multiple story lines,and how all of these unrelated stories came together as one.However,I was turned off by how long they took getting there.In short,the film's not a total waste of time,but there's not really enough there to make me want to view it again. "},{"Title":"This was the last movie that I saw before September 11, 2001.","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I guess the fact that I watched Nashville on September 10, 2001, doesn't really relate to anything. But aside from the fact that I watched it during the last few hours of normalcy, it also seems to mirror the world today. With this movie, Robert Altman did what he often does look deep into something that people often take for granted. In this case, he does an expose of country music's capital, and the cynicism that was clearly pervading America in the post-Vietnam, post-Watergate era, and is once again taking over due to everything related to the Iraq War.As with every one of Altman's movies, everyone is talking at once (due to the fact that Altman lets his actors and actresses develop their own characters). The story is told through the eyes of several people, played by Henry Gibson, Ronee Blakely, Ned Beatty, Lily Tomlin, Keith Carradine, Barbara Harris, Shelley Duvall, and others. Elliott Gould even has a bit part as himself.Maybe Nashville isn't Altman's best movie ever, but it's certainly worth seeing. It's sort of like The Player, only set in Nashville (Dr. T and the Women was also the same sort of genre, only set in Dallas). "},{"Title":"Pointless, dull, disappointing and annoying waste of time","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I recently saw this movie in a brand new print on the big screen.  I found it a very dull film. There was an intersting start and there were a few nice very funny moments, but at three hours, easily an hour too long. Perhaps an interesting look at the characters, but they were either so stupid or revolting I didn't care about them at all.  Lilly Tomlin's character was about the most interesting but also disappointing.  Most of the women are used and abused by the men. Most of the men are all a bunch of users.  But there was no story whatsoever and therefore, a useless and pointless film. I was so disappointed after being told how great a movie this is supposed to be. Also, the hideous country and western music just got to me so much. Most of the songs were written by the actors, and didn't it show.  There was just way too much of it. If an hour was cut from the film, perhaps by removing the bulk of the songs, it might have been a passable film.  Warning plot revelation below.And the ending is particularly disappointing. At the end we know nothing about why the gun man opened fire. We hardly see any reactions of people. We don't know how badly hurt the victim is. All we are left with is the concert going on showing how these supposed fans of the singer don't give a damn.  "},{"Title":"boring, unfocused, pretentious, and very overrated","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I can't for the life of me figure out why this is taken to be one of Altman's best films.  The songs are terrible, which might be the point.  We never focus long enough on any character to really care about them, and I don't think Mr. Altman knew a thing about Nashville or country music.  There are a lot of things here like the campaign van that I'm sure grad students everywhere take to be clever metaphors for grand things, but I'm not so sure about that.  I can't decide whether this or 'Popeye' is Altman's worst film.  At any rate despite the hype it is a very weak film.  The whole method was used much better in 'Short Cuts.'  "},{"Title":"I can't believe I wasted 3 hours watching this","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I wanted to see this movie because I love music and movies about music. I also wanted to see it because of the star filled cast. There were a lot of problems I had with this movie, though. First off, it was just plain and endlessly boring. The story revolves around a lot of different characters and their lives in the Nashville country music scene. I found all of these characters to be completely uninteresting and unlikable. I also found practically all of the music to be terrible. The only exception was Hard Ridin Cowboy Man which I liked, and for some unknown and confusing reason, that song is not even listed on the soundtrack. The rest of the movie just seemed to be a bunch of scenes scrapped together, with no plot or meaning. Maybe this is the kind of movie you need to watch more than once to appreciate, but I am not willing to give it another 3 hours of my time to find out. "},{"Title":"So glad it's not 1975 any more","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I had seen this film before or maybe even a few times over the years but decided to watch it on DVD again this past weekend. I have been checking out Altman flicks, particularly for the director commentaries that some dvds come with.I was 20 years old in 1975 when the country was on the verge of disco and all that went with that experiment in debauchery, fantasy and excess; the whole Warhol, Bianca, Studio 54 mess, if you will, of which I was right in the middle. A young sailor, I appreciated Cinderella Liberty AND The Last Detail; a Baby Boomer, I appreciated American Graffiti AND the Exorcist. And then there is Nashville. The first thing I noticed is that I had the exact same shirt Haven's son wore, all of his shirts in fact. That right there was enough to depress me. Next, the Nashville airport - been there too and THAT depressed me. I guess you can tell by now that that period does not have really fond memories for me the wood paneling, the Formica in avocado green, harvest gold, and I can never remember what they called the red one just all seem so cheesy. Maybe it was because in those days Times Square and most big cities were one big X-rated peep-show extravaganza. Like I said I was a sailor then and that's what we did. Anyway, I found most of the characters dull; particularly Jeff Goldblum who even then had that kind of irritating shtick about him; Carradine too (I must have been stoned back then (probably was) but I actually used to like I'm Easy. Now, I don't think it was so hot at all. Tomlin was okay, although with all the hoopla, you'd think her part would have been more developed. Maybe it was because she had theretofore been on Laugh-In that it was a sensation. Ditto for Henry Gibson who I really thought WAS good. I don't know, maybe it was the film stock but it just all seemed old to me, like Altman's M*A*S*H. By the way, Elliot Gould showing up in a cameo just reminded me why I never cared for his smart ass either. And I honestly felt the same way about Julie Christie i.e. who the hell is SHE? Even though I knew who she was.I guess in closing, I just don't think this movie is a classic for me nor would I place it on any must see list. I'd much rather watch any number of other movies from that year. Cuckoo's nest or something. "},{"Title":"Not a masterpiece,for sure.","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I bought this DVD a long time ago and didn't watch it,waiting for a fine evening for such a highly rated and praised movie.What a great disappointment it was! After watching a real masterpiece Three women and several very good films of Altman, like Images,McNabe and Mrs.Miller,That cold day in the park, this piece of poor film making has stolen three hours of my time actually spent for nothing!I don't understand so many positive reviews about the movie which simply doesn't deserve this.Those calling it a masterpiece most probably have never seen real masterpieces on the screen.Otherwise it's very difficult to explain calling this schlock a masterpiece so easily.Overlong,poorly directed and greatly overrated film. "}{"Title":"A Boring Relic","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I'm sure when this movie came out in 1975 (the year I was born, by the way) this meandering character experiment felt fresh and innovative. Anyone who loved film probably saw it and couldn't help but embrace it as a masterpiece. This is probably why the Academy nominated it for Best Picture and why so many people still revere it today. Watching it for the first time in 2006, I found myself very disappointed. NASHVILLE is a chaotic mess which bored my wife to sleep and left me wishing I had put another movie in my queue. There were a few good moments (Tomlin's relationship with her deaf children and Carradine's musical solo) but a few good moments don't make for a great movie, especially for a movie that is two hours and forty minutes long. After the last scene I found myself thinking the entire experience was pointless. One might accuse me of wanting a film to think for me, but that is not the case; I want a movie to have something for me to think about. It was sort of like a time capsule you can't wait to open only to find an assortment of uninteresting, dated newspaper clippings. I can appreciate Altman's brave attempt to make something different, but the film just doesn't hold up. For anyone claiming that the movie captures life and that life is random just like the movie, I can only I disagree and admit I want a movie to affect me first and worry about recreating life second. Though if you don't mind a lack of plot, enjoy stories without a main character (especially with numerous insipid ones) and you love studying the behavior of people for the sake of it, you might like this movie. I loathed most of it and I would not recommend the movie to anyone I know. "},{"Title":"A shallow view on the american shallowness","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I can't fathom the excessive praise given on Nashville and its classic status. It is put together with Altman's trademark fluency present in all of his filmsin the great ones (Short Cuts, Gosford Park, The Player) and in the tedious ones (MASH, Cookie's Fortune, Pret' a Porter).My viewing experience was irritating due to Altman's inherent contempt for his characters together with  his assertion of superiority towards their petty behaviour and aspirations, the meandering plot (if a dozen of scenes  had ended in the cutting floor,you wouldn't have been able to tell the difference), let alone the country-western songs that constitute a first rate torture for the non-adherents. The only  character who could offer some insight or commentary to the social mileau portrayed in the film was the BBC documentary producer, but Altman in order to avoid any attempt for critique (mere exhibition is far more easier) makes her as idiotic as the morons that are featured in the film. The political subtext of the movie is undeveloped and the ironic song of the ending, sung collectively by the audience after the celebrity assasination (It don't worry me), although aptly underlines the passivity and political apathy of all those individuals, it, nevertheless, fails to offer any constructive alternative and moreover it is characterised by a pervese rejection of the possibility of such an alternative. Altman is more of an observer whose acuteness and incisiveness depends on the quality of the script that has in hand (cf. Gosford Park or Short Cuts), rather than somebody who being dissatisfied with a given situation has something else to propose or at least illustrate what he perceives as being problematic. Throughout the film I found it hard to care about any of the 24 characters or the situations (greatly resembling those of sitcoms) that were involved because they resembled more to comic sketches than complex individuals (Shelley Duvall's portrait of a Californian chewing-gum, hot-pants bimbo, to name the least). A rather overrated film which demonstrates Altman's technical proficiency together with his fundamental limitations. "},{"Title":"Has Lost Its Punch Over Time","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I purchased a copy of this film because I kept seeing it referred to in various film magazines and serious film studies.  I saw it in 1975, when it first was released, and while I remembered some of the images, I couldn't remember it in its totality.  Perhaps this is Altman's masterpiece.  I don't know.  I'm afraid I judged it from a more basic level.  I saw a parade of the most pathetic and shallow people I have ever watched.  Is this Nashville?  Is this the world?  The microcosm of our own selfishness.  Why isn't there some balance here?  Does Altman only see the self serving and manipulative? The character played by Keenan Wynn is the only one in the entire film who could be seen as sympathetic.  And he seems so different that it's as if a Martian had landed in a cesspool.  People always rave about Lily Tomlin.  I thought, first of all, she seemed totally out of place with the black choir.  She does have the deaf children, and that makes her sympathetic, as does being married to the vapid Ned Beatty character.  But what the heck are her motivations other than a little boredom, and why is she so comfortable with Keith Carradine's ill treatment of women.  Shelley Duvall is hateful; the epitome of selfishness, but to the extent that she is not even real--not to mention her ugly presence.  The country singers are either arrogant (whatever happened to Henry Gibson from Laugh In) like Haven Hamilton, doing his Hank Snow impression and spouting those Southern bromides.  He is the perfect gentleman and a snake.  But we never really get much from him.  He is an ass and we know it and he never changes.  The political campaign, a third party fruitcake whom we never see, dominates the scenery, the bullhorns on the van crying out the new politics.  I guess if you accept that Altman's view of the world is so depressing, you could enjoy this.  But I can't say that I did.  There is also the frail young country singer who has been robbed somehow of her youth to do shows, finally suffering a total breakdown.  She is stomped under by the evil.  I know that at the time, we were in the shadow of Vietnam.  Is this a portrayal of American ugliness that brought us there?  Perhaps.  "},{"Title":"If makin' love were margarine, then she is the high-priced spread.","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" When I began doing these reviews on IMDb, I made a promise to myself that I would watch every film I wrote about from start to finish, uninterrupted, in order to give it a fair shake. In the spirit of full disclosure, I have to admit I nodded off for about ten minutes in the middle of this picture, and you know what? It didn't matter. This is the only movie I've ever seen where you could exit and enter at any point and not have to wonder what you missed. It's classic Seinfeld, a movie about nothing using an entire cast of well known character actors to string the viewer along through various vignettes that ultimately left me bewildered. Was this a parody, a spoof on the country music industry? Were the characters being ridiculed, held up for contempt, or just left there hung out to dry? I actually 'got it' with some of the caricatures, like Geraldine Chaplin's take as a reporter for the BBC, but that was one of the rarities. Most of the songs were vapid and non-sensical, like Connie White's (Karen Black) refrain 'Help me keep from slidin' down some more'. And if Sueleen Gay (Gwen Welles) was supposed to represent the wanna-be country music super-star who couldn't carry a note, even to my tin ear, then at least she did her job well.Now I've read a number of the positive reviews on this board for the film, and those writers present a good case for the picture being a unique snapshot in time of an era that left the country without an anchor in the wake of Viet Nam and Watergate. Fair enough, but I don't appreciate it when a picture has to be explained to me. Not when you go from scenes of a hospital room to a gospel choir to an auto graveyard to a racetrack in the span of about ten minutes.I don't know, maybe I'll have to watch this again to see the brilliance of it, but that's not happening anytime soon. Director Altman's structure worked a whole lot better for me in 'MASH', and his satire there was more to the point. This one felt more like a mockumentary that takes things to the point where even Haven Hamilton has to throw up his hands at one point to describe his country music fans with - I don't know about killin' 'em. They're already dead. "},{"Title":"Much ado about not enough","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The late Robert Altman was certainly an idiosyncratic talent, and I really like some his films, especially 'A Wedding', the generally unloved movie he made immediately after 'Nashville'. But it's the earlier film which arguably typifies his work, a sprawling piece with a large ensemble cast. The plot centres on a country music show to be held by a maverick presidential candidate in the eponymous city; the music appears to be a mixture of genuine, and spoof, although with country, it's sometimes hard to tell the difference. And I speak as someone who really likes some forms of country; but the innate conservatism of the Nashville version is very apparent here, even when beautifully sung. However, the political theme only really provides a backdrop and is never really developed; and at times it seems that there's very little in the way of unifying story, just a lot of fuss about too many characters to care about. Even the dramatic events of the film's conclusion seem fairly random, although I may have missed the clues amid the shapeless drift of the previous two hours. To say that Altman could have used an editor is probably to miss the point of the movie; but it's surely fair to say it's not a very sharp point. 'Nashville' deserves plaudits for its scale and ambition; but too often left me bored. "},{"Title":"Tedious. Altman at his worst.","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Robert Altman films typically have a loose structure, with a lot of characterization developed through improvisation by the cast. This has made him an actor's director - and his films tend to be star-studded affairs, filled with a certain amount of gentle chaos. When it all clicks, it can be entertaining with a genuineness all it's own. When it doesn't work - it can be an a painful exercise in tedium. Nashville is the latter.It starts as a mess, ends as a mess and has a 2-and-a-half-hour mess in the middle. This story about a bunch of country musicians over a few days in Nashville, Tennessee amounts to little more than a cacophony of crowd scenes strung together by musical numbers. Some good some bad.Only those few good musical numbers keep it from being a total waste of time. Setting up a lawn chair on a street corner in Nashville, and watching people go by for 2 1/2 hours would probably make for a more entertaining afternoon. "},{"Title":"Near great film marred by the music","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This could have been one of the great films of all time, and very nearly is.  However, Altman made one fatal error in the production of this film, which is allowing the actors to write and, worse yet, sing their own songs.  Country music isn't my cup of tea, but even I will acknowledge that it's better than this.  Keith Carradine did a good job writing and singing his songs, but are we to seriously believe that the characters played by Henry Gibson and Karen Black would become country music stars?  This stretches plausibility to the breaking point.  In other films about musical performers, someone else always does the singing and/or playing, and it is dubbed into the soundtrack.  Otherwise a brilliantly original and groundbreaking film; Altman is a true original and never repeats himself  9/10 "},{"Title":"Altman's assured but slow & hollow attempt at mosaic storytelling","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I hope the few fans who hail this film as some kind of masterpiece don't hide behind the overused defense that because they are such a vocal minority in their praise of this film, the rest of us just don't get it.  Indeed, Altman introduced a new method for executing multi-character storytelling with his slice-of-life stories centered around one weekend in a country music festival, but the film is so dense with characters it's hard to invest emotions in anybody, given none of them are allowed to stretch out on screen for as long as we'd like them to.  The performances are all-around great, even though some of these actors are not given much to do in the first place.  Jeff Goldblum's tricycle/magician, as well as the young singing couple, exist nothing more than for window dressing.  Keith Carradine does well with an underwritten but compelling role as a womanizing rock singer (his performance of the folkish I'm Easy is outstanding and worth seeing the film for alone ).  Ronee Blakley, Gwen Welles and Lily Tomlin give great performances as singers who are all suffering for one reason or another, and Henry Gibson is terrific as country legend Haven Hamilton, portraying the typical southern gentleman - flag-waving, repressed, conservative, and bitchy.My complaint of this film is how bland it's appearance and pace is.  For all it's grand splendor of a country music festival, this film is stamped hard with tepid cinematography, Scorsese's dirty underworld of Taxi Driver looks more appealing than the wide-open heartland Altman is supposedly including us in on.  Everything is this film looks and feels so tiring!  It's almost surprising that for all of Altman's cross-cutting editing, the film borders on boring at many times.  As for its dramatic climax, I'm sure Altman was considered prophetic by the mid 80's when the efforts of Mark David Chapman and John Hinkley came to fruition, but by today's standards the finale resembles the (average) evening news, and therefore dates the film horribly.  Like many 70's movies, the film has a slow, deliberate pace which hinders its ability to expound on some two dozen characters.  It's possible another hour of storytelling would have cleared that up; but sitting through 2-and-a-half hours of Nashville already required a considerable digestion of cigarettes and soda on my part, and I wouldn't want to examine what Altman would have done were it any longer. Although many of you Altman lovers may gripe at hearing this, when I want to watch a mosaic storytelling type of movie, I'll stick with P.T. Anderson.  I'll take disco & funk or Aimee Mann over country music any day. "},{"Title":"Overlong with bad music","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I found this movie to be very tedious and at times unbearable because of the music. I think Altman did a good job of evoking a setting and some of the characters stories were interesting, but he could have done all that with a 1/2 of the mind numbing musical performances in the movie. Most of the singers aren't that good at all, and perhaps the best is the song it don't worry me which is performed at the very very end of the movie. The lack of a plot didn't help matters either, but I was willing to let that slide as a cohesive story was not really what Altman was driving at. However, at about the 1 and a half hour mark I was starting to get impatient and by the 2 hour mark I was hitting fast forward whenever someone was singing. I can understand why Altman is seen as a radical director and how his move to realism was very influential to other directors, but that still doesn't make this a fun movie to watch. If you are a fan of country music you are much more inclined to like this movie (I however am not and would advise anyone looking to see an example of Altman's film-making to look elsewhere). If this movie was shorter and had less music I would have enjoyed it much more then I did. Watch only if you are in the mood for it. Zoopansick  "},{"Title":"The Emperor's New Clothes","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't know why I wasted my money on this trash.  All the warning signs of a pretentious yet pseudo-intellectual film were there -- playing an exclusive engagement at just one theater in every town, rave reviews from The Washington Post, and my more artsy friends using words like Genius, Inspired and Masterpiece. Was there a story to this movie?  Was there any reason why the script was so boring?  The only good lines came from the unseen Presidential Candidate of the New Roots Party, whose sounds truck rumbled through almost every outdoor scene.  I personally don't care for Country Music, but my friends who like didn't care for this music.  Was this supposed to be a parody of Country Music?  If so, it wasn't funny at all.  After all, many Country songs are self-parodies anyway, so they could have written some really funny music.  And definitely some funny lines.This movie did not make out at the box office despite its glowing chorus of reviews.  I suspect that some people think that any film by certain directors, such as Robert Altman, are automatic timeless classics.  Or maybe it was because it reflected the uninspired mood of the country after Watergate, Vietnam, asassinations, inflation, and gas shortages.  During the Depression of the 1930s, people went to see happy musicals to cheer them up.  This movie didn't cheer up anyone, except for the movie critics and maybe the cast.In short, this movie is a big, long bore.  I'll be generous and rate it a 4 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Altman and Friends Grasping at Straws","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Neither Altman nor his stars understood country music. The author having insinuated politics into the film was both gratuitous and useless--adding nothing to the story but more cynicism. It was as though Mr. Altman threw a lot of balls into the air, hoping one of them would hit. The music was dreadful--might pass for drugged-up folk music but had no melody. Poor Johnny Gimble, Texas's best fiddler, who looked pained but characteristically pleasant while trying to save bad, fake country & western music--he doesn't even get a credit on this site, while Vassar Clements does. The movie was full of inaccurate interpretations of the country music style and milieu. While attempting to be a send-up of hicks and small-minded rednecks, they even got THAT wrong! Cartoonish pastiche on that theme, while being hackneyed and unfair, could have been achieved with little effort, but wasn't. It is as though Altman and crew were ALL on psychotropic drugs during the making of this film. I also pitied Merle Kilgore, who is a true song-stylist of high quality, having written many big country & western hits including Wolverton Mountain. He and Mr. Gimble were cynically invited to participate in a movie that not only had no point, but which, in its stab at ridiculing the country music scene, only succeeded in exposing the bad taste and ignorance of Hollywood itself. The plot sickens--oh no, wait there wasn't one. Mr. Altman thought he could cleverly use the One Day's Chronicling device to conceal that deficit. That dawg don't hunt! "},{"Title":"A waste Of Precious Time","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I consider myself a pretty good judge of a good movie. I cannot see why so many think this is a great movie of sorts. It seems like a major waste of time. Mr. Altman appears to be a director who doesn't like to direct. He give his actors free reign and they are just actors. I wish I could jump on the band wagon and say this is a masterpiece but I cannot. It seems like a bowl of salad chosen from the salad bar at Ruby Tuesdays. I wish he took more time to make this work. I also was not impressed with the terrible lyrics of of some of the songs. I'm Easy was a hit song I remember in the 70's and I think it's a great tune. the rest of them are parodies of the country music genre. It don't worry me has a great hook to it but the sentiment is wistful and contradictory. The last scene was so predictable with the guy carrying the violin case everywhere. Elliot Gould's appearance is just a signature of anything goes and all are welcome in the non plotted movie. Altman almost seems to be writing television for a 1/2 hour drama and he just reaches beyond sense. M*A*S*H was the same formula that worked because of subject matter and better improvisational actors. I would pass on this movie as a milestone in American cinema. I'm not even sure if Jeff Golblum was just another guest he threw in for nothing. I must say that the real actors did what they do best. They made omelets out of a rotten egg. Tomlin, Caradine, Beatty, Gibson, and a few more tried to hold our attention but it seemed like an ironic car wreck where we try to make some sense out of it. As usual, Altman has an actress disrobe for no reason but to draw an adult rating and win those of us who need to see breasts at least once in a movie. It's amazing how Hollywood can praise it's own view of the real world and think everyone should come along for the condescending rhetoric. "},{"Title":"pointless","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Nashville came out many years ago and bamboozled the critics. I remember it being severely panned. Too long seemed to be the main complaint, and I disagree. This is a Robert Altman movie, so it has no script and for the first 2 hours seems to be a series of random ad lib conversations and party scenes. It did make some sort of sense toward the end, but not enough to earn any praise from this viewer. Nashville is mostly incoherent politically correct psychobabble churned out by foreigners who hate the Southern States for emotional reasons. For me the only highlight was showing NASCAR as it used to be prior to Fox perverting this great Southern pastime.It smells vaguely as though this was an adventure of elitist Hollywood skunks venturing into rebel flag country in order to film dangerous rednecks and the things they hold dear; country music, populist politics, drunken driving, church on Sundays, etc. And the fact that Tennessee voted for Nixon over JFK. Had to get Nixon dig in there. There was a vague documentary feel about the whole thing highlighted by an extremely annoying BBC reporterette. It's a hard movie to stay with, so I took care of chores during the painfully slow build-up and didn't miss a thing. I did stay to the end, but only to read the song credits and had to give a nod for originality even though the songs were not very good.If you like Southern literature, culture and geography watch any of the wonderful films made in Texas, or even Gone With The Wind. Reject this turkey with extreme prejudice! "},{"Title":"OMG, what an utter stinker!","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" LESS THAN ONE STAR! Rodger Eibert's (< SP? who cares!) retarded butt kissing Review of this stink bomb film is embarrassing.I'm going to personally have people jailed for getting this piece of crap film put on the National Film Registry.Let Hollywood preserve butt-wipe films like this on their OWN friggin' dime, but leave Public taxes out of it.This film was just an excuse to get Keith Carridine layed many times. And in real life actor Jeff Goldblume stalked the Nashville night scene and raped many women, often pulling a caboose after Altman was through with the drugged women Jeff brought him. "},{"Title":"Full of interesting characters, too bad the music stinks","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" After renting this hyped Altman movie from my library, my conclusion is what promises to be an interesting character study was overlong and packed with lengthy, absolutely excruciating songs that have not aged well at all.For someone born after 1973, the hideous polyester leisure suits are freaking hilarious.There's plenty of nudity and sex and drugs going on, so it has that going for it as well. The scene where the faded country star suffering an on-stage breakdown is kind of eerily amusing(and more than a little reminiscent of a medicated Courtney Love), but overall, good performances from Ned Beatty and Lily Tomlin suffer from just too much crappy music to make this watchable more than once or twice. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Possibly the most important director never to have made a great movie","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm eternally grateful to Robert Altman for championing Hollywood naturalism at the turn of the revolutionary 1970's. However, a spade is a spade. Nashville is the usual Altman recipe; technical brilliance, unpleasant characters, universal cynicism and over-length.Grade F, or 5/10, or OK, or 'watch it once and forget about it'If you love this movie, The Player and Short Cuts should leave you ecstatic and you might even love the recent Magnolia (not by Altman, but similar ideas). If you hate it, avoid anything labelled 'a Robert Altman movie'.  "},{"Title":"Worst movie of all time!","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a very boring movie with a large collection of shallow and uninteresting characters.  In spite of its accolades, we could stand to be bored no more and about half way through it, we walked out--the only movie that has ever caused me to do that. "},{"Title":"like watching home movies of people you don't even know--or want to know","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Wow. I was really surprised when I saw this film tonight. I'd heard so much about it being such a masterpiece and one of the best films of 70s, that I knew I had to see it. Afterwards, I just have to assume that the rest of the films of the 70s were rotten for this to one of the best! Most of the reason I disliked this movie was that it seemed like every second was being created by someone with ADD,...perhaps even ADD as well as crack! That's because there are no quiet moments--only scenes where practically everyone is talking at the same time and it seemed like they were trying to cram 3000 minutes of film into one movie. And because of this, after a while I just wanted it to stop. While some might be amused by this, it just seemed overwhelming and annoying.It's funny--I have never liked Country music, but I really felt sorry for the people of Nashville because the movie seemed to paint them so poorly--like some sort of freak show. It seems that according to the writers, director and actors, the people of Nashville, and perhaps America of the 70s, is made up of dumb hicks. "},{"Title":"Loads of appealing actors and not much plot,","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I gotta admit that I wasnt blown away by Nashville. Id heard so much about it and have always wanted to see it because of all the good actors. They ARE good but nothing much happens in the film and the improvised dialoge does not help. It was too loooooong with several country tunes performed from beginning to end one after another (good songs but zzzzzzz for a movie).The best was without a doubt Opal, the BBC reporter! I didnt know Geraldine Chaplin was so good!!!! And I just LOVE Shelley Duvall and her cool sexy 70s get ups!  What was Elliot Gould and Julie Christie doing in the film??? Great actors but NOTHING!!! I got a weak spot for Barbara Harris and Lily Tomlin but they didnt have much to do either.The movie is the best document of the seventies, tho. "},{"Title":"More Altman Garbage","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I found this movie an insult to the southern culture, and like all Altman movies, an arrogant jab at anyone living between the two coasts. I remembered when this piece of crap premiered, I heard the good people of Nashville were mad as hell at the obvious insult to their city and state. So I went to see it just to see if they were over reacting. They weren't. Altman and his ilk, think all of us who live in the fly over states are a bunch of backward rubes who just don't get it, cause we vote republican. The casting was a joke, and the music worse. This was Hollywood country. This had nothing to do with Nashville or the country music culture. This was Country as seen through the eyes of the Hollywood culture. Why cast a bunch of yankees and west coast progressives to portray southerners, unless you're satirizing them. All I saw was a bunch of second rate actors dressed up as clowns, pokin fun at the backward hillbillies of Tennessee.Just as M*A*S*H was a jab at the military culture, Nashville was no more than a laugh at the country music culture of the South. So yuk it up while you can. Hollywood and the mainstream media won't always wield the power of influence over our culture. "}{"Title":"Just awful.","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Nashville is awful. The songs are awful. The dialog is awful. This is a movie that only liberals in Hollywood could produce. It shows just how out of touch they are with real America. They don't understand country music and they think everyone loved the Kennedy's. The satire of this movie is so far off it makes sense only to the America haters. I am amazed that anyone could get through this sick attack on the South and good Americans. I liked MASH the movie, but the TV show sucked. I find nothing good about the point of view this movie takes. If you should happen see this movie in the TV listings, avoid it at all costs. This movie was an attempt to undermine conservative opinion of the time. "}]