[{"Title":"the unspeakable takes control","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"181 out of 220 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is mesmerizing film with a cipher at its center. Less is more. I am amused at some of the comments. There seem to be two types those which depict the movie as beautiful, ethereal and subtle and those which depict the film as too symbolic, too slow, boring, too 70's.The point is, there is no point. The central vision of the film is enigma, the void, mystery. This seems to make a lot of explainers uncomfortable, but the use of emptiness at the core of a work of art is nothing new. The hand that erases writes the true thing Faulkner's masterpiece The Sound and the Fury is about a character who is absent. The characters that surround her, and who actually people the novel? Not all there, lacking, disintegrating, unknown, unwanted, unloved.If there must be a meaning, it is that nothingness is the biggest threat of all. I will show you fear in a handful of dust We fear our disappearance. We'd like to believe that our little lives, our little comments, our little film lists will endure forever. But they won't. Nothing will.what is existence? a random ever-changing collection of energized particles.At any point, we can cross the line into nothingness. Nature will subsume us.The film A Passage to India had the same theme. It was NOT essentially a movie about rape or sex scandal. It was about the yawning pitch-black eternal emptiness of the caves. It drove two women mad. Nature as an amoral uncaring unmoveable eternal reality.Just as Picnic was NOT about repressed Victorian sexuality. These were pretexts, and were utilized because the fear of sex is the fear of letting go. The fear of sexuality leads irrestibly to our main fear that darkness, emptiness, and the powers of nature will overwhelm us and erase us.In Picnic, there was no villain, no enemy, no fall guy, no perpetrator, process or predicament that we could blame for the girls' disappearance. They simply disappeared. And that is the scariest nightmare of all. "},{"Title":"Excellent director, immaculate film.","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"103 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Peter Weir is a master of taking the mysteries of human nature, combining them with the essence of humanity, then distilling those aspects through the inexplicable itself. This has been an earmark of his films Dead Poets Society, Fearless and even The Truman Show but nowhere is this more apparent than with Picnic At Hanging Rock.Beautifully filmed in rural Australia, the plot of Picnic At Hanging Rock is deceptively simple students at an upper crust Victorian-era girls' school go on a field trip to Hanging Rock --an unusual geographic site miles away from civilization. On the trip, three of the girls and one of the teachers go missing. A simple plot, right? Well, on the surface it is indeed simple, but the way Peter Weir deals with the subject matter will keep the viewer absolutely enthralled and at a loss as to the cause of the girls' inexplicable disappearance. What has frustrated many viewers is that the responsibility of the hypothesis lies solely on them there are no conclusive answers, but rather a number of theories as seen through the eyes of second and third parties.Additionally, Weir spices up the overall feeling of uncertainty with repeated images seemingly unrelated to the flow of the movie. Swans, ants, flowers, flies and poetry all appear repeatedly throughout the film, indicating that there is some deeper significance to the nature of the disappearance. Something that is just out of the viewer's grasp. In truth, Weir's direction in this film is akin to a more accessible and humanistic David Lynch. Much of the same thematic ground is covered, and the pronounced sense of uncertainty is a trademark of many Lynch films, especially his recent masterwork, Mulholland Drive.Finally, what makes Picnic At Hanging Rock a true marvel of filmmaking is the complete integration of all elements in the support of the ephemeral theme. The pan-flute of Zamfir adds an otherworldly element to the score; the cinematography makes Hanging Rock look alternately commonplace, and enigmatic, depending on the scene. This collusion of all elements makes Picnic At Hanging Rock essential viewing for anyone interested in immaculate emotive filmmaking. -E. Shaun Russell  "},{"Title":"Picnic....","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"113 out of 141 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This film is magnificent! From the storyline, the settings, the atmosphere, the cinematography, the Victorian repression, the music throughout, the sense of the ordinary, the epic and the bizarre all clashing together to make something altogether superb from such disparate parts.Whether it is supernatural, otherworldly, plain disappearances, a murder scene, or who-knows, no one ever really finds out. And what might seem important, might not be, and what might seem trivial might not be either! It is the imagination made reality on film, and the most dreamy and atmospheric film I have seen.The fact that it is in Australia as well, at the turn of the century counts for a lot. The story in the movie could be read in countless ways; as symbolic of the horrors and hypocrisy of Victorian society; as a criticism of European ideals imposed on an alien landscape; as the end of one society, that of Victorian, to the beginnings of the modern world we all now live in. It is this that is the crux for me; the appearance of something new from something so old; the old landscape, the passing values of Victorian society, the passing values of class deference in English-speaking societies, and obviously Australia.There is another thing that gets me about this movie; the down to earthness of Australians up against the bizarre and epic nature of an ancient landscape that refuses to be tamed.There is for me a sadness in this film, and repression of every kind, but, somewhere, in tiny glints throughout the movie, the future is glimpsed when ordinary people can be free of such repression, and somewhere the story of Oz itself is in this movie. I don't know how or why, but it is! I think! Whatever, I love this movie and can't get it out of my head. "},{"Title":"Death and the Maidens","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"92 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Even though this has been described as a film about sexual repression (and Peter Weir may have thought he was making such a film), I don't think it is--rather, it is a celebration of the dreamy, self contained sexuality (or rather pre-sexuality) of young adolescent girls just before they seriously turn their attention to men. Sure, they may be living in a society straitjacketed by Victorian mores, but the girls really don't seem to be the unhappier for this, non withstanding the earthy maid's comments that she feels sorry for them. Miranda and her friends seem completely content and at ease in their languid, hothousey world of poetry, pink and white bedrooms, and mutual crushes (I was reminded of the similarly dreamy, self contained little universe of the sisters in The Virgin Suicides--another film that is supposedly about repression). During the noon day nap at Hanging Rock, the girls, heads resting in one another's laps, are in a state very much resembling post coital bliss--far from seeming repressed, they are among the most content women I've ever seen on screen. It is quite arguable that Victorian morality had something to do with their sexuality turning inward like this, but all this does is lend credence to the truism that repression intensifies sexuality--which may explain the lingering fascination the Victorian era has for the modern age, and why one of its most striking symbols of its oppressiveness--the corset--is also very erotically charged. The girls' disappearance into the eerie black land form (that seems to have faces at times, bringing to mind fairy tales about trolls who steal golden haired children) suggests that at in their present state they are so contented that anything else life might hold for them could only be a letdown, that only whatever dark force (death? nothingness?) is haunting Hanging Rock could possibly be a worthy enough lover for these girls who are already so supremely self fulfilled. There are, unfortunately, aspects of this film that don't work, or rather jar with the elements discussed above, the most prominent of these being the Dickensian subplot of the persecuted orphaned pupil Sarah. The actress herself is affecting in her part and her boyish beauty contrasts well with Miranda's ethereal femininity (she looks like a young Renaissance prince at times), but her story really belongs in another movie because at heart Picnic at Hanging Rock is more Gothic than socially conscious.Maybe Weir really was aiming to make a movie about the evils of sexual repression, class inequality or even colonization, but such possible themes are blown away by the languid, ethereal images of the young adolescent girls at the beginning of the film, floating contentedly through their hours like clusters of Monet lilies. "},{"Title":"Eerie, beautiful romance porn.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"84 out of 106 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I first saw PAHR while in high school, and it was the beginning of a long and drawn-out love affair with the film. The look, feel and sound of it drew me in at once, and the open-endedness of it appealed to my romantic teenage notions, striking me as being terribly, terribly profound. I searched out the book, and the sequel (both out of print in the US) and had a good long obsession over the film.Years later, I still appreciate it deeply, but I realize now that if I were to see it for the first time today, I might not be quite so entranced. Yes, it is moody and beautiful, full of deliciously gossamar images, beautiful actresses, a haunting soundtrack, and a hypnotically slow and deliberate pace... but I can now see that it is a very youthful effort on Wier's part. It is decidedly a young director's film, firmly mired in the style of its era (the 70s). The heavy-handedness of the direction is evident in many ways, mostly in the repeated metaphors of Miranda as a swan, an angel, etc.... It has anachronistic costumes, makeup and hair, although the sets design is attractive and accurate enough.However, let it be noted that the film is far more about symbolism and atmosphere than anything else, and on that front, it succeeds admirably. Among the highlightsThe repressed Victorian schoolgirls, whose burgeoning sexual longings are channeled into torrid, purple verse and close romantic friendshipsThe famous corset-lacing sceneletThe implied relationship between Mrs. Appleyard and the masculine Miss McCrawThe disappearance of only the pure Miranda (love), Marion (science), Miss McCraw (math), and the rock's rejecting Edith (gluttony), Irma (worldliness), and all men.One might go on about the sexual imagery of the rock itself, with its monoliths and chasms, but I will refrain. Because after you've seen the movie, you realize how many times these things have been hammered into your head.I still love this film dearly, despite the obviousness of it all. I wish that a soundtrack were available, as the original music is lovely. If you know a teenager, or are one, this is the movie for you. May your love affair with it go on as long as mine. "},{"Title":"Not a detective story","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"62 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have experienced it several times that people tend to expect Picnic at Hanging Rock to unfold like a detective story, while it is not one, in any respect. This movie belongs to another type, to the mystery genre, and possibly stands as the finest example of a film of this kind. The main purpose of such films is to contemplate The Unknown and Peter Weir copes with that excellently. What counts most here is the atmosphere, and the focus is more on hidden emotions than on the pacing (some say that the problem with Picnic is that it's boring - i don't think so but I guess it depends much on your sensitivity and approach). Most fascinating thing here is possibly the way the Rock is depicted - it appears as self-conscious entity, alive in a sense which is beyond Western logic. This, I think, is the key aspect of the story, because what it really is about is the conflict between the Culture and the Nature. And don't let this put you off as 'too philosophical'. Picnic at Hanging Rock, while not being a crime story, can be involving as one - if you help this to happen, of course. If you do, you might have a lot to think about when the credits start to roll. It can happen, though, that you will be dying to see them roll - there are no movies that appeal to all of us. Then, at least, you could enjoy the set design, photography and ancient beauty of wild Australia.Give it a try. It's worth it. 8/10  "},{"Title":"I Recommend For Those Who Love Subtle, Beautiful Movies","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"61 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The plot is simple on one level A group of girls at a private school, growing up and experiencing the throes of adolescence angst. On a much more subtle level, there is an indefinable presence.... Is it a spectre? Or are the girls' over-active imaginations causing them to believe that sinister things are happening around them, especially at Hanging Rock? (a nearby scenic landmark with a possible secret).The beauty of the film is its softness, and how effectively it is used to convey horror by its SILENCE...The costumes of the period and the music are lulling, as is the beautiful sometimes soft-focus cinematography.One is unprepared for the lingering chill in the room as the movie ends. There are also the lingering doubts What really happened at Hanging Rock? Each viewer is left to decide... **NOTE This is not an action adventure, not a typical horror or mystery. I cannot fit it into any one category, ART is the most likely, although it is certainly dramatic. I doubt very much that many men I know would want to watch this, so forewarned..it is not for the action-adventure crowd.  "},{"Title":"A beautifully enchanting and haunting film","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"50 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Although the images have stayed with me since I first saw Picnic at Hanging Rock some 20 years ago, the power to instil a strange sense of loss remains.  The revised director's version released in 1998 unusually cuts seven minutes from the original as, according to Pat Lovell (executive producer), Peter Weir wanted to remove any pretty romances and speed up the final act.  The sound quality has been enhanced and the look improved through colour regrading, but sadly a couple of key scenes involving Irma (Karen Robson) have been omitted.  We are told at the outset that some of those who start out for the St Valentine's Day picnic in 1900 are never to return, and, even though various clues are shared with us, no attempt is made to solve the puzzle.  Miranda (Anne Louise Lambert), who provides a voice over, based on a poem by Edgar Allan Poe, sets the tone at the beginning with, `What we see and what we seem are but a dream, a dream within a dream', and the film goes on to concern itself with the aftermath of the disappearance and the impact on all involved with those missing.  It explores an apparently idyllic way of life that is not what it first seems, how this false paradise is fragile and how it is shattered by the breakdown of established order.  Tensions and hysteria all surface, exposing the suppressed passions that are the reality of life, as well as the claustrophobic atmosphere of the affluent Victorian European life style in an alien land.  This theme is further expressed by the virginal white dresses worn for the picnic, which seem out of place in this environment and represent the stifling restrictions placed on the young women.  The layers of dress and petticoats the girls have to wear, combined with the various shots into mirrors, as if into another dimension, also reflect the story's many strands. Russell Boyd's award winning cinematography is stunning and actively encourages you to feel the summer heat.  The beauty of the actresses and the sounds of the Australian bush, under the sinisterly foreboding gaze of the Rock, with its blatant phallic symbolism, seduce you so that you will more feel a sense of the horror, as Edith (Christine Schuler) does.  The flashback at the end, poignantly coupled with the adagio from Beethoven's piano concerto No. 5 (Emperor), leaves you with a sense of loss of youth and virtue.  Peter Weir subsequently recreated this impression in the final scene of his equally outstanding Australian feature `Gallipoli'.  I am also reminded of the effect produced by Jane Campion (The Piano) in her early work `Two Friends', where the tale ends in the past when the friendship is at its closest, making the passing of innocence feel more painful with ageing and the passage of time. Cliff Green's script is not only faithful to Joan Lindsay's narrative but also complements it exceedingly well, although dialogue is often replaced by visual impression and unnecessary details are excluded to maintain the sense of mystery the author intended.  However, the novel's literary mistake regarding Felicia Hemanes' famous Victorian recital piece is repeated, which is actually `Casabianca' (about the Battle of the Nile) and not `The Wreck of the Hesperus' by Henry Longfellow.  Discrimination is displayed by Mrs Appleyard (Rachel Robert's fantastically monstrous harridan) towards Sara (Margaret Nelson), a forlorn orphan in love with Miranda, who is kept back from the picnic for not learning the poem, whereas Irma's position as heiress obviously carries influence, as clearly on the Rock she can only quote the first line.  Sara is shown pity by the housemaid, Minnie (Jacki Weaver), whose own sexuality is realised with the handyman, Tom (Tony Llewellyn-Jones), in stark contrast to the general ambience of repressed desire.Miranda's sentiment that  `Everything begins and ends at exactly the right time and place' is demonstrated by Joan Lindsay who based her fictional account on Hanging Rock, a sacred Aboriginal site, near Mount Macedon in Victoria.  To provide added authenticity Peter Weir filmed at the Rock during the same six weeks of summer.  Aborigines believe time is not linear and Lady Lindsay eschewed the notion of man-made time, hence the title of her autobiography `Time Without Clocks'.  At Hanging Rock both the watches of Ben Hussey (Martin Vaughan) and Greta McCraw (Vivean Gray) stopped at twelve o'clock.  Incidentally 14 February 1900 actually fell on a Wednesday, not a Saturday, unless the author used the Julian calendar instead of the Gregorian, so that the eleven days were not lost?The open-ended nature of the fable is deliberate to mirror life where we may learn or uncover some secrets but never understand the mystery.  Plenty of extraneous facts and unexplained details are related, such as the absence of scratches to Irma's bare feet, yet identical injuries appear on her head and Michael's (Dominic Guard), her joint rescuer with Albert (John Jarrett), very redolent of the `X Files'. The film is beautifully shot with haunting music, exceptionally well cast and acted, and tightly directed.  The ever excellent Helen Morse is an inspired choice as Mademoiselle Dianne de Poitiers, the French mistress and the girls' confidante, who describes Miranda as a Botticelli angel from the Galleria degli Uffizi in Florence, and Peter Weir specifically uses the image of the Birth of Venus.  In fact Miranda, Irma and Marion (Jane Vallis), the three senior boarders who vanish, are evocative of the Three Graces, who dance in attendance to Venus, in Sandro Botticelli's Primavera.  Anne Louise Lambert's portrayal of Miranda (an ironic reincarnation from her famed role in 1973 as the bed-hopping nymphomaniac in the Australian soap `Number 96') captures the vision perfectly with her ethereal loveliness and enigmatic smile, and is reminiscent of the knowing look on the death mask of the renowned `L'Inconnue de la Seine', who coincidentally died around 1900 in Paris.Picnic at Hanging Rock is a masterpiece of its time, and still rates as one of my favourite films today.  "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"52 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Picnic at Hanging Rock is a masterpiece of psychological fiction in which we see an awful thing happen from a great distance and are only given enough clues to guess at what happened to the missing girls. Excellent cinematography and a musical score perfectly chosen both of which become Weir trademarks first appear in this film. They are clearly missing in the Cars that Ate Paris his first full length film. Though many people have offered suggestions both realistic and absurd as to what happened to the ladies, everything but Dingo attacks have been suggested, we are kept in the dark on purpose. The novel that the film was based on suggested, almost as an afterthought, that the story might be true. This claim was as much a fiction as the rest of the novel. The site, Hanging Rock, is identified with a mythic highway man and all the things we observe happening have elements of the supernatural. The people as in many Weir films communicate the most critical ideas with out talking. A significant plot development in this film, we hear thoughts..see people moving on ward as if drawn towards their doom, but Weir never bothers us with needless Dialog..how much weaker would the plot be if we heard Miranda calling to her companions follow me, we must reach the top. It is also critical to the developing sense of spirituality and intuitive communication we see in Gallipoli and Witness. Finally, if we knew what happened to the girls, any speculation about the fate of those at the school would be moot. The mystery explains the accusations by the girls, parents and staff and the eventual downfall of most who worked there. Those who do not like the film fail to see it as an Aussie Gothic film as innovative in its day as Wuthering Heights was in its.  "},{"Title":"If you're up for a free-form dramatization of the word 'unease'...","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"58 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I remember reading (God knows where) someone's shaggy-dog story about this film. Apparently, this individual had a friend (as people who tell these kind of stories tend to) who went to see 'The Texas Chainsaw Massacre' sometime in the mid 1970s. He was late, there was the inevitable confusion, and he consequently spent the next two hours whimpering in fear - waiting for the chainsaw-wielding assassin to appear and rip into a bunch of immaculately attired Edwardian schoolgirls.This is probably as good an analogy as any for the sense of dread this film (fitfully) manages to accumulate. Watching it is like seeing weather systems build. Small increments appear, converge on other increments, circling each other ambiguously before merging into a grey, baleful mass that sits there on the horizon, making atmospheric noises. In 'Picnic...' the wind moves plangently through eucalypts, clocks tick, an orphan girl is the victim of snobbish behaviour, girls gossip, more clocks tick, the wind moves through more eucalypts, the clocks stop, something 'unspeakably eerie' happens, and that's pretty much it.Ultimately, the film is about Peter Weir placing markers of European culture - corsets, watches, a locally built replica of an Eighteenth century English manor - in the vast, contoured, deeply ambivalent Australian hinterland, and letting his camera record the absurdity of those spatial relationships. His early twentieth century Australians anxiously encircle themselves with the accoutrements of civilization they've brought with them - its dress codes, its class politics, its architectural styles - as if shielding their bodies from the unfamiliar landscape outside. Yet their attempts to maintain a European identity by 'keeping up appearances' come off as merely obsessional.The elaborate dresses the girls wear, the formalities observed at the picnic (and at a surreal dinner party set on a flat, sunblasted lake edge - a Seurat painting gone horribly wrong), far from being emblems that mark a cultural continuity unifying Australia with Europe, seem oddly fetishistic - deeply arbitrary. Weir's characters seem to sense this meaninglessness also; they're enervated, without conviction. They seem to realize that, in bearing items of European material culture within this new environment, they're merely in possession of a bunch of dead letters - signifiers rendered powerless (decontextualized) by distance. As more than one character remarks, 'it all looks different here'.To add to the unease, Weir intercuts all this with shots of the landscape - huge, forested, confrontationally empty. There's a sense of something staring back, unimpressed, 'personified' by the oddly biomorphic shapes within Hanging Rock itself.One can still feel the reverberations, twenty five years on. There are definite echoes of 'Picnic...' in 'The Piano', 'The Virgin Suicides', and the whole slew of films that erstwhile Antipodean Sam Neill rather dodgily categorises the 'Cinema of Unease'. If you really want to freak yourself out, try watching this and 'The Quiet Earth' in the same sitting. You may never feel absolute faith in your ties to the physical universe again. "}{"Title":"The scariest picnic ever!","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It'd been quite some time since I last saw Picnic At Hanging Rock, but as soon as I heard that haunting Pan flute it all came back to me and I felt the goosebumps covering my skin once again. This film still has that level of quality to it, and I still consider it one of my absolute favorite films of all time.As soon as you push that tempting Play button on your remote control as you're watching the Criterion Collection release of this film, you're thrown into a dream that starts as a fantasy but quickly turns into a nightmare as those girls disappear at hanging rock. You know that they're going to and there's nothing you can do to stop it... I have discovered that most people speak of this film as drama, or maybe something in the line of an art film, which is funny to me as I've always seen it as a horror film. I mean, this film is really scary. Those girls disappeared and noone ever knew what happened to them. I remember thinking of this film as I saw The Blair Witch Project back in 99. Those kids also disappeared in the middle of the woods, only; in that film, you saw what happened to them, something that remains a mystery in this. That's what makes it so great. It has to be told though, that the film does lose it's pace a bit towards the end as all the scenes are centered around the Appleyard school and leaving out on the mysterious Rock, but that is when the Pan flute is reintroduced, which keeps you in the meditative state you've been lulled into during the course of the film. There's so many scenes that you'll end up thinking about for hours to figure out what they really meant, only to come out empty handed, or possibly with a headache as a result. For instance I've never understood the importance of the brother & sister link between the kids form the orphanage. If a film touches you in the way that this film does, you can't help but giving it the highest of praise and the 10/10 rating that it truly deserves. This is Peter Weir's one, and unfortunately only, true masterpiece as of yet; a film you must see before you leave the face of the earth and vanish into that dark shadowy place beyond;  running into your very own Hanging Rock. "},{"Title":"Charming by Watching","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Australians pride themselves on being direct, but Australian cinema is anything but. It is  one of the most engaging trends in film today and -- so far as I can tell -- we first see it  here. Actually we first see an inkling in Walkabout, a film set in Australia but by a Brit. It  conflated constructed realities, Aboriginal mysticism embedded in the environment, and  adolescent sexual awakening as metaphor for narrative awareness,That film made overt negative comment on the (then popular) Italian philosophy of film  as stories embedded in characters. This is very much the same film, except the conceptual distance between it and  Walkabout is the same as between Walkabout and Amarcord. It is a remarkably  sophisticated idea to create a drama with essentially no story arc, where the characters  are not prime movers but elements of the environment -- where sex has less to do with  panting and ejaculation and more with universal intimacy, what we see and some  unnamed yearning that we all recognize.This is a film that changed the world, but my own theory is that it reflects rather than  leads a larger awareness among Australian artists. And that all comes from one or two  teachers at the Opera House, which in turn was awakened by the implied hidden forms in  the design of that structure. The idea is that film is not a play, that what you experience is not what the players show  -- instead what they help you show yourself in your imagination. We can see this in the  folded acting of Winslet and Kidman, in the projection into the next scene of Crowe. In  the several mystical spaces of secrets Blanchett ephemerally sustains.Many films along these lines fail, I'm thinking of Gillian Armstrong, Sally Potter and Jane  Campion. Even this film is not widely admired and Weir himself evolved into message  films. But thanks to Australia and New Zealand we have a particular approach to film that  is cinematic. It tussles for control over our imagination with other memes in film the  Hollywood film as play, the British film as set, the Italian film as characters, the  Swedish film as visited angst, the Hong Kong film as ballet,What we have here in the Australian entry is closer to the Japanese film as means to  abstraction whereby one purifies reality by alert immersion.One trick that I particularly appreciate is the focus on reading and how that is tied to  what we think are clues to the mystery. We see a teacher in the wild reading a geometry  text. We see the geometry text clearly; the camera dwells on a particular graphic which in  a British/Hitchcock film means pay attention, here is something that will be important  later on. Then we switch to an overhead shot of the girls in trance on a rock. They are  carefully arrayed. This is a staged scene, which obviously relates to the drawing in the  book. Subconsciously that part of our mind that is tracking the mystery is racing ahead.  Simultaneously, that part of our eye that makes sense of patterns is puzzled.None of this is ever closed and that makes the effect much more powerful. Not only was  the clue never resolved, the hands holding it disappeared -- as if we charmed the scene  into mischief by our watching.Ted's Evaluation -- 4 of 3 Every cineliterate person should experience this.  "},{"Title":"Dreamlike? Ambiguous? Obtuse?  Yes, yes, yes... does that make a good film?","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"23 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I'd say no.The movie looks pretty.  Some of the acting is good but at other times is way over the top.  I did not find the movie suspenseful or scary and I'm not sure why anybody would, although some people seem to.Roger Ebert and Peter Weir (both people who liked this film) sum it up nicely.Ebert describes it as a film that is free of plot That it is a film that doesn't have any final explanation and exists only as an experienceWeir says that he worked very hard to have the audience lose awareness of the facts.  He did everything he could to hypnotize the audience away from thinking that there might be a solution.So if you watch this film you should NOT try to figure it out.  Realize that it's NOT really a mystery and there is NO answer.  If you try and apply any logic or reason to the film, you'll find yourself being frustrated.  If you want to see it, expect a film experience but don't expect a clear story, realistic characters or a plot.I found the film to be long, slow and plodding.  The point where the three girls disappear is probably the best moment in the whole film, as somebody else noted, but one brief moment of entertainment in an otherwise ambiguous film is not enough.I watched it thinking that it was a mystery.  I watched the characters do odd things (like falling into fits of apparently simultaneous-narcolepsy) and thought to myself What the heck was that?.  I tried to use logic to piece together things that people did and said.I obviously went into this film with wrong expectations.  I thought there'd be a plot, I thought there'd be a mystery.  I should have read Ebert and Weirs' comments prior to watching the film and I'd realize that there is no plot and that the director didn't want you to even think for one moment that there was the possibility of an answer.  It is a film that is intentionally obtuse.If you're looking for a dreamlike escapade or something to soothe you to sleep then perhaps this film is for you.PS This film is NOT based on any true events any more than The Blair Witch Project is.  Search the internet for more information and educate yourselves. "},{"Title":"Helen of Troy as a Young Girl or Everything begins and ends at the exactly right time and place","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" It is easy to describe the film without giving too much away. Its plot summary tells you exactly what happensThree students and a school teacher disappear on an excursion to Hanging Rock, in Victoria, on Valentine's Day, 1900. Widely (and incorrectly) regarded as being based on a true story, the movie follows those that disappeared, and those that stayed behind, but it delights in the asking of questions, not the answering of them.Peter Weir in his early film skillfully moves from the recognizable intimate world of the girls' school filled with poetry and high neck dresses, corsets and the mutual crushes to a pagan environment in which modern principles and standards have no meaning and no values.If we assume that the movie does not belong to the straight realism genre but to the magical or mythological realism, a lot of things would make sense. We may never find out what exactly happened to the girls and their teacher but it would not matter - we could guess. I see this movie as Miranda's story. The girl of such beauty, charm, and charisma simply could not exist in this world for long time. She seemed to know or to feel it when she told her friend Sarah, You have to learn how to love someone else because I am not going to be here for long time. I've read many times that this is a movie about sexual repression and I would not say that I completely disagree but I think that it has many interpretations, and with its open end and the mystery still present after all these years, any explanation is possible. During their ascend to the Hanging Rock and the noon day nap, the girls and especially Miranda don't seem repressed or unhappy; on the contrary, they are in the state of content and bliss. I'd say that they were longing for something miraculous to happen and I did not feel the presence of menace or nightmare luring through the trees and ready to materialize in the still hot air and swallow them. I think that Miranda with her golden hair and ethereal beauty was reincarnation of the young Helen of Troy. At that day, February 14 1900, two parallel worlds came as close to each other as possible and there was a window inside the Hanging Rock. One was the turn of the 20th century Victorian world with its restrictions, rules, and laws of what is proper and not and another- the ancient world of the Greek Gods that used to rule the Heaven , Sea, Earth, and Underworld and sometimes, would kidnap the mortal women of immortal beauty. You'd ask What? Why? I say, how about the Flute de Pan, the instrument that was first invented by the God of Nature, Pan and which hypnotizing sounds lead the girls inside the rock? The Gods knew that Helen's beauty could destroy the countries and be merciless killing force for many men. They did not stop it thousands years ago from happening - they decided to do it on the Valentine day, 1900. They took Miranda -Helen and I hope they sent her to the Island of Blessed Spirits where she is happy and where even the highest flying birds of memory could not reach her. You know, I wish the film stopped right after the disappearance. As much as the further scenes involving the search for the girls and their teacher, the sad and heartbreaking Dickensian tale of an orphan Sarah, and the story of the iron lady, Mrs. Appleyard are interesting and compelling, they seem strangely unnecessary - they don't add anything to the Miranda's vanishing. The movie is about eternal beauty and femininity, their rarity and impossibility to reach and to own them. The social aspects would work perfectly in another movie, not in this one. Anyway, first thirty minutes of Picnic at Hanging Rock are perfection, beauty, and unbearable sensual delight that I've not seen or experienced very often in the movies. I'd rate first 30 minutes &#150; 10+, the rest of the film &#150; 7.5. "},{"Title":"Go watch the grass grow instead.","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is one of the most dull and poorly made films that I've ever seen. I can't believe that I actually made it through the whole thing. The film fails to build drama and fails to create interesting characters. It has overbearing music that makes the painfully slow pace of the movie even worse. The idea for the story has some real potential, but I don't think someone could make a less interesting film given the general outline of the story that structures its content. I realize that this film has many fans, but I honestly can't imagine what the basis would be for enjoying this film. I guess some people are determined to find beauty and intriguing mystery where they don't exist. If you value your time at all, please skip this film. "},{"Title":"There's some questions that has answers, and others don't.","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" What a movie. Australia started come out with films that received worldwide attention in the early 1980s, with The Last Wave, and a cascade of them has followed, from the raucous Mad Max to more contemplative issues. And on top of that, they've been putting out a horde of toothsome blonds, from Olivia Newton John to Nicole Kidman. GOOD ON YA, MATE! When it comes to magnificently featured blonds, Anne-Louise Lambert, as Miranda, will serve in Picnic at Hanging Rock. It's true she's a bit tender, only in her mid-teens like the other girls at Mrs. Appleyard's (Rachel Roberts') expensive boarding school in rural Victoria. But the fact is that the film is full to the brim with budding but repressed sexuality -- repression of all kinds, in fact, with all that strict discipline and formality. Even one of the other students seems to have a crush on Miranda. So blame Joan Lindsay and Cliff Green, the writers, instead of my own admittedly warped interests.All is not well at the Appleyard School. The continent at the time was nothing much more than an English outlier and the school has imported its parent culture wholesale -- the strict class system, everything. It's already old fashioned. And it's feeling the financial pinch too.All Mrs. Appleyard needs is some kind of scandal, and that's what happens. The girls go on a picnic to nearby Hanging Rock, a jagged jumble of bushes and gray boulders with stucco textures sticking up out of nowhere. A handful of girls, including Miranda, decides to climb to the top. A plump whiny girl follows and when she tires she loses contact with the others. Panic -- in self-disciplined British style -- follows when the other four fail to return. A search is implemented. Bloodhounds, aboriginal trackers, but there is no trace of the girls.After a day or two, one girl is finally retrieved in an unconscious state and brought back to the school. She's out of it because of exposure and shock, but she is at least intact, as the doctor puts it, although there is some mystery about why her shoes and stockings are missing, and why she isn't wearing the corset that is part of the girls' uniforms. No trace of the others is ever found. The affair effectively brings about the end of Mrs. Appleyard and her boarding school.Not much of a story, is it? A couple of girls go missing from a school and that's that. Not a drop of blood in sight. Not a single motorcycle roar within hearing. And yet the film seems pregnant with a sense of languorous dread, of something that is not quite right -- cockeyed, off kilter. We can sense it from the very beginning, with a score drawn from the deep chords of an organ and from Zamphir's Peruvian nose flute or whatever it is. When there is no music on the sound track we can hear the buzzing of flies or the soft growls of wind about the stone mansion. Why, when Miranda is leaving for the picnic, does she tell another that she's not coming back. And after all, what DID happen to those missing girls? Applause for director Peter Weir and for others of his ilk, like Nicholas Roeg, who have the courage to put out a movie that isn't all hustle and bustle, that takes care to establish an atmosphere that is almost a character in itself, that lingers over the contrast between elegant, lacy civilization and the indifferent implacability of nature's raw rocks.Everything begins and ends at the right time and place, one of the characters insists repeatedly, and the world of movies have a place for films like this that challenge and mystify rather than just tickle your glands. "},{"Title":"The collapse of the old order.","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Most people remember Peter Weir's Picnic at Hanging Rock for for its almost horrific plot an all-girl's school in Australia goes on a picnic on Valentine's Day, 1900, and all but one girl disappear without a trace. But it seems that there is a metaphor here the collapse of the old order. What I mean is after the disappearance, the oppressive school gets a lot of bad PR and is forced to shut down and headmistress Mrs. Appleyard (Rachel Roberts) withdraws from the public eye. By oppressive, here's an example while driving out to Hanging Rock, when they reach a certain point, the girls get to take off their gloves. As for the frequent theme of communication issues in Australian, here it never gets communicated what happens to the girls. All that I can say is be prepared to get unnerved by this movie. "},{"Title":"Both Dark and Etherial","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" On Valentine's Day in 1900, students of an all-girls college in Victoria, Australia, embark on an excursion to Hanging Rock, where they picnic and just generally appreciate the beauty of the surroundings and the geological marvel of the rock formations. Unfortunately, some of the students disappear in truly bizarre circumstances.Early feature from Peter Weir (Dead Poets Society, The Truman Show) is a story often subtly told, and this enhances the sense of mystery regarding the disappearance of the girls, a mystery that appears to be at least as deeply buried as the now hanging rocks themselves were prior to being spewed out of the earth one-million years ago.The period setting and often beautiful locations add greatly to the overall effect. Hanging Rock is located in Victoria, but many other scenes were shot in the Adelaide Hills of South Australia and also the picturesque town of Strathalbyn (a mere half-hour's drive from yours truly's hometown of Murray Bridge) which to this day retains much of the aesthetic appeal of its early settlement heritage, but I digress. Also adding greatly to the atmosphere is the often haunting score, dominated by an eerie and beautiful wind instrument, perfectly suited to the natural surroundings and the mysterious quality of the central narrative locale. Truly spellbinding.Though it contains nothing much to appeal to gore-hounds, Picnic at Hanging Rock has at least one foot firmly planted in the horror genre, and many seasoned genre fans will find much to appreciate.The varied characters are well-drawn, telling us a story in themselves, often reaching a satisfying resolution of conflict, for better or worse.Just don't expect a bunch of straightforward answers concerning the incidents at Hanging Rock. It's in exploring the mysterious where Picnic truly shines. "},{"Title":"Visually extraordinary","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Picnic at hanging Rock opens on the serenity and excitement of Appleyard College, an all-girls school on St Valentine's day in 1900. As the girls run around, celebrating the day, it is announced that there is to be a trip to hanging rock, a local geological site where millions of years previous, a volcanic eruption formed a very distinctive cluster of rocks, containing many hidden cracks, and passageways to explore. The film is based on the true story of four girls who break away from the titles picnic group to take a closer look at hanging rock. They venture into the labyrinthine rock formations. Only one of the four return, dazed and confused, having no memory of what happened. One of their teachers had earlier gone looking for the foursome and still not returned.What happens after this is the obvious search and rescue routine. The spread of the story also has an effect on the school, which begins to fail financially, and the head mistress turns to drink. In these searches only one girl is ever found. She also has no memory of what happened. I'm trying not to go into too many details of the narrative itself, as I feel that it is pretty self explanatory from a small synopsis. What is incredible, and distinctive about the film is its visual beauty. This is not to say that the story is not good. It is a story of loss and the effects this has on the people involved and surrounding the incident. Much like the effects that the death of Laura Palmer had on the population of Twin Peaks.This was Peter Weirs second feature film after the excellent pseudo- exploitation movie The Cars That Ate Paris. It is a piece of cinema that displays great direction, and an ability to work with actors. This is completely founded by Weirs subsequent work. This film also opened him up to American offers, as it was viewed as a prestige picture, more than likely viewed in the same vein as British costume dramas are in Hollywood. It also opened up Australia as a significant contender in the world cinema market.The opening half of the film, particularly the scenes around the rock have an ethereal quality. This is exacerbated by a sound design that creates an unnerving atmosphere. The various sounds of wind reverberating through rocks, crevices and trees portray an impending sense of doom. The visuals also stunning here complimenting the sound design and incredible musical score. The visuals have a hazy, dream-like quality in these scenes. Cinematographer, Russell Boyd did clearly do a good job, even in the eyes of Weir, as they collaborated on much of his subsequent work.Two of the four girls and the teacher who went searching for them were never found (and still their disappearance is a mystery). I like this kind of ambiguity. It is a natural element of life, and a narrative form that should be utilised more often. I thoroughly enjoyed the piece, and found its visual beauty illuminating.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"An Unfathomable Mystery","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A profound mystery hangs over this story. Yet, the film's theme is crystal clear. Picnic At Hanging Rock presents viewers with a scathing indictment of phony Victorian values.Set in Australia in the year 1900, the film tells the fictional story of a group of young girls who journey to a local natural attraction, a rugged volcanic mountain, with its big rocks, lush vegetation, strange birds, insects, and small reptiles. The planned one-day outing is to be a pleasant diversion from the girls' cloistered lives at a boarding school, lorded over by Mrs. Appleyard (Rachel Roberts), a dreadful woman with an authoritarian attitude and a stiff, beehive-like hairdo, who tries to pump Victorian values into the girls.Director Peter Weir really lays it on thick, with those horridly starchy clothes, rigid rules, ascetic lifestyle, underlain by the school's puritanical philosophy. If some of the plot segments at the boarding school had been excised, the plot would have moved faster. And that unctuous narrow-mindedness would still have come through. Also, the girls, being roughly the same age and dressed almost alike, are hard to differentiate.Despite these complaints, the film exudes a wonderful aura of mystery, at least at Hanging Rock itself. Four of the girls go off on their own for a little adventure. Up through the jagged rocks they climb. Only one returns. What happened to the others? Naturally, with everyone at the school so accustomed to programmed behavior and rigid order, conflict and chaos ensue.This is a film that encourages the viewer to think. On the mountain, one of the girls who goes missing blurts out to no one in particular A surprising number of human beings are without purpose, though it is probable that they are performing some function unknown to themselves. It's like she's part of the mountain itself. Strange. Unsettling.Events at Hanging Rock lead to an unfathomable mystery. Alternate explanations can be suggested, but none are really satisfying. We come to a dead-end, wherein logic fails. And that's what makes this film so very, very intriguing. "}{"Title":"(The rock) Waiting thousands of years, just for us!","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I love movies that can be appreciated intuitively on different levels without necessarily shifting into woo! symbolisum mode. Where the different possibilities for meaningful interpretation are left at the perimeter of the mind's eye never to be fully rationalized, hazy and elusive but nagging the viewer with a presence that can be felt, like glimpses through the shifting rents in a thick fog, bits of vivid and vanishing detail giving no connected idea of the general aspect but suggesting a vague outline. When Miss McCraw speaks about the volcanic rock they're visiting (quite a recent eruption really, only a million years old. silicious lava forced up from deep below), I can't shake off the impression that she's talking about the formation of something other than rocks, that it has nothing to do with the rock itself but something antediluvian and portentous like the 'evil came into the world' story narrated to Laura Dern by the old lady in Inland Empire.The mystery of the disappearance of the two girls and their teacher is never allowed to be drawn to the arena of the conscious mind to be subjected there to the laws of reason. It lays there like a gaping black hole threatening to devour everything in the small Australian community. A question left unanswered threatens the stability of the town, as though the mystery of the missing girls is an affront to each of them personally and an indictment on civilized man collectively. The unspeakable remains unspeakable. With theories springing up among the townfolks to explain it (a lot of them indicating violence, suggesting rape, or worse), we can see the formation of taboo in society out of pure unblemished innocence.What I like most about it though is the mythical symbolism Weir uses in painting a picture of pure innocence (the girls reciting poems of love in their dorm and getting ready for the picnic) before sending it off to an ethereal otherworldly doom. The girls disappear inside the rock without violence or force, seemingly out of their own will, as though in trance or seduced by the rock itself. It reads like a modern parable of some ancient creation myth. All things enter the world pure and innocent but inadvertently have their innocence corrupted by the knowledge of that world. All things end at the right time.Despite what the unresolved ending to which the movie owes its reputation would suggest, it's not the fleeting meaninglessness of life, but a sense of teleological fatalism I get from Picnic. Waiting thousands of years, just for us!. "},{"Title":"A cut too far Original cut 7/10 - directors cut 5/10","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Picnic at Hanging Rock is one of those films that should have been left alone, but unfortunately Peter Weir's considerably shorter director's cut does the film no favours. The additions are minor &#150; a redundant scene of a reporter photographing the school and a very brief but much better introduction to the scene where Albert (Wolf Creek's John Jarrett) tells Michael (Dominic Guard) his dream about his sister &#150; but the deletions in the last third are fairly substantial and surprisingly damaging &#150; most notably the entire section of Irma thanking Albert for finding her on the Rock, Michael's growing relationship with Irma, the church service, Albert and Michael talking at night, and Mrs Appleyard removing Sarah's belongings. Sadly, while it may make the film even more elliptical as is Weir's wont, it diminishes the film's resonance and your involvement with the already rather sketchy characters, so it's a pity that only the director's cut now exists in a restored version (even the Australian 2-disc DVD only includes the cut scenes as extras).Unfortunately, a la George Lucas, the original version is almost impossible to find aside from an incredibly poor standards conversion videotape made from a poor print back in the mid-90s before the Australian film industry took film preservation seriously. "},{"Title":"Metaphysical meditation on our relationship with the universe","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A gorgeous film. The terms atmospheric, brooding, and eerie, for once seem quite appropriate. Many of the shots are composed, I think, to resemble Impressionist paintings. Beautiful music, including Beethoven, Mozart, and an extraordinarily haunting melody played by Zamfir on the pan-pipes. A lot of reviews seem to complain about lack of closure, but this is precisely what makes this film so watchable, and so suggestive. I got the impression that Weir is playing with two different themes, and not allowing either one to dominate. There is the power of nature, embodied in the volcanic rock that is over a million years old, but is still a relative newcomer in the history of the universe; and there is the enormously repressed sexuality of most of the characters. Perhaps these two themes come together and are resolved, but only in the mind of the person watching the film. I feel that those who go hunting for literal explanations of the mystery are simply making a category mistake. It's meant to make you think, and it does. For what it's worth, I think the Biblical passage that goes For many are called but few are chosen makes a lot of sense in the context of this film. The film suggests, very subtly, that we are not alone, and that we have a relationship with the earth that is not necessarily one of dominance. "},{"Title":"Pre-Raphaelites in Australia","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  In Peter Weir's film, Picnic at Hanging Rock, a party of upper class schoolgirls and their teacher go missing.  Among the vanished is Miranda, an artistic, angelic, sapphic and telepathic young woman.  The film offers no explanations but concentrates on the psychological effect of Miranda's departure on her erstwhile companions.  But this is not a strictly realistic film either with a stylised, dream-like aesthetic, one imagines it as the sort of film Miranda herself would have enjoyed.  In form it resembles Antonioni's L'Avventurra, though less subtle and (thankfully) also less boring.  But when everything about the missing girls (not just their disappearance) is left beautiful and mysterious, a hole inevitably opens up in the middle of the film.  A little more humanity, and a little less divinity, in their portrayal might have made it possible to care about their loss. "},{"Title":"Director's cut is not as good as the first release cut.","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Amazingly, director Peter Weir voluntarily cut seven minutes out ofthis film for its re-release in the late 1990s, but this shorterversion, sadly the only one now available, is not nearly as effectiveas the longer cut.While nothing of substance has been removed in terms of plot, bytightening up an originally slow and dreamlike film, the poeticdread and art film ambiance is largely lost. Now, instead of ahaunting film to stand next to the best work of Dryer and Antonioni,we're left with a professional product with the shortcomings of aUS studio film but with none of the benefits.  Were 115 minutesreally too long for a film like this?  The longer cut hadn't even hitthe two hour mark! I almost expected Weir to have tacked on amore mainstream ending than the haunting original. At least thathasn't changed.  "},{"Title":"This picnic tastes great but is unfulfilling.","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Confession I don't know WHAT I think of this movie! Not only that, I had to go to IMDb's user comments to find a person or persons to TELL ME what I think of this movie. None did. I read all 45 of the user comments (reviews) and I STILL don't know what I think of this movie. That's how enigmatic this movie is. To me, anyway.I did learn one thing, however, from reading these 45 preceding user reviews. A very great many of these user-reviewers are some of the keenest and most astute moviegoers whom I've ever encountered. They know things about this movie and have picked up things from it which are completely over my non-perceptive head.Example One user-reviewer, an English gentleman, I believe, obviously did his doctoral thesis on this movie. He knows things about it that even Peter Weir (the director) doesn't know. A number of others did their masters on it. Many of the latter refer to Miranda (Anne-Louise Lambert), one of the girls who disappeared, in terms of her being a sort of virginal Botticelli-like angel. While I do agree that Miranda is a most ethereal character, whenever she would appear in a scene, Botticelli was not the first word to jump into my mind. But that's just me.Much is made by many of these perceptive and sharp user-reviewers of the girls' awakening feelings of sexuality and of the phallic symbolism of Hanging Rock to the girl climbers. Oh. I was just wondering Where'd the girls go? What happened to them?One of the many puzzling aspects to the story of this movie, one on which no one seems to agree, is.....is it true? At first I thought it was. Then I thought it wasn't. Now, I have no idea! And the user-reviewers are of no help on this, politely at odds amongst themselves on the story's veracity. I'd like to believe that the movie and novel which preceded it are based on a true incident. No, not because I would wish anything bad to have happened to these adventurous, yet innocent, young girls some 101 years ago. I wish it were true only because it would be but one more event to add to the great mystery that we know as life. A mystery, a question, to which no one has the answer.Listen to me! I sound like I know what I'm talking about. Which I don't! Especially about this movie. In the final analysis, this movie left me generally unfulfilled. There is much in it that is worthy of praise, first and foremost the moviemaking skills of Peter Weir. But when credits rolled, something was missing. I felt as if I'd just eaten a delicious Thanksgiving dinner, having enjoyed every single bite, then, upon arising from the table, felt my stomach completely empty. A feeling stranger than strange.Anyone viewing this film for the first time must be prepared for a movie in which all the various and loose plot ends do NOT get all tied up by the film's denouement. If one is so prepared, one may come away from it more fulfilled than was I. Tastes great, unfortunately, was as far as I could get with it.One sad note At the movie's conclusion, Mrs. Appleyard (Rachel Roberts) arrived at a fate not much unlike one arrived at by Ms. Roberts herself just five short years after the movie's release. Just as art often imitates life, so, too, in this case, did life imitate art.     "},{"Title":"A beautifully enchanting and haunting film","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Peter Weir returned to his watershed film in 1998, according to Pat Lovell (executive producer), in order to remove any pretty romances and speed up the final act.  For this revised version the sound quality has been enhanced and the look improved through colour regrading, although unusually seven minutes have been cut from the original and sadly a couple of key scenes involving Irma (Karen Robson) have been omitted.  The tone is set from the beginning by Anne Louise Lambert as the seemingly charmed Miranda who provides a voice-over paraphrasing Edgar Allan Poe with What we see and what we seem are but a dream, a dream within a dream.   Whilst various clues are shared with us, no attempt is made to solve the puzzle and we are told at the outset that some of those who start out for the St Valentine's Day picnic in 1900 are never to return.   An apparently idyllic way of life is not what it first seems when this false paradise's fragility is shattered by the breakdown of established order.  Tensions and hysteria all surface in the claustrophobic atmosphere of the affluent Victorian European life style in an alien land, exposing the suppressed passions that are the reality of life.  This theme is further expressed by the virginal white dresses worn for the picnic, which seem out of place in this environment and represent the stifling restrictions placed on the young women.  The layers of dress and petticoats the girls have to wear, combined with the various shots into mirrors, as if into another dimension, also reflect the story's many strands. Russell Boyd's award winning cinematography is stunning and actively encourages you to feel the summer heat.  The beauty of the actors and the sounds of the Australian bush, under the sinisterly foreboding gaze of the Rock, with its blatant phallic symbolism, seduce you so that you will more feel a sense of the horror, as does the galumphing Edith (Christine Schuler).  The flashback at the end, poignantly coupled with the adagio from Beethoven's piano concerto No. 5 (Emperor), leaves you with a sense of loss of youth and virtue, an impression recreated by Weir in the final scene of his equally outstanding Australian feature `Gallipoli'.  I am also reminded of the effect produced by Jane Campion (`The Piano') in her early work `Two Friends', where the tale ends in the past when the friendship is at its closest, making the passing of innocence feel more painful with ageing and the passage of time. Cliff Green's script complements Joan Lindsay's narrative exceedingly well, although dialogue is often replaced by visual impression and unnecessary details are excluded to maintain the sense of mystery the author intended.  The novel's literary solecism, concerning Felicia Hemanes' famous Victorian recital piece honouring the Battle of the Nile, is repeated, which is actually `Casabianca' and not Henry Longfellow's `The Wreck of the Hesperus'.  Mrs Appleyard (Rachel Robert's fantastically monstrous harridan, who sadly shared her persona's fate only five years later) discriminates against Sara (Margaret Nelson's forlorn orphan in love with Miranda) who is kept back from the picnic for not learning the poem, whereas Irma's heiress, clearly unable on the Rock to quote more than two lines, is absolved.  The housemaid, Minnie (Jacki Weaver), whose own sexuality is realised with the handyman, Tom (Tony Llewellyn-Jones), in stark contrast to the general ambience of repressed desire is one of the few who show Sara pity.In basing her fictional account on Hanging Rock, a sacred Aboriginal site, near Mount Macedon in Victoria, Lindsay demonstrates Miranda's sentiment that Everything begins and ends at exactly the right time and place.  Aborigines believe time is not linear and Lady Lindsay eschewed the notion of man-made time, hence the title of her autobiography `Time Without Clocks'.  To provide added authenticity Weir filmed during the same six weeks of summer at the actual Rock where both the watches of Ben Hussey (Martin Vaughan) and Greta McCraw (Vivean Gray) stopped at twelve o'clock.  Unsportingly, the English change from the Julian to the Gregorian calendar in 1752 with the loss of 11 days, doesn't offer an explanation for the alteration of 14 February 1900 from a Wednesday to a Saturday after correcting for the additional 29 February in 1800.  However, rather than playing with time Lindsay confessed to having no care for the preciseness of dates, whilst the open-ended nature of the fable is a deliberate mirror of life where we may learn or uncover some secrets but never understand the mystery.  Plenty of extraneous facts and unexplained details are related, such as the absence of scratches to Irma's bare feet, yet identical injuries appear on her head and Michael's (Dominic Guard), her joint rescuer with Albert (John Jarrett), all very redolent of the `X Files'. The sympathetic direction draws out perfect performances from the exceptional cast in tune with the beautiful photography and the coetaneous haunting music of Bruce Smeaton and Gheorge Zamfir.  The ever-excellent Helen Morse is an inspired choice as Mademoiselle Dianne de Poitiers, the French mistress and the girls' confidante, who describes Miranda as a Botticelli angel from the Galleria degli Uffizi in Florence, and Weir specifically uses the image of the Birth of Venus.  In fact the three senior boarders who vanish; Miranda, Irma and Marion (Jane Vallis, who lamentably died from cancer in 1992), are evocative of the Three Graces who dance in attendance to Venus, in Sandro Botticelli's `La Primavera'.  Lambert's portrayal of Miranda (an ironic reincarnation from her famed role in 1973 as the bed-hopping nymphomaniac in the Australian soap `Number 96') captures the vision perfectly with her ethereal loveliness and enigmatic smile, and is reminiscent of the knowing look on the death mask of the renowned `L'Inconnue de la Seine', who coincidentally died around 1900 in Paris.Picnic at Hanging Rock's eerie power is such that the strange sense of loss it induces remains some 22 years after my initial viewing, proving itself a masterpiece of any time.  "},{"Title":"A work of genius","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Like Tarkovsky's Solaris, and 'The Stalker', this film is like an Escher painting that turns full circle.  There is no solution, just  a pattern or an intuitive unease we can't quite focus on.Like many great films, it becomes what the viewer wants to see.  Some questions simply don't have answers. "},{"Title":"A dreamlike trance before the ambiguous story ends...","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The unknown is always a bit mystifying and even terrifying, but in a fictional story we do like to have satisfying endings to any riddle or any story mixing the supernatural with reason. Here we have a dreamlike exercise that weaves a tale of Victorian schoolgirls, circa 1900, who disappear after a school picnic on a sunny day near Hanging Rock.That's the story in a nutshell. Before they disappear without explanation, we see the girls leading rather repressed lives without really getting to know any of them.The disappearance is something the whole story seems to be building toward, because there's an air of dread and mystery about Hanging Rock that makes the viewer feel the conclusion will reveal something--but it never does. The ambiguity remains right up until the final moment.Summing up Moody, atmospheric, but rather hollow at the core and some will simply find it a pretentious bore. "},{"Title":"Soft, dreamy vision of Australia","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is a soft, dreamy showcase of life in rural Australia at the turn of the last century, centred around a group of girls and teachers at a prim boarding school, while it is also an excellent mystery and also a meditation. FYI It is available on youtube, as are many classic Australian films )I've always loved movies and books that take place at all-girls schools. I'm kind of a junkie for that kind of thing, so as soon as I learned the premise, I was in. However, this movie goes far beyond just being that. If you are interested in Aboriginal spirituality and have certain ideas and theories about the sacred land of Australia, this movie definitely gives you something to think about. There is a lot of talk on these boards and around the internet about the secret behind the mystery, but for me it isn't unresolved at all. It was very obvious to me, being interested in what different spiritual traditions have to say about the nature of time, what happened in this movie. I think it will affect people on different levels depending on how you choose to experience movies in general as well as your capacity for abstract thought. For the record, I don't like movies that deliberately offer no resolve to the mysteries they weave, I really am one for solutions, but it was natural and enjoyable for me to reach my own personal conclusions about what exactly was going on in this movie. It was wonderfully subtle but rich in meaning. The movie is extremely atmospheric and I almost felt myself go into a bit of a trance while watching! I especially love the scene that occurs right before the girls go off for their exploration, while they are sitting in the grass. At this point in the movie, do listen to the wondrous sounds of nature! Crickets and birdsong, the wind in the trees, sounds like that. We need to get out in the natural areas of our own corners of this earth and feel that. It is necessary for our health and wellbeing. This is also a film for nature enthusiasts! In addition, I adored the recitation of poetry and a glimpse of the life of a schoolgirl before the technology age, and outside the hustle bustle of the city. It really makes you realize that it is seriously a shame how addicted young people are to their gadgets, and how wonderfully simple life was at that time. It truly facilitated a love of poetry in the young student that I believe has been lost to modern society. Scary. Finally, I must say that I (like countless others) fell under the spell of the lead girl, Miranda, who is likened just before her disappearance to a Bodicelli Angel. She really is a lovely and special girl. "}{"Title":"enigmatic near-great film about the breakdown of an institution, and a mystery unsolved","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" You can read whatever you want into the disappearance of three girls and their watcher/headmistress while on holiday in 1900 Australia at a place called Hanging Rock. That is what makes Picnic at Hanging Rock intriguing but what also, I imagine, was frustrating for certain viewers coming out at the end. Americans generally want a mystery solved at the end of the day, whatever it is, and if it isn't, if things are left ambiguous or just left up in the air, it doesn't translate into ginormous box office or widespread attention (Fincher's Zodiac suffered that problem, though has been reevaluated as a landmark by many). With 'Hanging Rock', Peter Weir crafts a story from Joan Lindsey's novel that favors atmosphere and setting a particular, dreamy, almost-forgotten-but-in-the-wind style over story, but when you look at what plot is there it's actually compelling, especially for what comes after the main event is like watching a slow-moving, delicately staged car wreck, if that makes sense.We see this group of girls go to this Hanging Rock, and four of them going off on their own to explore (a Boticcelli reference happens too, from a picture book to seeing the girls walk away, there's more significance there that I can't point to but I know it's there). They climb and explore, with one girl sort of complaining and trailing behind (in the end, she'll be the one not to disappear), and when the midday malaise and doldrums hits, the girls just get up, walk slowly (or shot in slow-motion), and they're just... gone. Unlike Antonioni's L'Aventurra, which was also notable for a story where a character goes missing and the mystery is existential in nature, we do see these girls in the moment they vanish. But... what exactly happens? Many theories have been posited, from the basic (they fell down a hole, with only one of them getting out, the one who does, eventually, get rescued), to the more outlandish (aliens, which I wouldn't think far off given the mood). One thing is for sure, Weir doesn't make things very naturalistic in his direction, from simple things like when one of the girls opens a gate, turns her head as birds flap around in the sky and there are images transposed onto one another of her looking, the birds, the Hanging Rock itself. Or the music, which has an air at times of being very early-Man with its pan-flute sound, and then at other times sounds like an Italian horror movie, with the dread and over-the-top style that comes with that sound. But this is contrasted with realistic but restrained acting that's meant to reflect the period, especially from the head-master played by a very effective and cold Rachel Roberts.But this restrained feeling is something that bursts open, like one of the corsets one of the women or girls wears that just pops out and when emotion just over-flows. There's a great sense of how there is radical change in how the girls feel about things, since Miranda (Lambert) is one of the girls gone and the one who was kind of a leader in the group. When she exits, the girls are left with no one, and when the one girl returns it's like a pack of wolves snaps out. That is an extremely affecting scene, where things escalate very quickly but it doesn't seem outside the scope of reason. It helps that the setting is at a girl's preparatory school where everything has to be orderly and though not too harsh in discipline (we don't see anyone hit or punished in abuse) there is this sense of 'be straight, do what you're told, oh and don't forget to pay that tuition or you're out). And a lot of the struggle between what to do and what to say is seen in the character of Sarah, who can talk but is so shy she barely says a word (an orphan, of course), and this disappearance hits her the hardest of all.I loved seeing how little by little the school comes apart; it would be one thing to make the story just about the girls being gone, but the author and Weir as adapter know that's just not enough to sustain the narrative. There is no one real protagonist here - except maybe the Rock itself, which has its own ominous glow to it, one of the great rocks in movies alongside the monolith in 2001, full of its own grandiose, eerie enchantment - but Rachel Roberts comes close to playing something of a central figure, and its someone we kind of dread seeing, but has a lot of dimension. She may be stern and even cruel up to a point (certain things she says to Sarah are shocking to see), but she has a job to do which is giving these girls an education and put them forward to the world, regardless of any of their, um, emotions or, heaven forbid, sexual tension (which is there, if you look kind of close enough). Though there are other people on the side, like the supporting male characters who keep going back to search the Rock due to guilt and some unspoken words, it's Roberts show a lot of the time and she makes it work on the human level to balance the visual poetry and grace.Yes, Picnic at Hanging Rock is often poetic, and only once in a while becomes a little too much or, borderline, dated in its attempts to make something larger than the real world into the mythic or other-worldly. There are no easy answers to what happens to these girls, but there doesn't need to be given how the story unfolds, who does what to whom, and seeing the decay of an institution come undone ever so simply by the worst that can happen - the 'not knowing' even being worse than finding them dead, for example. "},{"Title":"In the Hands of the Inevitable.","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The film seems to be a simple story of a group of students going to a rural picnic in Hanging Rock (a lava geological formation with rock pinnacles).But the movie goes far beyond.It's pure existentialismBehind the usual situations, seems to be a mysterious power operating on the girls (and on the viewer) whom are dragged into an eerie maze. The perceptions begin to experience relevant changes. Everything feels differently comments and opinions do not seem to come from any teenager girl, but from an ancient wisdom knowledge related with spiritualism and non-dualism. For instance-MarionA surprising number of human beings are without purpose, though it is probable that they are performing some function unknown to themselves.-Miranda What we see and what we seem are but a dream, a dream within a dream.-Miranda Everything begins and ends at the exactly right time and place.They seem to have entered into a dreamland dimension, suspended in time. An ethereal energy which makes all acts are led by a high level of awareness and absolute sense of freedom.However, according to Sara, Miranda predicted her own fate she would not return. So she could have had a prior intuition about her predestination. Her ethereal mood, mystery and beauty are perfectly portrayed by Anne-Louise Lambert.We have a story in which fate and power of nature are intertwined. In the end, the most relevant fact is the feeling that remains in some viewers long after having seen the movie the feeling of void, nothingness, the inexplicable, the beyond...10/10 "},{"Title":"A Haunting Tale","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" On St. Valentine's Day in 1900, the girls from a private institution, Appleyard College, go on a picnic to a local geological volcanic formation, Hanging Rock. Four girls take permission and decide to explore the rocks. They encounter another family and a couple of boys. By the end of the day, three of the girls and a teacher are missing.This is a masterpiece in psychological drama. We're given just enough clues to guess at what might have happened, but if you're looking for a definitive wrap-up in the end, you're going to be sorely disappointed. The movie offers mere suggestions rather than complete explanations. This could be the work of aliens or of the Gods, as the rocks seem to take the form of faces throughout the movie. At one point, I even suspected the two boys who were around the vicinity.Appleyard College - The term 'college' is applied very loosely since this is just a finishing school where they're taught on how to be the 'perfect' woman. Victorian sexual repression and symbolisms are bubbling just beneath the surface. The girls slowly start to let go of their inhibitions and are attracted by something, which could possibly be their doom and yet move towards it. This is just completely fascinating since there's barely any dialogue and yet the visual is so very powerful. The animals in the Australian mountains add to the uneasy feeling. What I've told is just one part of the story. There's another part with a girl, a lovely French teacher and the headmistress, Mrs. Appleyard, which is simply amazing. At the start of the movie it says this is all based on a true story. A little google search and you find that the claim is total bogus though. Its based on a fictional novel. Considered as THE movie which put Australian films on the map, this is indeed a great classic. An eerie, atmospheric mystery which leaves you haunted and wanting for more. 9/10 "},{"Title":"One of the most beautiful, yet quietly disturbing...","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" It's taken me possibly four viewings, over the years to get to this stage where I feel I now appreciate the film, rather than think it simply pretty, stuffy and meaningless.As part of Australian Cinema collection vol 1, 12 movie box set (so I don't know which edition I saw) this, considered classic by many, Aussie period piece from Peter Weir is known to have stamped authority on the Australian film-making scene that they could truly make world-class films.Amongst the order and strict routine of endless etiquette ritual amongst the girls at an exclusive boarding school, there becomes, on St Valentine's Day, 1900, a quietly brewing disruption that would change their lives forever. On a rigidly organised day trip to a geologically complex and ancient landmark, Hanging Rock, a group of the girls wander off - and simply vanish.The sense of the unreal, eerie and weird at around this point is a master-class in restrained exaltation. The music in particular pinpricks the senses, making one feel quite unsettled - pocket-watches stop on the dot of midday and afterwards we hear of sightings of a 'red cloud' just then, too.I still believe that the film peaks too soon, all this happening around a quarter way in, leaving the remainder of the film for the salient questioning, searching for the missing and coping with the aftermath.Rachel Roberts - as all the cast are, is very good, often excellent; she's the formidable school headmistress, mixing restraint with authority, with just a hint of self doubt during the darkest hours of the dilemma.Without doubt, the star here is the cinematography, by Russell Boyd, the level of its sumptuousness as deep and thick as the finest carpet, delicate and luminously soft to convey a sense of the ethereal. "},{"Title":"Scary as hell, yet beautiful at the same time,","Date":"15 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is one of those rare movies that comes along and sweeps you completely off your feet and holds you there until you beg to come up for air.I first saw this movie one afternoon while flicking channels,read the synopsis and was intrigued.What i didn't expect was a movie that was so intense in atmosphere that it blew me away.The story is simple enough but has an incredibly intense underlying sense of doom.The girls play perfect roles that captures perfectly the mindset of the class and naivety.Somehow through the brilliance of the script and direction,sexual undertones hang delicately over the entire film. Reading the book has made me realise how perfectly it has been captured on film.The rock itself is menacing to the point that it takes on an overpowering persona and sits looking on,smiling like a serial killer watching one of his potential victims.There is one thing that some film goers wont like ,that is the ending is never explained fully and leaves you feeling slightly cheated and wanting a whole lot more.Personally it works all the better and like a good book,lets your mind do the rest. If you are into atmosphere and imagery, then this is for you.I cannot recommend this film enough.It really did scare me to my bone yet move me with images and atmosphere at the same time.Not sure what the intention was of the director but if it was to chill me to my core then it certainly worked.A true masterpiece... "},{"Title":"Engaging period horror film","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Picnic at Hanging Rock is in some ways a minimalist movie. The movie is the story of a class of boarding school girls who go to a huge rock formation called Hanging Rock on Valentine's Day, 1900. Three of them, along with a teacher, mysteriously disappear.There are no special effects, no crazy monsters chasing down the abundant supply of heroines. There is immense personal conflict - love and hate - between many of the characters, but much of it is unspoken, to the point where the audience is almost starved for more information, as opposed to bored with a glut of uninteresting sappy details as in many films. Despite its sparse dialogue and lack of cinematic fireworks, there's a huge amount of depth to the movie. It's a period piece, a horror, psychological fiction, a romance (although most of that is not spelled out for the viewer), and of course one could spend all day speculating about what it all means.I felt that the main reason the movie succeeded was actually the soundtrack. This is unusual, and I'm not sure I could say that of any other movie, but the atmospheric, other-worldly sounds at critical moments simply make the difference between those scenes being the low-budget exploits of girls exploring a rock outcropping and the kind of stuff that sends chills down your spine no matter how many horror movies you've seen.This is definitely a high-brow horror movie to remember. I wish more people put this much thought into movies! "},{"Title":"Weir's masterpiece a horror tale that has incited much discussion ever since its original release","Date":"9 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Is there any other film that so perfectly exemplifies feelings of dread? While on an excursion to Hanging Rock in Victoria on Valentine's Day in the year 1900, three students and their schoolteacher from nearby Appleyard College mysteriously vanish. And yet, what may confound first time viewers of this film (who may be expecting something completely different), is that this film does not answer as many questions as it raises. That is the beauty of the puzzle, of the vague auras surrounding Peter Weir's opus that have garnered it the enormous amounts of praise (and contempt) it so rightfully deserves.This story can be dissected in so many ways. The possibilities seem practically endless Were the disappearances the acts of the supernatural? Did beings from another world beam them off and take them away? Was this the strangest and most intricately planned murder imaginable? Who knows? Who can say anything for sure? One of the many beauties of this film is that the responsibility of the hypothesis lies solely on the viewer, and if this brings out rattled frustrations, then this is not a film for you. While some may expect a simple sort of mystery, what makes Weir's masterpiece so wholly enthralling is how expertly he disguises this nasty dream under such pristine settings. From a technical standpoint, the film is practically perfect. The cinematography is gorgeous and the set design, art direction, and all the rest of the production values are absolutely flawless. And so, by creating something so aesthetically pleasing, Weir is able to manipulate the viewer, drawing them into a false sense of security and even...sleep, perhaps the same 'sleep' that befell the visitors to Hanging Rock! Weir provides us with a powerful study on the mysteries of human nature hidden beneath the surface available only to those with the time and patience worthy of such a delicate film. This is a film that needs to be discussed to shut off the screen and move on to the next DVD in your collection without giving this film some thought would be enormously foolhardy.In truth, there is a lot to be said about this particular study, though, much like the disappearances themselves, it is hard to put into words. The intensity of the atmosphere helps to create a mood that reveals that there is as much sadness as there are secrets beyond the veneers of this repressed Victorian society.What is even stranger about this particular production is that while the feelings abound are bleak, the way it views the end of the Victorian era is in a very relaxed, almost accepting, manner. This is the most sensible manner from which to look at the whole picture, for the disappearances are, quite successfully, a skewering, symbolic in the sense that they represent the death of Victorian pretensions, repressions and hypocrisies, the new taking over the old, the dream being killed off by reality as the administration of Appleyard College finds themselves in way over their heads, forced to face the complexity of the mystery at hand, and made to understand that to raise young girls to be innocent and proper young ladies in the wake of such life-changing events would be doing them a great wrong. Struggling to hold on to the remnants of this shattered social realm would be a disgrace when one particular tragedy signifies the crumbling of all institutions where previously faith was never in short supply.And it all unravels like poetry, each moment a teardrop of emotion, flowing profusely, and melting so elegantly. If there's one thing that is certain about Picnic at Hanging Rock, it is that it hits all of the right notes. "},{"Title":"The mystery is the point","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Peter Weir's dreamy Pre-Raphaelite study of the frailty of femininity was voted best Australian film of all time, and it is undeniably beautiful (there's no escaping the word). The long pan-shot of an array of nubile young ladies in white finery draped around the ethereal heat-scape of the Australian bush is luscious and memorable. That shot captures the chief theme of the film women up against the beguiling, inscrutable, dark forces of the earth. Having creating a marvelous little world for themselves, the very appearance of those ladies in the wild has the air of hubris about it. The story is so famous that some believe it to be true while on a school picnic at a rocky outcrop, three girls and a teacher unaccountably go missing. One girl is found a week later, unable to recall anything. We are left to figure out what happened. There are plenty of red herrings watches stop at noon, Aboriginal legends, discarded clothing, face patterns in the rocks (rather too many of those) as well as the towering phallic ones beneath which the girls swoon. It works best perhaps as an allegory of rape. The brutal contrast - girl and rock - is everything. The very hardness of it seems to send them into a spin. You might be disappointed to learn that it is not a true story, but is simply based on a novel by Joan Lindsey. That book originally included a final chapter which gave an outrageous supernatural explanation for the girls' disappearance, but which the author (and Peter Weir) very wisely left out, knowing that it is the hideous obscurity of events that is the story's strength, and that concocting explanations for what happened will be its enduring point of interest. This makes it very similar to 2001, which is also a riddle with no answer, and which also provides a set of clues rich enough to keep us speculating for the rest of our lives. Most of Weir's film is concerned with the aftermath of the tragedy and how it seeps into the lives of the girls and teachers at the school. The best scenes involve the young dandy - excellently diffident - and the lovely French governess - both marvelous performances. Once you buy into the beauty of the mystery - and the mystery of the beauty - this is a very fine film indeed. "},{"Title":"A disintegration of class...","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A beautiful movie from director Peter Weir. Three girls and a teacher from a boarding school vanish while visiting a volcanic rock in the countryside of Victoria, Australia. While a mystery doesn't exactly unravel (one of the girls is found, essentially catatonic), a complete breakdown of the highly cloistered society found within the walls of the school does ensue. The headmistress (a sharp featured Rachel Roberts) realizes that the scandal spells doom for her school and proceeds to disintegrate into booze soaked madness. Director Weir captures the class structure that existed throughout the British Empire (there's more than one shot of Queen Victoria's portrait) while creating a compelling, deeply involving, even creepy masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Into thin air","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Picnic at Hanging Rock (1975)Good movies tell good stories. Great movies create an unforgettable sensual atmosphere while telling good stories. There is no more sensual art than film-making. Films can create distinctive moods. Moods that stay with you for days, weeks, months, years. In a recent review, I discussed the eerie atmosphere of CT Dreyer's visual masterpiece Vampyr. That spurred me to revisit another masterpiece of mood.Peter Weir's Picnic at Hanging Rock is one of the most memorable films I have ever seen. First, it tells a frustratingly intriguing story. On Valentines Day 1900, a group of Australian private schoolgirls go on an outing to Victoria's hanging rock. While exploring the rocks, three girls vanish into thin air after walking hypnotically onto a pathway. Another girl, terrified, runs away. On her way down she claims she saw one of their teachers, without her skirt, going up the rocks. She, too, disappears. It is not really a spoiler to divulge that the teacher and 2 of the 3 girls are never seen again. Not even a trace. The third girl is found a week later, alive but with no memory of the incident. The second reason why this film is so memorable, and the reason that elevates its subject matter, is the mood that Weir creates. He and his cinematographer capture the story in lush, dream like photography. They often used the simple trick of placing a bridal veil in front of the camera to shoot though, making the picture hazy and dreamish. The actors, particularly the school girls at the rock, move with a slow, meandering gait, as if hypnotized or drawn to something not even they understand. Another key to the mood and atmosphere of the film is the music. It is constantly ominous, but not simply by itself. The camera movements, the picture, the choreography of actors and the music all work together. It's this combination that creates the film's awesomely eerie atmosphere.And of course, Hanging Rock itself. If ever a natural landscape existed for the sole purpose of filming a movie, it is hanging rock. It is terrorizing in its odd beauty. It, along with the rest of the physical elements in the film, feel threatening at all times. When two young men, who saw the girls the day they disappeared, search the rock for any signs, one is nearly claimed by the rocks. (An interesting note, a few people have recently pointed out to me that the cuts and marks on this boy, and the cuts and marks found on the found girl are nearly identical - perhaps a hint to the films mystery?) It is that mood which has never left me.Obviously, the story in Picnic at Hanging Rock, based on the novel, struck and continues to strike a sour note with audiences. Especially today. Understandable. People naturally want answers. However, I've always been a firm believer that what is imagined is always more terrifying, more interesting than what is presented. Just as the aliens in Signs were far scarier when they were left off screen or in blurred or shadowy images, just as the monster in Cloverfield was more interesting and intimidating before we got a clear look at it, Picnic at Hanging Rock retains it's elusive fascination through its ambiguity. The story also deals with a number of subtle and not so subtle themes. Sexuality is one example. The main character (although she has only about 1/2 hour of screen time) is the object of quite possibly a lesbian crush - Sarah, an orphan. She becomes the major focus of attention after the disappearance, along with Mrs Appleyard, the brutish schoolmarm, growing ever more distressed in the aftermath of the disappearances.Picnic at Hanging Rock is not an unforgettable film simply the reasons I have discussed here, but because of the way they all work together to create such a creepy and threatening atmosphere. It is the perfect example of the old adage 'the sum is more than the parts.' "}{"Title":"An enthralling allegorical tragedy","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The story at the heart of Picnic at Hanging Rock is outlined at the film's very beginning an introductory text describes the mysterious disappearance of three schoolgirls and their teacher in the Australian outback. Yet for all that we know about what will happen, this is an utterly enthralling film, combining a moving, mysterious human drama with rich and haunting symbolism.The 1900 period setting is impeccable. The grandiose school for girls rises out of the vast Australian wilderness, a tiny outpost of Empire in a strange land. The costumes, from Victorian schoolgirl outfits to white imperial soldier uniforms, are brilliantly realised. Very soon we see that the schoolgirls are stifled. Some of them strain against the confines of their cosseted environment and the strict Victorian values imposed by Mrs Appleyard, the headmistress of the school. It becomes apparent that beautiful Mirandah and the orphaned Sarah have fallen in love, but Mrs Appleyard intervenes when the girls set out for the 'Hanging Rock' for an end-of-term picnic she sees to it that Sarah is kept behind whilst Mirandah and the others set out.It is at the Hanging Rock that we see just how alien the Australian landscape is to the Victorian ideals of colonial society &#150; and vice versa. When Mirandah and three other girls separate from the main party to view the Hanging Rock up close they venture into an otherworldly place, where strange animals and bizarre rock formations abound. The rhapsody of the young women in the unfamiliar landscape is cleverly conveyed through the blurring between images of human faces and the great expanses of the landscape. As the girls ascend and disappear from view into the upper reaches of the rock it is hard not to feel a glimmer of their atavistic impulses.The disappearance of the schoolgirls and the school governess are witnessed only by Edith, another schoolgirl, and we can but wonder how accurate her subsequent account is. The disappearance is ultimately a mystery this is not a film to provide a neat ending or anything much in the way of answers to our questions. What makes the film so captivating is the combination of a moving human tragedy with powerful symbolism.The school and the adjoining town can be viewed are an encapsulation of colonial society with its Victorian ideals. Despite the strictures of the school headmistress, the new generation are already drifting away from a society that has been newly imposed upon an ancient landscape. The Hanging Rock, an enormous rocky outcrop of volcanic origin, has stood for a million years and is described as a 'recent' geological feature. Inscrutable and uncaring, the rock embodies the timeless nature of the foreign landscape. For the transplanted society, time is running out it is an anachronism in this land. It is no wonder that all the watches stop at 12 o'clock when the party reaches the rock.In parallel to the vast, uncaring entity in the natural landscape is the imperial society itself. With its Victorian ideals and its ruthless enforcers such as Mrs Appleyard, this society rides roughshod over the happiness of its inhabitants. Mirandah's and Sarah's is a doomed love from the beginning of the film, but there is a further tragedy in Sarah's life as a young orphan she was separated from her brother and whisked away to the school. Minnie, a servant to Mrs Appleyard, quite rightly remarks with pity of the poor girls at the school.A few points of light are set against this dark tone. Michael and Albert, a young aristocrat and a young servant, present at the rock at the time of the disappearances, become furtive friends despite their very different class backgrounds. And, though in many ways a tragedy, the mysterious disappearance of the girls has a certain beauty to it. The three ascend out of oppressive surroundings into a new and unfamiliar place. Their action heralds the beginning of the end for a world that tried to smother them. "},{"Title":"assured debut from Weir","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Describe a movie using the word eerie, and you've basically got me hooked. So I had been meaning to see this one for a while. Fortunately, it didn't disappoint. The plot a bunch of college girls in 1900 go on a picnic, and four go missing. Though the pace is the very definition of slow, this bare string of a plot held my interest for 107 minutes, because narrative is not the point at all here - mood is. Director Peter Weir deploys sound design that would do David Lynch proud, and a surprising assurance for a novice. He exploits the mystery of nature to create some downright creepy moments (the same way the directors of The Blair Witch Project would 24 years later).Stay away from this one if you have no attention span, or if you need a movie to provide you with closure. Or if you're one of those retards who complained that there was no witch in The Blair Witch Project. "},{"Title":"Haunting, Elegant and Incredibly Atmospheric","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Having found a video store with a decent amount of Australian cinema, I was very excited to find Weir's 'Picnic at Hanging Rock' in the outlet's excellent collection. The film itself is classic in my country, however I tried not to implant my own expectations on the work, rather attempting to approach it with an open mind.The story centers on several school girls who go missing while attending a school picnic at Hanging Rock on St.Valentines day 1900. From there, the bulk of the story extrapolates how the friends, teachers and the community adjust to their shocking disappearance. This focus on how people react to the mystery is the film's master stroke. You can't help to be pulled into the mystery as you, like the characters in the film, begin to grieve but also wonder exactly what happened to these lovely young women.The acting and direction is very polished for a group of -at the time- very inexperienced film makers. All the cast, from the gardeners and maids, through to splendidly cold Mrs Appleyard are perfect. The unlikely friendship between a young English boy and an Australian stable-hand is heart warming and genuine. As much of film focuses on the isolation and emotional abuse of the girls in the school, the entire female cast covey very realistic feelings of angst and grief. Even now, the performances hold up well because of the subtlety and passion of the actors. The many silent sequences around Hanging Rock are evoked very well with all the support cast remaining focused and true to the period in terms of their expressions and demeanor. In addition, Weir's directing is incredible. The trademark focus on atmosphere and character development shines through with mastery in this piece. Considering his lack of experience, it is a remarkable achievement.The cinematography is also very good. Russel Boyd and Weir use many silent sequences on the Rock itself to help evoke the spooky atmosphere of the location. The sequences are beautiful and almost surreal. The girls seem like angels ascending to heaven as the clamber further and further away from civilization. These scenes are spine-tingling and atmospheric. They will stay with you longer than most of the clichd horror sequences Hollywood churns out.This film is simply beautiful. It sparked conversation and argument at our dinner table for hours as we bickered over the mystery. No other film as provoked so much discussion, not only in terms of narrative but the chocking atmosphere the oozes through the entire movie. Not for anyone after mindless action but a real classic of Australian cinema. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric and eerily believable!","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Picnic at Hanging Rock is a very dark and atmospheric film. The movie instigates a psychological response while it inavertadly wanders into the unexplained areas of the mind. It's a film that is meant to be experienced not watched. Although Peter Weir is an Australian director the feature cannot be categorized into any specific national style or genre. It has all the qualities of an independent/experimental film with none of the shortcomings that can sometimes get dragged along with those kinds of pictures. The overall approach is unpretentious and eerily believable even though the plot and story are far out and imaginative.Cinematography, sound and lighting are what give this movie its hallucinatory rhythm and substance creating an entire atmosphere of mystery. Although the film comes off as slow paced it just requires a little patience to adjust to its unique style. Some notable scenes are when the girls are climbing Hanging Rock and there are over lapping shots of birds flying that dissolve in and out with their faces. There is a good variation in different methods of shooting employed by the cinematographer in these particular parts. Although through most of the scenes there are a lot of shots when the characters are captured in the center of the frame, later in the film there is a great contrast to this simple approach. One example is the more low angle photography when filming Hanging Rock. Since it is so large and vast and the camera is placed more below, it projects the image of a superior force that should not be reckoned with. These shots of the rock create a feeling of uneasiness to the point were it becomes a character in itself; some of the rocks even take on a human presence because they look like faces. These shots just linger in the movie constantly reminding the audience that there is a mysterious element of danger prominent. Sound and music tie a lot of elements together in the film too. When the girls are making their way up the music also seems to coincide with the pace of their ascent towards the top. The classical numbers also seem very appropriately placed in the film because it matches with the prim Victorian attitudes. The incorporation of silence has an equally important effect as music does in some cases. Early in the film when they first arrive the only things noticeable to the ear is the harmonies of birds chirping and other natural sounds that are to be heard in a setting such as that. This gives the audience a feeling of cinematic realism while it still does not compromise the intended fantasy and surrealism. Sometimes a lack of sound can even enhance and accentuate feelings of apprehension.There are also a few different genres going on in this picture. In one light it is a period piece seeing as it takes place in 1900. The costume design and recreation of the times look very natural and accurate. There is also an adequate portrayal of Victorian attitudes while the picture never becomes over indulgent like some period films (Fellini's Casanova, Zefrelli's Jane Eyre). It's important however that one not be led on by this soft exterior it starts out on because it slowly snowballs into a very psychologically startling storyline that also borderlines into the horror genre. Even though there are no knife wielding maniacs or ghouls swallowing people up doesn't mean that it can't be frightening. Actually, the lack of things like that is what gives the film its originality. Peter Weir seems to be one of the few directors (if not only) that can make a movie where tragedy falls upon attractive young women without being exploitive; everything throughout the picture is done in good taste. It's good to see a filmmaker fearlessly blend different styles into one work. It's pretty safe to say that Picnic at Hanging Rock is not one particular kind of movie because it has many different elements combined into one. Since there is nothing that legitimately explains what happened to the girls who disappeared it was important for the director to uniquely craft that aura of mysticism. It makes the viewer aware that the option of something supernatural is responsible for what happened. There are no answers led on by the director throughout the movie, it's entirely up to the audience to draw their own conclusions, now although this may frustrate some it also peeks interest in others. Because of that Picnic at Hanging Rock is definitely not intended for all audiences. Weir lets the mystery stand while there are many clues and hints to be interpreted.Although Picnic at Hanging Rock can come off as confusing and that it doesn't answer its own questions its still fair to say that it is original and different than most other films. Sometimes an element of mystery is what makes a story interesting and engaging to ones imagination. Whether or not the style comes from the directors own creative instincts or it has more to do with the cultural influence from his own native South Whales. "},{"Title":"Poe and Boticelli ?","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" After a couple of viewings of this undoubtedly enigmatic film it seems that the 'mystery' (if solvable at all) must revolve around the following 'clues', if that is indeed what they are  1) Why did time stop at 12 ? 2) What is the meaning of the scratch marks on Irma's hands, and yet none on the rest of her body, except for the mark (identical to the one on the boy) on her forehead ? 3) Why do the girls fall asleep simultaneously just before their final ascent ? And what's with all the bird imagery ? And why do Irma AND Michael remember nothing of their experience on the Rock? That some kind of allegory of sexual awakening is intended, is so obvious as to be hardly worthy of mention.All in all rather a frustrating film, though cinematographically excellent, and intelligently wrought. "},{"Title":"Visual Feast","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This entire movie serves as a cinematic delicacy -- more than just as 'pretty pictures'. What is striking is the uncanny use of 'architecture'.On the one pole, we have the neoclassical architecture of the Appleyard College...everything is prim, ordered, perfect. On the opposite pole, we have the 'architecture' of the titular rock formation...wild, dreamy, unknowable. The polar dualities are also reflected in the competing works of poetry.Weir reveals to us that the rock is in fact a character, and what's more, it is telling us the story. Any attempt to see the 'story' from the other direction only results in frustration, acknowledged in the narrative as the failed 'search parties'. Quite purposely, the setting is the end of the Victorian period, so as to heighten the sense of stricture, and liberation from that stricture through nature.As lovely as the 'dream' is that Miranda leads us to, I still somewhat prefer the vision of Barry Lyndon. But I also have to think that some of this 'architecture as a character' quality rubbed off on Kubrick for The Shining. "},{"Title":"Better as a book than a movie.","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The starting is as slow as a bullock cart on a tarmac. The middle is just about as good as any great director could have made it. The end is abrupt. Do I like this movie ?I have read the novel before and my imagination is what made it an awesome story. I studied in Melbourne for 4 years and have been to Mt.Macedon three times. You never get bored of it. Something draws you to it again and again.Three students and one of the teachers vanish on St. Valentine's day when time mysteriously stopped clocking at 1200 noon. The three girls get drawn into a crevice of 350 million year old lava rocks. Two among them were never seen again, while one escapes to see day light again - but distraught for the rest of her life. The movie fails to highlight what happened to the teacher. This is the core of the movie. There are stories of a young boy and some coppers doing their bits to find what happened to those girls.The photography is simply beautiful. I am not going to do injustice to Mt.Macedon's  beauty & majesty by trying to find appropriate words to describe. I have always been an ardent admirer of the virgin beauty Australian terrain seems to exhibit. I promise, you will just wonder how this Mt.Macedon came into existence - ONLY if you see it face to face. I won't say the movie is disappointing, I would give it a 6.5 on a 10 scale. "},{"Title":"I Have To See It At Least Once A Year","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Where oh where are the movies like this, which let you use what little gray matter you have left after watching the new spate of drivel films. Every now and then you need to see a film like this which isn't wrapped up in a cute little box, replete with bow. Watch this with a group of friends then sit back and listen to and watch the show...after the show. You gain a lot of insight into your friends when you hear them discuss this film. "},{"Title":"Picnic at Hanging Rock, Peter Weir, 1975","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Three Victorian schoolgirls and their teacher vanish without trace on a school outing at Hanging Rock, an imposing rock formation in Southern Australia. The film doesn't try to give us any definite answers as to why the girls disappear, but focuses on the aftermath of the events on the school and it's headmistress, a young man who was also on the rock that day and becomes obsessed by where the girls may be and of one of the girl's roommate who was in love with her. This is an incredibly haunting experience, heavy on the symbolism (a little pretentious, perhaps), an allegory for sexual awakening in both adolescence and the Victorian era, whatever you want it to be. A film I'll never forget.9/10. "},{"Title":"Quiet, Sunlit Eeriness","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  _Picnic_at_Hanging_Rock_ was more popular in Australia than here and inspired a great deal of speculation -- even at least one book -- about whether it was based on a true story and what was the solution to its mystery.  This misses the point.  (See the Roger Ebert review linked from IMDb.)I think the movie is wonderful in what it does not tell you.  Leaving things out can be a sign of incompetence, but done well, it engages one's imagination.  The implications of _PaHR_'s quiet, sunlit eeriness can feel cosmically significant.  Also, it's often beautiful to look at.  _PaHR_'s director, Peter Weir, has made more commercial movies, including _The_Last_Wave_, which was too coarse in its mysteries but still worth seeing.  "}{"Title":"superb!","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  i can only remember this movie being on television here in Belgium, once. that being when i was 11 or so. somewhere this year, i can't even remember why, i started thinking about this film again. i wanted to see it again just to see if it was as good as i remembered. apparently they don't even sell it here, so i bought it a few months ago on Ebay from a guy from England. i waited every day for the postman to bring it, and when it finally came i was thrilled! i watch it right away. it wasn't exactly like i remembered but it was still so brilliant! i can't wait to get my hands on the book!! it's a long movie and okay, nothing really happens in it. but the entire movie has something spooky. you can imagine a lot of what could have happened to those girls and the teacher. but who will ever know..? i always thought that it was a true story but apparently it's not so. it would have been much cooler if it really was a true story! i sure want to go to Australia one day and visit the rock myself. who knows.. maybe something spooky will happen to me! i recommend this movie to everyone. you really won't waste a minute of your time! let's just all sit down and wonder the unknown... "},{"Title":"Stylish as a prisoner on death row walking the green mile in an Armani suit!","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Though obviously not to everyone's taste, evidence I suggest, that it functions along anything but broadband, hence many miss the signal! I still believe unequivocably that this is not only Peter Weir's finest moment (forget the curiously bland and soul-less TRUMAN SHOW) but the most significant if not stunning movie, yet released in Australia. It remains well up in my top 20 films of all time.The story?  three girls disappear during a picnic at Victoria's Hanging Rock in the late 1800's! Sounds intriguing doesn't it? Don't look for intrigue! Don't look for action, dynamic twists, UFO's, purpose or even an EXPLANATION! Just take-in what you see! Eerie doesn't cover it! Is this horror? psychological drama? cinematic art? over-the-top poetic license concerning the real disappearance? Fact is, its anything you want it to be, but if it doesn't reach out and compress your emotions at various points, then perhaps you are either dead, a clone or just plain way down the brain chain! There has NEVER been a film like PICNIC AT HANGING ROCK that so stlishly and culturally presents a bygone era with its niceties, eccentricities, cruelties and yes, simplicites! Performances are absolutely spot on from Rachel Roberts tortured school principal Ms Appleyard to the ultra feminine and immaculately turned-out Helen Morse as M'selle Ms Poitier.The costuming is quite magnificent and as so many have commented, there is a mesmerising influence exerted by this film -  on certain viewers. You cannot look for a rational explanation here but you are free to interpret whatever you wish. This was Weir's legacy. I have seen this film probably 30 times and like a magic mirror, can see more in it each time I look!Fact, fantasy, sexual awakening, collective hypnosis?  Have fun deciding! "},{"Title":"This mystery was never solved...","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Peter Weirs Picnic on Hanging Rock is probably one of the most beautiful and fascinating mystery-fairy tales ever made! It is casted with brilliant actors, amazingly photographed, full of subtle suspense and endowed with a mysterious but also beautiful symbolic language, what creates sometimes an almost dream-like atmosphere. The story is about three Australian collage girls who disappeared on Hanging Rock without a trace at the beginning of the last century, but the real message of this film lies between the lines the awakening of female sexuality, the degeneration of the conservative and the destinies that were connected with this incident. A great film!! Not to be missed!!! "},{"Title":"Some mysteries are never solved?","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I last saw Picnic at Hanging Rock about 13 years ago and I like everyone else was curious as to what happened to the missing people.Then by accident -- probably 10 years ago -- I came across an excellent review of this film where the reviewer may have solved its puzzle. This person's review was like a revelation to me. Could it be that I was looking at this film all wrong?His theory, and if he's correct then this film isn't just a good film but one of the cleverest to come along in a long time. And if I ever find this review again I'll post its whereabouts. Great, another mystery to solve!His theory was as follows The mystery of the missing girls is simple -- there is no mystery. Nothing really happened to them. Hokum was a word the reviewer used in describing this film. The film supplies the parts; we just piece them together the way we believe they should go. If something did happen to them it could have just as easily been that they went down to Melbourne and got a beer (my thoughts, not his).I read the other reviews on this Web page and some people have commented on the film's implied negative view of Victorian ethics. Good for them! They're probably right. There are two groups dealing with this mystery The turn of the century people in this film and the enlightened minds of the late 20th and early 21st century who are viewing it. We're both dealing with and trying to solve this mystery.  We can see in the film how the repressed nitwits of 1900 handle it, but look instead at some of the possible explanations to this puzzle the enlightened minds of the late 20th and early 21st century have given over the past few years The young women were taken by demented Aborigines (did Aborigines do that kind of thing?), they were kidnapped/raped (Sort of a Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior's Picnic?), a time warp/line (Picnic at the T-Zone? The Rocky Horror Picnic? Let's do the...), Alien Beings and UFOs (Close Encounters of the Picnic Kind?).We're watching and critiquing the people in this film. Let's stand back and look at ourselves. It reminds me of that very unique scene in this film where we see someone going over the belongings of the missing girls. We don't know who it is because we see only their hands moving about and searching. But then a mirror appears and we see who it is and we see them looking back at themselves. It's an excellent and startling scene. We see them look back at themselves, but maybe they're looking back at us too?  Maybe, maybe not.If nothing really happened then is it possible this film is that clever? Is it possible Peter Weir and company could be that brilliant? Can a film that cleaver/brilliant be made not now, but 25 years ago? I don't know but if that reviewer's article is wrong, I still admire his way of thinking. I like it when people analyze films like they would a book. I read through all the other comments on this film at this Web page and most, if not all are excellent. Although I don't understand some of the more negative ones, but this is still when IMDb is at its best -- allowing others to express their opinions to many.One final comment Zamphir (or is it Zamfir?). If you live in the US and were around during the '80s then you probably remember those commercials with Zamphir trying to sell cassettes of him playing contemporary songs with his Panflute. Those commercials took a real comic beating on the talk shows of the time. I have nothing against Zamphir and his music can sound rather enchanting at times, but in this film -- at least as well as I remember it -- it just sounded like he was just warming up, nothing more. I could be wrong but it just didn't come across as interesting Zamphir music. "},{"Title":"Mysterious","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  For me, this is Peter Weirs best work! I was very impressed by making such a sinister mood without happening anything - there's only this rock. I can't wait 'till going to Australia and see this rock in reality! The actors are very good and believable, too, I give this movie a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Very Haunting","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was in Australia, when it first came out.  I have not seen it since.  However, it has haunted me ever since, and I have desperately tried to find it.  I saw the very end of it on TV last week, and the music drove me crazy.  I am very excited to have a chance to purchase a copy, so I will be able to see it again.  I am sure that 25 years has not changed my idea of the movie.   "},{"Title":"Creepy, creepy, creepy","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Watching this film, I found myself somewhat perplexed at the seeming rift between cause and effect.  Once it had ended, however, this apparent discontinuity revealed itself to be the basic framework supporting Picnic's open-ended story-line.  This film is seriously haunting--not while it's being watched, but after, which seems much more effective.  Don't believe a word about this being inaccessible to men, or overly concerned with making a moral statement concerning sexual repression.  These seem to be superficial readings of a fine movie. "},{"Title":"extraordinary","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" One of more beautiful films that it has never seen. An intriguing history, splendid scenes because splendid is the nature that it represents, a sapient direction, actors happily inspires to you, one sonorous column that you capture. It seems sure by now that the represented vicissitude (therefore like is not at least narrated) never happened but this does not render the film sure less intriguer. Of the rest this film, intentionally mysterious, sure more of the novel from which it is draft, is lend, a real masterpiece like Kubrick's the 2001 a space Odyssey is subject to various readings and interpretations as well as that same Peter Weir (as of the Kubrick rest) has not never supplied one official explanation. Like all the real bigger films, are various plans or levels of reading that depend very on the point of view (that is the sensibility, culture, inclination) of the spectator. It is gone from the simplistic approach that sees simple and a boring to you fantastic film to deep readings philosophical, religious or associate-anthropological. Not there are means ways, this film is like the Italian island of Pantelleria (sorry but I'm Italian), or it bewitches to You and rapine you or do not see the hour to escape from it. If you have not still made it, procure of a copy to you and invested some minutes of your time. If after the first 30 mins. of vision you are bored left to lose, but if instead felt to half between who, for the narrated history, is in order to enter in a mysterious forest and who, for the splendid scenes and soundtrack, it is admiring in a museum a impressionist picture then you are enters to make part to you of the club of the lovers of this splendid film. "},{"Title":"A palpable sense of dread","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I found this movie to be more truly scary than any other movie I have ever seen. I lived alone when I first saw it in the mid-80's, and I had trouble sleeping after I watched it. The metaphysical quality of the mystery, the ambiguity with which the mystery is treated, are far more horrifying than films where the shocks are blatant and obvious and concrete. What really happened on Hanging Rock? There is no way to tell. It is the horror of the unknowable, the existential void, that makes this film so deliciously chilling. This film's subtlety does not work for those whose idea of horror is the guy jumping out from behind a tree with a knife - I recommended it to a friend, and he told me it was one of the most boring movies he had ever seen. Picnic at Hanging Rock is beautifully filmed, but plays more like a dream than a conventional narrative. The pan-pipe music is evocative of another world. Peter Weir has made some wonderful movies - The Last Wave, The Year of Living Dangerously, Witness, The Truman Show - but none of them top this. "},{"Title":"The Most Hauntingly Beautiful Film I've Ever Seen","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I fell in love with Picnic at Hanging Rock back in the Seventies. I watched it many times. I just rented the Criterion Collection DVD. It still holds up so well. Watching it is like viewing a beautiful painting except that it moves. The cinematography rivals Barry Lyndon and Days of Heaven but with the addition of ethereal nature of the story makes those two films seem harsh. Weir made wonderful choices with the music and the actors. Miranda IS a Botticelli Angel. Please don't try to create an explanation for what happened. It even makes no difference whether it ever actually happened. Having this and The Last Wave to his credit guaranteed Peter Weir's a reputation as a great artist and as a great director. His film The Plumber also from the Seventies is great too. "}{"Title":"Film and book not factually based","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Part of the mystique of this very excellent movie is the suggestion that the book is based on real events.  Unfortunately, like the film Fargo, the suggestion of actual events as the basis for either film is only a device to make the story more interesting. The unresolved disappearance of students while on a field trip would undoubtedly make national headlines, but despite much research done on newspaper and police archives of the time and area, there is simply no evidence that the events depicted happened.  This may come as a disappointment to some, as we all like a bit of mystery and romance in our lives.  "},{"Title":"Not William Inge's picnic!","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is the kind of film that people will debate (and have debated) for decades.  One side loves the fact that the atmosphere of the film and the visual imagery and aural stimulus take precedent over the details of the plot.  Another side gets involved in the story and is disappointed when a complete explanation of events is absent from the film.  Both sides have good points to make.  It's hoped that any viewer can take something away from the film, even if it's not what they bargained for.  The story basically concerns a very uptight girls school in turn of the century Australia and what happens when a number of its inhabitants don't return from an outing one day.  If one concentrates on the school and its staff and pupils, one is likely to be satisfied.  If one dwells on the exact nature of the departure of the party from the outing, disappointment could result.  In any case, the film has lush visuals, great cinematography and strong acting.  Though unintentionally funny at first (mostly due do an obnoxious hair-do), Roberts becomes a major fixture in the film.  Other fine work comes from Morse, Nelson, Lambert, Gray and Jarratt.....most everyone really.  The film is rich with textured images and almost painting-like visuals (and a firm-handed use of color.)  In an odd move (considering how most directors are about things like this), Weir REMOVED seven minutes from the film for his directors cut!  He had his reasons, but it's a shame that both versions aren't available because some of Jarrett's, Morse's and, especially, Robson's work was intriguing in the missing scenes and they deserve to be seen.  As long as the viewer isn't expecting a pat, clean wrap-up, it should be a memorable experience.  Otherwise, it will seem confusing and annoyingly elusive.   "},{"Title":"All that we see is but a dream...","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Simply put this is the greatest Australian movie ever made.  There really is no other film like it.  The first words uttered in the film are All that we see or seem, are but a dream, a dream within a dream....  That is what Weir has created with this film - something that is as beautiful and as surreal as a dream.The factuality of the events depicted here are stressed at the beginning and the end but the film is actually directly based on the novel which is of debatable authenticity.  There certainly isn't any real evidence backing up this story.  In fact, many people now think it is a work of fiction since there is supposed to be a final chapter which was cut which resolved the girls disappearance in a sort of 'through the looking glass' way.  There are many theories to what happened to the girls ranging from plain old murder (Irma going psycho is my favourite) to the paranormal (timeslip/parallel universe/alien abduction) but in the end, in the context of the film, they don't really matter.  I guess Weir wanted to stress the factuality of the events to heighten the dream-like quality of his film.  After all, a dream without a reality is just another reality.The film is pure atmosphere, its locations switching between the Victorian boarding school with its oppressive gothic overtones and tyranical principal and the alluring, but terrifying Hanging Rock.  The movie in many ways is a horror movie - the school representing a more natural horror and the rock the supernatural horror, the two combined in quite splendid fashion.  The way this film fills you with dread is remarkable.Another very potent theme is the sexuality of the girls - slightly reminiscent of Walkabout which also combines a young woman's sexuality and the Australian outback to magnificent effect. This is why Weir's film is so successful.  Sex and horror often go hand in hand because they are the most intense feelings you will ever experience.The music in stark contrast to the film seems to be heavy handed but actually succeeds in enhancing the atmosphere of the film - and it really is quite a beautiful score.Some may choose not to view it as mystery but as an allegory for a girl's journey into womanhood.  Indeed, the three blossoming girls with their white virginal dresses take on an almost angelic form as they climb the rock. An unstoppable ascension to a higher plane of existence.A haunting, sublime masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Haunting, Ambiguous, and Beautifully Spooky.","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Picnic at Hanging Rock is likely one of the most frightening films I have ever seen, solely because of how eerie and atmospheric it is. It's a film that relies all on implication and ambiguity, atmosphere and mood. The story follows a group of Victorian-era college girls in 1900 who go picnicking at Australia's Hanging Rock on Valentine's day. On the venture, three of the girls vanish into thin air, as does a teacher. One of the girls is recovered weeks later, barely alive, but the remaining three are never seen again.A film that poses more questions than gives answers, Picnic at Hanging Rock is an exercise in ambiguity and atmosphere. It's a horror film in a different sense of the word. There need be no vampires or psycho-killers here - the Australian landscape is menacing enough, and the bizarre vanishing of the three girls is what roots the film to its horror elements, laced with repressed-sexual subtexts and a large amount of drama. While most people would not necessarily consider this a 'scary' movie, I have to disagree. It may not be your conventional horror film, but the eerie mysticism and bizarre void that is the center of this movie are what make it so frightening. The cinematography is truly stunning, and the beautifully spooky shots of the Australian landscape are breathtaking. The tall cliffs of Hanging Rock nearly play a character in the film themselves, looming over the characters and looking down on them before seemingly consuming three of the girls. If there is such a thing as a beautiful horror film, this is surely it, with its elegant Victorian-era setting, dreamlike sense of reality, and amazing geography. The score is also mysterious and strange, and sets a perfect tone for the movie. Rachel Roberts heads the cast as the prim Mrs. Appleyard, and is excellent in the role. Anne Lambert is also extremely well-cast as the angelic Miranda, who is the centerpiece of the vanishing schoolgirls. The conclusion of the film is what makes it so powerful, and that is that there really is no solid conclusion. What did happen to the girls? Was it supernatural? Were they murdered? Did they run away? We never do really know, the fact is is that they simply vanished, and there are no answers. We are left with an emptiness that is never replenished. As Miranda states, Everything begins, and ends... at exactly the right time and place.Overall, Picnic at Hanging Rock is a film that is guaranteed to frighten its audience, because of how mysterious and somber it is. For fans of slow-going, ambiguous mysteries, or those who enjoy 'horror' films of a more elegant, non-conventional kind, I'd highly recommend this. Actually, I'd probably recommend it to anybody, because it is simply an excellent movie. Honestly one of the most atmospheric films I've ever seen, and one that reinstates this simple fact of human nature that we fear what we cannot comprehend. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Stunning, Mezmerising, Beautiful, Eerie.","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Picnic At Hanging Rock could be described as any of the above. Really, however, words do not do it justice. It is, perhaps, the most captivating and enigmatic film ever made.**WARNING SPOILER FOLLOWS** The plot concerns the mysterious disappearance of schoolgirls and a teacher during an afternoon excursion to Hanging Rock, in Victoria, Australia. Whilst picnicking, four of the girls decide to explore the Rock. Two of them were never to return. Subsequently, their teacher, Ms. McCraw, follows, and she too goes missing.An investigation begins - what did happen that sunny Valentine's Day? No one seems to know.**END OF SPOILER** The beautifully filmed, dreamlike sequences which take place during the girls' ascandence are, quite simply, ineffable.Peter Weir's masterpiece is still as ambiguous and stunning as the day it was committed to film.10/10. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric and Hauntingly Beautiful","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most eerie, beautiful films I've ever seen.  The star of the film is the foreboding yet breathtaking Hanging Rock that represents a primal, mysterious prescence amongst the Victorian era women and curious adolescent school girls acting as a catalyst that changes everything in the world of the characters forever.The cinematography is excellent in capturing the untamed natural environment and the beauty of the characters.  This is an atmospheric film that is neither fast moving nor violent.  Much of the suspense and scariness has more to do with what is unknown to the characters and the viewers.One of the most timeless, hauntingly beautiful films that doesn't lend itself easily to being pigeonholed into any set genre. "},{"Title":"Purposefully vague...yet even on that level it is half-realized","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This Peter Weir drama is so languid and low-keyed, art-house lovers are always tempted to pass it on as an automatic masterpiece (witness the 1,000+ people on this board who gave it a 10). Plot concerns three turn-of-the-century schoolgirls who disappear along with their teacher while on a field trip with their class in the Australian Outback. Film takes a very odd approach it wants the mystery to be unexplainable, yet all the while drops little clues along the way. It has a sinister atmosphere that eventually gives way to irritation because nothing is ever done with the trappings of the premise. It's a striking film visually but not verbally, as the line-readings of the young girls are rather monotonous (possibly on purpose). Weir shows a great gift for visual communication, however his narrative suffers in the process. As a result, that beautiful, haunting final shot ends up not meaning much and Picnic At Hanging Rock leaves its audience swatting at red herrings. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Romantic spook","Date":"29 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I love this film. It's beautifully shot and very creepy, especially as Aires Rock is meant to be a weird place to visit anyway. This is very old and I wouldn't have watched it if someone hadn't have mentioned it to me. I'm glad I did.The locations are great and I'm really curious about the reality of what went on? Whether it is actually based on some true events or not? That's what I like about films like this as oppose to the ridiculous modern horrors that plainly do not really have 'Darth Maul' hiding in the attic. This is a simple tale, well told and well acted. I'm a teacher and will be showing this to my students as if we don't show them old movies, they just get lost in time. This deserves a shout out. "},{"Title":"This we do for pleasure, so that we may shortly be at the mercy of venomous snakes and poisonous ants.","Date":"2 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The schoolgirls of Appleyard College are led by the angelic Anne- Louise Lambert, and seem to be at a blossoming age where in the absence of boys furtive glances are cast all around, giggles and valentines litter their conversations, and their beauty already drawing the notice of older men. And if you did not spot these signs, what about the tremendous Hanging Rock, jutting out of the ground with a towering phallic presence, every curve and jagged edge suggestive to the teenage mind. But under the iron-fisted rule of headmistress Mrs. Appleyard this trembling sensuality has been repressed - the Victorian-era dress code and manner of speech take this a step further. They are well trained and versed in the arts, uttering Poe and Shakespeare dreamily and somehow, appropriately. The film is at its mesmerising and hallucinogenic best when it discourages reason and logic, and simply lets the girls wander wherever their young minds and bodies take them. Weir superimposes the erratic flight of the beasts of the air on the girl's faces, and dissolves barren landscape on barren landscape. Static closeups of leftover food teem with insect and scavenger life - in the soundtrack, their buzzes become an unshakable presence in the background, serenading the untamed wilderness. And when the girls arrange themselves on the top of Hanging Rock in a formation that suggests an otherworldly, supernatural influence, the screen shimmers visibly in the heat, sweaty and hazy with perspiration and mystery. But it loses its power after that initial encounter with Hanging Rock, where it switches back to the students and teachers remaining, all of whom are desperate to solve the puzzle. The soundtrack, consisting mostly of a piercing, ethereal pan flute and a section where it turns demonic and foreboding as they make their way up the cliffs, loses it potency with each subsequent visit. What Weir wants to achieve is an atmosphere that displaces all rational explanation, as if the Australian outback was beyond the reach or understanding of humans and is reclaiming those children for itself. But he cannot resist dangling clues that inevitably spur investigation and theory; Miranda's strangely prophetic I won't be here much longer, the single corset found at the scene of the crime, the doctor outlining all the physical injuries on Irma's body in meticulous detail as if to say 'pay attention', and the strange, additional disappearance of Miss McCraw which does not amount to much. These details, which are spoken of plainly in that English dialect, and discussed not in the outback, but in the boring grey interiors of the school, are of course not given any closure. The audience is supposed to be hypnotised and transfixed by the Hanging Rock and its grasp, but every time we switch back to the edges of civilisation their power is suppressed once more. And then in the vague, unrewarding ending that has many viewers frustrated, Weir quite deliberately conceals. He places the camera within that uncanny crevasse, peering out at a hesitant Michael inching towards it. It tilts down agonisingly to reveal Irma's body, and zooms in to show the horror on his face - and she of course conveniently cannot remember a thing about what has transpired. It never even thinks of revealing the other side, and the film becomes bewildering rather than enigmatic. "},{"Title":"If Nature is 'G'enerator and if Nature is an 'O'perator, Nature is also a 'D'estroyer","Date":"1 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This one is the very eerie film by Peter Weir. He is not in the mood to render a judgement on something, rather he is not even asking us to give one. This depiction of his is solely for asking and raising questions. The most prominent comment for this film which tries to teach is We,humans are not the only species who live on this Earth. All species want to maintain relation with Nature, but who and how keeps it good, matters a lot. The tragedy lies in the film where the director constantly urges viewers to think, ask and visualize what would be the cause behind all the acts? But he simultaneously tries to make ourselves believe that all is the fate of Nature. And thereby, the story keeps on grooving around the characters as a sinister's mystery in their minds. The one message, one tries to take out might be-One mustn't try to know all the answers, but one must try to find answers by knowing all the questions. The background music is very tense, it helps to build up tension among the viewers. It makes one time sure watch for viewing psychological thriller films. "}{"Title":"Picnic At Hanging Rock ***","Date":"24 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The film starts to take off after the disappearances occur and the people left behind are there to remember and question what actually occurred on that fateful day in 1900.There is a true treasure of a performance by Rachel Roberts, as the principal, head-mistress of the Australian Women's College where the events took place while girls visited a geological formation, only for many of them to disappear. Roberts is outstanding as the head caught up in this apparent tragedy. Running the school in a tyrannical manner, her veneer cannot be matched and she only has to face the realization that what has happened may ruin her financially, as well as her actions towards an orphan whose tuition has not been paid up in six months.There are strong hints of lesbian behavior between two of the girls, and one of them correctly predicted her own fate.A haunting, interesting film. Stick with it. "},{"Title":"A puzzle that will never reveal all of it's secrets","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" In Victoria, Australia in 1900 a group of girls and teachers from an exclusive school go for a picnic near an ancient huge volcanic rock, a primitive place with some foreboding. Three girls and a teacher disappear. Only one girl is eventually found. The mystery remains unresolved. The fallout is devastating for the school.Picnic at Hanging Rock is one of the most celebrated films from the Australian New Wave. This was a collection of movies from that country mainly made in the 1970's that explored new and challenging cinematic territory. Other films include Walkabout and Wake in Fright. Like those, Picnic at Hanging Rock is a pretty definitive example of this group of movies. It's an enigmatic and haunting mystery, with an ethereal and dreamlike atmosphere. It's notable for the inconclusiveness of its plot. Its secrets will never be solved and for this very reason it still exerts fascination and debate. In fact, the film begins with on screen text that describes in advance what is going to happen. So the mystery is known in advance, meaning the audience has a sense of dread right from the beginning and we watch and wait in anticipation. The opening half of the film is sublime, especially the events that happen at Hanging Rock. It's here where the exquisite photography and beautiful, haunting music take hold, as we watch the four girls ascend the rock. Things happen that have some importance but which remain tantalisingly vague - watches stop at 12, the girls simultaneously fall asleep before the final ascent. And then they vanish. It remains a mystery but it feels instinctively like something sexual in nature has happened. Later, the one surviving girl returns with scratch marks and an identical mark on her head that the boy who finds her mysteriously shares. Neither he, nor her, can remember a thing about the experience. The mystery remains a puzzle with some of the pieces forever missing. It feels like Western civilisation has entered the supernatural realm of the Aborigines, a simply unknowable place. Culture clash is one of the underlying themes I think, as this wild primitive land seems like an incredibly incongruous place for the British to extend their culture. The images of the Victorian girls, prim, proper and sexually repressed, contrast so jarringly with the wild, unrestrained Hanging Rock. The rock is so evocative it is like a character itself. Parts of it even look face-like. It's easy to believe it could hold ancient secrets.I often think of this as a film of two halves. The first part encapsulates the picnic and immediate aftermath. This is by some distance the best section of the film. The whole dream-like Hanging Rock sequence is so evocative and mysterious. It's shot and scored quite beautifully too; accentuated further by the presence of the lead girl Miranda played by the bewitching Anne Lambert. While the subsequent investigation adds more intrigue, in fact it's here that the most disturbing moment of the film occurs when one of the girls giggles as she relates seeing the missing teacher run up the hill while stripped down to her underwear. The fact this haunting scene is never seen but only told makes it much more sinister for some reason and again increases the feeling that something strange and sexual has happened at this place. I have to admit though, that I find the second half of the film does not maintain the excellence. The pace is fairly slow and we explore the fall-out from the disappearances. It's interesting enough but simply compares quite poorly with the excellence of the first half. It's only for this reason that I do not praise the movie without reservation. Nevertheless, Picnic at Hanging Rock is something of a one off and there is no other film I can think of that has its peculiar enigmatic tone and for this reason it is something that all adventurous film lovers should check out. "},{"Title":"Girls go missing exploring a large rock in the Australlian out-back.","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I've of course heard a lot about this film, but just actually watched it for the first time. I had always assumed it would be L'Avventura Down Under. But they're completely different films- if each meditations on the vanishings of individuals. Antonioni's characters, while exploring natural terrain, vanish into the Nothingness of the world, which for Antonioni, is part and parcel of the Nothingness of Humanity. Weir's characters vanish into a Nature that both encompasses humanity, speaks to it as subject, yet exists as unknowable Other. Weir's vision of disappearance is at once more comforting and more terrifying than Antonioni's. It's somewhere between Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy and Anti-Christ. "},{"Title":"An eerie period piece perhaps best enjoyed after reading the novella","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is an eerie period piece about young women from an Australian boarding school who go missing during a picnic at an unusual geological site. The film is intentionally ambiguous about what happened and why its characters behave the way they do&#x97;much more ambiguous, it turns out, than the novel by Joan Lindsay upon which it is based. In this way it is not unlike The Innocents (1961), an adaptation of Henry James' psychological horror novella The Turn of the Screw. My wife, who has read the novel Picnic at Hanging Rock, explained aspects of the story to me that the book makes explicit but the movie does not, and I think this knowledge was a necessary addition to the viewing experience. "},{"Title":"I love this film","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I gave it a 10. But to be fair, I give any movie I love a 10. It is subtle, and beautifully shot. If you don't mind films that leave a lot up to the imagination this is definitely not for you.The movie was very creepy. The sound in particular helps to set the tone. I remember turning it off at one point the first time I watched it to wait for my boyfriend to come home. After watching it a few more times I can't get back to that same point of fear I had felt originally. It took me awhile to even watch it again. But I highly recommend this to anyone who enjoys the subtle atmospheric scary flick.Without giving too much away the film follows a group of schoolgirls in Australia during the early 1900's. After a day out at the well known Hanging Rock, a group of girls go missing. The film follows the search for the girls, and how their disappearance effects the school they attend as well as the locals. "},{"Title":"Haunting Mystery","Date":"17 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" To celebrate my 1200th review for IMDb, I turn to another of my favourite films. Picnic at Hanging Rock, based upon a novel byJoan Lindsay, tells the story of the mysterious disappearance of three schoolgirls and their teacher during a picnic in 1900. Thereappears to be a belief in some circles that both book andfilm arebased upon a real-life event, but in fact the story is pure fiction, although Hanging Rock itself, a spectacular volcanic formation and a well-known tourist attraction, is a real place. The story begins on the morning ofSt. Valentine's Day, 1900 (in reality a Wednesday but in the film a Saturday) when the girls of Appleyard College, a private boarding school, set out for their outing to the local beauty spot. Duringtheir picnic three of the girls, Miranda, Irma and Marion, and their mathematics teacher Miss McCraw mysteriously vanish while exploring the rock. Frantic searches organised by the local community reveal no trace of the missing women until, about a week later, Irma is found unconscious but alive. When she recovers, however, she is unable to say what has happened to her during the interval or to give any clue as to the whereabouts of the others. The film deals with various interconnected themes including social class, sexuality, same-sex friendships and the relationship between man and nature. Most of the characters are drawn from the wealthy or professional classes, and speak with a British RP accent; it would appear that in the Victorian period there was little difference between a British accent and an Australianone as far as the upper classes were concerned. The main exceptions, apart from the coach-driver and the local policeman, are Albert and Sara, a brother and sister who grew up together in an orphanage. Since those days their paths have diverged somewhat. Albert works as a servant in the household of Colonel Fitzhubert, a local landowner. His younger sister is a pupil at Appleyard College, where her education is being paid for by a mysterious guardian, although he has allowed his payments to get into arrears, much to the anger of the headmistress Mrs Appleyard, and she is being threatened with expulsion. Sara is not permitted to accompany the other pupils on their outing, although the reason is never made clear. Both brother and sister have formed close same-sex friendships. Lesbianism is never explicitly mentioned, but it is strongly implied that Sara has fallen in love with her beautiful friend Miranda, although it is less clear whether Miranda returns her feelings. Albert's relationship with Michael, Colonel Fitzhubert's nephew, is clearly platonic, but they are nevertheless close friends, despite the social barriers which at this period normally inhibited friendships across the class divide. It is Albert and Michael's diligent searching, when everyone else has given up hope, which leads to Irma being found. Another theme of the film is the contrast between the propriety of late Victorian Australian society, particularly upper-class society, and the wildness of nature. A key role is played by Rachel Roberts as the stern and autocratic Mrs. Appleyard. She is a woman who sees herself as having a mission to inculcate the values of Christian European civilisation into her young charges but who is defeated and ultimately destroyed by the inexplicable disappearances and who ends by committing suicide. Art was to be tragically parallelled by real life when Roberts herself took her life five years later. The film never provides any solution to its central mystery, and ends with no explanation of the fate of the missing persons. In some films this sort of ambiguity would be a weakness; here it becomes a strength. At times the film takes on a semi-religious, or at least mystical, tone, with the charismatic Miranda appearing as a prophet leading her followers on to some hitherto undiscovered region; their disappearance is not necessarily to be equated with death but with a passage to a new life or a new plane of existence. A hallmark of the film is its atmosphere of haunting mystery, and the unresolved ending is only one of the means which Weir uses to create this effect. Also instrumental is the photography of the Australian landscape, especially in the scenes set on the rock itself, which were shot in misty soft focus, often backlit in brilliant sunlight. A sense of unreality and mystery is also created by the musical score, which makes much use of haunting Romanianpanpipemusic played by the virtuoso Gheorghe Zamfir. (The film was responsible for creating something of a vogue for the panpipes in the West). There is also the contrasting beauty of the three leading actresses, the blonde Anne-Louise Lambert as Miranda, the dark brunette Karen Robson as Irma and the light brunette Helen Morse as the young French mistress Diane de Poitiers, a beauty heightened by the elegant late Victorian costumes. I said at the beginning of this review that this was one of my favourite films, but it is not just one of my favourites. Ever since it first came out, Picnic at Hanging Rockhas been regarded as one of Australia's most well-loved films and the film which put that country's cinema on the international map. It was also the first masterpiece of its young director, Peter Weir, who has since gone on to become one of the world's greatest living film-makers. There is not enough space in this review to explore all its complexities; suffice it to say that since 1975 Weir has occasionally equalled the standard he set here, notably in Dead Poets' Society and The Truman Show, but he has never excelled it. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Haunting Portrait of Characters against a Surreal atmosphere...!","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I love this movie because it stays in your memory and makes you linger around it for a while. I got totally intoxicated by its haunting locales, characters, story and above all the music.. Its just something too surreal. The lead actress is utterly gorgeous and stunning to watch. This movie starts with a slow pace and but slowly unravels itself into a suspenseful journey ending in a confusing and sad climax.. you actually feel that ..you could have done something to rescue those poor girls..sigh..!! The director is synonymous with his meticulous details, slow pacing ending with a roller coaster climax and haunting music(recall Harrison Ford's Witness). I couldn't make head or tail understanding the climax of the movie.. but just felt satisfied watching a journey where in mysterious events befall..Its just one of a kind.. I hope you enjoy it..!! "},{"Title":"Disappearing into time and space.","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" On release, many people missed the point of this film and tried to work out who done it?. I suppose it was because most people had not read the novel nor knew much about its author, Joan Lindsay. Joan herself was a person who seemed to belong to a bygone age and one whose writings displayed an intense interest in time as recorded by nature rather than by humans and their mechanical and therefore artificial time keeping methods. Notice how all the watches have stopped at twelve o'clock before the girls climb the rock. In the novel, the girls on the rock hear the noises of those who will search for them the next day prior to climbing higher. Time has been warped.The film is littered with clues as to how the girls have disappeared. Scratches on Irma's legs but her bare feet have no signs of wear - not walking across rock but through time. Miranda's awareness of her impending disappearance and pronouncement that Everything begins and ends at exactly the right time and place prior to disappearing.The film is itself is remarkable because it captured a drifting, lost ambiance that makes those who let it work its magic experience a sense of timelessness until we wake and return to our literal and pedestrian world. "},{"Title":"What we see and what we seem are but a dream - a dream within a dream","Date":"17 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Above all Peter Weir does two key things in Picnic at Hanging Rock Setting up a huge mystery and, well, dealing with it in a very unique way devoid of any sensational or commercial interest, an approach, which has divided audiences ever since. If you take the trip, be prepared for something different - you might be claimed by the mountain, and whether that's a good or a bad thing, well you be the judge of that. But whatever you get out of it, it will defy categorization.The film at any rate is true to Joan Lindsay's novel, and compared to the book has the advantage of a beautifully haunting score composed by Bruce Smeaton, mostly performed by pan flute player Gheorghe Zamfir - melodies which become recurring players when the events unfold. With this enchanting and eerie music Weir underlays the lush dream-like imagery he photographs, thus creating an alien, otherworldly, even ethereal atmosphere, somehow outside of time and space, a breath of eternity. You might get chills, goosebumps or both at the same time in this weir(d) mix of beauty and horror out there at that Australian college, where Mrs. Appleyard (Rachel Roberts) holds a tight rein over her girls. Picnic at Hanging Rock can be and has been interpreted in numerous, very different ways, and there was even an insightful chapter of Lindsay's novel released posthumously. But frankly, all what's fascinating is in the book. And in the film. If you've seen it and enjoyed it you'll know why. "},{"Title":"picnic at hanging rock","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Picnic at hanging rock is a well directed Australian film by Peter weir. The film is about how a party of school girls from apple yard college, are going on a picnic to hanging rock.During the after noon several of the girls go missing without a trace which leaves a mystery in which leaves a plot to the movie, such as what did happen to the girls and how did they vanish without a trace. Picnic at hanging rocking is a very well low concept mystery film leaving you with plenty of ideas on which keeps you guessing what did happen to the girls. This mystery film went so well you would easy believe this was based on a true story, as i myself and plenty others who were very interested after went to research whether or not this was true due to how well this low concept mystery film went. I give this movie 8.4/10 great stuff ;) review by Justin Nickolas "}{"Title":"What If the Earth Itself Really Is Alive? Should We, Can We Subdue the Earth Within Us?","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I read the novel before watching the movie, and both are excellent, with the book being slightly superior to the film because it can weave in the innuendo, nuance, and Freudian symbolism more effectively than the film. The movie is quite faithful to the book, although the film gives comparatively more attention to the Sara Waybourne character and less attention to Irma Leopold.I highly recommend considering the rock a character - perhaps the most important character - in this film; I ask you to consider that the rock is not a static, dumb object as we would interpret it from our modern, materialistic viewpoint. Rather, by accepting a more aboriginal, animist interpretation of the rock as a living being, the viewer gets in tune with a different understanding of the underlying reality of things which should make it easier to comprehend and appreciate this film. In connection, it also may be helpful to remember Australia is a continent which was stolen away from the native inhabitants by Europeans, who fancied their culture more advanced, civilized and reality-based than the aboriginal culture; this European conquest has lasted for a tiny blip of a second when compared to how long the natives have lived there. Also, one of the cultural hallmarks of Christian Europe was the (at least partial) sublimation of sexuality in order to fuel presumably higher goals, for example, art such as this movie.On one level, Picnic at Hanging Rock is about the suffocating sexual repression of the Victorian age. The older students at this girls boarding school are just entering into that golden period of 16 to 24 years old, that fleeting period when humans are at their most vigorous, fertile, robust, sensual and beautiful. This makes the repression all the more crucial. There are clues sprinkled into the movie to help the viewer make up their own mind as to what happens, but you have to pay careful attention this is not a Hollywood style movie where you're hit over the head with plot developments or character motivations in high relief, nor is every question that arises clearly answered in a reassuring, formulaic way. If you like easy answers, forget this movie and watch a Hollywood flick.Most of the cast is solidly good. Dominic Guard as Michael Fitzhubert and Anne Lambert as Miranda are perfect choices for their facial features, physical build, and mannerisms. I would have cast the character of Irma Leopold differently. In the book, she is described repeatedly as stunningly beautiful, and although the actress who plays her in the movie is quite attractive, she is not stunningly beautiful.One of the girls quotes Poe All that we see or seem is but a dream within a dream. Another girl gushes, The rock has been waiting thousands of years, just for us! Ultimately this film is relevant to everyone alive on planet earth, because on this second level, Picnic at Hanging Rock is about that biggest mystery of all - being and nothingness. "},{"Title":"A timeless masterpiece...","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" After his directorial debut The Cars That Ate Paris (1974), Australian New Wave director Peter Weir's second feature film, which was adapted from Australian author Joan Lindsay's novel Picnic at Hanging Rock (1967) by Cliff Green, became one of the first Australian films to reach an international audience in 1975 and one of the most influential films in Australian film history.On St. Valentine's day Saturday 14th February in the summer of 1900 a party of schoolgirls from Appleyard college went on a picnic at Hanging Rock near Mount Macedon in the state of Victoria under the supervision of French teacher Mademoiselle de Portiers and mathematics mistress Greta McGraw. During that blissful and radiant day the schoolgirls Marion, Irma, Miranda and Edith decided against their headmistress Mrs Appleyard's advice to explore Hanging Rock further. The girls left the rest of the party after being allowed to do so by Mademoiselle de Portiers and mysteriously disappeared without a trace. This enigmatic coming-of-age drama which begins at a distant Victorian girl's school in Australia, is a dialog-driven period film and a lyrical mystery thriller with an impressively convincing ensemble cast, which is characterized by Peter Weir's acute camera movements, frequent and weighty close ups, versatile perspectives, the bright and credible milieu depictions and the quiet pace within the long takes which accentuates the experience of time. Russel Boyd's shining and compelling cinematography, the crucial theme song performed by Gheorghe Zamfir on pan pipe and Marcel Cellier on organ, Bruce Smeaton's electronic and exalting music and the recurring use of compositions by Ludwig van Beethoven, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Pyotr Tchaikovsky and Johann Sebastian Bach, gives this substantially audio-visual Australian production a throughout alluring and hypnotic atmosphere. Picnic at Hanging Rock was entirely shot at Australian and South Australian locations such as Adelaide Hills, Woodend in Victoria, Mount Macedon in Victoria, Hanging Rock in central Victoria, Martindale Hall near Mintaro in Clare Valley and Marbury School in Aldgate. Most of the actresses in this film where previously known from Australian television series and soap operas, but Welsh actress Rachel Roberts (1927-1980) who played the role of Mrs Appleyard had gained wide recognition for her roles in Karel Reisz's Saturday Night and Sunday Morning (1960) and Lindsay Anderson's This Sporting Life (1963), which were central films from the British New Wave. This timeless masterpiece, a sensual independent film which was produced by Hal McElroy and Jim McElroy is a mysterious and somewhat mythical horror tale which is magnified by it's ethereal aura. "},{"Title":"A solid art film about an incomprehensible mystery","Date":"31 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Peter Weir's Picnic at Hanging Rock is a very realistic film, which becomes a fantasy by using a device so simple, it's brilliant. Something is shown to us; then it is taken away in a manner that denies logical explanation to the viewer and the characters alike. Four Australian college girls go hiking up the Volcanic side of Hanging Rock on their school's Valentine's day picnic. Four go up, only one comes down, and she is unable to explain what happened. Search parties are carried out the next day, and the day after. Everyone wants an answer.Picnic at Hanging Roack spends a fair amount of time committed to creating a garden of eden through the camera. The grass is tall, the leaves are green, the flowers are blooming, birds sing, streams glisten in the sun, all of which is over looked by a very rugged, archaic rock formation, with erosion holes that almost form faces if you look close enough. Picnic at Hanging Rock's decision to embrace anti-conventional realism possibly owes something to the likes of new-wave film makers like Anonioni, Goddard, Truffaut, all of whom want to put distance between the screen and the viewer But for this film, that wont do. Yes it needs to be realistic, but it also needs the viewer's investment. Picnic at Hanging Rock will not have you turn away, I can guarantee that. This is not a bleak film like L'Aventuraa, this is an enriching and haunting piece of work which makes true statements. When something goes wrong, everybody wants an answer. Weir sells it to us flawlessly, never over doing it or under doing it.As impressive as the movie is, it's not quite great. The performance quality feels over- mannered and the last quarter or so of the movie, feels a bit draggy, choosing to spend time with some of the less interesting characters. I should probably mention now, that this is a movie supposedly based on true events, events which remain unanswered. So all the better it is then that the movie remains also unanswered. Picnic at Hanging Rock, is easily and delightfully beyond standard classification. It is an art film, but one that values the viewers investment more than it values self-indulgently being a rogue (a frequent complaint about art films) ...this is one worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Hollywood please do not remake","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" There's some things in life that are sacred a first kiss,a loved one and the mystery that is at the heart of 'picnic at hanging rock'. Peter weir's enigmatic 1975 masterpiece has inspired more people to offer up explantaions on it's meaning than -'el topo' or 'eraserhead' aside - any other movie i can think of.A metaphorical tale of sexual awakening admidst adult repression? a turn of the century Gothic fairy tale? or just an orthodox mystery drama? 'picnic..' illicit's all this descriptions and yet comfirms none.The heart of the film is mystery and weir knows this,the joy isn't in finding an answer or resolution to this compelling puzzle,it is in merely looking for one. "},{"Title":"Waiting a million years, just for us","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" It's a little surprising that I'd never seen 'Picnic at Hanging Rock (1975),' given that I'm very familiar with its titular landform. Throughout my life, I've visited Hanging Rock on many occasions, and, indeed, I've even shot my own film-making project on-location (this particular high-school documentary included an appropriately-vague recreation of Peter Weir's film, utilising three of my (male) friends as the missing children). Nowadays, with the novel and film exploited as a tourist attraction, Hanging Rock isn't the most mystical of locales, but Weir incites something magical from the six-million old landmark. His ingenious use of sound, photography and editing combine to create a whole other world, steeped in a primal mystery and spirituality. I also loved the dream-like use of the pan flute, which probably inspired Ennio Morricone to do the same for Leone's 'Once Upon a Time in America (1984).'Weir dismisses our traditional notions of narrative convention. After 75 years of cinematic progress, the audience has been groomed to expect resolution; that is, for every mystery there must be a solution. 'Picnic at Hanging Rock' defies this expectation &#x96; a puzzle without any pieces that fit &#x96; leaving the audience as maddeningly insecure as the film's characters, who can't accept that they'll never know the truth. For her original novel, Joan Lindsay penned an additional chapter (published posthumously as The Secret of Hanging Rock) which explained how the missing students and teacher had entered time warp of sorts; this reconciliation of an age-old land with the recently-arrived British population hints at the friction between Aboriginal and European cultural values, a conflict that forms the backbone of many classic Australian films, including 'Jedda (1955)' and 'Walkabout (1971).'There's a curious element of liberation in the girls' disappearance at Hanging Rock. The stuffy formality of the girls' Victorian-era lifestyles clashes jarringly with the naturalistic surroundings of the Rock. There's also a sense of sexual repression, a barely-concealed eroticism, not only between the male and female characters, but also among the girls themselves for example, it's made quite apparent that orphan Sara (Margaret Nelson), in particular, is romantically obsessed with Miranda (Anne-Louise Lambert). The prudish Mrs Appleyard's (Rachel Roberts) sadism towards student Sara may also stem from some repressed sexual desire. Prior to embarking on their picnic, Mrs Appleyard informs her girls that they may only remove their gloves after passing through Woodend. However, while exploring the Rock, three of the girls remove their shoes and stockings, a symbol of nudity and sexual liberation. Similarly, Irma (Karen Robson) is missing her corset when she is recovered from the bush. "},{"Title":"A ghost story without any ghosts and an unsolvable puzzle","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Picnic at Hanging Rock is directed by Peter Weir, is based on the novel by Joan Lidsay and stars Rachel Roberts, Anne-Louise Lambert, Vivean Gray, Jacki Weaver and Dominic Guard.Picnic At Hanging Rock is a captivating and haunting mystery. The film is about a group of girls at Appleyard's school for girls in 1900.On Valentine's Day the students go on a trip to nearby landmark Hanging Rock, a mysterious and ancient area respected and feared by the locals.One of the girls Miranda(Anne Lambert)goes up the rock with three others along with geography teacher Miss McCraw(Vivean Gray)but only one comes down,Edith.The rest of the film consists of how the head Mrs Appleyard(Rachel Roberts)deals with the girls mounting hysteria and the police operation on the rock looking for those who are missing.The film becomes even more of a gripping puzzle with the discovery of one of the girls Irma(Karen Robson)on the rock.Her almost uninjured body reveals no clues and asked what she remembers she cannot remember anything about the situation.Creepy and gripping Picnic at Hanging Rock is atmospheric and scary.Adding to the suspense and creepiness is the strange electronic soundtrack which sounds like a call from another world adding to the questions about what happened to them.A must see. "},{"Title":"A surprising number of human beings are without purpose, though it is probable that they are performing some function unknown to themselves.","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A treatise on sexual repression in Victorian Australia, a horror film, a sci fi adventure, or simple murder? What exactly was multi Oscar-nominee Peter Weir (Master and Commander The Far Side of the World, Dead Poets Society) trying to do? Three students and a teacher disappear on a picnic. No sign of them is found. Not a clue to their disappearance. It is as if they vanished into thin air. Was it guilt that drove one young man (Dominic Guard) to continue the search, risking his life, when others had given up? His efforts lead to the discovery of one student (Karen Robson), but she was unable to give an explanation.With hauntingly beautiful music, and BAFTA Award winning cinematography, the western-titled movie may have a higher meaning.We search for gods to give meaning to the things we cannot explain. We aim for some purpose to our life, and hope that there is something waiting for us. We are unable to accept hat this is simply a transitory experience for us, for all humanity, and that one day we shall cease to exist, without a trace. "},{"Title":"In the Victorian spirit of Gothic revival; eerie, dreamlike, beautiful...","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" *Spoilers* A fascinating work of atmosphere, artistic impression and feeling, Peter Weir explores significance and how it's assigned to our experiences in Picnic at Hanging Rock. From its opening, viewers are encouraged to somnambulate through Picnic at Hanging Rock believing--offered as a passage from Poe, spoken on a breeze, forewarning from a chain of wood-nymph Cassandras--what we see and what it seems could be nothing more than a dream within a dream. From that moment until the closing credits, the dream theme remains constant, with a plot that unfolds in such a way that everything is believed at face value, not a scene goes by without seeming relevant and every image is pregnant with multiple meanings; yet, nothing is ever really said at all---the plot (Victorian schoolgirls go on a picnic at a local place of natural wonder; some get lost with their teacher, some will never return--it doesn't really matter what happens; you'll care about the what but not necessarily the why) is never neatly resolved, nor is the audience told what sort of story they'd actually seen. Everything in Picnic at Hanging Rock is presented with the authority of dream logic; of course it all makes sense. To borrow from Miranda, Everything happens at the right time. Actions are accepted as is and without question, such ambiguousness lending to both cosmic significance and fundamental meaninglessness--essentially summing up Picnic at Hanging rock in one line. This film being set in the Victorian period--and the same thing that captures me about any costume film--adds an element of passed time, its wistful poignancy, immediacy. However disconnected people of the 1970's would've been from the year 1900, as time marches on, humans become further distanced from those who lived during those years. Through death of people from an era or generations, the living travel further away from the moments, places and things that were so important to those who lived--their collective consciousness, shared memories. Nomatter what happened to the girls, or how intense the situation was for the people who were part of it, that time is gone. The transience of time and how pieces of knowledge are left out of the greater puzzle, when people don't have the tools to interpret them, could be seen as two powerful themes running throughout Picnic at Hanging Rock. What did we know 110 years ago that we don't know now? In the same sense, what will humans know that same passage of time into the future? Whatever it is, it's unlikely we'll be alive to know it. Picnic at Hanging Rock implies that despite our best intentions of progress and education, we never really know either. We live in the present, our past is dead, we are yet to exist in the future; however, in the future we will, with certainty, cease to exist.The two things Victorians romanticized most, youth and death, are assigned places of honor in this story. A cold realization creeps up your spine as the film progresses; though unfortunate enough to die in youth and miss out on their own life stories, the vibrant girls at the center of Picnic at Hanging Rock would've aged and eventually died, anyway. All of these characters in context would be dead at this point in time if they'd actually existed. Every person at the search party was in for the same fate as that of the girls--whether or not it came earlier or later, swiftly or drawn; painful or not We are all going to die. By keeping ourselves busy constructing social stories, rules and customs we take our minds off the inevitable.It was also interesting to see that photos of the girls were shown often, with people responding to the pictures and assigning a sort of life to them. Throughout the film, the ugliness of death is eclipsed by romantic tragedy and the legends that spring from it--the idea of The Beautiful Tragedy as entertainment; people responding to ideals and romance--cultural or otherwise--as a way of ignoring the existential horrors and biological violence most assign to death and decomposition. In this sense, we are also reminded of the eeriness of the film medium itself, the way it taunts us with ghostlike images (sometimes of stars long dead), implying captured time and lingering souls---visual compositions of human mannerisms and personalities; an artistic distortion of past time and an attempt to capture the social essence of a living person. There is great monumental-ism to be found in being a screen star, where, as long as the medium endures in one shape or another, one can be remembered by the living and unknowingly exist as an active part of their world---people will feel some kind of emotion toward you, as you were in that moment in time.I also think it's no accident, coming from the maker of Dead Poet's Society, that the most grounded characters--the ones that manage to keep calm and evade danger--are the poorer, less educated ones. If only viewed as a commentary on isolated academia and how excessive education and social regimentation can sometimes make humans too precious for life, Picnic at Hanging Rock can be seen as a success.In my opinion, Picnic at Hanging Rock is the most effective kind of scary film; a mind-bending, atmospheric chill-inducer that disturbs us by mixing elements of natural beauty with sinister realities. A common ghost story could never hit the same chord; that sort of thing gives us hope about existing after bodily death. Picnic at Hanging Rock, however, taps into the subconscious unease that comes with being a creature aware of its own mortality; the impending doom of its own nothingness. Mortality is the alarming mystery each of us faces every day and some works of art perk us up and force us to pay attention to this ringing bell. In Picnic at Hanging Rock, that bell is brazenly--disconcertingly, so--played as music and is a masterpiece because of it. "},{"Title":"like a dream","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This film is like a dream sequence. Very similar to the opening of the classic Carrie. I fully expected for one of the girls to be knifed to death at some point. it was confusing but that is part of the charm. We really were not sure what happened to the girls. Unlike American films there is no happy Hollywood ending. I have yet to finish this film as I was in film class when we viewed it , we just saw the first 40 minutes and have no idea how it ends only that is sort of a mystery. I loved the soundtrack and the sense of foreboding that was prominate throughout the film. it was reminisent of Deliverence in that you felt an undercurrent of doom "},{"Title":"Dreamlike Australian Mystery","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Picnic at Hanging Rock is a sloth-like, paranormally spooky tale adapted from Joan Lindsay's novel of the same name. This beautiful and ethereal film poses more questions than it answers. Indeed, the plot seems to take second stage to the overwhelming moods of the film, accentuated by a lonely, wistful soundtrack utilizing panpipes. The slow-moving plot and the solidity of the rock itself create a sense of timelessness which contrasts nicely with the youth of the girls and their Valentine's Day yearnings. The acting is great, with wonderful performances from Rachel Roberts and Vivean Gray. The signature rhythm and sense of impending doom would later become a key inspiration for The Virgin Suicides. "}{"Title":"Masterpiece of mysterious film making","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Positively haunting film about a group of young girls from a ladies college in rural Victoria whose picnic at Hanging Rock in 1900 goes horribly wrong when three of the students and a teacher vanish high up on the magnificent monolith.Adapted by screen writer Cliff Green from a novel allegedly based on a true story, Picnic at Hanging Rock is eerily brought to the screen by Aussie director Peter Weir, whose connection with the human psyche seemed to be at its height in his earlier films, as was evident in the excellent 1981 production Gallipoli, which portrayed young men thrown into turmoil in the form of World War I.In Picnic, Weir expertly teases out this fascinating tale, keeping the audience breathless as they wait for the mystery to unravel, a mystery that our director is careful never to dispel.Making things all the more involving are some fine performances from a strong cast including Helen Morse, Vivian Gray and Jackie Weaver. Watch especially for Rachel Roberts strong showing as school governess Mrs Appleyard, and fine turns form Kirsty Child and Anne Lambert as two of the young girls.Adding an extra chill to proceedings are the almost ghostly pan-flute themes played by Gheorge Zamphir, which are strongly supported by Bruce Smeaton's equally effective original score. Production values are all quite superb also, with sets and costumes (Art Dir. David Copping) from the Victorian era convincingly recreated, riveting cinematography from Russell Boyd and smart, sharp editing.Indeed a masterpiece of mysterious film making created with magnificently judged simplicity from Peter Weir, and certainly one of the best Australian films from the 70's, and arguably one of Weir's best ever.Thursday, September 29, 1994 - VideoPeter Weir intended to create a legend with Picnic at Hanging Rock, and he has done so superbly, giving the film an eerie mystique and a quality that's almost ethereal. The rock is portrayed as an entity in itself, with real power and a mystic aura.Adapted from Joan Lindsay's novel by Cliff Green, the story of three ladies college girls and a schoolmarm who go missing on the mysterious, volcanic monolith in 1900 is truly haunting. Weir teases out the tale with assured professionalism, always maintaining that uncertain element which keeps the audience riveted.Performances are all outstanding. As the headmistress Mrs Appleyard, Rachel Roberts is powerfully disturbing, while Vivien Gray does distracted and puzzling to perfection. Strong support comes also from Dominic Guard, Helen Morse, Kirsty Child, Anne Lambert and Jackie Weaver. Director of Photography Russel Boyd's lensing is spectacular, breathing life into the rock and giving the surrounding countryside a great, grand look.Good editing, art direction, set decoration and authentic costumes all help immensely. Gheorghe Zamphir's panpipes are ghostly, and Bruce Smeaton's original score is truly melodic.Peter Weir is at his very best!Saturday, October 7, 1995 - Video "},{"Title":"The Best Movie I've Ever Experienced","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I can't say that this movie would be considered among the top movie list of all time for any particular person, most likely it has found itself in history as among the best Australian movie of all time. This definitely non-American, period mystery movie presents one of the best period pieces of a movie and one of the most mysterious (not in then weird, strange, or odd sense of the word) movies of all time. Whether or not the general American audience would be willing to accept and enjoy this movie is a totally another matter. Nevertheless, I consider this movie by singularly most favorite movie of all time because of the mystery surrounding the movie had how perfectly balanced the confluence of cultures is expressed in this turn of the century (early 20th Century) Australian outback theatrical film. Fiction or fact? Solution or unsolved? The Australian Umbrella Entertainment 2004 Director's Cut version with A Dream Within A Dream two hour documentary discloses wonderful behind the scenes mystery of the movie itself. Ten out of Ten Stars. "},{"Title":"Where can I get soundtrack?","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This was an interesting movie with a great, strange soundtrack. Does anyone know where I can find/buy it?? Please email me at Brendan4000@aol.com. I have scoured the internet, etc., to no avail. I know I could probably buy a bunch of Zamphir CDs until I found the right songs, but I wanted the true soundtrack. As for what happened in the movie, I believe that the the kid attacked the women. He is seen staring at the women, transfixed by them. As they walk away, the movie shows him leaving his work and walking towards them, then cuts suddenly. Then later, as if he felt guilty about what he had done, he goes back to look for them. From a criminalist point of view it seems obvious that he sexually attacked the poor ladies up on the rock. But I know people want to believe something mystical happened. The woman were turned into swans, transported through time, etc. Thanks!!! "},{"Title":"A beautiful film that defies categorizing","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" As far as Aussie flicks go, you would be hard pressed to go past Peter Weir's brilliant Picnic at hanging rock.The premise is simple We are led to believe that four girls in the early nineteen hundreds, after going for a trek through hanging rock, have simply disappeared. It is only in the first thirty minutes that that the 'horror' part of the movie is established, with the majority of the film focusing on the mystery of the girls disappearance.As an achievement, 'Picnic' has so much going for it. Weir manages to create something truly eery through what is never seen. Interwoven in the main 'horror' plot is some magnificent drama, mystery elements, and a fantastic look at how Australian culture was in those days. And the brilliant score, mainly using piano and wind pipes, perfectly complements the story, which can be frightening, incredibly touching, and funny. Possibly the finest film to come out of Australia, and still Weir's best. "},{"Title":"Australian cinema has moved on a bit since Chips Rafferty","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" What can one say? Some interesting characters, beautiful photography, great sound effects, efficient acting, wonderful costumes, an eye for detail, and - the jewel in the crown - a couple of haunting Romanian folk melodies played on the pipes of pan with pipe-organ accompaniment.The incident in the film is so realistic for fantasy that many people (some still do)thought that it had actually happened. In fact it is based on a science fiction-ish novel by Joan Lindsay.It is a picture of the innocence of pre-pubescence, and how it blossoms not in one fell swoop but as a gradual process. In Miranda, it has developed a little more than in her schoolmates. She, and those with her, leave the innocence behind, and that innocence, like the missing girls, is gone...for ever.The basic mystery, of the girls going missing, is just the top layer. Like another famous Austrlian film, Walkabout, every time you see it, you will notice some detail that you have never noticed before.The old Chips Rafferty films were never like this. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A haunting, atmospheric piece of cinema, the film is very well handled by Peter Weir in the director's chair, and the costumes, cinematography and music all fit in very well. The film however needs to survive on pretty much these virtues alone, for the leisurely pace causes the film to drag and the screenplay is a little unsatisfying. Some parallel is meant surface between the frustrating screenplay and the frustration felt by those trying to solve the mystery in the film. However, this does not really make the film any more fun to watch. Some seem to feel a need to discuss Michelangelo Antononio when discussing this film. His most popular films were of unsolved mysteries that became less and less important as the story progressed. In Weir's film the mystery remains unsolved too, but it never decreases in importance, which causes the film's frustrating nature. On a technical level the film is quite an achievement, and in experimenting with new storytelling techniques it manages to do the job. But, it does not come too highly recommended, unless one is into what it is trying to achieve. "},{"Title":"Mysteries within mysteries, written by an author of mystery!","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" PAHR tells the story of a group of girls from a decidedly English-style school who climb the mysterious Hanging Rock, their disappearance, and the aftermath. It's all a little more complicated than that! Set in the Australian bush in 1900, you may regard it as a mystery, a horror story or something else entirely. As the producers tell you in 'A Dream within a Dream - the making of A Picnic at Hanging Rock', they figured the only way they could bring Joan Lindsay's story to the screen was to pick the most attractive cast they could find. This they did, and I'll admit to having a crush on a member of the cast at the time. This resulted in the only fan letter I ever wrote to an Aussie actress, and I still have her greatly treasured reply, doubly appreciated as she has disappeared and couldn't be located for the DVD release! I'm sure Joan Lindsay would be highly amused by some of the comments on this movie,the book partly based as it was on events in her early life. "},{"Title":"it's nasty here... - you're not wrong there love","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  (spoilers herein)I was recently dismayed to discover that the events in this movie aren't real, they never happened, it's a completely made up story. Whilst I'm sure there are many different myth's and legends surrounding the rock, the film is based on a 60's novel, but I'd always believed and had read to believe that the disappearance really happened.I was expecting a more sparse film concentrating solely on the rock and the disappearance, but the way it goes on to show how various people are effected by it and how the school goes to pot is great - a rich atmosphere is created through the music and fine acting.A stand-out piece for me would be poor Sara, her brother (as I understood it) was actually Alfred - the rich family's horseman/helper - whatever-you-call-it- and it would have been wonderful if they'd found each other, so-close... and all that.Many people comment on the mystic symbolism of the film but I find it more scary than anything else, and it always gives me the chills any time I watch it.  I have recently seen the full original version and the current director's cut release, and the latter definately loses something in feeling and style - stick with or find the original if you can, it's a great film! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful and haunting","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  `What we are and what we seem to be is only a dream within a dream.' - Edgar Allen PoeIn many cultures there is a tradition that an energy pattern encircles the earth creating ley lines, power points, and energy-gravity vortexes. It is well known that Australian Aborigines travel these invisible energy lines from sacred spot to sacred spot. According to Loraine Mafi Williams, an Aboriginal shaman, There are places all over Australia to avoid. These we call Sacred Sites and they are sacred in the hope that white people will leave them alone&#133;. One of these places to avoid may be Hanging Rock, an imposing natural rock formation about 75 kilometers north of Melbourne in South Australia. This is the setting for the beautiful 1975 film by Peter Weir, Picnic at Hanging Rock voted No 1 of the Top 10 Australian films of all time in a 1995 centenary of Australian cinema. Using Gheorghe Zamfir's pan flute and Bruce Smeaton's original score as a background, the film resonates with a sense of the mystical and timeless.Based on a 1967 novel by Joan Lindsay, three girls and a teacher at a rigid Victorian boarding school for teenage girls vanish without a trace during a school excursion to Hanging Rock National Park on St. Valentine's Day in 1900. The film does not concentrate on the investigation into the disappearance but on the psychological ramifications for the survivors. As the film opens, four girls, the ethereal Miranda (Anne-Louise Lambert) called a Botticelli angel by her teacher, Irma (Karen Robson), Marion (Jane Vallis) and Edith (Christine Schuler) accompanied by teachers Miss McCraw (Vivean Grey) and Madmeoiselle De Poitiers (Helen Morse) leave the picnic grounds to explore Hanging Rock. Remaining behind is the school's uptight headmistress Mrs. Appleyard (Rachel Roberts) and Sara (Maragret Nelson), a close friend of Miranda who is being punished for not completing an assignment. As the girls visit the hidden passages and odd formations, Weir and cinematographer Russell Boyd create an otherworldly atmosphere and a strange sense of foreboding. As they walk, they shed parts of their clothing and, inexplicably move in single file toward the top of the rock as if being controlled by an external force. Two of the three girls are never found -- only Edith immediately comes back screaming hysterically uncertain as to what happened to her friends. In addition, Miss McCraw has also vanished, last seen by Edith running up the rock -- partially unclothed. No attempt is made to explain the disappearance, but some clues are provided. One is the fact that the disappearance occurred on St. Valentine's Day, originally a pagan festival that celebrated sexual freedom, suggesting an analogy of repressed sexuality. This is heightened by the recurring image of birds in flight and a blooming rosebud being flattened in a flower press. Another hint is the appearance of a huge red cloud over the area and a magnetic anomaly often indicative of UFO abductions. The mystery remains but the effect of the girl's disappearance is to disrupt the equilibrium of the school and hasten the crumbling of the existing social order. Beyond that it's anyone's guess and this haunting film will definitely keep you guessing long into the night. In the words of Sherlock Holmes, When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Stunning","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I've just got done watching this movie for the first time, and I already want to see it again!  The cinematography and haunting score really serve to transport the viewer into another world.  Of course, I am not completely sure about what it means, but I guess that's why I find the film so intriguing.It certainly doesn't appeal to all tastes.  I myself am a sucker for cinematography and heavy symbolism, things that I can't blame too many people for valuing less than an involved plot and clear resolution.  My friend who viewed it with me liked it, but she said it only worked on an intellectual level for her.  I guess that's a warning for people who are less inclined towards these types of films.For those of you who enjoyed _2001_ or _Mulholland Drive_, this is right up your alley, though.  Some commentors have noted that the mysteries surrounding the girls' dissapearances can't possibly be resolved, and see this as an impediment.  As the viewer, I find it much more interesting to have a film that gets my mind working and lets me do the thinking, instead of a film that thinks for me by giving me a false resolution.  To those who might be put off by the film's opaqueness, realize that life itself contains mysteries and uncertainties, and that a world without these uncertainties would be a boring one indeed.I give it a 9 out of 10, with my only objection being that the very end (which you will have to see for yourself) is a bit of a let down. "}{"Title":"The point I got...","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Okay, this film is a mystery but not in the literal sense. It is a metaphorical thing, and this is what I've gathered from several viewings of this haunting masterpiece...suppression loses innocence to nature...true that. "},{"Title":"Haunting and Eminently Rewatchable","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film when it came out in 1975 and again a few years later at a revival house in New York City. Perhaps, then I was too young to appreciate its haunting subtlety. IFC has been rerunning the film for the past few weeks, and I find myself drawn to it again and again, each time finding some new clue to a mystery that may not be a mystery at all and clues that may only be in my imagination. This ambiguity is what makes the film so compelling.The basic plot of the film has been retold by others on this site, if, indeed the film can be said to have a plot. It is this very plotlessness that makes my viewing of the film each time I see it so disturbingly enjoyable.There are scenes, which will always remain in my mind. Early on, the four girls who go exploring on the rock of the title are overcome by torpor. Three of them remove their black cotton stockings and high-button shoes; the other retains her Victorian trappings of propriety. From above, the viewer sees the girls spread out on the rock and has a premonition that the three barelegged girls, while free of their confining shoes, are the ones destined to disappear. Only the girl who keeps on her the dark hose and shoes that contrast so vividly with the white dresses they all wear is the one not to disappear. On this most recent viewing, I learned that the very proper, older teacher who disappears along with the girls is seen climbing the rock wearing only her pantaloons. Whether this stripping down (if it can be called that) represents sexual awakening, as some have argued, or is merely there for the contrast it provides, doesn't bother me. It is the image that matters.Another scene that remains indelible in my mind concerns the reappearance of Irma. She is mysteriously discovered alive a week after the initial disappearance, with no memory of the events that have transpired. After a period of recuperation, she returns to the school to say goodbye to her classmates, since she is on her way to rejoin her parents in Europe. All the girls are exercising in the Temple of Calisthenics, wearing only bloomers. They raise and lower their legs on two bars suspended from the ceiling. When Irma enters, now literally a scarlet woman, since she is dressed in a vivid red cape and hat, the other girls menacingly swing the bars in her direction before they literally attack her for being the only survivor.One person on this site commented that Weir was wrong with his day of the week. The film has a short title before it starts saying that Valentine's Day in 1900 was on a Saturday, when, instead, it was on a Wednesday. This viewer was right. This viewer also points out that Sara is kept away from the picnic in order to learn her lines for The Wreck of the Hesperus. Mrs. Appleyard, the school's headmistress and owner, misattributes the poem to Felicia Hemans, whose most famous poem was, perhaps, Casabianca, whose opening line is The boy stood on the burning deck. I think that this mistake is less one of Weir's than his sly way of showing that Mrs. Appleyard's own educational qualifications were somewhat lacking.For me, one of the most disturbing things about the film is the disintegration of Mrs. Appleyard (Rachel Roberts). And this has less to do with anything in the film itself than the fact that it somewhat mirrors the actress's own disintegration and suicide by poisoning, as it was posthumously told in her harrowing journal, No Bells on Sunday.Some other viewers on this site find the pacing slow. The girls who do not go exploring on the rock do nothing after their picnic luncheon. I think that these viewers forget that in 1900, respectable young women did not engage in games that would have soiled their immaculate white frocks (this is what makes the girls who do go exploring so shocking), and that after a heavy Victorian meal on a hot fall day (remember the seasons are reversed in the antipodes), relaxation would have been the order of the day. After all, GameBoys were not yet invented.I was shocked to see that some people on this site compared Picnic at Hanging Rock to The Blair Witch Project. And, again, this may be my age, but comparing The Blair Witch Project to Picnic at Hanging Rock is like comparing Colt 45 to Dom Perignon.Perhaps, those who find this film too slow have been affected by such whirling-dervish abominations as the most recent Moulin Rouge, where lots happens but little remains in the imagination. For the careful viewer, Picnic at Hanging Rock is a mystery(?) worth exploring. "},{"Title":"An Enigmatic and Haunting Tale","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"    Picnic at Hanging Rock has all the trappings of a supernatural tale concerning the mysterious vanishing of four students in the Australian Outback---but it is so much more.  The movie has many underlying themes, one being the contrast between the sexually repressive Victorian society and nature's erotic surroundings.  In itself, the plot is relatively simple.  A group of young girls from a strict all-girls boarding school in 1900 Australia, go on an outing (picnic) to a mysterious and somewhat dangerous landmark called Hanging Rock.  The girls are told not to wander off and to stay together during the outing, but four of them drift away on their own anyway.  At first it seems that the young ladies are on simply a mission of discovery, but soon they disappear and are never seen again.    What could have been an ordinary movie about some missing students turns into an enigmatic journey into the meaning of time and existence itself. The performers are all very good, especially the late Rachel Roberts as the alcoholic head mistress of the school.  She's the epitome of all that the missing girls want to leave behind and the very nature of a controlled and repressive society.  This cult classic is definitely one for the ages and also the directorial beginning of the fine career of Peter Weir.     "},{"Title":"New cut is telling","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  They say that perfection is achieved not when there is nothing left to add, but when there is nothing left to take away.Weir re-cut this movie in 2001(?), and instead of the usual approach of 'restoring' deleted scenes or adding extra fluff (as with a band's unreleased songs, these things were usually removed from the original for good reason), he cut 7 minutes from its running time by removing some unnecessary sub-plot and tightening things up here and there.Just like the original release, the result is lyrical and mysterious - truly a 'poem in celluloid'.Trivia buffs should watch for the Hanging Rock reference ad-libbed by Graham Kennedy (Dougal) during his bit-part in Joffe's The Killing Fields. "},{"Title":"mesmerizing with beautiful cinematography","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Holds your interest until the end, where it seems to fall apart a bit. Pace is mesmerizing as is the beauty of the film. Logic is suspended while the movie unfolds, engagement of the emotions seems the goal. Hauntingly memorable, it's not until after the movie you may wish for a more clear-cut resolution. "},{"Title":"In a class by itself","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Of all of Weir's works, this one needs champions. This is the kind of film people are thinking of when they make the comment They don't make them like that anymore. Yes, they do. This is one of those remarkable, surreal and perfect films that stays with the mind, lingering on long after the last frame has passed from the screen. It has a dreamlike quality to it that draws one into the reality of the situation these girls find themselves in. This is NOT a film for those who feel a film isn't worth watching unless something explodes, or dripping with self indulgent irony. Superb, and highly suggested.  "},{"Title":"Hauntingly Beautiful and disturbing","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  *THIS MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS TO VIEWERS WHO HAVE NOT SEEN THE FILM*'Picnic at Hanging Rock' is one of the most beautiful films I have ever seen. From the moment Miranda waves goodbye and walks up the rock I was spellbound by this cinematic masterpiece. As the inhabitants of the town search for the answers to the mysteries we are drawn into this beautiful world. The highest point is the soundtrack to this film which adds to the haunting atmosphere.A note though is that this film is disturbing. When Irma is found and returns to the school, her classmates simply want to know what happened. The scene where she is reunited with them is spooky (that's the best word i can think of!). And it's the small things that make this movie work - different people in the town discover separate clues but never put them to use. If they had all put their clues together the mystery may have been solved.I give this film a 9 out of 10 - it is a classic film and a must-see. "},{"Title":"Avoid the Director's Cut!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Well, I guess I don't have to repeat why this movie is a masterpiece -but the Director's Cut released some time ago is simply a complete disappointment. You have the feeling someone simply wanted to cut out some good scenes to destroy the movie. The first cut is in the beginning of the movie after the girls ran down the stairs into the dining room. we can see them shouting St. Valentine and sitting down.From this sequence, the director's cut cuts some footage of the girls chattering in such a blunt way, that one wonders what this is supposed to be. The wonderful church scene, the boat scene with Irma and the walk in the garden with Irma are also cut - all this scenes are great and their loss *really* ruins the movie! What is the idea behind ruining a cult movie in it's first release on DVD? I hope the real version is released on DVD soon! Also I wonder why nobody releases a soundtrack album of this excellent music? "},{"Title":"Half a great movie","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The opening 40 minutes of this film are among the best ever made. The eerieness reaches a level that Blair Witch Project could only wish to achieve. I was pretty much hypnotized, thinking that I had stumbled upon a masterpiece by renting this, but the last half brought me back down a little. Not bad, but the level we're brought to in the first half is definitely not sustained. The last quarter seems to focus more on the fate of the school itself than the mystery surrounding the disappearances. I would definitely recommend this to any serious film-lover, though, with a glowing review on the first 45 minutes. "},{"Title":"It's Been Waiting a Million Years, Just For Us","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie, the video for which was already out-of-print when I first purchased a VCR in the mid to late 1980s, was the impetus for starting a video collection to avoid the same thing happening again. When...FINALLY...Peter Weir released his director's cut at the theaters and that became the version with which most viewers are probably now familiar, I took one disappointed look and ultimately headed for eBay to scout for a seller offering the VHS original.  For more money than I have ever paid in my life for a video, an aging copy arrived.What was issued at the Australian box offices in 1975, and in the United States four years later, is an absolute gem.  The 1998 director's cut ruins much of it.  There are no parishioners singing Rock of Ages.  There is very little footage of the unremarked-on matching cuts on the foreheads of Michael and...well, no use giving anything away...one of the other characters.  I forget the rest.In summary, I've discovered that the editing personnel who are listed on movie credits fulfill a very important function.  And I'm very much a Peter Weir fan.  St. Valentine's Day, February 14, 2000, would have been an opportune time for a re-release of the original.  But it seems to have disappeared.Picnic at Hanging Rock is my favorite Helen Morse movie.  It's too bad there have not been, for American audiences, other prominent films featuring Anne Lambert or Karen Robson.  Ditto, Dominic Guard, except for a bit part in Gandhi.Ask yourself some questions  Why is it called hanging rock?  It seems more like a protruding formation, reaching up from below rather than hanging from anything above.  And what's with this circle superimposed on the triangle in Miss McCraw's mathematics book, when she glances up at the sky? Edith said something about a red...what was it, exactly, she mentioned?At least there are still a few preserved curiosities. "}{"Title":"Enchanting, Atmospheric","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I showed this one to a group of friends. They were all busy chatting away but after a few minutes one by one they were sucked in. They did not say a word for the rest of the film but sat spellbound, such is the power of this timeless classic.In one scene a girl get out of the carriage and goes to open a gate. How can such a simple act make such a moving scene? I don't really know, it just does! Maybe the music has something to do with it. The music is SO beautiful it sends shivers down my spine, but it's so simple - organ and pan-pipes - and wonderful photography to match.If there is one criticism I have it's that it goes on a bit. But sit through it anyway- the end is more than worth the wait.8/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent eerie account ...","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  1st watched 9/5/1999 - 8 out of 10 (Dir-Peter Weir) Excellent eerie account of the disappearance of Australian school girls at Hanging Rock.The slow pace allows us to think about what happened to them while we explore the school and the way it works.  Beautifully made and well-told story.  "},{"Title":"Poetic, Mythical Mood Piece","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  PICNIC AT HANGING ROCK (PAHR)is lyrical, suspenseful, frightening, beautiful, melodramatic, political, sensuous, maddening, frustrating and, ultimately unclear.  It is NOT a movie to be seen in a theater (a typical theater audience would probably sneer) because it DEMANDS repeated, sequential viewings.  Even then it is doubtful one will sort things out completely.   Certainly I haven't.  Perhaps, had I watched the CRITERION DVD and listened to Peter Weir's audio track, I might have understood the seemingly mixed messages in his director's cut.  Even this cut still contains at least two choppy scenesearly in the film which MIGHT have established a clearer perspective.  Art should NOT have to be explained, though it CAN be deliberately ambiguous. IS the film about sexual awakening?  Maybe, though I can cite arguements against that.  Certainly if it is, it is about much more.  It seems as if the film is the film is much more about the expanded consciousness of women, a precursor to the acceptance of women in modern society.  Ironically, this may be true due to the respect afforded Queen Victoria.  Her strength may well have destroyed the very provincialism associated with The Victorian Age. But WHAT about the mystery?   Three of those that disappeared seem otherworldly from the very beginning.  Two are thinkers. The third, Miranda, seems to have transcended thought and become almost purely spiritual.  When she is described a Bottecelli beauty, we are shown the picture of the goddess Venus.  Perhaps these three simply went home.  The film offers no definite conclusion. PAHR is not a film to be understood.  It is a film to be FELT.  I caution you if you are receptive, the feelings will linger for a very long time.    "},{"Title":"slow but anticipating, disturbing but beautiful","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILER***     ***SPOILER*** I was lucky enough to spy this movie on the IFC. It was a culmination of contrasting effects slow but anticipating, disturbing but beautiful, restrictive but free... The cinematography was fantastic and very atmospheric, giving aura to the girls, especially those who turn out missing. The greatest moments contained in the film lie in its very beginnings up until the point in which the missing takes place. Little to nothing ensues after that, much to the annoyance of the audience, but that is the point. The girls will forever remain missing, they will forever remain as they are, and no one will ever no the reasons behind it. The main storyline is thus at its core effectively haunting, leaving the audience with lingering feelings. Wanting to know more, but more is never given. However of the subplots, which circle around Michael infatuation and drive to know what happened leading to his search for the girls and Sarah's doomed fate, I would have like to see them more intertwined, seeing as Sarah's brother Burty is revealed to be Michael's confidant, of whom's name escapes me... (maybe it was Albert?) If somehow, he had found out that Sarah was his Sarah, the movie would have felt more connected within its subplots. Needless to say, however, I felt the movie was eerily stunning. (And if anyone has IFC, they know that when IFC plays a movie, it is usually replayed over and over throughout the day--a ritual that makes viewers watch over and over... especially a movie like that of Picnic at Hanging Rock. "},{"Title":"this review is one big spoiler!","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is a dreamy, atmospheric film with symbolism so obvious, it loses much of it's potential haunting atmosphere. It's so obvious that every mysterious event taking place at Hanging Rock is a metaphor for sexual feelings, either sexual repression or sexual awareness. Fortunately, Peter Weir is the man at the wheel here; imagine Oliver Stone having directed this film. Ouch!Australia, 1900. The first scenes take place at a Victorian boarding school for girls, where they are taught to behave like ladies. Sitting up straight, showing as less skin as possible, hiding their femininity. They have to wear corsets. Those were the days that girls (and boys) were (even more)taught to be ashamed of their bodies. Ashamed of their sexual feelings and beauty. They were taught these feelings are devilish.But, as is already suggested at the beginning, some of these girls are ahead of their time. Miranda, for example, might be having a romantic relationship with her schoolmate Jane. Jane could be called a rebel (she doesn't sit up straight; she rather writes her own romantic poetry than memorize those of established poets) and is, thus, a thorn in the flesh of their conservative principle, Mrs. Appleyard, who taunts the girl by not letting her go on a picnic with the other girls.The other twenty or so girls, accompanied by two teachers,are humoured by Mrs. Appleyard, who is human enough to acknowledge the hot day, allowing the girls to take off their gloves. Then it's off to the immense wilderness of Hanging  Rock, which exists of rather phallic looking rock formations. Three of the girls, Miranda, Marion, and Irma, are drawn to this place. The tangible phallic rocks and the sense of freedom and untamed wilderness arouses them. They get permission from the teachers to explore the territory. A fourth girl, the annoying, nagging Edith goes with them. Almost on top of the rock, the girls say shallow philosophical things like `Those people down there look like ants. So meaningless', and, `Everything begins and ends at the right time and place'. Then, everyone except Edith, takes off their shoes and socks and, looking like angels in their virgin white gowns, they fall asleep under an even more phallic looking formation. Meanwhile, one of their teachers, miss McGraw, seems to be sensing something. The girls wake up (a sexual awakening) and, like hypnotized, they wander into the caverns. It's the right time and place for these girls.Edith stays behind. She clearly isn't ready. She screams and runs back to the class, later stating that on her way down, she came across Miss McGraw, who came running up the rocky hill, already having removed some of her clothes. (at this point I was reminded of German artist Heinrich Zille's comic litho Der Neue Tag, which shows some women waving at a giant erected penis while lifting up their skirts)A young boy, Michael, goes and look for the girls. Michael, too, disappears, but is found back some time later with Irma, both of them wounded. Neither one of them can seem to remember anything, but they are sexually awakened and they start a relationship. Irma is a woman now, self-assured and proud, teasingly using her voice and facial expressions.The investigations don't go well and is obstructed by people holding back information because it would be considered rude to talk about it Edith doesn't want to tell the authorities that her teacher was only wearing underwear when she came running up the rocky hill; Irma's housekeeper conceals the fact that the girl's corset has gone missing.There is a right time and place for everything, Miranda said. She's gone, but the Victorian era was coming to an end, and it was sensed by all. Jane commits suicide to be with Miranda. Mrs. Appleyard, a relic of a dying era, is found dead at Hanging Rock, probably not being able to deal with the fact that The Times They Are A Changin'.Wonderfully atmospheric, heightened by the repetitive use of Gheorghe Zamfir's pan de flute and Beethoven's Concerto Fur Klavier und orchester no. 4. Good film, but there are more than a few lulls; it probably could have been better and even more disturbing.*** out of ****  "},{"Title":"It is NOT based on fact...","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A beautifully creepy as Picnic is, the biggest myth about it is that the novel is a true story.  It isn't.  It was completely fictional.  The book managed to capture the imagination of so many people that it became accepted myth it was based on a true story.  That aside, the film is a wonderful piece of work.  Arguably surreal, it paints a vivid portrait of these girls and their tension-filled lives (be it sexual or otherwise), almost as if the dissapearance was a metaphor for them escaping the clutches of this simple reality. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, subtle, and very thought provoking","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  One of the most artistic and philosophical movies I've seen. It is not deep in the wordy abstract way that philosophers are.It shows in a breathtaking way the essence of what  existentialism is, in a way I have seen nowhere else. If you don't know what existentialism is, you won't even notice it, it's done that carefully. This movie and The Truman Show make Peter Weir one of the great directors of the 20th century. I only wish there were more like him.                         "},{"Title":"the imagination runs wild","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The words Miranda is a Bottocelli angel have been running through my mind since I last saw this film.  What was the strange place the four women disappeared to?  Why was it that no man could enter there?  Were only pure souls able to make the trek to the hidden place?  Picnic at Hanging Rock is one of the most spiritual and tender films I have seen and reinforces my feeling that Peter Weir is the most gifted director to emerge from Australia.  In a way I wish he was still there since his Hollywood films have been far less interesting, save Fearless and parts of The Truman Show.  This movie is a small miracle.  Watch it when you are sick and it will cure you. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of mystery","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I can't stand it when people say that this movie is boring, just because they last faster action movies or so. P@HR is the one of the best movies ever made it has *wonderful* music by Bruce Smeaton and Gheorge Zamfir (a Soundtrack release would really be appreciated), the actors are excellent as is the photography and the directing. Once you have seen this movie, you can't get the story of the pupils gone forever anymore. I like the part before that dissapearance and the dissapearence scene itself best. The part before because it has such a wonderful mysterious happy athmosphere, Mirandas opening quote and telling Sarah that she has to find a new girlfriend (by the way, they are lovers). The dissapereance scene with its slow paced pictures, wonderful sound effects and odd aura. You can't describe this movie, you've got to see it. "},{"Title":"Weird Little Movie","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A bunch young schoolgirls go on a picnic in the rural Australia of 1901.  Three of the girls and a chaperone wander off for a short walk and disappear into thin air.  A week later one of the girls mysteriously turns up unharmed, but with amnesia about the events that befell them. Peter Weir never makes it clear what is reality and what is dreamworld.  The events and the actions of the people don't add up.  It's a morality play and the characters, scenery, and events are just symbols arranged by Weir to make his points.  At least that's what I think he was doing.  I must admit that PICNIC AT HANGING ROCK is different, although probably much more so in 1975 than now.  It has languid, slow pacing that I found annoying given the lack of a plot.  If you are into this type of movie you'll enjoy it.  If you are not, you'll want to skip it.    "}{"Title":"All things come to an end at precisely the right moment....","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  ...except for this film.I am an amateur Peter Weir fan, and finally watching this movie had me deliriously buzzing. This beautiful and obsessive film occupied tremendously unruffled acting which encompassed many intelligent emotions and strange secrets too afraid to reveal.PLOT A group of girls venture from a school outing and climb a large natural rock formation. Three of the girls become hypnotized by a mysterious sort of understanding which possesses them. The real mystery begins when they disappear. Were the girls raped and killed? Is there something supernatural in the rock? Or did they come upon an understanding that no one should have comprehended?After taking in the film, I decided that the plot could have gone one way or another. I feel that Weir could have either focussed on the character of Sara and her part in the story as the center of anxiety and worry (instead of Michael), or he could have centered more on the mysterious disappearance of the three girls, or he could have easily tied them together. But Weir successfully slows this movie at a strange moment in order to fit in two plot interests of Sara and the girls' disappearance.I would like to have seen less of a spacey Sara and more of an adventurous Sara - looking for her friends and finding the mystery herself, without really revealing it to the audience. She was, after all, the character who was struggling to find mystery and purpose. The surviving girl mysteriously had no real purpose of surviving but to delay the film (she reveals no information about the others) and Sara's dilemma further reveals that the real victim of the incident was the increasingly cursed boarding school.However, I am sure Weir had a design with this plot-play - it's not like he was hasty or confused with the film's idea. I just see this film, as I do with his other works, as mostly to purely symbolic. Picnic at Hanging Rock was one of those movies where the audience had to look for the figurative nature themselves, instead of looking for satisfaction. A kind of cinematic novel.  "},{"Title":"Haunting, Eerie, Wildly Seductive","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Definitely one of my personal favorites - utterly captivating, enigmatic mood-movie with lush settings of ancient mystery. Easily one of the most unique movies of the 1970s. An unforgettable film that will haunt you long after you see it. "},{"Title":"Yes, an excellent movie","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I hope for her (I assume) sake that Bacall-3's comment that few men she knows would enjoy this movie is a bit of hyperbole. If it's true, she really should look for a better class of men.In its way, this movie is a mysterious and ominous as Don't Look Now, and as beautifully photographed as Dersu Uzala. It was the first (I believe) of Weir's work released in the US, and I find it better by far than anything else he's done, possibly excepting parts of The Year of Living Dangerously. "},{"Title":"Haunting, creepy, and richly rewarding","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  While eagerly awaiting the release of Blair Witch Project, I finally got around to watching this movie, and Picnic is emphatically the more effective of the two.  Although many will object that the two films are too different to compare, I think such a comparison is valid both rely for their effectiveness on atmosphere over visible, clearly defined spooks; on suspense over special effects or even plot resolution.  However, the worlds of the two films are unarguably different.  I found the golden, dreamy, visually mesmerizing Australian countryside of Picnic one of the film's most outstanding features.  This lyrical, almost sleepy period setting, thronging with long-haired damsels in white lawn dresses, lulls the viewer into a spellbound state, aided by the otherworldly pan flute music.The film unwinds slowly and deliberately, which may account for the occasional hostile reviews; certainly, if you want fast-paced thrills, or are in an impatient or hurried mood, Picnic will be wasted on you.  But if you allow yourself, you'll be hypnotized by the gentle increase of tension and mystery, even as you are unable to identify their source.  Before long the suspense will become almost unbearable as you come closer and closer to the horror lurking beneath the sun-drenched surface.But the source of the horror?  That's left largely to you.  While I was initially disappointed that the film offered so little explanation for the pivotal disappearance of the young women, on reflection I realize that any explanation would only reduce the film's eeriness.  Part of the power of this film is its ability to leave you wondering, guessing, and still trying to put your finger on the reason it's so disturbing.  It may begin like A Room With a View, but ultimately it's an exquisitely rendered horror film. "},{"Title":"Poetry on film","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Lyrical, beautiful, atmospheric and occasionally very, very frightening. To describe this film in words is to reduce it. That the story more or less fizzles out at the end is its only flaw. But how else could it have ended? Expect to be caressed by the beauty of this poetic masterpiece. "},{"Title":"my fave film","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I like everything from Dumb and Dumber to Usual Suspects, Manhatten and Don't Look Now, but this really has to be my favorite. The images stick in your mind and the story is a complete enigma. Music is great. On occasions the tension becomes almost overpowering, but little actually happens.  "},{"Title":"Repressed Sexuality Escapes","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Around the turn of the century, it was not uncommon for young women to be educated at boarding schools like the one on Picnic at Hanging Rock. Isolated from males and socialized into being fine young ladies, an incredible amount of repressed feelings must have built up among them.  The film examines these feelings and the power they hold.The film never resolves anything, which is wonderful.  What has happened to the girls?  Well, it doesn't really matter because they are freed of the shackles of the school.  The girl who is not allowed on the outing shows what might have happened to the lost women if they had not escaped.  Even some of the school elders want to return to the craggy natural setting of the Rock.  The large effort exerted by the town to retrieve the girls exposes the danger that female liberation posed at the time.  It is a sad and truthful commentary that the only way for the women to escape is to climb the mountain and be lost forever. "},{"Title":"One mystery that keeps you going.","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film makes you wonder.  What did happen to those girls and their teacher?  Even though it never explains, the film gives the insight of what the others in the school felt about this tragedy.  The personal outlook of the one who saw them for he last time.  Weir the director put it in my mind that Aliens could had taken them away.  It just makes you wonder. *** or B+ "},{"Title":"another masterpiece from Australian master Peter Weir","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" as with Peter Weir's other masterpiece The Last Wave, it requires multiple viewings and lots of digestion time to fully grasp & appreciate... I've been wanting to watch Picnic at Hanging Rock for years... bought the blu ray recently & thought it was time... after finally watching it, I'm quite shell shocked at what I've just witnessed... the mood throughout this film is on a spiritual level, hypnotic at times, tension building below... the soundtrack & sound design compliment the film & create this mysticism surrounding the missing characters... the narrative is quite minimal, focusing on the mood of the film rather than what's being said... but quite often what is being said is cryptic & only leaves you with more questions... after doing further reading, it is stated that even the novelist Joan Lindsay never confirmed if the story was based on fact or not... but many people including the producer of the film have gone to Hanging Rock & felt this unease... like they are being watched... this aspect to me is fascinating and makes this film such an achievement from the young director at the time... also worth mentioning that gorgeous the actress who played Sara, Margaret Nelson has been missing for sometime... plus the lead bitch of the school Mrs. Appleyard played by Rachel Roberts committed suicide in 1980... the more you dig with this film / novel and Hanging Rock the location, more is left unanswered... it's most definitely one of the greatest Australian films & cant wait to see it again & give it 10/10, along with 2nd viewing of The Last Wave... until then ill be hunting down Mark Hartley's 2004 doco A Dream Within a Dream The making of 'Picnic at Hanging Rock & continue my research on the film, the location, it's characters & the novelist... "},{"Title":"The most ambiguous story ever told, and it is true!","Date":"19 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" My dad had seen Picnic at Hanging Rock at its first release and he said how much he loved it so he brought it for me to watch on blu-ray. I was expecting a quite light hearted story that was not too intense, it is rated PG after all but I was shocked. I must say this is the scariest film I have ever seen and I have seen quite a few films on peoples top 20 scariest.I am not going to review the overall film like I normally would because there are enough reviews on this film already about how brilliant the acting is (it really is) and how great the directing by Peter Weir is but I will discuss and get out everything I am feeling straight after watching this film. The story of this film, the first 30 minutes scared me so much, the eerie atmosphere that was created by the three girls and then the fat girl screaming when the other three girls wouldn't listen. Brrr... it was like the three girls were in a trance (which I believe they are) and the other fat girl is sensing something, she can see or feel something that is so horrifying that she cannot stay there any longer. The numerous searches on the rock are so tense and scary that I could hardly bear it and when the servant, I can't remember his name, found the man on the rock it made me jump so much. The way the fat girl describes her encounter of her teacher who is never found got visions in my head that stayed with me and it was so vivid, so horrifying. I am really not a fan of horror movies at all, in fact I generally hate them except for a select few, this was something else and it chilled me so much. So the first hour earns this film a 10/10 but I am afraid that I found the last section of the film very boring and a bit pointless. I know that it was all meant to show the effect the whole incident had on the college and the town but this certainly did not make the whole atmosphere any scarier and certainly lightened the mood.To conclude, I would say that Picnic on Hanging Rock is nearly a masterpiece and the first hour is an experience I will never forget and it scared me so much. After watching this me and my dad discussed what maybe could have happened but every time we suggested something the other would come back and say how that could not be possible. The story is so scary and scarring and definitely would not be recommended to anyone who can get very easily scared. One of the best Australian films of all time, probably the best.8/10 "}{"Title":"I don't even know...","Date":"15 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I'm not sure what all to say about Peter Weir's second feature film. There aren't many words to describe other than just... odd. It's set in 1900 when a group of female college students go out for a picnic one day to a place called Hanging Rock. While there, three of the students and a teacher disappear mysteriously, sending panic through the school as they try to find them. During their search many questions are raised, while none are answered. This is a haunting film with a very peculiar atmosphere that just makes your head turn rather than eliciting any sort of fear. I'm not sure exactly how to describe this film. It's just that strange.The film starts simple enough. We are introduced to a group of sheltered girls who live a life of recluse in their college boarding school. They enjoy poetry and nature, while not showing a lot of signs of individualism. We meet the headmaster of the school, the strict Mrs. Appleyard whose harsh ways are rather obnoxious and ridiculous. The girls then set out for their picnic and four of them leave the group to climb Hanging Rock. Then the film begins to get weird as strange and ominous sounds begin to create a fearful ambiance. The girls take a nap and suddenly three of them wake up and walk off, leaving the fourth to run off in terror at what she just witnessed. As far as what she witnessed, we aren't even sure. And so the search for the missing girls begins, never answering any questions but raising plenty of them.This is one of those films that just doesn't do anything for me. I found it very dull and I longed for some sort of explanation, no matter how vague. Yet I received nothing. This film seems to begin and end in the same place. I enjoyed the look and feel of it at times, as it is a haunting film that captures the eerie atmosphere it was going for just right. However, it doesn't seem to have much more going for it other than that. Maybe I missed something but all I managed to get out of it was the fact that it is a very bizarre film. I won't say that I hated this film by any means. I liked parts of it and I honestly did want to know where its strange events were leading. I guess I'm just bitter at the fact that these events went nowhere to me. Either way, I felt fairly cheated by this film and it left a lot to be desired.You won't see many films like this, and that could be a good or bad thing. I can deduce that I liked the film enough for it to be worth my time, but it left an empty feeling inside of me that keeps me from really liking it. I can't figure out what this film was going for or what its ultimate goal was, but I know that it is very strange and quite creepy because of a successfully executed atmosphere. Of course, that's about all I know. The rest is a mystery. "},{"Title":"The greatest Australian film ever made","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This early film by Peter Weir has grown in stature with the years, and it continues to haunt large numbers of viewers round the world. Now Peter Weir has made available a director's cut, and a magnificent three-disc DVD set is available with that, the restored original cut, and a disc full of fascinating material including two old TV interviews with Joan Lindsay, author of the novel, and a two hour documentary on the making of the film, A DREAM WITHIN A DREAM (2004, see my review), which features in depth interviews with all the living people who were involved in the production except for one, Margaret Nelson, who has quit acting and declined to participate. In fact, I regard Margaret Nelson's performance as the girl Sara Wayborn as the finest in the film, an uncanny psychic portrayal of the character who I believe represents the author. I am convinced that Joan Lindsay suffered a catastrophic loss of the great love of her life, a girl at her own boarding school (not the same one as the story), and that Sara's passionate love for Miranda is the heart of the mysterious tale of loss. The film succeeds in being a world classic of the first rank for a variety of reasons. First of all, because the young Peter Weir accomplished a genuine work of genius in directing it. But the key to the film working was the casting of Anne Lambert as Miranda. It is true, as Helen Morse says in the film, that she is a Botticelli angel. But it is important to realize that being beautiful is not enough, she had also to be Anne Lambert. As for her amazing looks both then and now, she is like the fourth sister of Alice, Mary, and Matilda Temperley, whom I have said all their lives were born and remain Botticelli angels. There are some creatures who are just like that, and it is a rare but inescapable fact of Nature. Helen Morse was such an overwhelmingly beautiful young woman herself that on the basis of looks alone, she was more impressive even than Lambert. And she delivered an inspired performance as 'Mademoiselle'. Everyone in this film seems to have been gripped by a mysterious emanation of inspiration, and from the accounts they give, they all seem to have worked in a kind of state of semi-trance, resembling that portrayed in the film. In the film, two watches stop at noon, but during the production people's watches also stopped repeatedly! There is something deeply weird about Hanging Rock, a gigantic 500 foot-high volcanic outcrop arising from flat land near Wood End in Victoria, Australia. It may well have some kind of effect on people's brains and nervous systems. It must cause a considerable 'blip' in the gravitational field in the area with all that vast bulk of unexpected extruded mass, and must distort the Earth's magnetic field, causing an enhanced local magnetic variation. All the people who spent weeks making the film seemed to think that it influenced them and entranced them in some way, and did not merely stop their watches. The film itself is one of the most magical ever made. Everything came together to make it a true work of art. All beauty can be appreciated only by contrast with some form of ugliness, whether physical or psychological. Here we have the harsh and relentless character of the Headmistress Mrs. Appleyard, played with inspired and spectacular brilliance by the late Rachel Roberts, who came from England bringing her own weird wig with her. Christine Schuler is perfect as a pathetic, whining girl who screams with terror when she has a psychic intuition that some of the girls are going to disappear forever. Karen Robson as Irma manages just the right level of ambiguity towards the end to maintain the mystery forever. There is a magnificent performance by the young Dominic Guard as the boy Michael. He too seems to have entered almost into a state of trance throughout not only the film but the making of it. Having glimpsed perfection, in the form of Anne Lambert, his life can never be the same. And John Jarratt as Bertie Crundall is more of a typical Ossie, and does an excellent job of it. For this film is set in 1900 and everybody else is formal, and intensely English. Even in 1975, Weir says it was difficult to find a girl in Australia who was innocent and did not have too 'knowing' a manner. He could find none at all in Sydney and Melbourne and had to go to somewhere sleepier and a bit backward, namely Adelaide, before he could find any girls for this film. He hesitated over Anne Lambert because he thought she looked as if she knew too much, but then he realized that her character of Miranda needed to, and Sara says of her 'Miranda knows things, secrets.' For instance, she knows she will not be coming back and that Sara needs to find 'someone else to love'. The hothouse atmosphere of adolescent girls cooped up together is similar to that portrayed in the brilliant recent film CRACKS (2009, see my review), which also features a girl's boarding school of a bygone era and has a beautiful young woman teacher played by Eva Green who is beautiful and haunting in the way that Helen Morse was. I truly wonder whether CRACKS may have been partially inspired by PICNIC, even subconsciously. Cliff Green did a sensational job of scripting this film and Russell Boyd's cinematography was wholly inspired. The sound of the Romanian pan pipes played by Gheorghe Zamfir (the 'r' is left off his name in the credits) is unforgettable. But most effective is the slowed-down sound of an earthquake which is used as the signature sound of the Rock. This beautiful, haunting, perfect masterpiece will endure as long as Hanging Rock itself. "},{"Title":"The film is director Peter Weir's haunting, delicate, and exquisitely photographed tale of three young girls who disappear during a school outing in the year 1900.","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Picnic At Hanging Rock is atmospherically vivid, beautifully shot, and palpably haunting. In 1900, schoolgirls set out with a teacher for a picnic at an aboriginal sacred site; there three of them disappear and are never found.It is a genuinely tantalising film that brushes up against supernatural elements but offers no resolution to its central mystery. It certainly alludes to white colonialism, and its atmosphere evokes burgeoning sexuality, but its 'meaning' remains an open question - a factor that burnishes its mystique. Picnic At Hanging Rock was a major critical success in Australia, the U.S. as well as the UK and many other countries. "},{"Title":"As beautiful and impenetrable as Australia seems to those who've never been there.","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Rich, full of symbolism, yet ultimately ambiguous, this early Peter Weir effort is one of the finest films I've stumbled across recently. Why do so few films challenge their audiences? And why are the ones that do so hard to find? A film like Picnic at Hanging Rock is not just watched, it is experienced. Combining an attractive cast, breathtaking shots of nature, beautiful music, and some eerie sound effects, this film is a lot like the rock itself. It either absorbs you completely, or probably just rejects you like it does to various characters we meet.The story is presented in almost documentary manner at the beginning and very end, yet it is not based on any actual event. It is Valentine's Day in rural Australia in 1900. A dozen of more girls from an elite finishing school pile into a wagon and head out for a leisurely gathering at a foreboding rock formation. The teen-aged girls read poetry back and forth between them as a teacher offers grandiose scientific descriptions of the rock as they approach. There are a few other people already there. But they will only end up as spectators. No matter how much they try and learn of what is about to happen. After a while it is noted that everyone's watch has stopped at precisely noon. Odd, but no big deal. Then, four young ladies set off on their own and begin to scale the formation. Once they reach the top, all hell.... or something breaks loose. One of the girls begins screaming. The next thing we're told is that the other three girls are missing, along with their prim and proper math teacher. What the heck happened? And why can they not be found? Why can the girl who made it back only recall a few tiny details? The rock is searched again and again. No girls. Two young men who saw the four wander off head out on their own to search the rock. They find one of the girls alive, but do not figure out the rock's secret. How did the girl stay alive up there for a week? Why are her hands all scratched up, yet her bare feet are perfectly unscathed? These kinds of questions are not answered by Weir's intentionally ambiguous film. In fact one could probably watch this film 100 times and come up with that many theories. And you'd likely notice something different each time. I especially identified with the noble young man who camped out on the rock after searching it all day. He was so smitten by Miranda when he first saw her walk past, that he will love her and dream of her the rest of his life. Even if she is never found. Every young man dreams of someone they know they will never see again. And that little wave she gives in the final shot is quite telling. She knows she is going off to a place only she knows about, and the fleeting glimpse is the last thing anyone left behind will have to remember her by. What a wonderful film! 10 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Schoolgirls Had Their Voices Dubbed Over.","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Picnic at Hanging Rock is a great movie but there is more to it then critic were made aware of or Peter Weir has let out even after 30 years, except for the voice of Miranda the other schoolgirls in the movie (who were not professional actresses)had their voices dubbed over by professional actresses as their voical performances weren't up to standard. This includes the famous scream sequence when the girls vanis, the schoolgirl played by Christine Schuller, never had a word of her dialog survive the editing floor, every line she delivered was dubbed in afterwards including her famous scream.One of these voice actresses, Barbara Llewellyn, has just broken her silence about the secrecy, it adds a new dimension to the movie, her article can be read at http//simplyaustralia.net/?p=70 "},{"Title":"This film *is* about sexual repression","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Devildoll claims that the girls' look of peaceful contentment as they lay around with each other indicates that the film seeks to describe an a pleasure that doesn't entail sexual repression. This claim relies on a mistaken understanding of interpretive options. The point isn't that the girls cannot experience a kind of intense, blissful feeling of companionship. But it is inevitable that this state, seemingly so free of tension, will not be sustained, and the girls will go through a passage into more explicitly defined sexuality, including attendant conflicts over jealousy and envy. I think it is possible to read them as opting out of that transition. But this suggests that they themselves realize the diffuse state of companionate feeling cannot be sustained, and that they seek to escape its collapse. That describes a dilemma addressed by repression, only now repression takes the more global form of an elimination of the disruptive instincts by disappearance/suicide. There are other, less ethereal ways this can be accomplished, bulimia and anorexia are among them.Whether devildoll intends it or not, her position represents a kind of fragmentation of sexual life that the Christian Right promotes in their argument for sexual abstinence. Friendships and faith in the lord are just as enjoyable and fulfilling as relationships which involve genital sexuality. But that begs the question as to why it requires so much effort to maintain abstinence, and how sexual relations come to be framed as so dangerous and beyond the girls capacity to manage. "},{"Title":"Strange, dreamlike film tantalizes, and gives no answers","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The first time I heard the film's theme played on the pan pipes, I was chilled. The music seemed so haunting and eerie, completely at odds with schoolgirl innocence, white frocks and Victorian naivet. The music seemed more appropriate to a horror movie, and then I began to realize that this film might well fall into that category. The film is unlike anything I've ever seen from an American director, and its Australian landscape and long ago characters may seem even more intriguing to an American viewer because of being so unfamiliar. There are so many possibilities in this movie ,that I will only mention one that I find both disturbing and fascinating. In the sequence that was later cut from the original version, Irma, who was found unharmed on the Rock, and Michael, the young Englishman who went to rescue her, have a restrained sort of courtship, even though Michael can't stop dreaming of Miranda. There is one very odd scene, which has two significant moments in it. They're sitting together in a row boat alone, and he asks her very quietly,  Irma, what happened on the Rock? Then we see Irma looking off in the distance thoughtfully, but not answering him. In the next scene, they've returned to the boathouse and are standing with their backs to one another. Michael stares off in the distance and says,  I'm leaving here and never coming back, at which point,Irma leaps up and runs away. What I have always wondered is, did she in fact tell him what happened on the Rock, some strange secret that only she knew, and then felt betrayed by him in some way? If so, what was the nature of that secret?It occurs to me that she may not have told him anything at all, because she genuinely doesn't remember, and in sheer frustration at the hopeless mystery of it all, he makes the comment about leaving. What adds to the strangeness of the moment is that Irma herself is leaving Australia soon to return to Europe.The whole odd courtship sequence was apparently removed at director Peter Weir's request from the official video release, because he felt it slowed the story down too much, but I feel it adds to the strange, unexplained nature of the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Haunting and enthralling","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" On Valentines day in 1900 three schoolgirls and their teacher disappear whilst on a visit to a scenic area in Australia called Hanging Rock.Very haunting and engaging film that offers no answer to the mystery that develops, however, it is probably better for this as it allows the viewer to come to their own conclusions.The images created are ones that have a great deal of impact and are likely to stay with you for a while after viewing. The bewitching music is another element that creates an altogether eerie and intriguing atmosphere.The acting is pretty good and the story develops well. I highly recommend this little gem of a film. "},{"Title":"Eerie, haunting, puzzling","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  **Spoilers within**Picnic at Hanging Rock unfolds like a tentatively happy dream that suddenly turns nightmarish.  While a group of severely sexually repressed schoolgirls (Victorian sensibilities coupled with an all-girl school is to blame)and their escort travel to a geologic outcropping for a midday picnic, three girls and their headmistress dissapear.  One is found days later, not remembering anything about the dissappearence, only that she saw a 'red cloud' and her headmistress dressed only in her underclothes.  Her feet show no signs of having walked about in the Australian outback.  Searchers find no trace of the other girls.  Peter Weir actually REMOVED footage from this film to make it even more perplexing.  Viewers will try to reach their own conclusions, but there's no denying that this is a powerful film from a great director at the start of a great career.  It should also be added that this film is one of the most unsuspectingly SEXUAL film I've ever seen.  Naturally, all of the sexual undertones and suggestions are implicit, we are dealing with school-age girls in a Victorian school for girls (in the middle of nowhere) after all.  However the sexual repression that these girls (and their headmistress) experience screams at the viewer from practically every spoken work and action.  To the point that it becomes disturbing, especially when dealing with the 'punishment' of the girl left behind at the school with the principal after she was banned from going on the picnic.  Just what was going on between the two remains implicit at best, but here's no denying its presence. Peter Weir's most disturbing film, a quiet movie that makes you think. "},{"Title":" Review's a Spoiler!","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Spoiler! Be warned.This movie is similar to 2001 A Space Odyssey in every way. It's poetic, hypnotic, allegorical, boring to many. In addition, it's a very powerful sexual allegory.I'm going to focus on heretowith undiscussed interpretations. There is, in addition to numerous heterosexual inferences, quite a few homoerotic allusions. Some obvious, others hidden.The romance between the 2 schoolgirls is openly paraded. The lesbian inferences between the Schoolmarm and a rebellious student, hidden. There is, in addition, a male homoerotic inference. There is a boy who goes to look for the girls after they disappear. Shots from behind are made of him wearing tight, revealing pants, interspersed with shots of the Phallic-looking Rock. After he is found, he's showing definite signs of rape trauma. Was he raped, either metaphorically or literally? There are interpretations of female rape, too. One girl who returns is likewise showing signs of rape trauma, in spite of later references to her being intact ie virginal. Later on in the movie, the head mistress refers to the missing schoolmarm, her masculine intellect, allowing herself to be raped and murdered etc.Is the whole thing a sexual allegory, referring to awakening sexuality in the Victorian era? The girl who does return from the Rock is later shown in a romance. (this footage was foolishly cut in the Director's version). Does this represent her allegorical deflowering?Watch and see. Ponder, If you're an actionpacked fan, however, stay far away. This one is for the intellect. "}{"Title":"Chills all the way through","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have not seen The Blair Witch Hunt. However, after reading the first review of many, I immediately thought of Picnic at Hanging Rock. I have a feeling that Blair isn't as original and different as claimed. This early movie of Peter Weir leaves us all hanging. A chilling film that keeps you wondering for eternity.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful, one of Peter Weir's very best","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I've just finished reading the original novel; out-of-print, I ordered it thru the Internet from a used book shop in Australia! I'm also pondering directing a stage adaptation of the novel, written by Laura Shamas. The movie is lyrical and atmospheric.  I first saw it back in college and am so glad it's on video after many years of being withheld from release.  Get it!  It's worth seeing. And find the novel, if you can.  Very well written "},{"Title":"Weir's 1st masterpiece","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The film ends as it began, suspended in mystery, telling us little about what actually occurred, but telling us instead a parable of how children grow up and the irreconcilable conflicts between natural drives and cultural camouflage at the core of human social existence.    "},{"Title":"A beautiful scare","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is a truly enchanting film.  Spiritual, erotic, vibrant.  Extremely influential and on a par with Badlands in terms of its delicate weave of imagery and music. "},{"Title":"Not recommendable to MTV fans...","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Quite complex, it's a mystery that keeps one guessing for a while after the movie's over. The beginning is slow, although pleasantly dreamy, but after the first half-hour the movie takes your attention a 100% and the mystery of the picnic party's disappearance becomes as gripping as anything I've ever seen. What seems as a slow and uneventful first half-hour, turns out to be very interesting on a second viewing - and repeated viewings are necessary and interesting; they provide clues that might have been overlooked the first time. The direction is superb, the cast is convincing, and the music - the pipes-parts remind me of certain part of Balkan folklore music - is great and adds just the right kind of atmosphere to the movie. The ending is quite ambiguous and offers little answers. But this is not a drawback at all. However, if one carefully listens to what is being said during the course of the entire film, then one can make out a vague theory - or at least a personal interpretation - as to what happened to the girls and the woman.The following are some of my main observations and conclusions Miranda, the girl around whom much of the story revolves, had said to Sarah, her devoted orphan girlfriend, at the beginning, that she won't be around much longer. Conclusion Miranda had something (specific) in mind at the picnic. When one of the girls, Erma, was found, the doctor who examined her said that she was in a very good physical shape considering how long she'd been missing. Additionally, her feet were practically unbruised which is even more strange considering that all the girls were barefoot. Theory the feet weren't bruised (as the hands were) because the missing group was flying. The fact that Miranda was equaled to a Botticelli angel - by the French teacher - just before she vanished with the other girls to the rock, seems to imply that Miranda was perhaps some kind of an angel, or leader of the others towards (the) heaven. The solution to the mystery lies without a doubt in the supernatural. The fact that the group of girls - apart from the irritating bitchy little fat one - climbing on the rock was in a kind of trans-like, hypnotic state as they went up seems to support that. The principle of the girls' college also gave us some hints about the mystery; she said, towards the very end of the film, that she couldn't believe how such an intelligent person such as she (the missing old teacher) could let herself be spirited away by (presumably) Miranda. She said this at some point day(s) later after going through Sarah's books (moments before Sarah killed herself (?). In Sarah's room she found a book with a picture of the Botticelli angel. Theory it seems that the principal found out something crucial about Miranda and therefore something about the mystery of the disappearance, by going through Sarah's and/or Miranda's things (they shared a room). In the concluding narration we find out that the principal then dies attempting to climb Hanging Rock. Theory she wasn't necessarily looking for the missing party but, instead, in desperation, she wanted to join them to wherever it is that they all went - presumably Heaven or something of that nature. In any case, escape from her troubled real life was the goal.In a scene around the beginning of the last third, when one of the teachers saw something resembling a person in the shadows of the woods. This scene is extremely ambiguous and makes one use the rewind button more than once. Was their a girl among the trees? Was she Miranda? Was she saying or signaling something to the (French) teacher? Did the teacher see her? Is it confusing? Yes. Is it a scene of wonderful eeriness? Yes. Other questions the fat girl, for example; she definitely sensed something was wrong on that rock since she complained about feeling perfectly awful. Was this girl not joining the other ones because she wasn't in the same frame of mind? After all, the three who did go up were a clique all to themselves as we can clearly see at the beginning of the movie in the college. The fat girl was bitching all the time and didn't belong in that group - that much was easy to establish. However, why was Erma found? She was the only one from the missing party who was found. Did she have second thoughts about joining Miranda and the others to the other side or other world? Is that why she was slightly bruised, unconscious, and then found - because she almost joined them but for some reason didn't? And is the reason for her failure to not join the others only due to that boy finding her and keeping her from going (or flying) away? This is possible; after all, we see how the boy finds a particular spot on the rock, and we see that he desperately tries to climb it while a strange and strong wind (force?) is suddenly pushing him down. He doesn't remember anything, and neither does Erma, whom he helped save. Summary he could have found her and tried to prevent her from going away (whatever that might mean in this case, in this movie); he succeeded but saw and knew too much, as did Erma, to be allowed (by whomever or whatever) to remember it later. The old teacher; she was the only one not sleeping with the main group at the bottom of the rock. Additionally, she looked very interested when the young teacher compared Miranda to a Botticelli angel. Was the old woman suddenly taken over by whatever the other girls were? Possibly. After all, she was seen by the fat girl singing(?) or smiling and naked from the waist down, as she was going or running up Hanging Rock. "},{"Title":"Largely overrated","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Reading most of the reviews here, one would think is one of the best movies ever made. Sadly, this is not the case.  The story has potential, but is marred by slow pacing.  They could have easily cut half an hour out of this film without affecting any important plot points.Many of the reviews here refer to this as a 'subtle' film.  There's a big difference between subtlety and lack of development.  Both the main plot and the subplot about Sarah suffer from the latter. Some have compared it to The Blair Witch Project, but it lacks the suspense, mysteriousness, creepiness and chilling quality of that film.There is no explanation of why the two boys feel possessed to look for the girls.  Are they crazy enough to risk their lives searching for three girls just because they find them attractive?  Their characters seem superfluous. Also unexplained is the thrown-in voice-over about the woman who runs the school being found dead at the base of the rock, apparently searching for the missing girls. Does this mark a sudden, major character change, where she suddenly cares about the girls more than their parents' tuition money? Or was she so greedy she was willing to risk her life for the possibility of finding the girls (thus assuring 3 more tuition checks next term)?  By the time you get this far, does you still care?  The only characters I felt empathy for were Sarah and the missing girls.Two positive notes, however 1) the direction and performances were very good; 2)the film was technically exceptional.  The cinematography, costumes, and set decoration were beautiful. This is brought out nicely in the Criterion Collection DVD.If you've seen Blair Witch and are looking for something similar, you won't find it here. If you have a DVD player and don't mind slow-paced, unexciting movies, the DVD may be worth a rental.   "},{"Title":"If you want to speculate on the meaning - go ahead - make your day","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This film started nicely enough with soft-focus Hamilton-ish girl-exploitation footage, school-girls waking up to a sunny day, combing their hair and so forth. In fact I firmly expected them to go skinny dipping at some point. There is pan flute music by Gheorghe Zamfir (very hip at the time) and flying budgies inter-cut with many nice looking pictures of the Australian wilderness. There is almost a Nicholas Roeg feel in the way some scenes are juxtaposed in that Roegesque cutting technique &#150; but his Walkabout 4 years before on a similar subject is much better.People wonder about the meaning of this picnic movie &#150; come on, it's sort of a mystery but it's really not worth exploring. It's for people believing in meanings of everything that happens. People who believe in the accuracy of the contents of fortune cookies. People who have lots of time.Basically this seems to be about Europeans lost in an Exotic environment. If you don't agree just go and invest your time into exploring alternative meanings. That is still much better than playing ego-shooter games 20 hours a day and finally acquiring guns over the Intenet.Peter Weir/d&#133;yet I love the look of these 70s movies, very un-spoilt, almost artistic. No CGI and no 1.300 edits a minute. Very organic. "},{"Title":"Breathtakingly haunting.. Stays with you long after","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Peter Weir's mystery drama Picnic At Hanging Rock is the very definition of haunting. It has an intangible, dreamlike atmosphere that is at once beautiful and eerie. Nothing quite like it has crossed my cinematic vision up until this point, and can't believe it took me this long to check it out. The setting s 1900, Australia, a land still very much wild and untamed, although partway colonized by the British. In the hypnotizing opening scene, several angelic young girls in a remote boarding school cast longing, lingering looks out the windows at the horizon, and lyrically recite verses of poetry in the early morning air. They are a naive young bunch, because of the times, and their age. They embark with some of their teachers for a picnic at a local landmark, a labyrinthine plateau called Hanging Rock. Four of the girls become curious in the warmth of the afternoon sun and venture into the maze of stone formations high up on the hill. Three of them are never seen again. The fourth is traumatized by a terror she can remember nothing of. It's a mystery that crawls up your spine and grips you with a need to know, yet left unrequited and empty as the unforgiving outback. Cinematographer Russell Boyd paints gauzy pictures worthy of renaissance art, and navigates the spooky rock formation until we think we see things, feel things, and are within the grasp of answers that the film remains obstinate in giving. He even laid bridal lace over the lens in some scenes to enhance the ethereal tone. A huge part of what makes the film work is the knockout pan flute score by Zhamfir that piles on the atmosphere. A classic of true originality and daring exploration. "},{"Title":"Landmark Australian film","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Peter Weir's wonderfully evocative and atmospheric film, about the 19th century disappearance of four schoolgirls in the Australian bush, covers issues of Victorian repression, beauty and Aboriginal magic among other things. Probably still Australia's best film and for many years my favourite. The film is slow and dreamy, yet with a strong narrative. This film is a landmark in the history of Australian film-making it was our first successful art-house film, it was our most sophisticated attempt at cinema to that time, it marked a radical departure from the bush yarns of the 40s and 50s, and from the raucous comedies and rough action flicks of the early 70s, and led to a renaissance in Australian cinema. "},{"Title":"wonderful atmospheric film","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is a wonderful film, I can only recommend it. Some people criticize it, because of a 'lack of plot', but in my eyes there is indeed a plot, namely what happens, when a group of young people goes missing, what effects does this have on those left behind (deadly ones to say so). That's what this film is about, essentially. And I would say, it's done in a very nice fashion. PAHR is very atmospheric, it's very generic and gives you a good sense of how the turn of the century (1900) was. Having seen this film you will know why the time between 1900 and 1914 was called the 'Belle Epoque', the nice period, even on the other end of the world in Down Under. The interior of the school building is so classy, same as the clothes of the people. The shiny, bright, yellow and sunny images of the Australian landscape depicted in this film which at times more seems to be a still than a film put you in good spirits, make you kinda of happy, particularly if outside of your window gray in gray reigns. Three of the female main cast are pretty, namely 'Miranda', 'Sara' and 'Mlle de Poitiers', they alone are worth watching PAHR, but strangely PAHR has something more to it. It may be the only film which you can watch without actually listening to what the people in it say, it's dialog, but you can listen to whatever you want, for example some music you like while seeing this film and you won't be put off by PAHR. PAHR may be the only film where this is possible, seeing it without knowing what the characters in it say because even 'silent' it's a joy to watch this film. Try it once, it works. As the saying goes, a picture is worth a thousand words. This doesn't mean that the dialogs are bad, but the pictures are so good that they can stand without words, don't get me wrong on that. And of course the 'Ascent theme' by Bruce Smeaton (middle of the film, where one of the few male main characters climbs up the rock this film named after) is divine. Why did Bruce Smeaton (composer), Anne-Louise Lambert ('Miranda') with her bright, straight and long blonde hair, Helen Morse ('Mlle. De Poitiers') and Margaret Nelson ('Sara') not have greater careers on screen one asks? All of them made a solid and decent work in this film. Are all the directors and filmmakers in this world blind? Margaret Nelson played her part of a sad, depressed, longing and lonely orphan teenage woman very convincing, you got the impression that she was really down mentally in this film, so if Margaret Nelson didn't play herself then she was already back then (1975) a very capable young (19 years old back then) character actress. Where art thou, oh Spielberg and Co.? By the way, talk about individuals searching for missing people, or people gone amiss on vacational trips, it's not as unlikely as some critics bemoan. Think of Micheal Rockefeller, the missing Australian prime minister or the teenage boy who went missing on the famous Venezuelan Tepuis table mountains some years ago, which are evaded since then by the locals or a disappeared little girl in Germany or so some years ago found dead by a local searching for her who was neither a police officer nor related to her, just some random private person moved by the television news. And one final point Once against concerning the lack of plot. If a movie seems to be headed into a mysterious direction, where probably the mystery can't be resolved in a 'normal', or let's say physically possible way, where it becomes obvious that this film turns to be fantasy or science fiction, then anyone who sees this film has to ask 'what kind of special effects could there be in an Australian film from 1975?' - None I would say, which somehow anticipates a not too visually outstanding or stunning ending with aliens coming for pretty earthling blondes, or ghosts killing them or some outlaws abducting them, Ned Kelly was long dead since then after all, wasn't he, and what kind of (other) outlaws still existed in 1900 rural Australia, I wouldn't know, maybe a bunch of dingos or carnivorous kangaroos. Some years ago there was a funny spoof where the alternative ending was that 'Edith', not disappeared and wider than taller member of the group of girls went missing was accused of having eaten her peers. By the way, doesn't an unclear ending make a sorry more interesting than a happy ending? Maybe people who only watch American Hollywood movies are just accustomed to happy endings, but at least in French cinema movies have quiet often a ambiguous or even 'sad' ending where the main characters and heroes don't survive or if so in a pitiful state. Why should there always be a happy or clear ending? Doesn't happen in the real world either. People disappear in real life without a trace and are never found, why not also in a movie? Short meaning to a long text Watch and enjoy this film without prejudgments. "}{"Title":"Death at the rock in another Weir stunner","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A beautifully told movie and unbelievably true story of a group of private school girls who just vanished while venturing off into the mesmeric, mammoth, and notorious Hanging Rock in 1900. Police and that, keep returning and scouring the rock several times, where eventually one giri was located, where the other two girls and a teacher, to this day remain a mystery where, not that there would be much of them left now. No one is more obsessed with finding the girls than this young boy, who becomes smitten by the beautiful and wonderfully portrayed Miranda (one of the missing). There's so many young talents here, and you too notice a 24 year Jarratt, decades before his WC killing days. It's top shelf acting, in a movie you have to be patient with, while all of the scenery, and convincing periodic piece is something to be admired, in a mystery, which like the Beaumont children, will unfortunately never be unravelled. "},{"Title":"Picnic at Hanging Rock","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" From director Peter Weir (Gallipoli, Witness, Dead Poets Society, The Truman Show), this film featured in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book was apparently the Australian picture that put the country's films on the map, I was looking forward to it. Basically, set in 1900, near the town of Woodend, Victoria, Australia, at girls' private school Appleyard College, accompanied by mathematics mistress Miss Greta McCraw (Vivean Gray) and young and beautiful Mademoiselle Dianne De Poitiers (Helen Morse), the students are going for a picnic to the local geological formation Hanging Rock. It is the morning of St. Valentine's Day, and the girls are reading poetry and Valentine's Day cards, including Miranda (Anne-Louise Lambert), Irma (Karen Robson), Marion (Jane Vallis), Rosamund (Ingrid Mason), Sara (Margaret Nelson), and Edith (Christine Schuler). Spending the time strolling and relaxing in amongst the unusually shaped and positioned rocks, the girls go various directions and wander to unseen places, but specifically three of the girls, Miranda, Irma, Marion, and Miss McCraw in a sleep like state climb into the higher parts of the rocks. The rest of the party return to the school distraught, Mademoiselle De Poitiers explains to stern College authority and headmistress Mrs. Appleyard (Rachel Roberts) that these four young ladies have gone missing, the local police are called and a search party led by Sgt. Bumpher (Wyn Roberts) and Constable Jones (Garry McDonald) go looking. Young Englishman Michael Fitzhubert (Dominic Guard) is questioned when he admits to witnessing the girls wandering at the Rock while he was lunching with his uncle Colonel Fitzhubert (Peter Collingwood), his aunt Mrs. Fitzhubert (Olga Dickie), and his valet Albert (John Jarratt), and he becomes obsessed with searching for Miranda. Albert returning to Hanging Rock discovers an unconscious but living Irma, and the news spreads to Woodene, dehydrated and exposed she wakes and has no memory of what happened, and jittery teacher Miss Lumley (Kirsty Child) is told by Mrs. Appleyard for parents to withdraw their children from the school. Later Miss Lumley in a drunken state resigns from her position, Sara was potentially to return to the orphanage, but her body is found in the greenhouse, believed to be suicide, and apparently Mrs. Appleyard is found dead at Hanging Rock, the search there continued occasionally over several years for the missing school girls, but without success. Also starring Jacki Weaver as Minnie, Anthony 'Tony' Llewellyn-Jones as Tom and Frank Gunnell as Mr. Whitehead the school gardener. The performances are all well done, the location for the puzzle to happen and unfold is a fantastic choice for its distinctive look, and as it unfolds the unknown origins of the missing girls makes everyone turn sour and the plot goes into slightly dark territory, it is certainly a most watchable period psychological mystery. It won the BAFTA for Best Cinematography, and it was nominated for Best Costume Design and Best Sound Track. Very good! "},{"Title":"Gentle mystery with ambiance but no bite","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The first time I viewed this film I found it rather dull and uninteresting. I had heard it was based on a real life, mysterious disappearance and didn't find the film mysterious at all.On a 2nd viewing I liked this film much better. I don't think it should be explained or described as a horror film or even a mystery. I'm not sure how it should be described. The acting is very good and the story starts out rather low key, unpretentious and soft with a girl gently reading a poem. It has a featherlight feel to it as it starts out dragging one into a state of tranquility or relaxation. We see very accurate costumes and beautiful sets. The film never really grabs me and shakes me though. I feel like something is just around the corner but it never quite gets there. I would say the most interesting character is a young man who becomes obsessed with finding the girls who disappeared at hanging rock. We really want to know more about what he has found out. The film is very well done, the acting excellent. I do enjoy it. I just wish we could get a little bit more bite from it though. "},{"Title":"So Close to Perfection, But So Far Away","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A story about the disappearance of several Appleyard College students, and a teacher, from Hanging Rock.This was acclaimed director Peter Weir's second film, and now considered one of Australia's most-beloved films... for the rest of us, Weir might better be remembered as the director of Dead Poets Society (1989) or maybe the man behind The Truman Show. The film is difficult to enjoy, because while it is visually stunning, its slow pace really pushes the patience of the audience. One could argue that the slow pace is necessary to really enhance the feeling of awkwardness and eeriness. Indeed, the film has been called creepy by critic Greg Harris; while I am not sure this is the proper word, it does leave the viewer feeling uneasy.Roger Ebert called it a film of haunting mystery and buried sexual hysteria and remarked that it employs two of the hallmarks of modern Australian films beautiful cinematography and stories about the chasm between settlers from Europe and the mysteries of their ancient new home.I am unclear about the buried sexual hysteria, though Ebert does go on to talk about theories of rape and murder that I think exist more in his mind than on screen. I am also unclear about his settlers from Europe idea. I will not argue the beautiful cinematography, though -- the framing is excellent, and the use of Hanging Rock's natural images (including several face-like rock structures) is well-executed. There is some confusion over how big the rock is -- does it require a trail of bread crumbs to get back or is it a five minute climb -- but this may be part of its charm.Where Ebert really nails the film, though, is when he sums it up as being free of plot, lacking any final explanation, it exists as an experience. Indeed, many of the film's shots evoke memories of paintings, such as Renoir's Luncheon of the Boating Party, and in one moment a girl is even compared with Botticelli's The Birth of Venus. The film exists, like Ebert says, as an experience free of plot... a moving, two-hour painting that we can take away from as we wish, and like or dislike as we would a classic work of art.Peter Weir's own words further suggest he was not trying to give a clear-cut narrative. We worked very hard, says Weir, at creating an hallucinatory, mesmeric rhythm, so that you lost awareness of facts, you stopped adding things up, and got into this enclosed atmosphere. We are free of time and space while watching Picnic, as we could be in 1900 or 1776 or any other time (and it is interesting to note the film takes place on Saturday, February 14, 1900 -- a date that never existed).Much more could be made of the film's themes and symbolism with the hearts, the boys, the trances and the swans... but I know of no coherent way to express these things. Which, I think, may be exactly what Weir intended. "},{"Title":"Scray & very Sad. This film is truly a gem to watch as these two Elements are together.","Date":"20 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" In ways this true story shocked me. I don't know why, it just looked shocking. Three girls going up on a high rock and never returning. Really scary stuff for a true story.The film's true story is based around many girls who are going on a picnic at a high rock. Four of them wonder off and one runs off very worried about what will happen while the other three suddenly go missing at this point. A large search goes out for a mistress and the three girls. It is so sad, two are never found, the mistress dies and only one is found.From the scene where the girls climb the rock, I felt really sad, every scene was sad and everything inside the atmosphere was sad. Everything became sad and horrific. I will admit there was a really funny scene which i won't give away and there were two mildly funny scenes but overall I didn't find this funny at all. At times I found it to be a horror film.With this film I also found that there was two stories put together. Besides the girls gone missing on the large rocks, the story about the lost little girl who was to go back the orphanage, Sarah. Really sad what happen to her.Besides saying all that, this film has a scary and creepy tone, it's a little funny (in my opinion, it's pretty horrifying and but most of all it is the saddest of the saddest. I really did like this film a lot.9/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"25 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Hanging Rock is neither the best of movies, nor the worst as some critics contend. It is, however, one of the most unusual (Only 1947's Black Narcissus seems comparable) . Above all, it is a masterpiece of indirection, an exercise in veiled hints, muffled voices, fleeting reference, and overarching mystery. The school's grim repressive corridors contrast sharply with nature's liberated openness. Yet there is something sinister about this sun washed landscape of soaring spires and creeping vermin, more unsettling than the Victorian witch that runs the school. Yes, the film is pretentious, but how else are we to deal with some of life's more disturbing aspects. And though there is little real 'action' during the 100-plus minutes, the hypnotic rhythms and spell-binding imagery merge ultimately into a majestic and haunting reverie of time past. What Weir has finally fashioned is a subtly effective evocation of dimensions beyond.There is of course no real solution to the mysterious disappearance. This is a work of fiction, not of fact. Perhaps the book's author had an explanation in mind as some reviewers have suggested, or perhaps there are enough clues in the screenplay to arrive at someone's intended solution. The film's strength, however, lies elsewhere than in posing as a metaphysical detective story. Wisely, the film only suggests an occult world; it does not portray one. And that's where the power lies. There are fleeting glimpses of precognition, predestination, bodily ascension, and a Platonic realm of timeless perfection, none of which comes into full focus. It's as though we and they are peering through the proverbial glass darkly. In the hands of a lesser film maker such elements could quickly collapse into arty nonsense. To Weir's lasting credit, his style surmounts the pitfalls of questionable content by sustaining a single mood and consistent tone throughout, one that binds the many elements into a unified and evocative whole. Personally I reject the occult as fact. Still, I recognize the power of art to create alternative worlds as a lens for looking more closely at our own. And in that crucial regard, I believe Weir succeeds admirably, whatever one's views of the preternatural. Most of all, however, this is one of those rare films that makes a lasting impression on all who have seen it. So if you haven't, do. "},{"Title":"Shadows will speak","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The sight. It's a feedback from inside, when body begin to change. It makes people wanted to know, seduced to get closer but just like Miranda, Marion and Michael, even if you're in the middle of it, you never know what it is. Miss McCraw, it's been a long time for her but she's still dreaming like a girl. Afraid and wondering what's gonna happen.4 daydreamers, 3 out of 4 lost in their own dreams. What a coincidence that their name all starts with a letter M.Disappearece in the middle of the film is not so important, cos the shadows will speak instead of the group of lost M's, what they wanted to say, what they've been thinking about.It's a speak of mind. "},{"Title":"Early Peter Weir Vehicle That Loses Its Wheels.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Based on a true story of a mysterious disappearance of several college girls and their teacher in Australia in the early-1900s, Picnic at Hanging Rock has an eerie tone that makes you view the movie with clenched hands and feet. With that said the pay-off never comes in this well-made, but overall disappointing film from a young Peter Weir. None of the performances are particularly impressive and this makes the film fail in its task. Weir shows unlimited potential here with brilliant, but uneven direction. Beautiful cinematography and great costume design are the biggest attractions here. Worth a look, but far from a classic. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Eerie, elegant, unique film experience","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Probably the most well-known of Peter Weir's Australian movies, this is an eerie, elegant, one-of-a-kind movie, about a group of young girls from an Australian finishing school who go on a day-outing to visit the enormous rock formation of the title on St. Valentine's Day, 1900.  And then strange things begin to happen, first to the picnickers, and then to those they've left behind, leading to an even more enigmatic aftermath.  Graced by the always-lovely Helen Morse, the film is slowly paced, but the atmosphere is what's important here--laced with mysticism, foreboding, and yes, even a touch of the erotic--until all that lingers is the mystery . . .. "},{"Title":"The most perfect movie in the history of cinematography.","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw Picnic at Hanging Rock was way back in the 70's, shortly after its release and I am fascinated by this movie ever since. Director Peter Weir and the brilliant cast manage to create such a heartwarming atmosphere that one only wishes to be part of it all, to share the love and joy as well as the anger and sadness and to help solve the mystery of Hanging Rock. "}{"Title":"A film about Beauty","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  **SPOILER** People have pretty much covered the basics, so I'll just add my little piece.  To me, wondering what happened to Miranda, et al. is beside the point.  The point is, you ARE wondering...as are Michael and his mate, as is the schoolmaster, the mademoiselle, as is everyone.  The first half hour of the film accomplishes this feat (of hooking the viewer) through one basic technique swamping the audience with beauty, over and over again.  The schoolgirls, the precision of their daily habits, their dresses and parasols at the rock, etc. It's all absolutely exquisite.  You, the viewer--much like Sara, mademoiselle, etc--are invited to fall in love with Miranda, et al.  And--as you can see by reading the comments here--some of us do (and love this flick) and some of us don't (and accordingly hate it).  Some people DO fall in love with a Botticelli in moments; others do not. I know I've reduced much of what the film is about, but people covered all the other bases before me.  That's just my take on it, and as you can tell, I fell in love too! "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Picnic at Hanging Rock is a movie that is hard to describe. It has a subtle, haunting beauty about it, that no other movie has matched. It perfectly portrays the surreal beauty of the Australian bushland. It's very hard to review a movie like this, because it's more suited to discussing, but I strongly recommend it. 9/10. "},{"Title":"A very creepy, if truncated dark fairy tale","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Before Peter Weir became a well-known Hollywood director he started out with a series of short Australian movies and smaller feature films. The most famous of these would have to be Picnic at Hanging Rock, an ethereal, dreamlike adaptation of Joan Lindsay's ultimately unfinished book. The final chapter, and resolution to the mystery, was cut from the novel and published years after Linday's death, so Weir, and screenwriter Cliff Green, basically adapted an incomplete book, creating, in essence, an incomplete movie.On Valentine's Day 1900 the girls of an uppity private college are taken on a day out to titular rock, a foreboding, gloomy outcrop baking in mid-summer heat. Four of the girls separate from the group and go exploring, drawn to the summit in a seemingly hypnotic state. As the rest of the gang pass out at the base of the rock, one of their teachers (none other than Mrs. Mangel herself) follows. Three of the girls, and their teacher vanish into thin air, leaving the moaning fat chick to come screaming back down the rock.The community reacts with anguish and determination to find the missing girls. A local rich boy and his servant go searching for them at any cost, also falling victim to the rock's inexplicable lure. Meanwhile the Headmistress of the college struggles to maintain her integrity under increasing media attention (yes, even in 1900).For a movie set in almost perpetual bright sunlight PAHR is extremely dark. The ominous, deeply sinister sound design draws your eyes to the screen and hooks you. The rock has the ability to hold the characters, and the viewer, in a trance-like state and the mystery is amplified through silence and subterfuge. There is a vital piece of the puzzle that is never explicitly said by the characters, especially after one of the missing girls suddenly reappears, her trance not yet broken.Russell Boyd's photography captures the sunshine of Victoria in such a way that you can actually feel the warmth coming from the screen, and fills may shots with a vignetting effect which would otherwise look cheap, but instead adds to the dream-like atmosphere of the film.The final chapter of Linday's novel (Chapter 18) deals with time travel and suspended animation, which ties in with the clocks freezing at exactly 12 noon. I'm not exactly sure how the movie would have turned out had this been published from day one, but it certainly would have been anti-climax. Or...maybe not.Picnic at Hanging Rock is a film that would give David Lynch nightmares. "},{"Title":"form without content.","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Peter Weir has probably made a few good films in his time, but this will definitely not rate as his best work.I have nothing against slow films (if they are as well made as Kubrick makes them), but to have to embellish what could have been an explosive storyline with a lot of soft-focus shots of beautiful school girls, lingering shots of the rock-face, and some soft music on the flute probably suggests that someone ran out of ideas. The filming is languidly sensuous and haunting at times, but doesn't whet your appetite.Stylish work, but leaves you wondering what the brouhaha with the film is all about.  "},{"Title":"School girls disappear while on an outing in the outback.","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie is hard to find and was not available for many years. I recently found it on Turner Classic Movies late one night. I had heard about the existence of this film as if it was a  distant legend. I had read about the stunning location shooting and the cinematography. I had read the debates about the authenticity of the story. I even read about the luminace and beauty of the actress who played Miranda, one of the missing school girls. It is irrelevant if the story is true; movies are about make-believe. Everything else I heard or read about this film was not exaggerated in the least. But, the most haunting element of this film for me was the Pan Flute soundtrack score played by Georges Zamfir. It will leave you chilled and disoriented as if you had just passes through a mysterious fog. Soundtracks don't usually affect me like this as I am a visual person by nature, but this one was truly affective. This film is mesmerizing and magical and will have you examining the facts and clues for a key to the mystery. You may never find one. "},{"Title":"The picnic that wasn't such a picnic","Date":"16 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I was reminded of The Blair Witch Project, which of course came much later, as I watched this creepy movie about bad things that happen amidst the grandeur of nature.The movie scared with subtlety and what it didn't show as much as with what it could. Which wasn't a lot -- much remains unknown about this notorious case from turn-of-the-20th-century Australia. The best thing about the film was the sense of horror and foreboding that was created partly by the intriguing musical score.Other aspects of Picnic were tedious. I felt the emphasis on the girls' prim and properness was overdone. And yes, I got that the headmistress was a control freak -- I just didn't need to see so many examples of her frigid personality.In addition, it seemed that all the emphasis on a troubled orphan at the school, whose best friend was one of the girls who disappeared, was padding. I understood that she was traumatized by her friend's loss but she was given way too much screen time as this idea was fleshed out.In general, this film would have benefited from some tightening. "},{"Title":"An incredibly beautiful mood piece","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There's not too much to say about Picnic at Hanging Rock. It's one of the most beautiful films ever made. Technically, it's perfect. The cinematography is godly, and the musical score, much of which is performed by Zamfir, master of the pan flute, is exquisite. It's also wonderfully directed by Peter Weir - he shows a talent far beyond what I saw in The Truman Show, which is unfortunately the only other film by him I have seen. Hopefully, that will be remedied soon. What I didn't get was the actual point to the film. A film doesn't necessarily need a point, but this one seemed to be trying to say something, but it was never clear what. As near as I can tell, the metaphorical and allegorical content had to do with the state of repression these women were suffering. The camera even lands on a photograph (or portrait) of Queen Victoria at one point near the end of the film. However, if this is the case, it seems kind of pointless to criticize those values. I don't know when the original novel was written, but the film was made three quarters of a century after the events had taken place. Oh, and, by the way, is this based on a true story, I wonder? If there was another point or metaphor being developed, the writers failed to express it.But who cares? Picnic at Hanging Rock is an amazing piece of filmmaking. That's what's important, and that's where it succeeds. 9/10. "},{"Title":"A little too subtle and ambiguous for my taste","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I watched Picnic at Hanging Rock because I enjoyed the other Peter Weir movies (Dead Poets Society, Truman Show, Witness) so much.  There were a lot hysterical women and confused men in this movie, none of whom reacted to the movie's events in a way I recognized as human.  My wife said it best you know the movie's out of whack when the only sensible character is French.I'm sure it's a great movie since all the critics say so, but I didn't get the appeal. It's got some pretty shots, but even the camera work seemed obtrusive.  I generally enjoy art flicks (I'm one of the few guys I know who enjoyed The English Patient, The English Patient, Monsier Hire), but this one was beyond me.  I hope you have better luck. "},{"Title":"Interestingly dull.","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The two word summary above best describes this movie for me. It was interesting, but it was also dull.I do have to admitt that I've been thinking about it a little since I saw it a couple of days ago. Maybe I will see it again at some point in the future. Maybe when I do it will be either more interesting, or more dull.Strange movie. I'll give it a straight down the middle 5 rating for not being to interesting or to dull. "},{"Title":"Picnic at Hanging Rock Beautiful and Ultimately Empty","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Everything about Picnic at Hanging Rock is promising. The costuming, the set, the characters, the cinematography &#x97; the Australian outback itself. Unfortunately, the film doesn't develop the characters into much more than vignettes, doing little to delve into how the characters think and feel. Relationships and how or why they are formed are scarcely defined, and little else about the story is, either. The film doesn't elaborate on the themes of the story to salvage the mystery it works so hard to build. This film contains parallel story lines, some of which appear to tie into the disappearances of the schoolgirls, some of which do not. Picnic at Hanging Rock feels like one of those films you need to watch repeatedly for some of the nuances or clues to sink in, but in reality a lack of resolution to the story IS the story. Filmed in the mid '70s, the pace of the film is slow, perhaps intended to weave a dreamlike atmosphere (or to be less charitable, a throwback to the weed-smoking, psychedelic drug culture of the time). For modern audiences, however, the movie may prove frustrating in that it doesn't move the plot along fast enough to sustain the momentum that the tension- building soundtrack attempts to create. The soundtrack alone simply isn't enough to carry the mood.There are those who will say that enigma itself is artful, whereas other viewers will no doubt feel that the ill-defined ending to this film has cheated them out of two hours of their valuable (and limited) recreational time. I would have to side with those who believe that enigma without resolution &#x97; or at least allusion to some semblance of solution &#x97; makes for an unsatisfactory film-watching experience. Think about it real life is itself an open-ended mystery. Those who seek escape in film or books are often looking for more closure than a real life film like this can offer &#x97; or at minimum the intellectual challenge of spotting all the clues to solve the mystery for themselves. By today's standards, Picnic at Hanging Rock moves too slow and delivers too little. With so many watch-worthy films and so little time, this isn't among the better picks. Enigmatic, open-ended films have their place, but it remains true that those without a clear beginning, middle and end are rarely successful among the mainstream as ends unto themselves. "}{"Title":"I  normally love picnics","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" At first glance you might think this wouldn't be a Paul film, but when you consider my love for picnics and the outback, maybe you'll realize this has many of the ingredients i love in a movie.I picked this from Quickflix as it was a movie I'd kind of been interested in seeing. When we got it in the mail and Tara wasn't even keen to watch it, I started to have doubts. Isn't it from the seventies, she exclaimed. We argued the pros and cons of watching it and then she agreed (or gave in, I don't remember).Picnic at Hanging Rock is based upon a novel, which I thought was based upon a true story, which it turns out it doesn't seem to be. The novelist was always evasive when asked about the events, but it seems certain they never occurred. Annoying. Basically a bunch of school girls in 1900 go on a picnic to Hanging Rock. Four of the girls wander off. 1 gets separated from the group and returns to the others, frantic that she's lost her friends. A teacher then goes after the lost girls. When it gets dark, the remaining return to the school, horrified that they've lost 4 members. Search parties look for the girls over the coming week and find 1 girl, but the rest remain lost forever.The movie is directed very well (Peter Weir) and is eerie at times, but it really loses intrigue after the half way mark. The cast is pretty weak, which didn't help at all. My highlights were-Vivean Gray, in her best work outside playing Mrs Mangel in Neighbours. -The phrase have you taken leave of your senses.-John Jarrett, in his best work outside of Better Homes & Gardens.Lowlights include -No real picnic eg sandwiches, eskies etc. -The score. -The fact I discovered it's not based upon a true story. Not that I wish 3 girls and their teacher perished, just that I feel I've been misled for the last 30 years. "},{"Title":"Imperfect mystery.","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Peter Weir doesn't direct great films; he directs good films, and Picnic at Hanging Rock is a good film. Picnic at Hanging Rock is a film based on the disappearance of several college students and a teacher on Valentines Day 1900. The film if often falsely thought to be based on a true story. One thing that Picnic at Hanging Rock does well is atmosphere. Peter Weir gives 'Hanging Rock' itself a life of it's own; the way that it is presented on screen is mysterious and interesting. That coupled with his haunting music make for one excellent setting for a movie. Another thing that Picnic at Hanging Rock excels at is creating a sense of intrigue. Right from the start, the film makes you watch; it presents you with the facts, and you feel that you have to watch to find out what happened.From these two things, you might be thinking that this will be a great film; but it's not. It falls down, and the reason for that stems from its ambiguity. The problem with being ambiguous is that you don't give your viewers a definite ending; so after spending nearly two hours watching Picnic at Hanging Rock; you don't really feel like you've seen anything. This means that at the end, the film feels unfulfilling and it left me cold. And how can a movie be great if leaves you cold at the end?On an aesthetic level, the film is sound. It looks lovely; as mentioned, the rock especially is a delight, and the costumes and settings at the school combine to put the film firmly in the early 20th century. The cast all perform well; on an individual level, none of them really shine, but as an ensemble it is a good overall performance. It is a shame that Peter Weir hasn't succeeded in making a great film yet as he obviously has a talent for directing. His directing here is mysterious, and he indulges in having lots of imagery in his film, which adds to the intrigue and makes the film more beautiful. Overall, this film is definitely worth a watch. Its technical side is enough for any film buff to appreciate, but it's on the story side, the more important side, that it falls down. "},{"Title":"A Famous Film that I Wish I hadn't Bothered to See","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I am a passionate film lover and I see a great many films every year. I have read about this film for years, always wrapped up in a worshipful 'seminal film' aura. Unfortunately. I feel that this film MAY have been seminal when it was made, but in 2007, I found it sophomoric,awkward and silly. I kept saying to myself, Who cares? I DID , much to my surprise, finish watching the film. It wasn't unforgivably horrible ; it just didn't make sense, had way too many loose plot ends and threads that went nowhere (i.e. Sarah and her brother). I certainly respect Peter Weir's later work; it contains some of my favorite films. But I can imagine his wincing embarrassedly if he were to sit through this early effort now. I can only hope that this review will save some of you from a well-intended but wasted 2 hours in a world of great films worth seeing. "},{"Title":"left Hanging after the Picnic","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Words like haunting, lyrical, creepy crop up in most of the reviews of this film. The premise sounded promising schoolgirls disappearing in the Outback at the site of sinister rock...I've sat through--and liked--most of the Merchant-Ivory films, been a fan of David Lean for years, so my attention span is pretty tolerant, however...endless shots of rocks & foliage (no matter how beautifully photographed), assorted creepy-crawlies, an ominous soundtrack and lots of drawn-out pauses do not constitute a film.I was looking forward to watching this film (I rented the director's cut on video), having heard much about it over the years, but I was left feeling like I'd attended a beautiful banquet in which most of the food turns out to be props. In addition to the lack of substance, the film is marred by stagy moments such as Mademoiselle staring after Miranda (one of the schoolgirls) and comparing her to a Botticelli angel; another schoolgirl looking down on her companions from above and commenting (while staring off into the distance in the manner long ago deemed appropriate for a Soliloquy) on the insignificance of humans; scenes with characters who lend nothing to the plot or atmosphere (the servant couple at the school, for example) and very bad wigs (Rachel Roberts' in particular).I didn't find any of the horror promised and most of the suspense I experienced came from wondering when SOMETHING was going to happen. What a disappointment. What a waste... "},{"Title":"Dreamy, Diversional, and Delicately Different","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Dreamy, Ethereal, and Hypnotic Art Film from Australia's Premier Auteur Peter Weir, Only His Second Feature Film and One that Endures in the Memory. A Mystery Movie with Supernatural Elements that is Haunting and Beautifully Photographed. The Pan Flute Score also Adds to the Intrigue.Surreal in its Imagery but Grounded in the Victorian Age of 1900 and all its Sexual Repression and Closely Kept Secrets it is a Film that Reveals Little of its Own. Everything Known is on the Surface and if there are Any Answers to the Mystery they are Buried Deep Within the Bosoms of the Virginal School Girls or in the Crevices and Protrusions of Hanging Rock and Little is Penetrated and Most of the Truth Remains Elusive.Sexual Symbolism Abounds and the Movie Deals with Giddy Girls as Innocence Interrupted. This is not a Film for All Tastes and will Leave Some with Desires Unfulfilled. But if You can be Enchanted by its Charm, it can be Chilling. There are Scenes that are Mesmerizing and Poetic and others that are Creepy and Unsettling. It is a Different Kind of Film for Sure and a Stunning Excursion and Quite a Diversion into the Unknown. "},{"Title":"Hearts of Darkness","Date":"25 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" If you ever desired to know what really lurks inside the breasts of most women on the planet and especially young girls, see this movie! It is perhaps one of the lesser known films that probe the female psyche. Sugar and spice on the exterior perhaps but brass and cruelty on the inside. Women are the great deceivers. This film shows them up for what they really are! The steely headmistress, the homely but nasty girl, the conniving wench are all here. They spin their webs and toil for each other's destruction with aplomb. It's a feast for those of us who find Women's Lib and the entire sham of family too much to bear. Running a girls school could not have been easy in the 19th century esp. given all the constraints on outward appearances. The strange relationships and interactions that resulted are explored here. When women are together, their world becomes a hive. Each vies for queen bee status at the expense of the other and it is always done without regret. "},{"Title":"a weird and entrancing fantastic movie in spite of its weaknesses","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is a very original fantastic movie and it aims at showing that in fantastic cinema, horrible things don't happen only at night. They can also happen during the day and sometimes in completely unexpected circumstances. Picnic at Hanging Rock is like the Blair Witch Project. The two movies have got a lot in common they're deprived of special effects, there aren't any bloody sequences and above all, there isn't any rational explanation on the strange phenomenons that happen. Moreover, both are bathing in a weird atmosphere and they contain a end that leaves the spectator bemused and it isn't here to reassure.However, Peter Weir's movie is inferior to the Blair Witch Project because it introduces 3 major faults it drags on and is sometimes boring and unlike the quoted movie, it doesn't succeed in creating a lasting fear feeling during all the movie.Nevertheless, Picnic at Hanging Rock is a truly unique film that shows Weir's talent. This one remains one of the best directors that Australia gave us. "},{"Title":"Great sense of foreboding but some viewers will be turned off by the lack of answers","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" During an Australian Indian summer, a group of students and some staff from Appleyard College go for a daytrip up to Hanging Rock. Four of the girls go off from the group to explore higher up the rock but only one returns, screaming. With one of the teaching staff also missing, the rest of the group returns to the school where the police are immediately involved in an investigation. However it quickly becomes evident that no trace of the girls can be found anywhere on or around Hanging Rock.I had never seen this film despite having heard various good things about it. Without knowing anything about the actual subject of the film I sat to watch it and found it to be a very strange affair that is all about the atmosphere within the mystery rather than the mystery itself. Those looking for an engaging narrative will find it, but those looking for a satisfactory conclusion to the mystery should probably just avoid it because this doesn't seem to be what Weir was that interested in. This is a bit of a criticism and I can understand why many viewers will be narked by the lack of answers. However it does not read from this that the film is no good because answers are only part of the narrative whereas delivery is the all in this case. And the delivery is excellent. Weir has managed to produce a tangible feel of Victorian Australia with all its puritan sensibilities and overlay it with a wonderful sense of sci-fi brooding.Of course some will dismiss this style without substance but the atmosphere here is a big part of the substance and it keeps a lot of the film going. At times it does drag but this is literally once or twice at most. The first half of the film is by far the strongest as it totally gets by on this brooding sense of something but doesn't have to explain anything. The second half of the film is interesting but has to try and do more, not all of which is that strong. The cast didn't have anyone who stood out for me which is understandable since the film is more about feel than acting or characters, however everyone seemed to get the atmosphere and the Victorian setting well into who they were trying to be.Overall then an impressive piece of brooding sci-fi/horror set in a Victorian world and featuring nothing more sinister than rocks. The lack of answers and explanation will be a problem for some (many?) viewers but the atmosphere is spot on and it easily gets by on this as Weir injects a wonderful sense of foreboding that spooked and engaged me despite me not really knowing why. "},{"Title":"Sphinx without a secret","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Three schoolgirls go wandering into a rock formation in the middle of the Australian bush, and they are never seen or heard from again.  No-one has a clue what happened to them.  -Well, not quite no-one.  Another schoolgirl saw them vanish, and evidently saw something unspeakably eerie - although that's easy for Peter Wier to claim, because he feels himself under no obligation to tell us what she saw.  Nor does he tell us what happened to the three missing girls.  He never so much as drops a hint.  He does, however, make us sit through two hours of mysterioso hand-waving before allowing us to be absolutely SURE that the whole experience was a waste of time.There are relationships between the remaining characters to be explored but since there's not a lot of movement on that front, either, we're left with no more than a one-note mystery lacking any solution.  Oscar Wilde coined the useful phrase, `a sphinx without a secret'.  It's important to realise that there's nothing in the least intriguing about sphinx-without-a-secret stories with no secret, there's nothing to be intrigued ABOUT.  The story can only offer a contrived atmosphere of secrecy, whipped up in this case by lingering panoramic shots of the Australian bush - which, take it from me, is the least attractive woodland in the world - accompanied by some twerp improvising sweet modal nothings on a flute.  If you get to the end of the film you'll never want to hear a flute again.I have a vague feeling that all Australians should watch `Picnic at Hanging Rock' - I sort of have this idea that it's our duty - but if you're NOT Australian, I will gladly let you off the hook. "},{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Three students and a school teacher disappear on an excursion to Hanging Rock, in Victoria, on Valentine's Day, 1900. Widely (and incorrectly) regarded as being based on a true story, the movie follows those that disappeared, and those that stayed behind, but it delights in the asking of questions, not the answering of them.Exceedingly slow moving film in line with movies like Blow Up (which I love). This movie really doesn't do it for me and I don't think it's the masterpiece it's made out to be.Don't get me wrong, it's a pretty movie. Scenes are well set up. But nothing happens. "}{"Title":"All dressed up but no place to go","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" In 1900, a group of girls at a boarding school in Australia goes on a picnic and a few of the girls wander off from the pack and disappear without a trace. The film is beautifully photographed and Weir does a good job of evoking the period, taking a very leisurely pace. The best part of the film deals with the events leading up to the disappearance of the girls. The problem is that after that the film seems to slow down to a crawl. Little happens to move the story forward. Ultimately no resolution is offered. This would have been acceptable had the film been based on a true story which was never resolved but it is unforgivable to leave everything hanging in a fictional story. "},{"Title":"beautiful cinematography","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is a very pretty movie--both the cinematography and music are well done (though the frequent use of pan pipes was an unusual choice and seemed a bit odd for an Australian film). And, the way the story was portrayed, it really did a good job of making you believe this was a true story and not fictional (which it is).So why isn't my score quite as high as other reviews? Well, there just isn't a whole lot of story here and the pacing, at times, is a little too slow and drawn out for my taste. It seems that since it isn't based on a true story, they could have interjected a little more suspense or mystery--especially in hashing out what occurred to Sara at the end of the picture. Still, it is very well made and quite unusual. All in all, a very good film--particularly the haunting score played by Zamfir. "},{"Title":"St. Valentine's Day, 1900.","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is surely more of a 'film' than a 'movie' and is not straightforward to describe. The critic Ebert has a pretty complete review of it. As more than one character says, 'No one knows what happened' the day that several girls disappeared on Hanging Rock. The film shows them coming upon a place where they all appear to collapse, as in a trance. Other members of the staff there comment that their watches stopped at exactly 12Noon, and their watches had never stopped before, as if to say some sort of supernatural phenomenon were involved. So the main of the film explores the reactions of the other characters, the school girls, the staff, and especially the head of the school. I tried to like this film but it never 'spoke' to me. It simply is not one that I could get involved with. The characters all seemed to be stereotypes -- the strict school marm, the faithful help, the school children who overreact, or don't react at all.  "},{"Title":"some seem to want to be pampered and entertained like babies in a crib with toys dangling overhead","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" If ever a movie needed subtitles it was this one! Also we could not get the closed captioning to come on. I looked on wikipedia to find out more about this movie's ending. There was an ending to the book that somewhat explained things but the publisher chopped out the bits about the E.T.s. The whole narrative is presented as a biomedical detective story, about delivering a meaty and cogent examination of the hows, whys, and wherefores of human decisions and actions (esp. those that will determine whether we as a species survive or become extinct, largely from our own ignorance). While technology has certainly advanced rapidly since their day, 2001 A Space Odyssey, Fantastic Voyage, and The Andromeda Strain remain the premier science-fiction novels and movies from 1966-1971. (By the way, 2001 and Andromeda both received G ratings while Fantastic Voyage got a PG, which only shows that Republicans have made significant advances today in their ability to complain about three seconds' worth of viewing a female cadaver's breast and soapy male butt cheeks -- so expect the same amount of complaints about the same number of seconds of soap-covered skin in the Sci-Fi Channel remake, which I review separately.) This movie takes a hard look at the reality of what might happen if a mutated virus were to get a hold on earth. . I say grab some popcorn, or your favorite snack, kick back and pop in the DVD. Shelve your expectations and allow the story to be told as it has been written. The ending scared the holy hell out of me. its because its supposedly true that really gets you.... I would just lay in my bed afraid to move a muscle, cause I thought the aliens would get me. I started to get sleep depravation and my parents were worried about me. I told myself I would never watch it again.I live out on some acreage, and after seeing this for the first time, by myself, in the dark, going out then in said dark was impossible. I was looking over my shoulders, staring down any rustle of leaves like 'what the hell was that???' I could probably name about ten different endings that would have made this movie worth finishing, but I'm not going to tell Mr. Wyan how to do his job. I just home he redeems himself with something of a more worthy conclusion next time. Did I say I highly recommend this film? Well if I did, I didn't mean to...Some seem to want to be pampered and entertained like babies in a crib with toys dangling overhead... "},{"Title":"I wanted to slash my wrists.","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I had heard so much about this movie that I took a pal to see it when it showed at the Detroit Institute of Arts. This movie still haunts me today, if only because my pal brings it up at every opportunity when we are picking on each other about stupid things we have done.Here is the story some young chicks in Victorian Australia go on a picnic with some teaches at..guess where...Hanging Rock. Everyone goes to sleep except a few girls who wander off and are never heard from again...except one who has no memory of what happened. Everyone goes home.It was slow, sonorous, boring, faded, uninspired, uninteresting, annoying, and ultimately pointless. Eventually the whole thing becomes a sleepy droning sound and then you realize that YOU have fallen asleep.I know a few highbrows will gush and ooze and pretend this is the most fabulous thing ever in cinematic history, but they're just saying it because it's expected of them. I'd say a mildewed cabbage is more exciting than this film.One bright spot right smack in the middle of viewing this piece of stupidity, the film broke and the theater was plunged into darkness. I told my pal, If I hear a gunshot and then the lights come back on and the host is dead, I'll know the butler did it. That was the only good part of the entire movie.  "},{"Title":"beware spoilers","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS BEWARE Yes, the direction and acting are excellent and so is the photography. But, if you want to see this because it is supposed to be a mistery movie, do not rent it unless you like unsolved misteries. It is also quite slow paced and not very introspective boring and sad.   "},{"Title":"Symbolism over substance","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  For those people who are into movies that don't make sense and aren't supposed to, I guess you will like this movie. For a more down to earth person like myself, this movie is a waste of time.I will agree with the director , Peter Weir, on one thing. He's right, I really don't care what happened to those girls at the end, because I just wanted the movie to end.I understand all the social criticism that is really at the heart of the movie. It takes a harsh and very critical view of the repressed Victorian era these girls were raised in.Lots of observations about sexual repression, etc. We've seen all that before.One might wonder if things were really that bad. No doubt, the director, Mr. Weir, and the screenwriter, Mr. Green,are pleased with all the progress of sexual liberation today resulting in broken families, illegitimate children, etc.Maybe, in another 75 or 100 years, someone will make a movie about the society girls are being brought up in today. It might even be as critical of this time as Picnic at Hanging Rock is of the Victorian era.This movie is also another example as to why movie critics can't be relied on. They all love it. But, it violates the first principle in making a movie, that is, telling a good story.Having just trashed the movie, I will say one thing in it's favor. Mr. Weir is a talented craftsman and that shows, as the movie is well made. "},{"Title":"Poorly executed","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This film sounds interesting, but unfortunately it is not very good. The basic plot outline is that some schoolgirls and a teacher disappear while on a picnic to a local landmark. Attempts to find them are unsuccessful, and the mystery is never explained. I find this interesting because there are several real-life events that are somewhat like this, for example the Dyatlov Pass incident and the Mary Celeste. And indeed, what is interesting about the events is not the explanation, but the mystery itself, so the fact that the mystery remains unresolved at the end of the film doesn't bother me.However, despite its potential, several things about this film do not work, in my opinion. First of all, the time period and setting are not executed convincingly. I can't really put my finger on it, but there is an artificial feel to the film and its characters that makes it impossible to believe that these are real people in a real time period. Granted, the characters are fictional, but the film fails to effectively create the illusion of a cohesive reality.In addition to this, the film is rather heavy-handed with its delivery of themes. For example, setting the picnic on Valentine's Day seemed unnecessary. The description of the rock as the girls are riding in the carriage is another overly blunt attempt at symbolism Siliceous lava forced up from deep down below... Yeah yeah, repressed Victorian sexuality, whatever. This is the sort of thing much better shown through actions and visuals than communicated so directly. The repetition of important lines at later points in the film also seemed over-the- top and unnecessary. Clearly the director did not trust the viewers enough to let them figure this stuff out for themselves.Finally, the film suffered from plotting and pacing issues. In contrast to some of the reviewers here, I actually thought the film had too much action, not too little. Despite its slow-moving feel, the film actually jumps from one event to the next for the entire film. First the girls disappear, then there's the investigation, then Michael and Albert return to the rock, then Michael is found by Albert, then Irma is found, and so on and so on. It's like the writer is afraid we'll get bored with the film if we don't have something new to consider every few minutes. Unfortunately, all these peripheral events distract from the film's essence and diffuse its energy, leaving little time to fully explore the strangeness of the first disappearance or its effects on the remaining characters.To conclude, though built on an intriguing premise, this film lacked the subtlety, insight, and craftsmanship necessary to develop its premise in any meaningful way. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your money","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"14 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  After seeing the high ratings others had given this film I finally found and rented it in high anticipation of an awesome entertainment treat.  Instead I saw one of the most boring drawn out stories that surely was ever created. I watched the entire movie long after my wife gave up and it was one of the most painful movie watching experiences I've had.  It was far too long and the accents were too thick.  I've agreed with most of the ratings movies receive but this one is definitely not something I would recommend to the recreational renter.    "},{"Title":"Vexing","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Three girls school students disappear (seemingly supernaturally) without a trace on a nature outing; meanwhile back at the ranch, the headmistress (right out of Dickens) takes pleasure in mistreating a girl. I like me some ambiguous movies. Show me a Rorschach movie (Wetherby, Plenty, Comfort of Strangers) and I'm always intrigued, and this has its appeal, but every scene played neutrally for two hours makes one long for anything with a bit of impulse behind it. After the title incident (40 minutes in), it just starts to feel like a visual meringue. Even without answers, it craves a bit more structure. The photography is nice. Some frames look like Old Masters, but this is largely in the first half where attention is usually lavished on setting tone and establishing the plot. In the second half, obvious points get stated and restated. And the second lesser interesting plot line (Sarah can't pay for school) serves only as a bait-and-switch distraction to prevent from having to disclose anything about the first one. The two plot lines are apples and oranges. Tension grows in a conversation between the two young men, which shows the kind of ambiguity the rest of the movie needs, until Weir blows it by having one of them make their innocence explicit. It plays like a movie that had scenes subtracted, rather than one whose ambiguity was intended (which it is).The weakest aspect of the movie is the characterization, which is very poor. Every conceivable type of femininity assayed (by a largely female cast) is found wanting. Every character is held up to scorn // The girl-students are flighty dingbats distracted and hysterical over their virginity // Iron-willed martinets turn out to cower from girl fights // Severe, Dickensian headmistresses are vindictive control-freaks because they're no longer young & attractive // Homely, bespectacled chubby wallflowers are pills // Hired girls are tramps. What's left? Only a man could let this many anti-female stereotypes accumulate without noticing it.One is encouraged to conclude that hyperactive virgins with no place to discharge their sexual energy, instead have conniptions and get into mischief. But sex alone wouldn't fix these girls. And a movie isn't richly ambiguous just because it studiously avoids showing you anything conclusive, like a Harold Pinter writing exercise. There is not enough to concentrate on in the 2nd half. I have no idea what the cruelty of the headmistress has to do with anything happening in the better half of the movie. "}{"Title":"This film's no picnic!","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  God bless Australia - it's a beautiful, raw country where Nature seems to have decided to spread her wealth.  This film has an interesting premise, but fails to live up to it.  Don't misunderstand, I love movies where the answer isn't always clear.  I just don't see why Picnic at Hanging Rock is placed in this category. To me, it comes off as a pretentious and empty exercise in humanity.  There's beautiful music, lovely scenery, and dreamy girls (and boys) who seem to be living in a bubble about to burst.  None of the main characters seem real, perhaps because the movie deliberately compares them to artworks.  You're better off visiting a museum to see real art than this film, which will fail to stir anything in your soul. "},{"Title":"Motion Picture - Motion = Picture.","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"20 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I am dumber, angrier, and sleepier for having watched this film. What exactly was happening in 1975 to justify this waste of celluloid? In order to understand how a film like this could be made, you have to know that it was made by the government-funded Australian Film Corporation. If this organization's mission statement includes any of the words entertaining, quality, enjoyable, or even watchable, then they are recent additions. Apparently in the mid-1970's the only requirement to secure funding by this body was that you actually use film as your medium. That's the only explanation I can venture for why Peter Weir made the radical choice to lift this oil painting off the canvas and try to smear it across multiple frames. There were several scenes where I had to turn to my wife and ask, What just happened there?, not because it had happened too fast, but because nothing had happened, and yet all the classic cinematic clues hinted that the scene had ended. Warning It is against the law to view this movie while operating heavy machinery. "},{"Title":"Excellent sleeping pill","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"11 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This film is one of the most BORING films I have ever seen. Three females presumed dead, full stop. So what?As a starting point to whet the viewers' curiosity, what a great idea! Unfortunately, the characters' psychology remains extremely shallow to arouse any vivid emotion. Besides the plot awkwardly unfolds and drags endlessly (what a relief when the film reaches its end!!!). The Victorian era as a backdrop weighs heavily like the top of an old trunk in the dusty attic of an ancient Australian manor house.I have seen far better films whose scene takes place during the Victorian era. Aside from this, this film proves a perfect example of a novel that should not have been adapted and put to the screen. In sum, please don't waste your time on it. "},{"Title":"Worst film EVER","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is, hands-down, the absolute WORST movie I have ever seen in my life. It is not beautiful or artsy or even unintentionally funny.  Although the actors make a valiant effort to portray themselves as realistic humans, the script is horrific and the film ends in such a way that makes it obvious that there never was an ending to begin with.  This movie made me want to shake Peter Weir and ask him simply WHY!?!?!? There is a special room in hell where the greatest sinners of us all are condemned to view this travesty, a la Clockwork Orange, for all eternity.   "},{"Title":"pretentious pretentious pretentious","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"17 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is an unbearable movie. There are few films that have enraged me like this one has. And I'm stunned by how many people love this thing. Absolutely painful dialogue, wispy insubstantial characters, ludicrous contrived performances. How could anyone beat this for pretentious fluff? At best, it could be enjoyed as antiseptic Victorian lesbian softcore porn. Otherwise, it is suitable for use in Guantanamo as torture. Maybe all of the rave reviews at IMDb come from 11 year old girls who think of themselves as poets...or women who still wish they were that 11 year old waif. I haven't seen all of Peter Weir's other films, but the ones I've seen are mostly solid, commercial movies. I think Galipoli and Witness rise above that characterization. "},{"Title":"Utterly Pointless","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"9 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is the mystery of what happened to 3 girls who wandered off from a school picnic and disappeared without trace. And at the end of the film its still a mystery ... because no one knows what happened ! The identity of Jack the ripper was also a mystery but all films on that subject over the years have had a stab (not much of a pun intended) at what may have happened. This film just shrugs it shoulders. If you don't have a theory fine - but DON'T MAKE A MOVIE ABOUT IT ! The filling out of the characters and back story is virtually non-existent too. I honestly think this film could be optimized down to a single still showing the 3 girls wandering off with dazed expressions. I really didn't get anything more than that from this film. 2/10  "},{"Title":"Sick pic of hanging crock","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Although cinematically beautiful (given the location) this film in my opinion is perhaps the most pretentious self-absorbed piece of self-flagellation I have ever seen. To imagine as a viewer that children with a spot on their foreheads are gifted with the ability of disguising that they are children with a spot on their foreheads is the most inert drivel. An all too unbelievable story made from a real life premise to be the excuse 'that supernatural powers were involved'.The suspense of this film was when will it end! Too long, too self indulgent, too bad. Please delete this film as soon as possible. Make it disappear exactly like the children did initially.  I am happy to say that antipodean film production has improved well beyond this. "},{"Title":"Pretentious and Dull--The Worst Combination","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"14 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Ugh...an endless and interminable movie about a batch of oppressed school girls who go missing during a picnic at the eponymous rock formation. There seem to be plenty of viewers armed with psycho-babble to defend this film's deeper meaning, its undertones of sexuality, power,repression, etc., etc., blah, blah, blah. Whatever. I'm sure director Peter Weir knew what point he was trying to make, but this movie is a monotonous, droning bore, and I was left with no incentive to make sense of it. On top of all of that, it's also unforgivably pretentious, proof that Weir is better off sticking to the mainstream fare that has made him famous (Dead Poets Society, Witness, Master and Commander) and leave the art film to others.Grade F "},{"Title":"Warning Beware of this Movie","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"13 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  If I had to sum up this movie, I would say this a bunch of pictures of a rock sprinkled with pretentious and possibly drug-induced dialogue.This movie was absolutely intolerable.  It was not only approximately three weeks long, but much of the length of the movie was filled with pictures of the same rock taken from different angles.  Erosion, according to my definition, sure doesn't change much of anything in only a two-day span.Nonetheless, I'm very suspicious of a movie wherein the main sequence of suspense occurs when a girl can't memorize a poem.  This movie practically caused me to have suicidal tendencies.Because of this reason, every time I go to the video store, I take the Picnic at Hanging Rock video, and I hide it.  Just imagine it could fall into the hands of an unsuspecting child!Keep America safe.  Eliminate P@HR. "}]