[{"Title":"Bad Girls, You Are Beautiful!","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Switchblade Sisters is one of the most awesome and amusingly incompetent trash/gangsploitation movies ever made; only back in the period when it got released nobody ever intended to make a bad film, of course. Personally, I enjoyed the privilege of seeing this film in a genuine grindhouse theater and with no less than writer/director Jack Hill present there to introduce the film and answer questions from the audience. Hill explained how he always dreamed of filming his very own version of Shakespeare's Othello, yet this story was probably the closest he ever came to realizing that project. Irrelevant info, I know, but this just to illustrate Switchblade Sisters once actually was a remotely ambitious film and not just a piece of lesbian trash. The recent revival of drive-in & grindhouse cinema (courtesy of Quentin Tarantino, who's also a giant fan of this particular film) enlarges the sleaze-elements and silliness of 70's movies even more, but you should always at least try and see it in its framework of time. That being said, Switchblade Sisters is first and foremost a delightfully absurd gang-wars movie and a thoroughly flamboyant portrait of female empowerment. This baby has it all! Stereotypical gang members that easily look over 30 but still attend high-school, big fat ugly lesbian prison wardens, romantic rivalry, jealousy, treason, roller-skating shootouts, secretly desired rape sequences and &#150; last but not least &#150; female Maoist guerrilla fighters. Maggie is the ravishing and potent new chick on the block and she eagerly joins Lace's Dagger Debs gang after proving herself in a knifing contest. The Debs are the girlfriends of the Silver Daggers and all together they hang out in a ramshackle hangar to play pool and sell dope. There's a gang war with the Crabs in the offing and jealous Dagger Deb Patch inflicts a dispute between best friends Maggie & Lace when she notices they both fancy the same hunk. If you can overlook (and you simply must when you're interested in this type of cinema) the sometimes atrocious performances, one-dimensional characters and the absolute lack of logic & coherence, you will find great enjoyment here! The clichéd situations inside the penitentiary (with the obese lesbian warden), out in the schoolyard (with the nervous principal) and in the skating hall (random M-16 gunfire!) are all sublime. The whole finale, from the actual virulent street war up until the main Jezebels' showdown contest, is simultaneously suspenseful, spirited and even a bit touching. The soundtrack is great, although clearly not as enchanting as the ones featuring in Jack Hill's ultimate Blaxploitation masterworks Coffy and Foxy Brown. Speaking of which, this movie perhaps lacks the powerful and attention-demanding presence of a starlet like Pam Grier, but the girls here are still more than adequate. The supportive characters are actually more convincing than the main ones. Lace, played by Robbie Lee, is an often intolerable and whiny child and Maggie simply appears too cherubic to play a rough chick. I vote for Patch to be the Jezebel's unhinged leader! She's unreliable, deceitful, mean and stark raving mad. Awesome film, highly recommended to slavering sick puppies like myself. "},{"Title":"Campy but fun, a great watch!!","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is pretty much a second-rate Russ Meyer film (in fact, it was written by a F.X. Maier...coincidence??;) The dialogue isn't as clever, nor as tongue-in-cheek, and the acting is definitely second best. but on the other hand, Quentin Tarantino (who re-released it in '97 through Rolling Thunder Pictures) was right when he said in USA Today `There's more action is Sisters than in Twister&#133;' The film is fast-paced, full of thrills (gotta love those low-budget, campy 70s films where everyone loses their shirt eventually...) and most of all, fun! Aside from the few scenes that just seem utterly pointless, and aside from Robbie Lee's incessant whining, it's a great film to watch; full of giggles and smiles.As long as one doesn't take this film seriously, or compare it too closely to Faster Pussycat of Ultra-Vixens, it will be enjoyable to anyone looking for a cheezy laugh or three. And the prison scene is  *priceless*.If I were to take it seriously it wouldn't rate higher than a five, but all things considered, 7/10. "},{"Title":"THE ULTIMATE IN BAD GIRL CINEMA","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sure this is a really, really stupid movie, but you've got to see it to believe it. The story of the toughest girls ever, The Jezebels, will leave you on the floor in a fit of laughter. Performed totally straight, this is like a really bad comic book brought to lurid life, complete with ear-wiltingly stupid dialogue. The  action is so improbable that it may as well be taking place on another planet! Don't miss it, and look for Don Stark (Bob Pinciotti on That '70's Show) in an early role as gang member Hook(so called because a unique anatomical feature). Drink a six pack of tall-boys and get ready to crack up; you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Cooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooool!","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's a VERY cheesy movie, but in a great way that makes you laugh WITH the movie and not feel stupid. The movie is entertaining all the way and there's not one boring moment in it. I just love this movie! The fact that it's old only makes it look more stylish. Just wait untill you meet those nasty gang girls! Rent the movie and see it with your friends for a great night at home!  "},{"Title":"Sensational Seventies She-Devils!","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jack Hill's 'Switchblade Sisters' is a wild ride that will have you hooked from the get go! It's everything I hoped Ted V. Mikels disappointing 'The Doll Squad' was going to be - a trashy, campy slice of 1970s exploitation that manages to be self-parodic AND take its subject matter seriously simultaneously. Happily, 'Switchblade Sisters' is so good you'd think you'd dreamed it yourself. Robbie Lee plays Lace the Debs' leader, and  fulfills all the promise she showed in Roger Corman's 'Big Bad Mama' the previous year. She's cute but deadly, and why she never became a major star is hard to fathom. Most of the other girls, particularly gang newcomer Maggie (Joanne Nail), and Lace's former second in command Patch (Monica Gayle), are also sexy and dangerous, but none show the sheer charisma of Lee's Lace, surely up there with Tura Satana, Pam Grier or Raven de la Croix as a proto-feminist icon of the drive-in era. 'Switchblade Sister' is trash par excellence. You will both laugh at and laugh with the Dagger Debs and their rival gang, the disco-dudded Crabs, who could easily walk off this movie and straight into 'The Warriors', another surreal gang movie, directed by another Hill, Walter. Both Hill's deserve their place in psychotronic history! "},{"Title":"Excellent drive-in trash","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Film focuses on two gangs--the Silver Daggers lead by Dominic (Asher Brauner) and the Dagger Debs lead by Dominic's girlfriend, Lace (Robbie Lee).  A new girl in town Maggie (Joanne Nail) joins the Debs and becomes friends with Lace--but Dominic wants Maggie. Evil Deb Patch (Monica Gayle) knows this and manipulates Lace into hating Maggie.  Also there's a rival gang, the Crabs, who are trying to take over.Silly but very engaging trash movie--it's really an excellent movie OF ITS TYPE!  There's prison fights, lesbian guards, rape, prostitution, feminism, politics, a black female gang and tons of violence and action.  There's also a hilarious (and exciting) shoot out at a skating rink!  There was a twist halfway through the movie that I didn't see coming and it all ends up with a climatic switchblade fight.  I can honestly say I was never bored and enjoyed this thoroughly.  The script is terrible but it never takes itself too seriously.As for the acting--Brauner is OK as Dom; Nail is lousy as Maggie and Lee is TERRIBLE as Lace--easily one of the worst acting jobs I've ever seen in a movie (and that's saying something).  Gayle was actually pretty good as Patch.  Also of note is Kitty Bruce (Lenny Bruce's daughter) who's character (Donut) is treated like dirt.The is NOT a good movie but an excellent trash film.  Next to Coffy and Foxy Brown probably director/writer Jack Hill's best film... although he DOES call this a piece of trash.  He's right!  "},{"Title":"Fun exploitation film","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Here's a girl gang film where the members wear leather boots and hot pants and pull tricks in their high school bathroom for five bucks a pop. So how can you not enjoy this? Story is about the Dagger Debs that is led by Lace (Robbie Lee) and she and her bunch of gals hang out with a boy gang named The Daggers. These two gangs go to the same high school and patrol the same turf and Lace is dating the Dagger leader Dominic (Asher Brauner) but they hear that another gang is to transfer to their area and conflict is inevitable. Lace and her gang run into a new girl in the neighborhood named Maggie (Joanne Nail) and after testing her Lace is impressed by her toughness. They all get busted at a burger joint and after the lesbian Warden and her guards try to rape Maggie the rest of the Debs get involved and beat them. Later Maggie gets out of juvenile hall and gives Dominic a letter from Lace but he puts the moves on her instead and practically rapes her.*****SPOILER ALERT*****Lace and the rest of the Debs get out also and plan on attacking a gang led by Crabs (Chase Newhart) but Lace hears that Maggie and Dominic have been more than friends. After a terrible shootout at a roller rink Dominic gets killed and Lace lands in the hospital but while she is mending Maggie starts taking over the Debs and renames them the Jezebels. Lace's authority is challenged and she must reclaim her role in the gang as it's leader.This film is directed by Jack Hill who made a career out of making some of the best exploitation films of all time and helped make Pam Grier a star. Sure this is low budget junk but that's the appeal to these types of films. The dialogue is clumsy like If you leave me it's going to be bad and the casting has Lenny Bruce's daughter Kitty playing a chubby gang member named Donut who spends the entire film getting slapped around. But I did take note of the performance by Robbie Lee who has been described by many as Whining but I disagree with that and while I won't consider this on the level as Charlize Theron in Monster I do think her performance carries the film. Lee reminded me a bit of a female James Cagney with her toughness and the way she speaks through her teeth and there is even a scene where she flips a coin up and down while talking tough with the Warden. A few other familiar faces pop up in small roles like Kate Murtagh and John Voldstad but Monica Gayle as Patch does make an impact in her part and she seems to be secretly in love with Lace. Hill creates a silly but fun film to watch that has a few shots of nudity but the emphasis is strictly on action and melodrama and no matter how far fetched this is this is still a lot of fun to view. "},{"Title":"Exploitation but entertaining","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As in all thing's this was not made for everyone, it was intended to latch onto a genre that makes money, however, I think Jack Hill has done some great work with this, if one has an open mind, they just cant help but feel for the characters as the story develops, it's interesting the whole way thru, with lots of humor violence & sex involved.  "},{"Title":"Bad girls rule, bad boys drool!","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The inner-city, prone to violence, crime, drugs, even sex. The top gang that rules the area are the Silver Daggers. With them are their female counterparts, the Dagger Debs lead by Lace (Robbie Lee). One day, they meet a loner name Maggie (Joanne Nail), who holds her own. After a night in juvenile hall, Maggie joins the ranks and gains the trust of Lace. However, Lace's friend Patch is suspicious of Maggie. As Maggie began to to know the ways of the Dagger Debs, she makes a move on Lace's boyfriend Dominic (Asher Brauner), who would not take the role of a father when he hears about Lace's pregnancy. More to it, Maggie would take in the reins of leading the Dagger Debs following a failed ambush at a roller rink. The men are ousted by Maggie, and they go form the Dagger Debs, to the Jezebels. They even join a militant gang to help boost the power of the group. When Lace re cooperates from her attack, she joins the group, only to suspect Maggie as a traitor. I like the scene where Lace beats up Maggie, and tortures her by sticking a cigarette butt in her bellybutton. Then came the showdown. Classic scene. The gang gains a new leader, while Patch is left behind. Goes to show there is no loyalty among gangs. Power shifts, and questionable leadership can destroy an organization. The Jezebels have not only ousted the men, but Lace as well, without her knowledge. They consider her a weak link in the gang. 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Top notch trash.","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Predating the cycle of gang movies by a few years, The Jezebels (a.k.a. Switchblade Sisters) by exploitation icon Jack Hill really is a whole lot of fun. It's colourful entertainment that actually manages to be campy and serious in equal doses. And it does come complete with a feminist statement.Robbie Lee is Lace, the leader of a girl gang dubbed The Dagger Debs, who are affiliated with a male gang known as the Silver Daggers. She's sweet on Dominic (Asher Brauner), their leader. Laces' world starts falling apart when Maggie (Joanne Nail), a loner, attracts the attention of the gangs (especially Dominic) and rises within the ranks - and gains influence - a little too quickly. Amid the personal problems of the main characters, they must go to war with a gang that masquerades as community activists.Considering the fact that some of these actresses don't really convince at all as tough gals (especially Lee), and are clearly too old for their roles, they really are a whole lot of fun. Monica Gayle delivers a standout performance as Patch, a gang member who comes to distrust and despise Maggie. A rich assortment of familiar actors in the supporting roles include Marlene Clark as black revolutionary Muff, Don Stark as Hook, Bill Adler as Fingers, Kate Murtagh as butch lesbian prison guard Mom Smackley, and Bob Minor as police officer Parker. Nail definitely looks very hot in various sexy outfits. Co-star Kitty Bruce, who plays the put-upon Donut, is the daughter of Lenny Bruce.The movie contains some absolute gems of dialogue thanks to screenwriter F.X. Maier; the viewer will find them very quotable. Nails' speech to the cops right before the end credits is hilarious. There's sex and plenty of violence, and some eye catching costumes by Jodie Tillen. And you just know that this is going to a be a most enjoyable film because of the tune Black Hearted Woman that's belted out during the opening credits. Many fine scenes include the clichéd action in the penitentiary and the gunfights at the roller rink and in the streets.Fans of this kind of thing would be well advised to seek it out. It really hits the spot in terms of all of its exploitative elements.Nine out of 10. "}{"Title":"Don't mess with da sista's!","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fun little exploitation film by Jack Hill. It contains a few different kinds of movies all rolled up in one. Campy would be the most predominate though. The story follows the lives of the female gang, Dagger Debs, later called, the Jezebels, which by the way, was the original title. The gang meets a new fish named Maggie who at first fits right in with the gang but later has conflict with the leader, Lace. This movie starts out campy fun then gets real serious then back again. While this technique worked for the most part I felt this could have been a great serious film if it wanted to be. While only slightly bothered by the conflicting tones of the film, it is still a fun movie to watch. You really do even care about the characters by the end which is a compliment to its creators. Quentin Tarantino has often raved about the movie and there's enough good in it to like if you watch it with an open mind. Clearly the character of Patch, one of the gang members, inspired Daryl Hannah's character in Quentin's own Kill Bill 2. Overall a fun little romp with some good special features on the DVD. Check it out! "},{"Title":"Get your hands off me, you fat pig dyke!","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For whatever reason, Quentin Tarantino feels that Switchblade Sisters is Jack Hill's best film. And while I found a lot to enjoy in the movie, it doesn't come close in my mind to equaling some of Hill's other films like Spider Baby or the movies he made with Pam Grier. Not that any of Hill's films are set in reality as most of us understand it, but Switchblade Sisters is just too unrealistic for me rate among his best. The problem is with the casting decisions. The girl gang members aren't threatening. Why would anyone be threatened by Robbie Lee's Lace? She comes off more as a Girl Scout on her way to sell cookies than a vicious would-be killer. The other girls, from the too soft Donut to the too pretty Maggie, were no more convincing. The guys fair no better. Being stupid is not the same as being tough.I did, however, enjoy the over-the-top plot and action sequences. The final battle between the two gangs, the skating rink scene, and Maggie stealing Crabs' medallion were all cheesy highlights of the film for me. But my absolute favorite moment comes at the very end of the film. That speech Maggie makes to the cops as they are dragging her off to jail is incredible. Yeah, sure, it's as unrealistic as the cast, but it's a lot of fun. You don't hear dialogue like this just every day &#150; No, let me give you some advice, cop. You can beat us, chain us, lock us up. But we're gonna be back, understand? And when we do, cop, you better keep your ass off our turf, or we'll BLOW IT OFF! Ya dig? We're Jezebels, cop - remember that name. We'll be back! Awesome stuff! "},{"Title":"Switchblade Sisters","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Dagger Debs, tough-talking high school broads with switchblade knives, benevolent snarls, attitude to spare, and propensity for violence, striking fear in the hearts of the citizens on the streets, are on equal footing with a the male Silver Daggers, a bossy, nasty brood whose harsh bullying ways leave the community they frequent cuckolded in a state of quivering angst. Soon a rival gang must attend the Daggers' school due to theirs closing, and a struggle for dominance ensues. Each gang has their own turf, which the other doesn't dare cross into. Crabs, quite old to be still in high school, has a much larger gang than his mortal enemy, Dominick, and runs high enterprise in dope-dealing through the facade of a community organizing group schmoozing with the mayor while selling drugs to the youth they're supposed to be helping.The film's central arch is a love triangle gone terribly wrong. Dominick(Asher Brauner), leader of the Silver Daggers, and Lace(Robbie Lee), leader of the Debs, are an item. Enter Maggie(Joanne Nail), new to their side of the city who gets in an altercation with the Dagger Debs' Patch(Monica Gayle), showing her courage and strength, twirling a mean chain which trips her foes before assaulting them further. Dominick is drawn to Maggie, it's a type of lust Patch recognizes, and capitalizes on when she notices this newcomer moving in on her best friend, Lace. Lace is completely obsessed with Dominick, although she's just a piece of ass to him. When Dominick infuriates Lace after blowing up into a tirade towards her about the revelation of carrying his child, she gets even by informing Crabs of a strategic attack on them at a neutral site, a roller rink, resulting in a bloody shootout which takes out innocent bystanders, among other cataclysmic results. With the Silver Daggers deeply wounded, the Debs must assume control, with Maggie more than willing to take the leadership position after Crabs kicked Lace in the stomach causing a miscarriage. Aligning herself with a bad ass group of sistas who follow the political teachings of Mao, led by Muff(Marlene Clark), the newly named Jezebels prepare to conquer Crabs, crushing his regime, disintegrating his stranglehold on the a specific part of the city. But, what Maggie doesn't realize is that Patch and Lace are planning to murder her, getting rid of the one responsible for taking Dominick away from her. Maggie wants to uncover the culprit behind informing Crabs of the proposed strike at the roller rink, not knowing that it was actually Lace. As expected, the two girls will have to duke it out for supremacy of the Jezebels.With lots of quotable dialogue and campy performances, it's hard to resist such a film as Switchblade Sisters, certainly when you realize that the premise concerns a white girl gang who can actually cause fear in citizens. Switchblade Sisters kind of reminds me of those 50's juvy films confronting the gang mentality and how it's controlling the school system and streets, breeding crime that's swallowing the youth, turning them into unlawful monsters. Transplant such a genre to the 70's, add extra seediness, vulgarity, violence, and current themes of that time that were prevalent(..there was a sentiment of anger towards the police and capitalist society)and it's easy to see why this would appeal to a cult audience. And, as Jack Hill always did, inject a cast of babes in the roles of the protagonists. You gotta love the scene where Maggie knocks Don Stark(..Dagger member, Hook, often slapping girls around)for a loop or Lace's psychopathia and mad ravings. Oh, and Patch..now this is a character that belongs in a Jack Hill gang film. Switchblade Sisters is directed in such a way that you can't take it the least bit seriously, and if you accept it on it's own terms, I can't imagine an exploitation fan not enjoying it. Robbie Lee isn't contained and lets it rip, playing her role as the confrontational Lace to the hilt, with Nail, in her short shorts, delivering her lines with gusto, staring her opposition right in the eyes, unflinchingly, ready for a fight. Nail might be considered unacceptable in such a role in any other film, but Jack Hill made it work. Gayle is my gal, though, as Patch, a ferocious back-stabbing bitch who persuades Lace to commit unspeakable acts that cause major repercussions which change the landscape of their lives, disrupting a harmony her gang had before Maggie came along. The juvenile prison scene, albeit brief, was a hoot as the girls lead a full on assault on the female guards who were on the verge of accosting Maggie. The way the faculty are muzzled by the Daggers and Debs, completely overwhelmed psychologically, afraid to voice their concerns about the dissension of their students, is rather hilarious. You actually get two great closing fights, the Jezebels and Muff's girls besieging Crab's soldiers, and the knife battle between Maggie and Lace. The scene where Maggie, with a bloody face, warns the coppers that when they return, there'll be hell to pay, is priceless. "},{"Title":"An Exploitation Classic Too Serious For Its Own Good","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" You can beat us, chain us, lock us up. But we're gonna be back, understand? And when we do, cop, you better keep your ass off our turf, or we'll BLOW IT OFF! Ya dig? We're Jezebels, cop &#x97; remember that name. We'll be back! Switchblade Sister Maggie (Joanne Nail) screams at a policeman. She is covered in blood, the survivor of a knife fight in which the other participant wasn't so lucky. She is perhaps too hysterical to realize that she's most likely going to die in prison &#x97; but it makes for a hell of a closing statement, and this film is all about statements, for crying out loud.This rabid speech falls at the end of Switchblade Sisters, coming in the wake of gang wars, rapes, roller rink shoot-outs, and gory revenge. For a sleazy Throwback Thursday, it's a deliciously laughable nightmare of low-budget tackiness; for an exploitation flick, it's a slow day. Certainly, it's an awful movie &#x97; all exploitation movies are awful, in fluctuating colors and shades, to be fair &#x97; but I can't say that Switchblade Sisters is in the same category of delectable trash like Danger Diabolik or Coffy. It's just plain bad (though not in the ways most movies are).It follows Maggie, the new bad girl in town who joins the Dagger Debs after a violent meeting. The bond between Maggie and her cohorts grows tight in a snap, post-arrests and all, but things get messy rather quickly. The leader of the pack's (Robbie Lee) boyfriend (Asher Brauner) rapes Maggie, causing tension, and a rival group viciously attacks the Debs and their male duplicates seemingly out of nowhere. But who cares about plot here?Switchblade Sisters is a gut-busting assortment of atrocious writing, poor acting, and dreadful directing, but all those things are charms rather than obstacles. There's something stinkingly entertaining found in the one-liners (Freeze, greaseball!), the way the majority of the actresses like to speak through their gritted, yellowed teeth, how Jack Hill injects tacky life into even the most putrid of scenes. These aren't the reasons why Switchblade Sisters is a bad movie; it's bad because of its all too commonplace unseemliness.It touches on issues like gang rape and murder and sexism and miscarriage, but the tendency to only prick each item as a sort of prelude to the eventual bloody retribution is disconcerting. I'm not saying that bringing up these controversies is an unheard of thing; I'm saying that in a film as campy as Switchblade Sisters, topics so heavy can destroy a lovably shabby aesthetic. Most of the film is spent wounding itself &#x97; there is a simply godawful scene in which a traitor is tortured with a daringly placed cigarette &#x97; but it has its moments, even if the bad ones aren't so forgivable.The attractiveness of Switchblade Sisters is, ironically enough, purely accidental. It means to be badass, but the film is better when it's attempting to be serious and ends up going down the shitter. It's hard not to laugh at the actors, all of whom are so horrible it's as though they're trying to memorize their lines as they're reciting them, and it's difficult not to make fun of the inadvertent instances of nudity (the irresistible prison fight with the butch warden contains some ridiculous boob flashes that are more hilarious than titillating). Switchblade Sisters is pretty bad, but at least it's fun bad. The exploitation boom in the 1970s remains to be one of the best (and worst) eras in cinema; this film isn't a good example of one, but there's no denying how iconic it is in its vortex. (Funny, though, how the title of the film is never actually said in the film.)Read more reviews at petersonreviews.com "},{"Title":"Screeching, melodramatic tantrum of a film.","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the 70s, when women's lib became as much a part of civil rights as race issues, many films portrayed women as being just as vicious as men. I think that this factor often resulted from male studio heads and producers, who were threatened by women's increasing demands for equality in society. As a result, many films with female characters, were portrayed as being even more dangerous than the most violent of males. The Jezebels is a film, that's a perfect example of this 'woman as more deadly than the male' mentality.The film revolves around a group of teen girls, who form a gang called the Jezebels. They all come from dysfunctional families, and live in a crumbling, tenement apartment building. The girls dress in funky, rough-looking leather jackets and torn jeans. They all carry switch-blade knives, and know how to use them. Their boyfriends have their own gang, and they all hang together with the Jezebels, in an abandoned warehouse. These tough kids are all in constant, bloody battles with rival gangs, the police, and even each other. When a drug kingpin threatens their survival, the huge battle that results, severely tests the loyalties of the Jezebels to each other, and to their boyfriends.There's no shortage of car chases, shootings, knifings, and general all-around mayhem in this movie. All of this overwhelms the film, and gives it a tacky, melodramatic quality. The performances of virtually all the actors, are fraught with hammy overacting. It's only a mildly entertaining movie, at best. "},{"Title":"Switching believability on and off","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** Movie about a girl street gang The Jezebel's who after wiping out all the street gangs in the city with an arsenal that can hold off the Red Army collapses in the end when it's two co-gang leaders blow the whole gang organization and all it's territorial holding over cute and handsome Dominic, Asher Brauner, the head of the gang Silver Daggers who the Jezebel's were part off. Lace, Bobbie Lee, The Jezebel's gang leader and Dominic's girlfriend feels that fellow gang member Maggie, Joanne Nail, is stealing Dom away from her. Maggie of course is innocent of what Lace suspects her of and actually rejected Dom's advances and the only affair she had with him was when he attacked and raped her. Crazed with jealously Lace sets up Dom, with the help of friend and gang member Patch, Monica Gayle, by telling his rival gang leader Crabbs, Chase Newheart, that He's being set up to be offed by Dom and Maggie at the local skating rink that Friday night. After Dom is shot down by the Crabbs gang Lace in her crazed state of mind plans, again with Patch, to silence Crabbs in order to keep him from spilling the goods about her and what she had to do with Dom's death and may well get to the bottom of it and exposes both Lace and Patch. This happens later when The Jezebel's with the help of the Ghetto Gals wipe out the entire Crabbs gang and when Crabbs is about to give himself up Patch shoots him down before he can talk. Soon after that in the clubhouse Lace accuses Maggie in that she was the one who sold out Dom but none of the Jezebel's believed her. Maggie and Lace then have it out in a bloody and deadly knife fight where Lace gets slashed to death and finally the police coming to the rescue raiding the gang clubhouse with everyone involved being sent up the river. Awful but entertaining movie with one of the most outrageous attempted prison rape scenes in a womens prison ever put on film. With the head of the guards, Mom Smackly, Kate Murtagh, getting worked over by the girls after she tried to examine Maggie to see if she had any social diseases. The street battle at the end of the movie with the Crabbs gang was as fierce and bloody as The Battle of Berlin with the cops out to lunch during the entire fighting. The girls in the movie were so unconvincing that it seem impossible for them to hold on to their assault weapons after they shot them off just from the recoil. Still the fight between Maggie and Lace did come off realistic but was spoiled by the police using the knife fight and death of Lace as an excuse to barge in when they couldn't find any reason to intervene when dozens of gang members were gunned down in the previous street fighting. "},{"Title":"Much better than I was expecting!","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A persons impression of a movie sometimes depends on what they're expecting before they see it.  You gotta go into this one expecting a low budget poorly acted 70's action film.  If you do, you'll be quite impressed! The acting isn't all that bad.  Lace can get a little annoying, talking through clenched teeth like she does, but she acts pretty well during her softer parts.  And the movie is funny!  I was not expecting to actually laugh out loud during it, but I did in several spots.  This movie is kind of like The Warriors meets Fast Times at Ridgemont High meets L7. ')And there were even a couple touching moments to the film that I wasn't expecting.  The characters are interesting too.  I can see why Quentin Tarantino likes this film.  If you are a fan of his, and don't mind B movies, I think you'll like this. "},{"Title":"It's not a good movie by any means, but it is entertaining.","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The 70's the era of some great cinema and some not so great, this falls into the latter category. Exploitation cinema was a huge thing in the 70's and many people have Quentin Tarantino to thank for introducing it to newer generations. He had access to numerous video's whilst working at the now famous (and discontinued) Video Archives in LA and this seem's like one of the movies he would have picked up from there. The story is trashy, the characters are completely unlikable, the clothes laughable and the dialogue downright ridiculous, but nevertheless Switchblade Sisters is a watchable exploitation film with some memorable scenes. We start the movie by seeing a young woman peering into a neighboring apartment, there is a tax man demanding he remove a television set from a seemingly poor, single, mom-of-two's home. The alternative is that she pay $40 to the man, she does so and he leaves the apartment. I don't know why I thought that the aforementioned young woman would be some kind of anti-hero, a Robin Hood type who would take the money from the man and give it back. She instead follows him into a lift and then stopping at each floor picking up more of her gang members, before yelling Get him girls. They do, each withdrawing the titular weapon from their person and using it to tear the mans clothing. I wont go further into the story as it gets even trashier from here on out, what I will mention however is that these girls are of high-school age, do with that information what you will...The movie picks up towards the last 30 minutes or so and overall leaves you feeling some-what entertained.So, is Switchblade Sisters worth watching? Sure, if you're into Exploitation films and/or 70's cinema.5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Cuts like a knife","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Are you looking for a trashy, earthy junky film? Switchblade Sisters promises to be a highly exploitative movie about a gritty girl gang, and it more than delivers on that promise. All of the indulgences of 1970s cinema are on florid display, from the earthy violence to the big, unkempt hair to those stereotypically bullhorn-loud outfits. This is no subtle film - it's brash trash.The plot's as straight as Cher's hair (then, anyway) the aforementioned gang, called the Dagger Debs (they're sort of the ladies' auxiliary of an all-male gang, the Daggers), harasses an innocent waif named Maggie. Maggie, though, kicks ass, so the girls decide (after the usual you-must-prove-yourself act) to accept her as their own. At least their leader, Lace (Robbie Lee) does. Her #1 cohort, Patch (Monica Gayle) has plenty of reservations about the new meat, probably because she's jealous about how much attention Maggie (Joanne Nail) is getting from Lace. And that might be because Patch wears - go on, guess - an eyepatch. Kind of makes her look badass, but I bet she's a little self conscious about it, too. Fun fact Quentin Tarantino was such a huge fan of this film that he modeled the character of Elle Driver (Daryl Hannah) in the Kill Bill movies after Patch.Anyway, like even the most outrageous premises, one must not only suspend disbelief but expel it for the duration. All of the kids - who are indeed in their late teens or early twenties in real life - look like they're in their forties. Or maybe it's the hair. The Debs and the Daggers attend a high school where they rule the roost. I don't mean just stuff like taking nerds' lunch money. I mean gambling, prostitution, extortion, whatever it takes to get by, man. The principal, who's not really their pal despite his title, tells the head Dagger, Dominic (Asher Brauner) that Dom's chief gangster rival, Crabs (Chase Newhart) is transferring to the high school, and would Dom mind sharing a bit of the action? Ha, ha, it is to laugh, at both the proposition and Newhart's receding hairline. The Daggers try to play it cool but are attacked anyway by Crabs' gang. The big fight scene takes place in - no kidding - a roller skating rink, where members of both gangs zoom around the floor with the greatest of ease. That's when the good violence begins and things get messy, as in bloody, as in over the top.It's hard to call this a terrible film, because it is exactly what it pretends to be. There's nothing highbrow about this production. Even some of the acting is pretty good, although there aren't any names among the cast. An Afterschool Special, this ain't. But would you believe, according to writer-director Jack Hill, this is actually loosely based on Othello? You can see the resemblance if you squint hard or have a terrific imagination. Switchblade Sisters has a rough-and-ready title, hot young women, lots of guns and knives and other implements of destruction, an insane fashion sense, and a whole lot of things getting smashed up. This is the paragon of drive-in movies, and if you don't know what those are, ask your grandfather. "},{"Title":"Lives Up to Its Reputation","Date":"15 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Switchblade Sisters (1975) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Trashy cult classic from Jack Hill has new girl Maggie (Joanne Nail) joining up with a female gang being ran by Lace (Robbie Lee) but soon everyone's loyalty is tested when a rival gang causes trouble. If you're looking for a thought-provoking, deep and serious look at females in trouble then it's best you go check out some talky foreign film. If you want sleaze, nudity, violence, cat fights and that sort of thing then Jack Hill's film is just what you're looking for. It's easy to watch this film and realize why it has become a cult favorite over the years because there are just so many classic scenes within the genre. While the film isn't perfect and there are certainly some weak moments, there's still no question that the film contains some of the best scenes from this type of exploitation picture. One such scene happens rather early on when the girls are sentenced to a jail and they come under attack from a large woman who is the boss. What happens during the two attack scenes are just priceless and will have the viewer rolling. Another terrific scene happens towards the middle when there's a violent gun battle at a roller rink. Purely priceless this scene is. The performances aren't what we'd consider good but I think everyone fits their roles just fine. This is especially true of Nail and Lee. It's also fun seeing Lenny Bruce's daughter Kitty in the cast as Donut. Hill keeps the film moving at a very good pace and there's all sorts of fun to be had throughout. SWITCHBLADE SISTERS deserves its cult reputation without question. "}{"Title":"Recollections of a cast extra","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" SWITCHBLADE SISTERS/THE JEZEBELS- 1976.My friend, Bob, made a connection with the Extras Casting Director at New World Entertainment, in Hollywood, California. I was interviewed and assigned a role as a cop. My wife was assigned a role as a street person. We would each earn $20 a day, plus catered meals.Early one morning, we assembled at a defunct Tasty-Freeze Drive-in restaurant in Eagle Rock, CA. I was given a Metropolitan Police Uniform, a flack jacket, a helmet and a Billy Club.My first duty was to drive a Police Car full of other Officers to the curb in front of the Drive-in. We disembarked and chased after the Dagger Debs, who had scattered upon our arrival.I located one of the Debs behind a dumpster in the rear of the property. I grabbed her wrist and put a (gentle) Hammerlock on her arm. With my club raised to strike, I marched her towards the camera. Suddenly she snarled, Let go, you Son-of-a Bitch. Forgetting that she was an actress, I thought I was hurting her, so I released the hold. The Director yelled, Cut. And that scene went onto the Cutting Room floor! Then, my friend Bob was instructed to frisk another Deb for weapons. Being a very religious, family man, he kept his hands about five inches away from her body. The Director finally yelled for him to, feel her up. He blushed as he complied! My wife (in a blue dress) and two other street persons sat at tables in front of the Drive-in when the Debs showed up. The ladies fled and the scene was completed.On a subsequent evening, we assembled at a vacant pottery factory in Glendale, CA. This was the clubhouse of the Debs. Following their well-orchestrated Knife Fight, we cops burst into the building. I grabbed one of the girls by her ponytail and pulled her head against the end of a shotgun. (That was cut). Finally, I got a full-face scene as I loaded the girls into the police van. As we rehearsed, I would grab and roughly shove them into the vehicle. But, then I would gently help them down for the next practice. You may notice that my flack vest is worn wrong side out.It was very late when I got home, so I got ready for bed in the dark. Only in the morning, did my wife see that my arms were covered with blood (fake)! My wife & I had only observed the filming of our respective scenes, so we looked forward to the movie's release at a theater. We took our 14 year-old son to see it on screen.Holy Smokes! The language, the suggestive body actions &#x96; we were so embarrassed! But our son said it was just like Junior Hi-school! "},{"Title":"Girls Gone Bad","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Laughably bad girl gang flick, with every imaginable genre cliché. It appears to have been shot on a shoestring budget with an all-amateur cast. With lesbian prison guards, Mao-quoting black revolutionaries, drug dealing youth counselors, a one-eyed female Iago, a shootout in a roller disco rink, bathroom swirlies, and the inevitable girl-girl switchblade dual for leadership of the Jezebels. West Side Story, this ain't. A couple of years ago that well-known patron of the arts, Quentin Tarantino, redistributed it on his Rolling Thunder label; you can see where he gets his love of strong female characters. (For another example of Rolling Thunder product, see Amazing Peking Man, a risible Asian rip-off of King Kong.) "},{"Title":"Watchable girl gang film still delivers some fun","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  We have Quentin Tarantino to thank for the recent video release of Jack Hill's Switchblade Sisters, an energetic exploitation flick showcasing a tough girl gang.  If you do rent the video, make sure to skip all of Tarantino's rambling commentary -- he postulates that Switchblade Sisters as the best screen version of Othello's Iago in Monica Gayle as Patch.  I thought this was preposterous.  While I do believe that Jack Hill drew from Shakespeare in the construction of the film, Patch is far too underdeveloped as a character to command the attention needed for a successful Iago.  The interplay between rivals Lace (Robbie Lee) and Maggie (Joanne Nail) is the primary focus, and Patch is more often than not relegated to the background. "},{"Title":"God Bless You, Jack Hill","Date":"7 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Dagger Debs are a gang of snarling girls, and Maggie (Joanne Nail) is their newest member. Lace (Robbie Lee), the ever tooth-gritting leader, befriends her but soon has doubts -- it seems Lace's man Dominic (Asher Brauner), head of the Silver Daggers, fancies the new recruit.Director Jack Hill, one of my idols and a swell guy, has had some strange things to say about this film. He has said the script was inspired by Othello, and has also claimed to interview real female gang members before making the movie. And yet, he readily admits the whole thing is a wacky fantasy...The film not only has jail, gang fights and more... it has a pregnancy subplot! How do you beat that? While this may be no social commentary, it really does its best to be an exploitation classic (and it comes as no surprise that Quentin Tarantino has been the biggest supporter of this film.) "},{"Title":"Now I know why this is a Rolling Thunder re-release,,,","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Switchblade Sisters, apart of the more or less dozen films in Tarantino's Rolling Thunder pictures collection (re-released exploitation flicks and foreign films), was worth the watch for a past midnight time of viewing. It might even be Jack Hill's most entertaining movie (though I haven't seen Coffy in a while). There are really a few things that he gets really right, amid the obvious camp that comes with a movie like this. He uses some tough, interesting B-actresses for the parts of the Debs-turned-Jezebelles, with Robbie Lee and Joanne Nail and Monica Gayle as the main three ladies of the bunch all turning in cool, un-restrained performances (one thing they don't lack, aside from some sex appeal, is spunk).Another thing that makes the film really work is that, more often than not (which was also the case with Hill's Pam Grier pictures) is that it's very, very funny. Sometimes it was just by some unexpected stuff (the guy in the elevator early in the film, or stuff during the climactic battle in the streets), or just by some of the creative dialog. But really what helped make the film work for me was that it had a great marriage of 'exploitation' ideals (just look at the prison scenes) with spots of realism, or at least things that seem realistic in the Roger Corman school of writing.These may be larger-than-life character, but that's part of the fun in it, that it's an action fantasy where we can root for the rough, take-no-prisoners gals of action, who also aren't completely in-human. Hill, who has mentioned in interviews how part of his film-making comes from being a musician, knows the rhythms of scenes and dialog (as stupid as it can get at times), and even has a little style to show off amid the patently 70's times. That, in the end, it's really a lot of fun helps out during some of the more 'dramatic' parts. And what an awesome last line! "},{"Title":"The Best Baddest B movie^_^-b","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Personally, I rarely agreed with Roger Ebert's movie critics but it is an exception. As Ebert's comments, this movie is bad acted, directed, produced, and written in script. That is why I think it is one of baddest movies that I ever saw.However, I love this movie because its originality works as a charm. The main idea of this movie is simple feminists counterattacks the traditional patriachic chauvinist authority domainated society.If this movie was reproduced one day, I will go to it. I think Quintin Tarantino is one of possible directors who are interesting in this project in the future. However, I prefer the director of 'Snatch' to do it.By the way, if this movie would be remade, please cut those bulls**t political slogans of the 1970s. Those conversations are killing this movie already. "},{"Title":"My lungs still hurt from watching this movie...","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film came on late one night when me and some friends were bored, and what an amazing heap of crap. This film is such a bodge that you have to see it, but not by yourself obviously. I can't really pinpoint from when the female gang went from roller skates to tanks.  "},{"Title":"The funniest thing since Attack of the Eye Eye Creatures.","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first ran into this little gem at two in the morning on some premium channel, I thought Oh boy.  This thing is terrible.  It's badly written, badly acted, and just plain bad. But it hilariously bad.  I mean there's nothing funnier than when Lace hesitates to shoot Maggie during the big gun fight grits her teeth and says It's gotta look like an accident!  The clothes are stereotypically tacky!  You know things are bad when the rival gang leaders wearing a fruity looking shirt.  I recommend you see this at least once, trust me, you will regret it. "},{"Title":"Pure exploitation fodder","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All I can say about this is, keep an open mind. It's clearly made as pure exploitation, nothing more. It's the kind of movie you'd expect to see Pam Grier or Claudia Jennings in. But alas, instead we get some actresses who are unknown, and with good reason. I've never seen the girl who plays Maggie in any other movies, and I'm glad- it's got to be the single most pathetic attempt at acting that I've ever seen. I get the feeling that for saying this, I'm going to end up getting my ass kicked by a bunch of female bikers in the near future, but it's the truth. The only thing that makes it watchable is if we accept that it's exploitation, nothing more, and go with it. On that level, we can have alot of fun watching supermodels pretending to be tough inner-city teenagers, and take some joy in some of the action scenes. But don't set your standards too high (in other words, don't have any standards) or you'll be somewhat disappointed. "},{"Title":"Cult classic is just too demented.","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fine, it's a 70s exploitation movie with the girl gang bang. Seems as though we've still got the Datsun fever inside of us. Big deal! Why would Quentin Tarantino get involved with this one while delivering long speeches about its trivia, its history, and et cetera? SWITCHBLADE SISTERS isn't afraid to take a few good risks in showing off gang gals who kick ass to the max, but oh, how demented! Where's the real action? I want ACTION, not a bunch of wasted writing and terrible dialogue! Take a good hard look at Lace and you'd wonder why Jack Hill should've made another movie with Pam Grier to replace this. But aside from all things, this is a gritty look at juvenile delinquency, which for the most part is acceptable. As for the Jezebels themselves, they get downright nasty and violent. With this put into effect comes painful hilarity on the screen (is this what feminist action movies are really made of?). There you have it, a long lost cult classic silly sleazefest with very little it has to offer.A 70s gang flick called CAT MURKILL AND THE SILKS (video title CRUISIN' HIGH) is way better than this, and because it's more fun and entertaining.   "}{"Title":"The most campy exploitation film ever made.","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Much credit to Miramax for unearthing this beauty.  This movie has it all high school, girl gangs, shoot out at a roller disco, women's prison fight scene, you name it. Much funnier than it's cousin the Swinging Cheerleaders.  I laughed the whole way through the movie - the whole way. "},{"Title":"Check it out- Tarantino Recommended","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  70's style soundtrack.  70's style gangs.  70's style hotties.  Power struggles.  Gun war in the streets.  Chick gang knife fights.  Comic style directing.  Whips, chains, hideouts.  Roller rinks and revenge. Did I mention 70's style hotties?  Need I say more? "},{"Title":"Better than any of Tarantino's own movies...but that's not saying much!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay. First up, I hate Quentin Tarantino. His childish preoccupations with lurid, foul-mouthed violence served up as definitive studies in macho cool and pop-culture trivia are tiresome to say the least, and paved the way for other 'talents' like Guy Ritchie and just about every indie director for a while. Tarantino has made a good career out of ripping off other people's ideas and fashioning them to suit the self-absorbed slacker generation's warped set of values. So it's no surprise that this little offering, one of Taran-geek-o's favourites, is a steaming heap of cinematic offal. But hell, it's still more engaging and fun to watch than either Pulp Fiction or Reservoir Dogs.The sleeve of the Runaways' 1977 album 'Queens of Noise' would be a more accurate depiction of a bad-girl gang than this garbage. The fight scenes are so lethargic and badly staged, it's like watching a high school drama presentation where the whole cast are on downers. The dialogue is abysmal. I don't care if this was 'intentionally' camp, it still stinks to high heaven. As with most high school films, the cast are mostly far too old for their roles, and the costumes are best described as 'Saturday Night Fever' meets 'The Warriors' in retro hell! I'm all for bad movies that provide a few chuckles on a slow evening, but I'll stick to James C.Wasson's insane 'Night Of The Demon' (1980) to serve that purpose. Amazingly, Switchblade Sisters does have a couple of points in its favour. The roller rink sequence is competently handled, with some surprisingly good mobile camera shots, and Kitty Bruce (daughter of the legendary comedian Lenny) is really cute as 'Donut'. It's kind of unfair that she's cast, and referred to, as the 'fat girl', because she's the only female in this entire turgid mess to elicit an ounce of sympathy or generate any kind of charisma. Hell, I'd join any gang that had her as a leader! "},{"Title":"Basically, boring","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With the exception of the occasional entertaining violent scene or unintentionally funny line, this film was flat-out boring.  The acting ranged from competent to horrible, but the performances were not helped by the routine plot or the pathetic dialogue.  Even by the low standards of the genre, this movie is dull, and pointless, and wholly uninteresting. "},{"Title":"An excellent choice for bad movie night","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Planning a 'bad movie' party? You could hardly do better than the Sisters here. The snazzy dialog and happy acting style will keep you and your party going.You might want to watch this one along with Ed Wood's Jailbait and perhaps Big Bad Mama. This one deserves a viewing with friends. "},{"Title":"Another trashy winner from Jack Hill, the ultimate tale of girls gone bad","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Switchblade Sisters is possibly the ultimate tale of girls gone bad in the exploitation realm. Its certainly winning trash from one of the drive-in's most intelligent filmmakers, Jack Hill. Hill is smart enough to know what his audience wants while creating actually compelling protagonists in the process. This was evident in both Spider Baby and Coffy, and while Switchblade Sisters isn't the psychotronic masterpiece that either of those two were, it shows all of Hill's positive traits as a filmmaker. The film tells the tale of an all female gang, their inner turmoil, their overthrowing of their male leaders, and their vicious battles. Whether its actually a subversive feminist tract or mere exploitation (or somewhere in between) is irrelevant. Either way, its an extremely entertaining picture.The acting is rather hit and miss. Robbie Lee and Monica Gayle are both rather good, but Joanne Nail is just a bit too over-the-top and distracting. Hill's direction is a bit unevenly paced at times. Still, those are elements one can expect from a lot of 70s exploitation films and they ultimately don't detract from the final product. The film is full of kitschy 70s fashions as well, which are absolutely uproarious. Switchblade Sisters is another trashy winner from Jack Hill, a film thats both unintentionally funny and knowingly witty. Further proof that grindhouse film-making is an era that can never be accurately replicated. (7/10) "},{"Title":"holy crap","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  well, this is it. i thought i've seen everything. but then this comes along and makes me fill my pants cause it's so fricken hilarious. the movie is easily watchable (until the fight scene with the black panthers, i didn't get that part) and is truly beyond wacky. doughnut is my favorite dagger deb cause it's played by kitty bruce, lenny's daughter. the viewer must ask himself...is this movie trash, or is it...no wait nevermind, it's trash. "},{"Title":"A Bad Chick Flick","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Switchblade Sisters is little more than a cheaply-made 1970's exploitation movie.  Quentin Tarantino may have liked it, but it's not for everyone.  The main actresses, Bonnie Lee and Joanna Nail, look too pretty to be the leaders of a tough all-girl street gang.  The costuming shows '70s bad taste, not likely to look tough on any gang member.  And there aren't any stars to speak of that appear.  Although you can see Don Stark from That '70s Show as Hook of the Silver Daggers, and Kitty Bruce, daughter of the late Lenny Bruce, appears as Donut of the Dagger Debs.  If you're really into action movies, or 70's-era kitsch, you might enjoy it.  You might even get a good laugh out of it!  Otherwise, don't waste your time! "},{"Title":"A laugh a minute!","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My favorite part is how Lace (Robbie Lee) clenches her teeth as she talks. It shows how mean and tough she is!  Even though she looks like she's 12.This movie has naked ladies, ladies fighting each other, ladies fighting men, nasty comments to authority -- what more do you need?If it were science fiction, it'd be perfect for MST3K!  "},{"Title":"Entertaining trash...but clearly it IS trash!","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Jezebels is also known as Switchblade Sisters. And, whatever you call it, it's complete crap. Now this is NOT meant as criticism. It's obvious the folks making this wanted to make a trashy movie and boy did they make a nasty, crappy picture!! It's violent, stupid and even promotes the old rape myth! So, it certainly is not a film to show your mother or Father Jenkins.The film begins with a gang of female punks attacking Maggie in a restaurant. Next thing you know, the ladies are in jail and the leader and intended victim become best friends! Soon, when they are all out of stir, the gang welcomes the newest recruit, Maggie, by raping her. Nice folks, huh? But the victim isn't particularly put out by this and soon she helps them in a gang war. And, before you know it, Maggie is their leader and makes friends with a local lady Black Panthers group and the war is on! But there is a traitor within the gang and Maggie's reign might be coming to a swift end. And, when the film ends, it sure looks as if there will be a sequel--which there wasn't.There really isn't a lot of good in the film. It's super-violent and sadistic and unrepentantly nasty. And, because of that, the film is, in a sick way, quite entertaining---sort of a guilty pleasure if you are a bad movie buff. "}{"Title":"Jack Hill is halfway right on this movie","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jack Hill also did Coffy & did a good job about updating The 1963-era Birmingham Angel to Pam Grier. I wonder if Pam Grier remembered, Birmingham Sunday? The Jezebels got some reinforcement from a black girl group that followed Mao. However In life I've seen a black girl with a 1955 Packard Clipper beat up a bully in real life back in 1963. The urban assault car came from a 1955 Packard Patrician 4-Dr. Sedan so Jack Hill & I met halfway. Kitty Bruce's Donut was a thankless character, but she was loyal to the end. The Movie was unreal in some parts, but people actually think they can get away with it but in reality check, you get it in the end. If I did the screen writing, The black girl gang led by Muff would be shown as spirits & have 1950s cars with lethal death rays installed in them and poisoned black smoke & the led car would be a 1955 Packard Clipper Sedan & when the black girl gang leave the scene a mist is used and they go into the mist and vanish. And when they unleash there weapons on Crabs' Teen Patrol they would yell We didn't forget what happened on Birmingham Sunday, on September 15, 1963 & this one is for Denise McNair & her fellow school girls! and they would zap The Teen Patrol with death rays & vaporized them & get most of the members. However Crabs gets it by Lace. The movie was good and Jack Hill met me halfway with the urban assault vehicle made from a 1955 Packard & didn't name the leader, Esther Williams. I liked the movie & it's in my collection. With a girl gang like The Jezebels, they make Charles Starkweather look like Pope John Paul II. That's it for now. Marcus Brainard "},{"Title":"Jack Hill's masterwork...","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The jewel in director Jack Hill's crown...Hill had his hands in some pretty dubious projects in the past but SWITCHBLADE SISTERS is his masterwork. Poorly acted, awkwardly assembled, and with pretty lousy production values, it's still his most entertaining film. Robbie Lee (a really bad actress) plays Lace, the head of girl gang who'll do anything to keep her man from playing around with new girl Joanne Nail. There's a lot of stupid dialog, a lot of really horrendous hairdos, but it's all a lot of fun. The oddball cast includes Lenny Bruce's daughter Kitty (as the token fat girl...named Donut), Asher Brauner (who has a helmet like haircut) as the leader of the boy gang, and the bizarre looking Chase Newhart (as Crab, leader of a rival, effeminate gang). "},{"Title":"A true Grindhouse classic!","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Switchblade Sisters is an undoubtedly silly and unrealistic slice of Grindhouse exploitation, but it's also an absolute blast and a real must see for any fan of cult cinema! The film will likely get compared with later but better known gang flick 'The Warriors' and I suppose you could determine Switchblade Sisters to be the female version of Walter Hill's classic exploitation film. But just because it focuses on the fairer sex, don't let that fool you into thinking that Switchblade Sisters doesn't have its own nasty edge; as while you cant really take this film seriously, there's certainly plenty to please exploitation fans. The plot actually has more layers to it than you might expect considering the type of film but the main focus is on a gang named 'The Dagger Debs'. The Debs are controlled by Dominic; the leader of 'The Silver Daggers'. The plot kicks off properly upon the introduction of Maggie; a new girl in town who makes a splash when she beats one of the senior Debs in a knife fight. However, Maggie also exposes jealousies within the gang and adding to the problem is the rival lead by a man named Crabs...The film is difficult to take seriously, mostly owing to the terrible acting and unfocused plot line. You never really know where the film is going, though that's more down to the fact that it just seems to do whatever it feels like without following a logical progression; although to the film's credit, this does work rather well. I wasn't surprised to find that most of the main player's didn't make much else aside from this film (Monica Gayle being the only exception) and most of them fail to convince with their performances - though again, it's actually to the film's credit as it helps to instill the Grindhouse style. The film is mainly set around a school and this is hilarious as all the actors clearly left school years before the filming of this movie took place! Despite the numerous problems (which would only really be problems in a serious film), Switchblade Sisters is still an awesome trash flick as it's just so much fun to watch. There's always plenty going on in the film, most of the lead characters are very amusing and the liberal attitude to violence that is displayed makes for great entertainment. This film is an absolute must see for fans of this sort of stuff! "},{"Title":"Utter trash","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tarantino should be embarrassed to be associated with this film. It is rubbish in every sense. The acting is dire, the picture quality variable. I suppose it is so over the top bad that it may deserve a slot on Channel 5 late at night, but don't waste your money at the cinema.  "},{"Title":"A Group Film","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know how anyone could even watch this entire movie without a big group of people.  It'd be like watching Manos Hands of Fate without the MST3K commentaries.  This is a BAD movie.  It's, of course, not to be taken seriously, but it's still a bad movie.  You can't expect much from this film, and you won't get it.  There's some laughable outfits and some bad acting, but nothing that would make it especially better than any other exploitation flick.  It's just a bad movie.  The only reason, I'm sure, that anyone would see this movie is because of Quentin Tarrintino, but, trust me, his introduction to the movie is more interesting than the movie itself. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Total rubbish","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Shown on network TV, what rubbish. Don't know whats funny about this boring film? None of the women could act their way out of a paper bag! You can tell its a dated 70's film and with the cheesy accents, i was just waiting for the banana splits to make an appearance. "}]