[{"Title":"A competent action but a noticeable lack of depth and subtlety&#133;","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Harry Callahan quickly establishes his action-not-words by driving his car through a liquor store window to free the owners, who are being held as hostages&#133; Demoted to the personnel department, he scorns bureaucracy in general and in particular the Mayor's policy of attracting women into the force, but he is saddled with one, Kate Moore (Tyne Daly) as his by now obligatory 'minority' partner&#133; Insp. Callahan finds black militants are not his enemies but his allies when 'Big' Ed Mustapha (Albert Popwell), the black leader, is arrested to boost the Mayor's prestige, Harry actually resigns this time and continues his pursuit of the revolutionaries as a loner&#133; His female aide risks her own job to he1p him and eventually they chase a prime suspect through the seamy 'massage parlor' underworld of the city and kill a leading gang member, who has disguised, herself as a nun&#133; And discovering that the Mayor is being held captive on Alcatraz Island, they make for an abandoned fortress for the final shootout&#133; The film is a step backwards in style and content from the previous two&#133; Harry seems to have reverted to his first incarnation 'What kind of a department are we running when we're more concerned with the rights of the criminals than of the people we're supposed to be protecting?' and displays unusual brutality in roughing up a man who feigns heart attacks instead of paying his restaurant bills&#133;Advertised as the 'dirtiest Harry of them all,' it is also the weakest&#133; Without the experience of Siegel or Milius to help him, Eastwood took a gamble on James Fargo, his assistant director on some of his previous films and the result was competent action but a noticeable lack of depth and subtlety&#133; "},{"Title":"Tough cop Harry Callahan is called on once again and he goes after nasty terrorists","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is the third entry in Harry Callahan's popular series , the first is the classic ¨Dirty Harry ¨(1971) by Don Siegel , the second is ¨Magnum Force¨ by Ted Post . This time has a female partner ( Tyne Daly ) who is assigned when his ordinary pal ( John Mitchum ) is wounded . And they try to track down some dangerous terrorists ( Michael Cavanagh , Veren , among others ). Then the terrorists hijack the Mayor ( John Crawford ) of City San Francisco . As always , two-fisted Callahan , the tall and taciturn inspector utilizing his Magnum 44 pistol kills the baddies. Rock-hard cop Harry abuses the murderer's civil rights , however facing his superiors , a captain(Bradford Dillman) and a Lieutenant ( Harry Guardino ) . Rule-breaking Callahan strides grimly throughout San Francisco in pursuit the murderous , including an exciting final on Island-prison of Alcatraz.Formula thriller plenty of action , crisply edition , tension, suspenseful and lots of violence . Appropriate and atmospheric musical score by Jerry Fielding . Less effective than ¨Dirty Harry¨ but still gripping and stirring . Colorful and adequate cinematography , reflecting splendidly the streets of San Francisco , habitual scenario of the series . The motion picture is professionally directed by James Fargo who also made other vehicles for Eastwod ( Every which way but loose ) and for Chuck Norris ( Forced vengeance ) . Followed by ¨Sudden impact¨ with Sandra Locke and ¨Dead pool¨ with Liam Neeson . Rating  Good, 6,5 . Well worth seeing for Clint Eastwood fans and Harry Callahan's followers . It's a cool companion to Dirty Harry classic, an amusing film with several scenes that'll have you on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"Keeps Dirty Harry Alive and Well","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In this third chapter from the Book of Dirty Harry Callahan, there's plenty of action as Harry breaks in a new partner and goes after a ruthless bunch, some self-proclaimed revolutionaries who are nothing more than common criminals, in `The Enforcer,' directed by James Fargo, and starring Clint Eastwood and Tyne Daly.  And beyond the action, it's a film that manages to make a valid statement about bureaucratic nonsense, as well as the lack of common sense employed by those ensconced in the budding agenda of `political correctness,' who put an emphasis on image over purpose and results.  Mostly, though, it gives the audience a chance to share vicariously in the triumph of good over evil, as Harry once again metes out justice in his own inimitable way.After taking charge and cleaning up a hostage situation in a way that only `Dirty Harry' can, Harry (Eastwood) is assigned to a desk job in personnel.  But when his partner, Frank DiGiorgio (John Mitchum) goes down on the job during the robbery of a munitions warehouse, Harry is back on the street, but with a new partner, Kate Moore (Daly), one of the first female inspectors in the country.  And Harry puts her through her paces as they attempt to track down this particularly volatile gang, who seemingly put little value on human life as they cut their swath through the city of San Francisco and pursue their own `for the people' agenda, which in reality means they want to get their hands on as much cash as possible, and plan to hold the city hostage to do it.  But they had better think again; because when they took down Frank, they inadvertently provoked the ire of Inspector Callahan himself, who does not take kindly to their sort to begin with. James Fargo is in the director's chair for this one, and he comports himself well, recapturing all of the attitudes and elements that made the first two `Dirty Harry' films so successful.  Fargo sets a good pace and keeps the story on at least an equal footing with the action, which keeps this one involving.  Giving Harry a female partner puts some added interest into the mix as well, in light of the fact that this film was made in an era in which women were just beginning to emerge in such positions, on the screen or otherwise.  `Cagney and Lacey,' for instance, was still some five or six years away, and Kathleen Turner's `V.I. Warshawski' wouldn't make an appearance until 1991.  Initially,  the film takes something of a patronizing attitude toward her, but Harry treats her as an equal from the beginning, and in the end, Inspector Moore emerges as a strong character, gender aside.  Most importantly, that is not the focus of the filmmakers here, and the fact that Moore is a woman is little more in the overall scheme of things than a footnote in cinematic history; Moore is just another character in the `Dirty Harry' saga, and she's a good one (especially when compared to Harry's partner, Al Quan-- played by Evan C. Kim-- in `The Dead Pool').  And credit Fargo with insuring that it all blends together naturally within the context of the story, as well as the fact that he keeps the relationship between Callahan and Moore on task, and allows it to develop quite credibly.  All in all, it's a good, collaborative effort from all concerned.What really gives this one that ring of authenticity, however, is that Clint Eastwood is in top form, and even in his third outing as Harry seems more immersed in the character than ever.  And, in the final analysis, story aside, it's the `Dirty Harry' character that makes these films so popular and successful.  Creating a cinematic icon is no easy task, and that's precisely what Eastwood has done with Harry; and it's gratifying to see that he is willing to give that 110% at this stage of the game, in order to maintain the credibility of the character and the films, as well.  A lesser actor would have taken this kind of success to the bank by now, while possibly allowing the character to slip into caricature rather than being concerned with keeping it real and convincing.  It demonstrates what a pro Eastwood is, and why he commands the kind of respect afforded him within the industry.Taking on the role of Kate Moore had to be a challenge for Tyne Daly, and happily, she succeeds quite well with it.  She makes her character convincing by allowing her to develop in a `real time' manner; she doesn't just jump in there, full blown and ready to take on hardened criminals.  Initially, she displays some intimidation in Harry's presence, which gives their relationship some realism from the beginning.  After all, Harry IS an intimidating guy; add to that the fact that this is a new job for Moore, which in reality would create a level of discomfort for anyone, anywhere.  And Daly has tapped into all of that with her portrayal of Moore, making her a very believable character, and one of the most memorable from among the five `Dirty Harry' films.The supporting cast includes Harry Guardino (Lt. Bressler), Bradford Dillman (Capt. McKay), DeVeren Bookwalter (Bobby Maxwell), John Crawford (The Mayor), Samantha Doane (Wanda) and Albert Popwell as `Big' Ed Mustapha (look for Popwell in the original `Dirty Harry' as the Bank Robber; in `Magnum Force' as pimp J.J. Wilson; and again in `Sudden Impact' as one of Harry's partners, Horace).  A well made and entertaining film, `The Enforcer' keeps the `Dirty Harry' series alive, well and on solid ground; in retrospect, it seems a shame now that Eastwood waited seven years to make the next installment, `Sudden Impact,' as with the dreadful `The Dead Pool' in 1988, it all ended with barely a whimper.  The first four, however, more than make up for it-- and that's the magic of the movies.  8/10.       "},{"Title":"Enjoyable on its own. Not quite a Harry movie, but a Clint movie","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I think many fans have mixed feelings about THE ENFORCER. It represents both a departure from and an adherence to the familiar Harry tradition. However, despite its many shortcomings, it excludes a great 70s feel. Fans of the first two installments will still delight in Harry's struggles with bureaucracy in the department, and to this end Bradford Dillman is a valuable addition to the series as the new Chief. Once again, Clint has some killer dialogue but while for the most part he is as stern as in his previous performances, some of his lines are offered just a little too sparingly and nonchalantly. The villains &#x96; this time a group of mere misfits who kidnap the Mayor of San Francisco for a ransom of five million dollars &#x96; just aren't as menacing as the crooks in DIRTY HARRY and MAGNUM FORCE. There's no mystique surrounding their identity and their performances are particularly flat and nondescript (even to the point where their plot points may wash over you and you momentarily lose your place.)The script begins very promisingly with Harry being assigned a female partner. The relationship that develops between the two - as Harry is forced to deal with his subconscious sexist prejudice &#x96; leads to some surprising comical moments, and this addition to the dynamic of the usual animosity between Harry and his partners comes across very well.The soundtrack is overwhelmingly orchestral giving THE ENFORCER a Hollywood music make-over instead of the usual gritty and upbeat Lalo Schrifin score which was used to full effect earlier. The chase scene in which Harry ends up in the Church builds up some tension and only serves thereby to remind the viewer of a hitherto absence of the moody jazz that was so prevalent in the original. The original Dirty Harry's success was not due to any specific formula but rather was the result of a film full of subtleties. These subtleties included a perfect music score, a balanced tension between Harry and his partners, Harry's contempt for the red tape of police bureaucracy, and the sinister nature of the villain(s). Together, these dynamics made the original two movies stronger than the sum of their parts THE ENFORCER is simply not as magical. This is a great pity. For the next Harry outing would see an older, greyer, and wrinklier Clint - and the series could only ever descend into some sort of parody. "},{"Title":"What can Dirty Harry not take on?","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" For me the sequels to Dirty Harry never came close topping the original, but I thoroughly enjoyed and think highly of them anyway... well maybe with the exception of The Dead Pool. Each one seemed to add its own distinguishable touch to the typical formula. The third film (and probably the cheapest, as it looks like it) of the series 'The Enforcer' seemed to have that swinging and carefree vibe of the times, with the biting reality and stark realisations (heavily implemented in the first two) taking a backseat for forceful (if crass) humour. However the violence is still gritty, mean, explosive and openly displayed. Director James Fargo ('Forced Vengeance', 'Every Which Way But Loose', 'Caravans' and 'A Game for Vultures') has appeared in some of Eastwood's early films as assistant director, and here he paces it well-enough and let's the foundation play out more like an expansive low-key action fling filled with the constant buddy routines (as Harry is paired up with a young green-horn female detective fidgety played by Tyne Daly. Who does bring an authentic and potent side to her role) that are credibly developed, long-winded build-ups finishing off with brute force and the quick-witted response. Harry also has got a catch-phrase&#x85; just 'marvellous'.Eastwood laconically pulls it off with dominant ease and certain authority of truly delving into this character (as now there's more to that monomaniacal search for one's own justice), as his hands out punishment (against a bunch of terrorists who call themselves 'The People's Revolutionary') and has time to let fly what he really thinks. Copping the cynical barbs are amusing support performances by Harry Guardino, John Crawford and Bradford Dillman. The bad guys here aren't overly memorable, but the DeVeren Bookwalter bestows a steely glance and has a quietly dangerous psychotic air to him. Showing up again, but in another different character is the wonderful Albert Popwell.I never tire of the San Francisco locations (where most of the films are shot), and the camera superbly details the on-screen action and striking background features. What I like about the ending of these earlier 'Dirty Harry' films, was how they weren't afraid to end on such an powerful note involving something represented visually to express the mindset, as the camera slowly zooms out and the harrowing score cues in. On the point about the music. I would say I was a little put off by the racy and bouncy jazz score arrangement of composer Jerry Fielding (who by-the-way has done some magnificent scores for films of Sam Peckinpah, Michael Winner and Clint Eastwood) just didn't have the stinging, sombre and self-reflecting quality of Lalo Schifrin's efforts. That's not to say it was bad or felt out of place, because it didn't with the feel that this one opted for. But a darker or more subtle take could've done it wonders since Fielding has chalked up some jarringly bold pieces in other films.The script has some political context (home-grown terrorism, political correctness and equal-gender opportunity), but always stays true to the story than trying to undermine or overdo it. While it should be predictable, it does keep one step ahead and offers a surprise or two.An up-to-par sequel. "},{"Title":"OK, not quite marvelous","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Kindler, gentler Dirty Harry film which puts our bureaucracy-hating, crime-busting hero with a female partner played by Tyne Daly, who would later achieve fame on Cagney & Lacey and is currently seen on Judging Amy.  Thin plot, some classic Eastwood quotes, but the villains can't match Andy Robinson from Dirty Harry or David Soul from Magnum Force. This might be the weakest Harry of the bunch. "},{"Title":"The dirtiest Harry of them all","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie continues the tradition of Clint Eastwood making great movies. The Enforcer is not the best of the Dirty Harry films, but it isn't the worst of them either. (The Dead Pool is). Don't get me wrong, they are all great flicks and I enjoy all of them but there is a best to worst order to these movies. The Enforcer is filled with Harry's dry humor and tough talking dialogue. 1976 San Francisco is filmed beautifully and provides a great background as in all the Dirty Harrys. The music is suitably funky. A bit dated, but funky. Tyne Daly does a good job as Harry's spunky new partner. Tyne Daly wasn't bad lookin' in 1976 either. I'm sure Tyne misses those days. Bottom Line Must have this movie to complete the Dirty Harry collection. It's a good tough-cop movie on it's own but I suggest getting all these films. Get the box set on DVD. "},{"Title":"As powerful as Clint Eastwood's .44 Magnum","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"20 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is the third installment of the Dirty Harry series, all starring the legendary four-times Academy Award-winning actor and director Clint Eastwood. Naturally, it's not as powerful and dramatic as the first of the series, because, once again naturally, sequels are difficult to make. Especially if you want them to live up to their proceeding movies.The Enforcer, like all five installments of the series, is a great action-crime film with it's own little individual plot and point. It's got plenty of decent action, Eastwood flaring away with his .44 Magnum revolver, punching bleeding holes through his challengers.This movie has also got a pretty dramatic ending.Overall, The Enforcer is another classic Clint Eastwood movie and definitely worth checking out and seeing a few times over. "},{"Title":"Average sequel, that still lacks the original magic","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Enforcer is the third in the line of Dirty Harry movies. It's suffering from sequelitis - it's just not the original movie.This time around Harry's up against a rather dull group of civilian terrorists. The enemies are weaker than in Magnum Force where they weren't nearly up to the psychotic Scorpio of the original. He's assisted by a female partner this time around, which provides for some amusing non-PC moments as Harry makes disparaging sexist remarks.The problem is it's all getting a bit formulaic. The formula does work fairly well, but I'd like to see some more creativity employed. Harry does something wild to get his guy. Harry gets into trouble. Harry is called back because only he can save the day. Harry saves day but with a cost. The villains don't help by being unmemorable clichés, espousing the usual diatribe about being for the people. Harry is again ably played by Eastwood (the glove fits here) but .. there's nothing amazing about any of the other roles. All slip away from memory.The Enforcer isn't a bad movie. It's just... an alright movie. It's worth catching if yer a fan of the series, but it's all a bit forgettable. 5.7/10 "},{"Title":"Another Good Dirty Harry","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film was to be Dirty Harry's last outing in the seventies (do not worry though, he had two comebacks in the eighties). It is easy to compare this film, with the two previous Dirty Harry movies, because there some things have (still) not changed. First of all, Harry (obviously) kept his cheeky mouth, which again provides the viewer with the necessary laughs and his boss with the necessary headaches. This is not the only thing that has stayed the same though. Again some of the scenes could have been shorter, thus (theoretically) making The Enforcer a much tighter package. A perfect example of that is the scene in which Harry chases a bad guy to the rooftop of a building. Not only could this scene have been shorter, but it could also have been much more exciting had there been adequate use of music and cinematography. There is however one upside to this installment in the Dirty Harry series, which is, that it is far more stable than it's predecessors. It is not a decent or good film film, but it gets very close, mainly because of the good acting and the fact that the film remained interesting for the despite it's downsides. Best Dirty Harry film until then. If you want to know if it is the best in the series, check my comment for Sudden Impact "}{"Title":"Dirty Harry, A Female Partner & Lots of Humour","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The shootouts, chases and explosions in this, the third Dirty Harry film, are enough to satisfy any action movie fan but what makes The Enforcer different to its predecessors is its humour. A number of sharp one-liners and the outrageous methods employed by Detective Inspector Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) provide a lot of laughs but additionally, his interactions with his new female partner and his incompetent superiors create a whole series of other situations which are also great fun to watch.Harry, of course, is a walking anachronism and a male chauvinist and these qualities often get him into trouble. He does, however, have a recognised talent for dealing with some very challenging cases in a particularly forceful way and it's this ability that frequently enables him to extricate himself from the difficulties that his behaviour leads him into.When Callahan and his partner Detective Inspector Frank DiGiorgio (John Mitchum) arrive at a liquor store robbery where the gunmen have taken hostages and demanded a car, Callahan simply gets into his police vehicle and drives it at great speed through the store-front windows before shooting and killing all the robbers. His quick, simple and effective way of dealing with this dangerous situation isn't appreciated by his superiors who promptly transfer him from the homicide division to the personnel department.In his new role, Callahan takes part in a series of interviews with candidates who are being considered for promotion to inspector and openly shows his disgust at the imposition of quotas to ensure that a requisite number of women are appointed to these posts. In one interview with a candidate called Kate Moore (Tyne Daly), his questions reveal that she's spent all her career doing office work and has no experience in the field and has never even made an arrest. Callahan's scepticism about promoting people with no proof of their competence in the field leads to him being branded a Neanderthal and his concern about their safety on the streets is also summarily dismissed.After DiGiorgio is killed attempting to arrest a group of terrorists who are in the process of stealing rocket launchers, explosives and a variety of other weapons from a munitions warehouse, Callahan is reassigned to homicide with a new partner, Detective Inspector Kate Moore. The way in which this unlikely partnership tracks down the terrorists who try to hold the city of San Francisco to ransom, surprisingly leads to them becoming friends before their mission reaches its action-packed climax at Alcatraz Island.It's interesting that in Magnum Force Callahan's attitude to vigilantism changed because of what happened in that story and similarly, in The Enforcer, his experience of working with a woman who showed her competence and bravery, leads to a certain softening of his attitude to the idea of women working in the homicide division. With his eyes narrowed and his teeth clenched, Clint Eastwood again does a good job of showing Callahan's disdain for various types of people but it's in his scenes with Tyne Daly that he shows greater subtlety as Callahan's new partner gradually starts to win his respect and friendship. "},{"Title":"Far Superior To Magnum Force","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadFirst, it is not contest while it as commensurably better than MAGNUM FORCE it is just as inferior to DIRTY HARRY. It has a much better villain than Magnum which featured bad acting TV actors as some kind of CHIPS from hell. Bobby Maxwell, while no Andrew Robinson, is a much better creepier bad guy. It also has much more humor than either of the first two with the drop dead funny scene with Harry as who you do not want working in your personnel department. This scene alone is worth watching the movie for. Also, the infighting between Mckay and Callahan is hilarious. The scene with the mayor is priceless where he tells Mckay,here is a six point suppository for you Captain, this is followed with more precise directions by Harry. The pacing of the movie is non stop. It, while being one of the shortest of the series, never stops moving.The death of DiGeorgio is handled well and we see the cost of police work portrayed well. Even in an opening confrontation with a liquor store robbery Harry is Harry again. There is no attempt made to soften him as was done in MAGNUM FORCE which is why, besides the awful villains, the movie is so overrated. Harry is his old iconoclastic self again, it is very refreshing after they castrated him in MAGNUM. All those scenes with the phony romance and eating at police widow's houses Please, stop. The turning Harry into Mr. Rogers project ceases here. Yes, he is finally kind to Kate but not until the very end; until then, he has open contempt and resentment towards her. The action scenes are well done, another great foot chase with Daley way behind is added to this great film. It has been in the shadow of MAGNUM FORCE too long. It has a better villain, better action, is way funnier and moves faster with a purpose. Compare the two finales, MAGNUM FORCE is shot inside a dark aircraft carrier where nobody can tell what is going on. Poor photography and the whole concept is terrible. Here, it is on Alcatraz Island where we can see everything clearly. Watch and Buy this one first, save Magnum for right above the worst THE DEAD POOL. "},{"Title":"Sometime You Need Neanderthals In The Department","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It might not be the best of the Dirty Harry films, but The Enforcer is my favorite one. This is the one where the sexist side of Inspector Harry Callahan is explored and challenged.Clint Eastwood is now on some dead end assignment in the San Francisco PD because he's once again offended someone powerful. He's now reviewing applicants for promotion. But when a robbery occurs of an armory and some heavy duty weapons are stolen, the SFPD has to turn to Dirty Harry.In this case something called the People's Liberation Strike Force with those weapons and explosives now start making demands on the city of San Francisco. A lot of dead bodies pile up in this one, including John Mitchum in his third and final appearance in a Dirty Harry film. Mitchum was one of the detectives in the SFPD Homicide Squad and had a peripheral role in the first two films. Here he becomes Clint's partner and actually uncovers the hideout of the militants, but the leader gets the drop on him and kills him.Harry Guardino returns as Eastwood's immediate superior, Guardino was absent from Magnum Force, he figured prominently as the constantly harassed superior. Bradford Dillman is an ambitious politically minded captain, who gets the liberal mayor, John Crawford's ear.Tyne Daly gives the best performance, probably her best big screen role as the female partner Eastwood is assigned with. It's part of the new look the SFPD is being given. She's quite the inexperienced klutz at first, something Clint doesn't really need. In the end she really does redeem herself. And Clint loses a bit off the testosterone here. The final shootout with the militants who've hidden out on deserted Alcatraz Island is the best climax of any of the Dirty Harry films. The Enforcer's got the best ending of any Dirty Harry film.As you gather some punks chose to try their luck with Dirty Harry. "},{"Title":"The best sequel of the Dirty Harry series!","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The original Dirty Harry film is a masterpiece of filmmaking, a bleak, spare morality tale and social commentary on the flawed justice system that introduced the iconic San Francisco detective to the ranks of the best cops portrayed on film and essentially re-defined the trajectory of Clint Eastwood's career. Yeah, Eastwood had already nailed the anti-heroic Western loner in the 60s, BUT in the 70s thanks to the role of Dirty Harry, he was able to tweak his cool, macho persona just enough to create a new, invigorating character.Harry Callahan may actually be similar on the surface to Eastwood's Man With No Name Western hero, but there are definite subtleties that make Harry a more relatable type of hero. For example, in the first film, we find out that Harry is a widower in a very brief, yet immensely well-played scene when he is being treated by a longtime doctor friend for his wounds obtained in the film's early legendary Do you feel lucky? shootout. Anyone in Harry's situation could relate to such loss, however long ago it happened. It's nice little scenes like this that make Harry one of us, and not just some otherworldly tough guy. Then there's Harry's legendary speech to the Mayor on how he feels about criminals. I imagine that's how a LOT of people actually feel, but Harry is that rare breed that's got the stones to voice his opinion! Harry speaks for the majority. The ending to Dirty Harry is still one of the most powerful ever put to celluloid. It was the real Best Picture of 1971, anyway you slice it! Interestingly, most people actually like virtually all of the sequels (except perhaps for The Dead Pool), but you can't win them all! Still, for 3 out of 4 sequels to be good, that's something. In actuality, I think the majority opinion is that each sequel declines in quality from the prior film. I disagree. While I still think Dirty Harry is the best of all (obviously), I don't think the immediate sequel Magnum Force is the best sequel. I believe that honor actually goes to this film THE ENFORCER (1976). Magnum Force, while somewhat watchable, is a bit too cold and detached and, really, the least relatable of the group of films, next to The Dead Pool. Definitely not my favorite. As a sequel, I feel as if The Enforcer comes closest of all of them of deftly relaying the message of the Dirty Harry films, while being able to tell a different, yet compelling, story.The Enforcer starts out with a scene of a sexy hitchhiker (70s blonde bombshell Jocelyn Jones sporting the Daisy Duke look even before the term was coined!) goading two gullible and horny gas company employees to a private location, where lay in wait is Bobby Maxwell (played with bug-eyed intensity by DeVeren Bookwalter), a disgruntled Vietnam vet and leader of the People's Revolutionary Strike Force. Maxwell kills the 2 men so he can confiscate their van to infiltrate a secure warehouse to steal advanced weapons so they can wreak havoc in the city, all the while leading up to a grander plan that involves kidnapping the Mayor to make a bold statement.During the warehouse melee, Harry's partner DiGiorgio (commendably played by John Mitchum) is killed trying to stop the terrorist gang, but not before he is able to fatally injure one of them. Maxwell takes no chances and finishes off the injured party in a disturbing moment. So Harry is assigned a new partner Officer Kate Moore (winningly played by a very young Tyne Daly in a breakthrough role), who is immediately promoted to detective after having just passed an oral screening exam, of which Harry was one of the testers. The exam scene was my favorite of the film! Harry, being somewhat of a misogynist, reluctantly partners with Moore and their uneasy alliance is fun to watch throughout, as Eastwood and Daly display appealing yin-yang chemistry.During their investigation into the war on the city, Harry's superiors, in particular the vain, media-schmoozing Captain McKay (convincingly played by Bradford Dillman) try to compel him to harass an infamous local group of black militants, let by Mustapha (persuasively played by Albert Popwell, a stalwart supporting player in the Dirty Harry franchise). The scenes between Harry and Mustapha are very compelling, as the two men, while they have similar viewpoints on the MAN and the corrupt, ill-operated justice system, Harry hasn't completely given up on it, while Mustapha is a total rebel.But as the film progresses and Harry sees that his superiors are targeting the wrong group, even after he and Moore have gathered some feasible circumstantial evidence, he gets himself suspended. Soon after, the real terrorists kidnap the Mayor and McKay re-instates Harry as Harry and Moore pursue the terrorists in a pulse-pounding climax at the infamous Alcatraz prison (shot on location). The ending scene to this sequel, for me, really resonates and I have it as easily the second best one in all the films. I'm sure you can guess which ending I rank as Number 1! Eastwood easily fits into his iconic role here carries the show with cool, calm precision. And Daly, in a groundbreaking role, plays my favorite partner to Harry Callahan. This role probably set the stage for her to become the Lacey half of Cagney and Lacey, for which she would go onto to win FOUR Lead Actress in a Drama Series Emmys! Directed by James Fargo, I find The Enforcer to be a very provocative and fluid film that never stalls and tells a compelling story. Easily the best sequel to Dirty Harry for me! "},{"Title":"Still great after 33 years","Date":"17 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie continues the tradition of great Clint Eastwood movies. The Enforcer is filled with Harry Callahan's dry humor and tough talk. 1976 San Francisco is filmed beautifully and provides a great background as usual. The music is suitably funky, perfect for the period. Much better than what passes for entertainment these days. We took them all for granted back then. You must have this movie to complete your Dirty Harry collection. It's one of the 3 best of the series.Great bad guys, and DiGeorgio, his partner, played by John Mitchum, Robert Mitchum's brother. Tyne Daly makes her first major appearance, and handles it well. "},{"Title":"Dirty HarryA  Noble Knight in a savage land.","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Third Dirty Harry Film is not a character study or a social comment this time it's a out and out action film. a terrorist group targets San Francisco and they are intent on starting a race war with a black militant gang based on the black panthers it's a ruse of course and Dirty Harry gets caught in it . Harry is assigned a new partner a female PArtner named Kate Moore who has a hard time trying to walk in Harry's shadow. the war comes to S.F. and Harry after stopping a robbery is assigned to Personel. harry is like a fish out of water but the clues and tips keep piling up as do the bodies. Finally Harry is suspended and while he sits this out the Terrorists seize the mayor hostage and hole up on alcatraz. Harry is asked to rescue the mayor and does so in a thrilling climax that also breaks Harry's Heart. Not the best in the series but not the worst either it does what it's intended to do entertain you. it's not a political statement it's not a thinking picture it's a action picture which means sit back and watch one of the best in the business show you how it's done. "},{"Title":"A good third entry in the Dirty Harry Series!","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Enforcer (1976) the third entry of the Dirty Harry series is quite well good movie, but in my opinion the weakest in the franchise. Every time I watched this movie, it was always weak tough I do love Dirty Harry and Magnum Force, this one is my at least favorite action film but still good and excellent film. Clint Eastwood still plays terrific his character in the third ride in Dirty Harry series. This one is the second to least good of the Dirty Harry series. After a while they do get a little repetitive. I really didn't like how Harry was acting towards Kate Moore (Tyne Daly) I really didn't like that. Tyne Daly did a fine job acting as a cop in this movie. Five years later, she played in her own TV cop show Cagney & Lacey (1981), the show lasted for 7.years. The message is as clunky as a 44 magnum in a handbag. The film feels longer than the first two. The whole thing lacks the style of the original Dirty Harry.I like this film a lot there a are great moments and action in this movie. What I don't understand is the hate for this film. Why? I never understood why people say that The Enforcer is a fascist film. Why? Because Eastwood mows down a bunch of hippies? Newsflash, the Manson family was also a bunch of hippies. There were hippie terrorist groups bombing military bases in the 60s and early 70. For Christ sake, its like these idiots have no idea that the hippies were not all peace and love. I don't mind The Enforcer, but undeniably it is the weakest of the Dirty Harry films, however the whole theory of Harry being sexist is rather stupid, he was merely concerned about the lack of experience his partner has, it just so happens she is a woman and journalists and critics are just looking for anything to twist or complain about without thinking twice, it's just a bunch of crap. Tyne Daly did a great acting performance in this film and she did a great job as Kate Moore. I love her! I love that San Francisco Police Inspector Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) continues to carry as his sidearm his .44 Magnum, the Smith & Wesson Model 29 with an 6 1/2 barrel. He comments in the film to his partner Insp. Kate Moore (Tyne Daly) that he particularly favors this gun due to penetration power, since he claims he's seen a .38 ricochet off a car windshield. He uses Rocket Launcher, the last showdown gun fights took place in Alcatraz, 3 years later, Clint Eastwood played in a movie Escape from Alcatraz (1979) that took place in the same prison. In this movie there are used even more automatic guns and hand guns. I love the actor DeVeren Bookwalter who played Bobby Maxwell an Vietnam Vet turned out the leader of the People's Revolutionary Strike Force (PRSF), who stole automatic weapons from warehouse, then killed Lt. Al fatso Bressler (Harry Guardino) from Dirty Harry. Than they kidnapped the mayor and they were extortion the city for ransom money. So now Inspector Harry Callahan and Kate Moore (Tyne Daly), have to spoil their plans and save the major.The Enforcer is the third installment in the Dirty Harry film franchise. Clint Eastwood returns in the 1976 sequel, which finds Dirty Harry partnered with a rookie Inspector who happens to be a woman (Tyne Daly). The duo must stop an ultra-leftist terrorist organization that threatens to wreak havoc on the city. Of note is one of the earliest appearances in a film of the M72 LAW. They were all kind of weapons used in this flick, Clint Eastwood is using rocket launcher M72A1 LAW blowing up Maxwell (DeVeren Bookwalter) to pieces in the watch tower. The scene was fantastic! This movie is a 8, it doesn't deserve to be criticized tough it is weak film, but it is still good. I like this movie a lot, it is the last Dirty Harry movie made in the 70's. The Enforcer is a 1976 American action film and the third in the Dirty Harry film series. Directed by James Fargo, it stars Clint Eastwood as Inspector Dirty Harry Callahan, Tyne Daly as Inspector Kate Moore and DeVeren Bookwalter as terrorist leader/main antagonist Bobby Maxwell. 8/10 Grade B Studio Warner Bros. Starring Clint Eastwood, Harry Guardino, Bradford Dillman, Tyne Daly, DeVeren Bookwalter Director James Fargo Producer Robert Daley Screenplay Stirling Silliphant, Dean Riesner Story Gail Morgan Hickman, S.W. Schurr Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 36 Mins. Budget $9.000.000 Box Office $46,236,000 "},{"Title":"Suspect my ass!","Date":"28 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Second sequel to Dirty Harry has Harry (Clint Eastwood) trying to stop a terrorist group. But due to departmental quotas, Harry's been forced to take on a female cop (Tyne Daly) as his new partner. This doesn't sit well with everyone's favorite politically incorrect cop. But the new partner proves herself and the two surprisingly work well together. I loved the chemistry between Eastwood and Daly. This is my favorite of all the sequels in this series. It has a lot of humor, a good pace, and solid action. It also has the best script outside of the first movie. This was a good series. If you're new to Dirty Harry, definitely watch them in order because the '80s ones, while not bad, don't have the same appeal as the first three. "},{"Title":"Formulaic, Dated but Fun","Date":"4 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Not many filmgoers come to a Dirty Harry movie expecting a meditation on violence, hypocrisy, discrimination or man's inhumanity to man. All these themes are present in The Enforcer, of course, but the film doesn't spend much time developing them. They are simply part of the 70s zeitgeist, as well as the formula for the entire Dirty Harry series, of which this is the third. If you liked the original and Magnum Force you'll probably like The Enforcer, but you'll also get the feeling that it's all been done before. There's Harry, there's the partner who usually dies in the climactic final scene (this time Harry loses two, at either end of the movie), and there's the bad guy(s) who terrorize San Francisco for no apparent reason other than to give Harry something to do. And of course there's the craven crew from City Hall, who we end up liking even less than the bad guys. Eastwood is in top snarling, wisecracking form, breaking the rules with alacrity. He doesn't have quite as many great feeling-lucky-today-punk lines as in the earlier films, but he still delivers them with just the right touch of sarcasm and menace. Tyne Daly, in her first feature film, makes the most of her opportunity as the affirmative-action hire who gradually earns Harry's respect. And Albert Popwell, who was feeling lucky in Dirty Harry, has moved up in the world of crime. His character, Mustapha, is wrongly rousted by Harry's dimwitted superiors. The movie is replete with striking images of San Fran, which is practically a character in its own right. The music is standard issue 70s jazz lite fare, and would be quite at home in an episode of Streets of San Francisco or Ironside. The language is likewise dated (when's the last time you heard honky used in a sentence?). Not a great picture, even by Dirty Harry standards, but a great deal of fun nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Good but they should have left the series here","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Each Dirty Harry film has its' own topic in the overall arc. The original dealt with the ineffectiveness of the police with the restrictions placed on them in an increasingly liberal society. Magnum Force, arguably the better film asked you where was the line, what was justifiable in terms of defending society from criminals? Sudden Impact also dealt with vigilantism plus sex crimes whilst The Dead Pool centered on the power and irresponsibility of the media and entertainment industry. The Enforcer? Homegrown terrorism and women's lib, both very important topics in the 1970s (the Revolutionary People's Strike Force very clearly based on Patty Hearst's kidnappers, the Symbolise Liberation Army).Some very good stuff here, Tyne Daly is terrific and it's little wonder she got Cagney and Lacey off the strength of this (just as David Soul and Robert Urich got their own cop series as a result of their Dirty Harry performances). The patronising way all the other cops treat her is both outrageous and hilarious. If you're filming in San Francisco you must surely film a scene on Alcatraz at some point (although weirdly Harry never does seem to end up on the Golden Gate bridge)and it works terrifically well.Sad to say goodbye to John Mitchum who was so good as Harry's pasta loving pal in the previous two films. Best role ever however for Albert Popwell who is terrific as Mustapha (is he the same character Harry shot outside the bank in Dirty Harry?), especially love his outrage that Harry is going to tell everyone he's an informer but his parting remark to Harry is to be sure to wipe the PRSF out (to which Harry readily agrees Count on it)! Bad points? Such a cliché that the PRSF is really only out for money, American cinema seems to have a real problem with accepting the fact that terrorists act out of their beliefs (however insane and odious). You'd also think that if they terrorists wanted to steal the gas company employee's uniforms they'd find a less bloody way to kill them?The lead villain has great potential but it's never really expanded upon which is a shame. The final scene is great, rightly condemning the authorities habit of paying ransoms rather than tackling the terrorists. So, all told a step down from its' predecessors but still very good. "}{"Title":"More enforced plots","Date":"17 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The weakest of the five Harry's, this one is solely let down by it's story. Pity, as it isn't a badly made film. Clint is fun in this one, like in the exam scene, involving a few rookies. Clint, who shows up late, helps one in a bit of distress, just by pointing his finger and spouting the word Bang. Clint totally steals this scene, with a Why do I have to be here look, while also using as reference, making it with a shetland pony. He's saddled with a female partner, (Tyne Daly) so we know there's gonna be a but of friction here. A group of pi..ed off terrorists, ex vets, have kidnapped the mayor, their use of transport, an armaguard truck, you see them acquire at the start. These are some real dangerous psychos, too, void of any compunction, like a guided missile. As always in these Harry's we have an early, just for the hell of it action scene, a robber wanting a car, who's quickly disposed of by Harry, leaving this bottle shop in quite a bit of a mess. I still enjoy this film. It just doesn't come off good as the others. Blowing the bad guy away, with a rocket, doesn't help with the quality of the film. Tyne Daly has her moment, with a line she delivers as an omen to a terrorist, You laugh at me bastard, I'll shoot you where you stand. We hope he does move, just to see the result. Eastwood has his moments, like when authorities, foil his investigation, regarding a black snitch he uses, goes out the window. The line he uses, to retort, regarding a six pointed badge is hilarious. You've seen this black dude in other Harry films, in small roles he does. Again Eastwood has his moment at the end, where he walks off into the distance. This is probably the funniest Harry of the five, but as I said the cheap story is really what discredits it. Fargo went onto make that abominable Chuckie flick, 'Forced Vengeance', this one in comparison in high quality stuff. "},{"Title":"Weak third entry in the Dirty Harry series.","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Enforcer sees tough San Francisco cop Harry Callahan less than enthralled to be partnered with inexperienced female inspector Kate Moore (Tyne Daly), who he considers to be far from suitable for the job. However, rather predictably, as the pair proceed to track down a gang of heavily armed terrorists, Moore proves her worth and Callahan's feelings towards the woman gradually change.The dilution of Harry Callahan's fascist persona continues in this, the third in Clint Eastwood's Dirty Harry series, in which anti-hero Harry learns that his prejudices against women are unwarranted. The silly 'battle of the sexes' plot provides the film with some lame moments of humour at the expense of Daly, before giving her the opportunity to show what she is really capable of under pressure, ultimately sacrificing her life to save her partner.Naff female equality issues aside, The Enforcer also suffers from tepid direction from James Fargo (apart from the nudity and violence, this feels very much like a made for TV movie), stereotypical comic-book bad guys, and horrible, generic 'jazzy' music (although a Lalo Schifrin score would have been way too stylish for this!). "},{"Title":"The Enforcer","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In this rock solid third film in the DIRTY HARRY series(and, in my opinion, the best sequel), San Francisco Inspector Harry Callahan not only must contend with a terrorist group but the breaking in of a new green partner, a woman as part of a political demand for female cops on the force. The group kill series regular DiGiorgio(John Mitchum)when their leader, Bobby Maxwell(DeVeren Bookwalter), knifes him multiple times in the back while heisting a weapons warehouse. Before succumbing to the wounds, however, DiGeorgio gives Callahan a lead, and Harry gets extra information from the leader of a black militant group(Albert Popwell, in yet another part). So Harry and Kate Moore(Tyne Daly, easily the best partner of the series)join forces to find the People's Revolutionary Strike Force, motivated even further when the group successfully kidnap the city mayor(John Crawford), holding him for ransom. Taut, exciting climax on the run-down/shut-down Alcatraz Island and a thrilling foot chase where Callahan attempts to track down a thug who bombed a police station bathroom are highlights of this particular DIRTY HARRY film. Daly proves valuable to Harry, even saving his life at one point when he tries to fish information out of a poverty row parish priest responsible for inspiring the terrorists as one of the killers is disguised as a nun(carrying a shotgun). Bradford Dillman is the pencil-pushing bureaucrat, Captain McKay, who Callahan despises for how he kisses the mayor's ass and stages a paddy wagon trip for Mustapha and his militants after Harry leaves their premises..further escalated when Callahan rejects commendations for the bust claiming this group was not the terrorists responsible for the acts of violence plaguing the city, telling McKay he could stick Harry's badge up his ass! If there was a criticism is that the heavy of this film isn't as memorable as in the previous two entries, Bobby Maxwell essentially a sadistic heel, nothing more or less. Seeing Eastwood leaping from roof top to roof top, up and down stairs, actually participating in the stunts and action, I certainly have an admiration for his dedication to authenticity and craft. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, Fast-Paced And Exciting Crime Actioner In The Dirty Harry Series","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When a gang of liberation extremists rob a warehouse of high-powered munitions and threaten the city, it's up to San Fransisco's meanest, toughest detective - Inspector Harry Callahan - to deal out some rough justice.This is the third Dirty Harry movie, and for my money the best of the sequels. First time director Fargo (he was an assistant on several of Eastwood's previous films) turns in a slick thriller which is a pleasing mix of crime story, characterisation, action and humour. It was scripted by two old pros - Stirling Silliphant and Dean Riesner - and every scene has some fizzle; Harry driving a car into a liquor store holdup, an exciting rooftop chase, Harry chewing out the Mayor, a confrontation at a black activists hangout, the finale at the spooky abandoned Alcatraz Island prison. Even when it slows down for Harry and Moore to talk there is real chemistry, due mostly to Daly's excellent performance as the only character in the five films who really seems to get through to Eastwood. The rest of the cast are solid, with lots of actors reprising roles; Guardino returns from Dirty Harry, snivelling Dillman went on to play a different role in Sudden Impact, and Mitchum dies after having survived both Dirty Harry and Magnum Force. Best of all is Popwell, who plays different characters in the first four movies, and here is a cagey Black Panther-type urban leader. As ever, San Fransisco itself is a distinct and hard-bitten character in the movie; this one was filmed mostly in the Fillmore and Mission Districts. And as with its predecessors, the film has an interesting social subtext of the times; in this case the bad guys represent extremists like the Symbionese Liberation Army or the Baader-Meinhof Group with confused political/terrorist/criminal agendas. One complaint - Jerry Fielding's score is okay, but not as good as Lalo Schifrin's brilliant jazzy music for the other four movies; I guess Schifrin was busy since he composed six other scores that year. All in all this a great, lean, exciting movie with Eastwood in his signature role, doing what he did better than anyone else in the seventies. Solid entertainment. "},{"Title":"My favorite Harry","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" For some reason (or reasons), I found this Harry episode a little more entertaining than the others. Maybe it's the Tyne Daly interview scene with the woman's rights liaison sanctimoniously commenting on equality while Harry lam-basts her with a what would you do in this situation? scenario. Maybe it's the rich kid who metamorphosed into the smarmy old man quasi-liberal mayor, with his Jimmy sycophantic aide at his side resembling a blathering French poodle. These mayoral scenes take a really sarcastic swipe at so-called liberal politicking done by mostly all the brass bigwigs. Another maybe is Clint's brief but amusing fictional characterization of Larry Dickman at Wanda's love emporium; I still get a kick out of that name and his reference to a fictional brother, as if he needed references!Also enjoyable is the opening scene at the restaurant where Harry bum-rushes Freddie the Fainter, the food-poisonee faker who fools everybody but Harry. How about the Tyne Daly/Harry partnership which develops nicely as we segue from the soul-brother barbershop scene (great one-liners here!) to the foot chase segment, with the accompanying jazzy-funky score and with Ms. Daly at his back (well, sort of!)? She finally does really cover his back later on, but I won't say how or when (no spoiling!). Speaking of Ms. Daly, this is my favorite of all her roles...she really looks like she enjoyed her part here and play it well she did.But Ms. Daly's entrance into the foray would not have occurred were it not for the tragic demise of DiGiorgio (John Mitchum) Harry's partner/fellow inspector and confidant throughout the three main Harry films. His character exuded an old-school, no-nonsense approach to the job, as well as a compassionate, yet tough love demeanor. He was not one for flash and dash, hyperbole ridden, rambling diatribe just cut to the chase, state the facts tersely but factually and get the job done. He was basically a throwback to the 50's-60's, whose wife still went to Novenas, a practice less common as the 70's rolled in. Truly, he was never a forefront character, but his presence was subtle yet effective. You could tangibly feel Harry's grief stricken emotions at the passing of his partner and friend. All the above plus a well written and nicely paced story line, a gorgeous cinematic backdrop of 'Frisco and the adjoining Bay area and a more understated and laid back execution of this film makes it a little different from the other Harrys. It's not necessarily better than the other Dirty Harrys, but I just enjoyed this one more, especially the unique ending and the pivotal sequences of events that preceded it. "},{"Title":"Another solid Dirty Harry film","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Once again, Clint Eastwood stars in an entertaining film playing Inspector Dirty Harry Callahan.  The plot of this story is quite weak, but the sheer presence of Clint on the scene makes this movie worth watching.A group of extortionists kidnap the mayor of San Francisco, and bribe the city to give them money to release the mayor.  The bad guys aren't that scary and the story is pretty unoriginal, but I don't know what it is, but it is still enjoyable to watch. Eastwood is hilarious and incredibly virile, and he dominates every scene he is in.Maybe the worst of the Dirty Harry series, but still fun to watch. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Didn't do much for me.","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Enforcer is set in San Francisco & starts as a terrorist organisation that calls themselves the People's Revolutionary Strike Force break into an arms warehouse & steal a load of rock launchers & various other weapons, homicide cop Frank DiGiorgio (John Mitchum) catches them in the act but is shot by the gang. DiGiorgio dies in hospital the next day & his partner 'Dirty' Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) is annoyed, very annoyed & together with his trusty Magnum sets out to bring the People's Revolutionary Strike Force down single handedly if necessary. Things get complicated though when he gets a new rookie female partner Inspector Kate Moore (Tyne Daly) & the People's Revolutionary Strike Force decide to kidnap the mayor (John Crawford) & hold him to ransom...Directed by James Fargo this was the third entry in the popular Dirty Harry series of action flicks to star Clint Eastwood as the title character & I must admit The Enforcer didn't do a great deal for me. The fairly routine script by Stirling Silliphant & Dean Riesner which was apparently originally called 'Moving Target' takes itself pretty seriously & just isn't that good I'm afraid, it's well short on action & set-pieces, the story is dull & turns out to be nothing more than a simple kidnapping & as a whole it never got me going. The bad guy's are also underused here, they barely feature at all & after the first few minutes they completely disappear until near the end, the main bad guy Bobby Maxwell has to be one of the weakest on screen baddies ever, he doesn't get any decent lines, he doesn't get much of an opportunity to be evil & he puts up virtually no resistance at the end as Harry blows him away. The one aspect of the film I did like was Harry's partner, I did think The Enforcer was going to turn into a mismatched cop buddy buddy type flick as he is paired up with a woman but it doesn't quite work out that way & while there's mutual respect by the end it never falls into the established clichés. In a way The Enforcer could be described as the very first mismatched partner action flick but it doesn't follow the same path many other's would take after 48 Hrs. (1982) which is more suited to the accolade.Director Fargo does alright but the film is pretty bland, a bit lifeless & the action scenes are low key to say the least. There's no car chases, very few shot outs, one fight & little in the way of anything spectacular or particularly memorable including a rushed ending. The Enforcer has a somewhat sedate pace & I just found myself losing interest at various points, the whole film just feels lacklustre & like no-one had any enthusiasm apart from Tyne Daly who is pretty good in this a full 6 years before her stint as New York cop Lacey in Cagney & Lacey (1982 - 1988).Technically the film is alright, there's nothing here that stands out as being particularly good or bad although I really hated some of the 70's style jazz music that played in the background especially during the scene when Harry chases the black dude. Actually shot in San Francisco & on Alcatraz this definitely has a somewhat gritty 70's feel to it. The acting is OK but nothing special.The Enforcer is an average 70's cop thriller, it doesn't really have enough action for modern audiences tastes & the story itself isn't anything to shout about either. It's OK but nothing special. The Enforcer was the third Dirty Harry film coming after Dirty Harry (1971) & Magnum Force (1973) & was itself followed by two sequels Sudden Impact (1983) & The Dead Pool (1989). "},{"Title":"Direction&#x85;should have been Enforced!","Date":"29 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have never enjoyed or held this film, THE ENFORCER, and any subsequent Dirty Harry film in high regard unlike the first two entries. They were always OK time wasters. I recently re-watched it and I must say it was better than I remember it being on previous viewings. It moved along at a fairly steady pace and the story was pretty good. BUT..... all the reasons that I didn't like the film in the past were still there. The problem, I realized this time, lay within myself. As a standalone film it is very good...but compared to the 1st two films, it is still lack-luster for many reasons. While James Fargo is a competent director, this film was his first and he only got the position as a reward for being a good assistant on previous Eastwood films, his direction is watered down and unremarkable. He makes directing 101 mistakes like crossing the axis&#x85;etc. all through this film. While part of me likes the fact that Clint is loyal to his employees and hires from within, as a hard-core film fan I would have preferred if he assigned the director's position to the best candidate rather than due to nepotism. Fargo does not have (in this film) any real strong visual/aesthetic style. The film looks like any other generic film unlike the 1st two films which both have their own strong visual styles, mood and pace. But maybe half the blame can be lumped onto Charles Short shoulders, he was the DOP and could have used his presumed skills to raise the bar visually, which he did not accomplish. The script is good but could have been tighter with more twists and suspense. John Milius would have added a great deal if Eastwood would have paid for the writers skill (or better yet his direction) but Milius has stated himself that Eastwood is on the tight fisted side when it comes to hiring the best and was also quoted saying the stories don't have to be that good. WTF? YES&#x85;they do. Eastwood's acting is fairly consistent but there are a few moments where Don Siegel or Ted Post would have stepped in and asked for another more subtle take from the actor. Again this falls solely on Mr. Fargo's shoulders, as he has stated in his audio commentary, Clint was always open to any direction from him and let him have the final say. The main bad ass, Bobby Maxwell, a sociopath ex-Vietnam veteran is a very 2 dimensional character unlike the Scorpio killer portrayed with brilliance by Andy Robinson in the 1st film. Maybe the actor could have given a better performance with a better director at the helm. Again blame shifts to Mr. Fargo, in my opinion anyway. He cast and directed him. The music also falls short. I love Lalo Schifrin's previous scores for DIRTY HARRY, MAGNUM FORCE, ENTER THE DRAGON and COOL HAND Luke to name but a few classic scores but this one is far too light and jazzy in theme which is the way Mr. Fargo wanted the film to be, lighter in tone than the previous films. This is where I lose interest in the film. While I like the lightness and humour in the script with the banter between Harry and anyone who is opposed to him and his belief system, it seems to push the more important elements of the script/story, drama, suspense, action etc. which were so strong in DIRTY HARRY and MAGNUM FORCE to 2nd place. The humour in this film works very well but the action, suspense and drama are much weaker and fall short in strength leaving a less satisfying film experience as opposed to the previous two films in this series which are just simply better films in every aspect. "},{"Title":"A lesser entry in the Dirty Harry series","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Enforcer is the third entry in the 'Dirty Harry' series. This time Harry Callaghan is assigned a female partner to assist him in bringing down a group of hippy terrorists. As such, it operates on one level as an odd couple movie where Eastwood's character has to overcome his inbuilt sexism which tapped into the very topical women's lib movement of the 70's; while on the other hand it also covered subjects like terrorism, damaged Vietnam vets and the Black Panthers. So, it's certainly a film that can't be accused of not covering many hot topics of the mid 70's.This entry in the series is for me, not only a step down from the first two instalments, but also a lesser film than the under-rated fourth film, Sudden Impact (1983). The main issue is that it has a less interesting story with particularly mediocre villains. On paper, these counter-cultural terrorists have a lot of potential but in practice they lack charisma and come across as merely another obstacle for Harry to deal with. I also wasn't especially taken with the battle of the sexes sub-plot, which I found to be pretty predictable and hackneyed stuff, although it most probably had more impact back when it was released. None of this is any fault on the part of Clint Eastwood and Tyne Daly - soon-to-be 'Cagney and Lacey' fame &#x96; who both put in good performances. It's more the fault of underwhelming writing more than anything.Still, aside from all this, this is still an enjoyable movie. It's fairly action packed, including a particularly good extended rooftop chase scene which ends up crash landing into a porn shoot! Eastwood also, pleasingly gets to dispatch of a few other criminal reprobates along the way in a number of side scuffles which he gets actively involved in to violent effect. The big finale takes place in Alcatraz (well I guess this San Francisco based series had to end up there eventually) and while this sequence does have some genuine drama with Daly's character being killed, it also includes a very poorly staged demise of the chief bad guy where he ludicrously and wittingly sets himself up for an easy death by bazooka, leaving his captured hostage in an actively safe spot! Again, another example of this film feeling like it wasn't thought through very well. In the final analysis, this one is for me a lesser entry from this series, yet despite this it remains an entertaining enough watch. "},{"Title":"not the best one","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have a bit of problems with this flick. To be honest, there isn't that much of typical Dirty Harry style to see, yes, I know, he do has a one-liner, this time it's marvellous but somehow this flick let me down.It isn't the performances that are letting me down but the script itself. This time Callahan has a new partner, a woman and naturally it's against his nature to make a deal with her but after a while they do work fine together and you know that it will have a bad ending but somehow it's a bit too much of working together then the typical macho shoot to kill stuff.What was nice to see are the freeway bridges that were build in San Fran but were destroyed in 1989 by the Loma Prieta earthquake. I still can remember the collapse of a section of the double-deck Nimitz Freeway. On the other hand at the end they are on the Alcatraz Island and have a look how terrible it was back then even when it was just opened for public. Not bad as a flick on it's own but not good for a Dirty Harry franchise. Gore 0/5 Nudity 1/5 Effects 2/5 Story 2/5 Comedy 0/5 "}{"Title":"You really are a dirty b......, ain't you Harry?","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Back in the Eighties when I was still watching network TV, I used to catch Tyne Daly and Sharon Gless in 'Cagney and Lacey', their female detective team-up in which they cooperated in both their professional and personal lives. I couldn't help thinking back then that it was Daly's role in The Enforcer that recommended her for the part in the TV series. Even when watching the movie today, Daly as a cop doesn't quite click with me, but that's probably just a personal bias. Even so, it bothered me that she got wasted at the end of the story, as her chemistry with Clint Eastwood seemed to improve over the course of the picture.Maybe you had to live during the era, but it seemed that right after the kidnapping of Patty Hearst by the Symbionese Liberation Army in 1973, action movies of the time described militant gangs with names like The Peoples' Revolutionary Strike Force and it used to bug me no end. Another one was the International Liberation Army from the 1977 TV flick The Night They Took Miss Beautiful. All these liberation armies and strike forces and they never accomplished a thing except grabbing headlines and making a nuisance of themselves. Oh well.Certainly Harry Callahan didn't start out being an equal opportunity partner and given the situations he found himself in, was as far removed from political correctness territory as circumstances allowed. His training scenarios for new recruits were priceless, and he never did get far with his cruelty to animals exercise with Mrs. Grey from the mayor's office. Kate Moore (Daly) had to summon all of her intestinal fortitude to get beyond Harry's prescription of getting married and having kids; fortunately small arms training stood her well in taking out Sister Wanda (Samantha Doane) at the activist priest's church.Hey, I don't know if this was intentional or not, but remember the beat down Harry gave to the guy at the whorehouse? He used the plunger method on a guy named Buchinski (Robert Hoy), and I had to wonder if that wasn't a subliminal tribute to another action star of the Seventies, Charles Bronson. Bronson's real last name was Buchinski, I thought that was kind of cool.Well you just knew one of those Laws rockets would have to come in handy to close out the story. Dirty Harry liked to do things his own way, and what better way then to go out with a big bang. And to think, creepy Bobby saw it coming and couldn't do a thing about it. "},{"Title":"Lost some steam.","Date":"14 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is the second sequel to Dirty Harry, where Inspector Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) teams up with new partner Inspector Kate Moore (Tyne Daly) to go after a terrorist group who threatens to blow up San Francisco if their money demands aren't met. As with the previous films, the mystery begins immediately when the terrorist group shows their murderous intentions, proving that the bunch, especially the scumbag leader Bobby Maxwell (DeVeren Bookwalter), is a dangerous piece of work. Maxwell was so knife-happy, harming people mercilessly, that you would love to root against him and hope Callahan would bust him up really bad. In the middle of all the terrorist chaos, there are these random unrelated crimes foiled by Callahan, which showcases his strength and witty attitude as he deals with the city's worst of the worst. This let us see, once again, Callahan's unorthodox but pretty comical ways of dealing with these criminals and ridding the city of them. I thought, though, that despite the suspenseful plot element, the overall movie has fewer action and has less satisfying moments, ***spoiler ahead*** particularly how Callahan has to let the butt-kissing, politically connected Captain McKay throw the rulebook at him and how Callahan ultimately dealt with Maxwell - Callahan really needed to give him a taste of his own medicine after all the harm and damage he's done. ***spoiler ends*** The scenes with the clueless Mayor (John Crawford) and the dirty-mouth Mustapha (Albert Popwell) dragged the film. Clint Eastwood stayed true to his form as Callahan and had some good chemistry with Tyne Daly. But, overall, this is the least satisfying of all the Dirty Harry movies. Grade C "},{"Title":"Another Winner for the Series","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Enforcer (1976) *** (out of 4) The third film in the series finds Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) going up against a group of crazed Vietnam vets who take the Mayor hostage and demanding money for him before they not only kill him but blow up the city. With a new partner (Tyne Daly) at his side Harry must try and find out who the group is.This here is quite as good as the previous film but it's certainly still a winner as everything that makes the series so memorable is on display here and considering it's the third film in the series, it's still rather impressive how fresh the lead character is as well as the story. I think it's fair to say that the story is B movie material but it's still very effective and it's certainly good enough to hold your attention from start to finish and of course there are a few twists thrown in as well.This third film gives Harry a female partner, which allows for various sexist scenes that could only work in a film from this era. The different sex really adds quite a bit to the movie since it does get the laughs that you'd expect in certain scenes but it's also a refreshing take on the genre. By this time the Dirty Harry character was already iconic so the toughness of that character mixed well with the female officer here. It certainly doesn't hurt that Eastwood and Daly have so much chemistry together. The two of them are very effective in their roles with Eastwood clearly at ease playing this tough-as-nails cop who doesn't everything his way. The supporting cast also offers up good performances from Bradford Dillman, John Mitchum, Albert Popwell and Harry Guardino.THE ENFORCER contains all the elements that made the first two films great entertainment. Of course you get a pretty simple story of good versus evil but what makes it so well here is how it's set up. The opening sequence is downright violent and the cold-blooded nature of this group just makes you hate them to the point where you can't wait to see Harry get revenge. The film also offers up some pretty exciting action sequences including one of the great foot chases ever captured. Add in the top-notch cinematography and the great jazz score and THE ENFORCER is another success. "},{"Title":"don't like the villains","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It's the third Dirty Harry movie. Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) is as hard as ever. San Francisco is threatened by a terrorist group called, The People's Revolutionary Strike Force led by Bobby Maxwell (DeVeren Bookwalter). He lures 2 gas workers with a hot girl and kills them for their uniform. They killed Callahan's partner during a heist of military weapons. Callahan is forced to partner with Kate Moore (Tyne Daly) who has no street experience but lots of book smarts. She was promoted for political considerations for being female.It's a workable Dirty Harry movie. He's as inappropriate and violent as ever. Tyne Daly is pre-'Cagney & Lacey'. She does a compelling job as an inexperienced but strong-willed newbie. The thing that bothered me is the group of terrorists. They are part silly stereotypes and part artificial concoction. They don't really instill fear except maybe Maxwell. However he's more of a silly stereotype. I simply don't like the villains. The movie feels inferior to the first two movies. "},{"Title":"Good film. But not as good as the last two.","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Enforcer was a good movie but I felt as if it wasn't as good as Dirty Harry or Magnum Force. This is the plot. A group of terrorists led by a man named Bobby Maxwell (DeVeren Bookwalter) break into a military warehouse and steal a rocket launcher. They escape and kill Lieutenant Frank Di Giorgio (John Mitchum). Meanwhile Inspector Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) is assigned to the case with a young police woman named Inspector Kate Moore (Tyne Daly) but he isn't too happy about this. Anyway Maxwell and his group kidnap the mayor (John Crawford) and escape to Alcatraz Island. There is a big shootout and Harry saves the mayor. The problems with this movie are as follows. In the last two Dirty Harry movie we would see Harry spend a lot of time researching the villain. And we would see a lot more of what they are doing. Here, we see them take a rocket launcher, kill two gas delivery men, and kidnap the mayor. That's pretty much everything that they do that we see. We know that they are a militant group and that they hate the police but really that's about the extent of it. So overall I did like this one but it wasn't as good as the last two. I have heard however that this is the last good Dirty Harry movie. "},{"Title":"The essential elements of a good cop story stay the same","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Enforcer is Clint Eastwood's third of five outings as the iconic Dirty Harry &#x96; San Francisco's toughest cop, packing a .44 Magnum and no-nonsense attitude. This time he is after a sophisticated group of extortionists after the Mayor.When reviewing a film that is close on 40 years old, it is interesting to note how much stays the same in an actioner, and what has changed over the decades.One essential element remains a fascinating central character. Clint Eastwood is perfect as Harry Callahan &#x96; inscrutable, with droll talent for a one-liner. The sidekick is important, too &#x96; in this case Tyne Daly as Kate Moore, his new partner. And a worthy villain is another timeless ingredient &#x96; like Bobby Maxwell, a bitter ex-Vet looking to make a weak and indifferent bureaucracy pay for his suffering.Some things that have changed? Pacing &#x96; you just have to a recent thriller to notice how much sharper, faster, kinetic the action has become. A chase scene in The Enforcer makes up almost a whole sequence with only a fight sequence at the end &#x96; it could have been half the time. Stereotypes &#x96; the jive-talking black characters, as part of a Black Pantheresque group, would seem uncomfortable now. And Kate Moore, with her clunky shoes and big handbag, seems strange to a modern viewer &#x96; she'd have to be reinvented for today's audience. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry Has A Female Partner","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Enforcer is a American police action film that stars Clint Eastwood as Inspector Dirty Harry Callahan together with Tyne Daly and DeVeren Bookwalter. This third installment of the Dirty Harry Series is about the police detective being paired with a female partner.It is directed by James Fargo.Harry Callahan is paired with Kate Moore.Together,they try to bring down a terrorist organization that has kidnapped the mayor of San Francisco. He goes undercover as a terrorist.Later,they both discover that that the mayor is being held at Alcatraz Island.Together,they battle the kidnappers. Moore frees the mayor but a terrorist kills her as she saves Callahan's life. He avenges Moore.At the end,the inspector is uninterested in the mayor's gratitude,as he returns to his partner's corpse.The movie is action packed but obviously violent.But nevertheless,its level of violence is not up to up as compared to today's films.Having Dirty Harry go up against terrorists also provide an interesting premise and entertainment especially among Dirty Harry fans.As for the performances,Tyne Daly provides a riveting one as the female partner.The viewer will definitely get her sympathy especially when she gives up her life to save Harry.Overall,this is not up to par with the first film but it is still a good one to watch and reminisce especially when action heroes are people and not robotic mercenaries. "},{"Title":"The dirtiest Harry of them all...","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When Detective Harry Callahan stops a liquor store hostage stand-off in his no-nonsense way, he gets busted back to personnel. But not for long. When terrorists rob an arms warehouse and go on a blood soaked extortion spree. Clint Eastwood takes dead aim again in this, the third of the five Dirty Harry movies. Presaging her four-time Emmy-winning stint as half as TV's Cagney & Lacey, Tyne Daly co-stars as Harry's new partner, she has two jobs nailing the terrorists and winning hard-boiled Harry's confidence. Stoked with brisk humour and hard hitting mayhem, The Enforcer carves another winning notch in the handle of Harry's .44 magnum.This film is probably the best in the Dirty Harry series if i'm honest... well i have only seen the first 3 if sudden impact or the dead pool is better i don't know yet but i enjoyed this one and i do recommend it...****/***** very good "},{"Title":"All In A Day's Work For The Job-Jaded Harry Callahan","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" *Possible Spoilers Ahead!* If nothing else, The Enforcer proved to me that, yes, actions do speak louder than words, especially if you're packing a powerful .44 Magnum with you when your action plan goes into effect.And, you can be sure that bad-boy Homicide Inspector, Harry Callahan, and his beloved .44 Magnum, found plenty of hardcore criminal action to contend with on the seemingly safe streets of sunny San Francisco.And, since Harry always found that mere words were totally wasted on the hooligan, low-life types who operated within the city limits, the action that followed the point of his gun usually spoke a universal language all of its own.So, you can bet, without any remorse or second thoughts, Harry, and his trusty firearm, obliged the bad guys (and gals) without a word of delay.In this 3rd Dirty Harry vehicle, Clint Eastwood was clearly in top form as the snide, cynical, no-nonsense cop who breaks every rule and, typically, uses excessive force whenever dealing with the scuzzy criminal element, while always seeing to it that law and order prevailed.Surprisingly, this brutal, violent, fast-paced Crime/Drama from 1976 contained some very nice touches of humor, like, when Inspector Callahan delivers (in his dry, witless way) a literal barrage of hilarious one-liners whenever he's sneeringly talking back to his superiors or snarling at those whom he doesn't respect (which is pretty much everybody except, of course, for his colleagues).Even though The Enforcer is almost 40 years old, I found it to be quite an entertaining film from its particular genre. Regardless of all of the super-violent cop films that have since been released in the wake of The Enforcer, I still thought that this one's action-packed story held up fairly well.And, yes, even though I'm certainly no Clint Eastwood fan, I thought that, as the Dirty Harry character, Eastwood carried off his part very convincingly, projecting just the right edge of macho-man masculinity into his role.In The Enforcer, Inspector Callahan reluctantly has to contend with his very first female work-partner (remember this was 1976) while, at the same time, he, and his .44 Magnum, diligently go after a ruthless, underground terrorist group who have (in storage) a literal stockpile of stolen explosives and various weapons (including baby bazookas) at their convenient disposal - And, boy, do these scum-balls mean serious business when they include the kidnapping of the Mayor in their destructive plans! "},{"Title":"Harry Back In Fine Form.","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Third outing for Clint Eastwood as Dirty Harry Callahan, this time, after taking direct action to stop a hostage situation(as only Harry can!) he is then given a desk job, and another new partner(played by Tyne Daly, the first woman he has had to work with). Harry is then lectured in what today would be called diversity training, and after putting the instructor in her place, is still stuck with this new woman partner, who is determined to prove her worth on their first case, investigating a group of former Vietnam veterans who are now terrorists threatening the city. Harry must stop them in his usual methods, though is surprised by his new partner as well...Fine entry in the series gets things back on track after the disappointing Magnum Force. Lots of good action scenes, amusing dialogue, and memorable climax in Alcatraz. Tyne Daly more believable as a determined cop than a potential love interest of Harry's though!(Harry doesn't have luck with partners; better off on his own... "}{"Title":"it's weird how hokey these movies look nowadays","Date":"18 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When the original Dirty Harry got released, it drew controversy for what was seen as an endorsement of police brutality. Nowadays it looks pretty hokey, given its anti-hippie slant. I figure that the movie was made to appeal to the older generation. Part 3 also feels like that. The Enforcer brings back Clint Eastwood as the eponymous San Francisco cop, this time going after a revolutionary group - obviously modeled on the Symbionese Liberation Army - that kidnapped the mayor. This time, Harry has a female partner (Tyne Daly) in the investigation. I liked her character better.Anyway, it's a pretty silly movie. It's fun to watch, as long as we understand the reactionary position. I bet that no one predicted that the star would one day carry on a conversation with a chair. "},{"Title":"The (flimsy) streets of San Francisco","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Despite four writers working on it, there's very little to this third Dirty Harry movie. Clint Eastwood is back defending San Francisco from a loony group of radicals who've kidnapped the mayor. Eastwood's saddled with a new partner (a woman!) and is as ornery as ever dealing with pencil pushing commander Bradford Dillman and just about anyone else in authority. The direction, by James Fargo, is as bland as can be and the flimsy plot could very well have been a rejected episode of THE STREETS OF SAN FRANCISCO. Eastwood is Eastwood and Tyne Daly is terrific as his partner. Albert Popwell has a great cameo and Jerry Fielding's music score is actually much more suspenseful than the action taking place on screen. "},{"Title":"This time its just not Harry that is dirty, but the movie too","Date":"17 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Laziest and dullest of the first three Dirty Harry installments with no innovation or freshness to hold the audience attention and made only to run with the fame of its predecessors. Harry's attitude and approach towards work felt outrageous and ridiculous even as an audience, and the only characters I could connect to are his superiors who were trying to talk sense into Harry. It features one of the worst soundtracks for a chase sequence ever heard.Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) is assigned a new partner Kate (Tyne Daly) against his gender biased views. This time he is running around to catch a bunch of terrorists who have ransacked a police armory and gotten away with latest high tech weaponry. Harry comes out of the police force after his superiors try to do a media stunt using him. When the Mayor (John Crawford) is kidnapped and held for ransom, Harry takes law into his own hands.Again an introduction to how Harry deals with criminals which was quite boring. Each plot twist was visible a mile away and the execution is uninteresting and pathetic. Only Tyne Daly showed any interest on putting an effort into acting, but she is not Hollywood pretty though has a decent smile. Every aspect of the movie like dialogues, screenplay, background score felt mechanical and template driven. It only baffles knowing two more editions have come after this.This time its just not Harry that is dirty, but the movie too "},{"Title":"Law enforcement is too serious a matter to entrust to the law...","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" For the third opus of the 'Dirty Harry' series, the director James Fargo could easily capitalize on Clint Eastwood's portrayal of Dirty Harry. Virile, charismatic, hard-nosed, quiet, strong and implacable, this is what the audience expects from a Dirty Harry movie and this is what they get it in The Enforcer, with a cool-sounding title too. It's a character's driven series and although I'm not implying that the mere presence of Eastwood is enough but let's think about that Dirty Harry was perceived as a sort of fascist fantasy, it lead to the questioning of Harry Callahan's position as judge, jury and executioner in Magnum Force, and it was intelligently done. Now, what new thing could even be brought up to enrich the character?The surprise could have come from the villains but for the film's defense, how could you make characters as impacting as the psychopathic Scorpio and the Special Police unity that was exercising its own Justice in Magnum Force? Apparently, the screenwriter thought of a combination of both, a terrorist organization constituted by a bunch of young lunatics who happen to be politically oriented since they called themselves People Strike Revolutionary Force, but who can buy their repeated to the people when they kill in the most cold- blooded way a poor old security guard, or a poor worker in a bridge, or the two van-driving guys from the gas company? Are their fight worthy of such collateral damages, aren't their victims 'of the little people' too? Anyway, the way they deliver their slogans is too laconic to be believed, and the film rightfully respect the viewer's intelligence by revealing that the PSRF is just a facade for criminals mostly motivated by greed and money. That's fine but that doesn't make them any less interesting.To go straight to the point, The Enforcer sins in the 'antagonist' department; the terrorist leader with his blonde hair is hardly credible as a psychopath, let alone to be a match for Callahan. And this underdevelopment is quite a shame because the Dirty Harry series essentially depend on the villain. Granted Harry Callahan is a great character and never disappoints since Clint Eastwood incorporates him with total confidence, there have to be worthy villains that would justify his ruthlessness. The film follows the pattern of the first two opuses, by opening with a memorable confrontation with a group of thugs who took hostages in a liquor store. They order Harry to lie down on the floor to be frisked, Harry dryly replies this is my best sport jacket, they ask for a car and leaving Harry, the leader kicks him in the bottom (bad, very bad move). The next scene displays exactly what he expects from Harry, he gives them the car 'his way', then handles them one by one, hitting one of them in a very indistinct place, I hope it was the buttocks but the man's reaction implies that another part was hit. Well, those goons were more interesting than the main villains.And one more thing about the opening sequence, if not as iconic as the first confrontation that provided the famous Do you feel lucky? speech, The Enforcer surpasses the forgettable plane hi-jack from Magnum Force with a very clever use of humor. The exchange between Harry and the thugs are hilarious and it culminates with the following scene when naturally, Harry is criticized for his extreme methods, and is assigned by his incompetent superior Captain McKay to personnel, personnel, it's for a-holes retorts Harry, the I worked in personnel for ten years is funny enough but the icing on the cake is Clint's stoical yeah uttered between his clenched teeth. The humor displayed in The Enforcer demonstrates that the film is much smarter than what it appears, and transcends some predictable elements of the plot and the one-dimensionality of the villains. Yet, Harry's assignment to personnel is not just the typical 'temporary' sanction before he would get back to Homicide, it's also a plot device allowing him to meet the future Inspector Moore during her examination.The Enforcer features one of the most interesting twists of the series by assigning a new partner to Clint Eastwood, inspector Kate Moore played by a young Tyne Daly, who steals every scene she is, which is saying a lot, considering Harry's charisma. Moore spent ten years working as a clerk, and proved to be ready for a promotion. Through Moore, the film denounces the political interferences between Police and some sort of lobbying, many women are assigned inspectors just to fill quotas, and Harry's position on the question is obvious. But it's not misogyny, The Enforcer avoids all the clichés that would have damaged its credibility, Inspector Moore is competent, apart from one or two scenes, she doesn't act as a woman but rather as an inexperienced rookie, and what's more, she's a woman who's confronted to a bunch of villains who can kill a weak old man, or anyone for the sake of it. She follows Harry because she believes that both can make a great partnership but Harry knows he's a fighter, and that's something you got to learn through experienceThe interaction between Harry and Kate, provide the other elements of comedy in the film, in a much more subtle way, and it also permits to point out, the eternal (and real) antagonist which is the Police system and its incompetence when it interferes with lobbying and politics. That's certainly more interesting than the group of hippies who kill everything, and that's also why the climactic confrontation doesn't provide a cheerful satisfaction, we really didn't care of them and the point was not to get them killed. The film ends in a more dramatic note that is ironically one of the highlights of the film, on the field of storytelling, revealing a poignant, human side in Harry Callahan. "},{"Title":"A worthwhile third installment to the Dirty Harry franchise","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The third movie in this franchise still has what it takes to not falter but keep this franchise entertaining. The story and direction is more far-fetched than the previous two movies and the dialogue is unbelievable but the point is that it's entertaining. But this movie wasn't suppose to be a realistic franchise from the start so it's forgivable. Like the previous two movies this has nothing related to the other movies in this franchise except having the loose-canon cop Harry Callahan. A cop that does what it takes to get the job done. Harry always gets a new partner in every movie in this franchise so far but this time it's a female. And not only that he gets transferred out of homicide for being reckless when it comes to what he does best. And this time Harry is going after a ruthless killers and thieves that self proclaim themselves as revolutionaries. Again this time it's justice against the bad guys but it's still a entertaining flick, where the cops are the heroes. So yeah the premise is just black and white in this but it's still a watchable cop/action movie. It's seems Clint has really gotten used to playing Harry Callahan and his actions are still interesting since your wondering what he is going to do next. This third installment is a worthwhile one that has some memorable parts, just not a great one.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Marvelous!","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Dirty Harry franchise was running out of steam because they were running out of topical crimes or things for Harry to be really upset about. This movie had domestic terrorists when we were already so over that by 1976, and affirmative action.But you have all the ingredients for a DH movie. The catchphrase Marvelous, sardonically delivered. A partner who gets killed, (Two actually!) two dimensional bad guys, desk-bound politicians at the police department. They've got a formula, and don't mess it up! And of course, Albert Popwell.Harry is teamed with Tyne Daley of Cagney and Lacy fame. (which one was she again? I forget.) Since this is 1976 she doesn't wear a bra, and Harry fumes that she's getting the job without earning it. Meanwhile, they hunt a bunch of hippy radicals who didn't get the memo that wasn't cool anymore.this movie features probably the weakest villains of the franchise. They just aren't all that interesting.Oh, and your Albert Popwell appearance. Despite being killed in the second movie, Albert reappears in this one as Mustapha, a black militant whose rebellion against the man includes ripping off hotels. "},{"Title":"Getting Dry Here.","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In the course of the robbery of a weapons warehouse someone thrusts a big knife through DiGiorgio's kidney from behind. The cop is toast. On his deathbed, old friend Harry Callahan is trying to get DiGiorgio to tell him the name of his assailant. Don't know for sure, gasps DiGiorgio -- Some cutie pie little boy name. Later we find out from Uhuru Leader Albert Popwell that the murderer -- a pimp, thief, traitor, kidnapper, jaywalker, fornicator, and phony revolutionary -- has the same name I do. Right away, I didn't like him. Never in my life have I jaywalked, despite what you might have heard from my ex wife and my psychiatrist.Actually, this is the third in the series. Dirty Harry (1971) was a barbaric right-wing fantasy that was as entertaining as all get out, pitting the protagonist against both the police force, on one side, and the serial murderer on the other. It was one of director Don Siegel's favorite themes the man caught in the middle. It was roundly criticized by some for its the hell with the law attitude. The Constitution just coddles criminals. In 1971, it was a popular sentiment.Then came Magnum Force two years later, with Clint Eastwood as Dirty Harry again, this time fighting a death squad within the San Francisco Police Department itself. The original Dirty Harry carried an astonishingly huge pistol, that provided some ancillary interest. Magnum Force was mostly about powerful guns themselves. Director Ted Post gave us orgasmic close ups of .357 magnums and .44 magnums with wad cutters. And having Harry wipe out a handful of overzealous cops was an attempt to make up for his disgust with the law in the original.Here we have the third entry in the series, the least of the litter so far, although two more, each worse than the earlier, were still to appear.Eastwood has his tag lines here, especially a sarcastic marvelous, often given added emphasis by its use as an exit line. However, it never caught on like Go ahead, make my day, which appeared in the next entry and was made memorable when it was quoted in a presidential address.The Enforcer is built around Eastwood's pursuit of a terrorist group called The People's Revolutionary Strike Force or The Revolutionary Cosmopolitan Global Jihadist Anarchical Movement or something but it doesn't have the conviction to follow through on its sketch of the conflict between what amounts to The Symbionese Liberation Army and bourgeois society. (Kids You'll have to Google the SLA. It was real. You can probably find it under the Patty Hearst entry in Wikipedia.) The only issue this revolutionary group turns out to be interested in is bread, as Popwell so aptly puts it.The SFPD here, as elsewhere in the series, is either blind stupid or compliant at the top. The acting is not up to that of the previous two entries. The bad guys look and speak like second-string actors. The Catholic church is hauled before the court too. The writers must have gotten into Nietzsche in a major way. Eastwood is more expressive, but only in that he is more easily angered. When that happens, he scowls and his mouth becomes a grim slash. (He might have made a good heavy.) The politicians are all fools made of jelly. Tyne Daly, no stunning beauty, not only preserves her dignity but does a good job as another one of Harry's disposable partners.There are some nice action scenes -- not so much the brutal murders, which are pedestrian -- but a chase across the rooftops. San Francisco is a city made for chases across rooftops because it's all hills. That's why rooftop scenes in The City are so common in movies like The Sniper.This isn't really a story about anything much. It's Dirty Harry redux, an investment rather than an attempt to tell an engrossing tale. By the third time around, the series was losing whatever zest it had. The director does nothing to juice up the pace or keep our interest. And he probably picked the name of the lead revolutionary out of the phone book. I'm certain he would have found it there. "},{"Title":"Sloppy, Harry","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Dirty Harry Callahan returns to the screen for a third outing, and things are starting to look a little tired. He's saddled with a female rookie in this one &#x96; the refreshingly un-glamorous Tyne Daley &#x96; much to his initial annoyance, as he chases around San Francisco after the group of violent terrorists that murdered his former partner and battles bureaucratic incompetence from above in the form of an annoying Bradford Dillman (who, to me, always looked like Charlton Heston's nerdy little brother).It's been a while since I saw the first two Dirty Harry movies so maybe they're not as good as I remember them being, but I'm sure they're a lot better than this average entry in the 1970s franchise. Eastwood glowers and glares his way through a variety of by-the-numbers situations. The terrorists he is after use unnecessary violence to get what they want, killing anyone in their way when they really could just whack them over the head or something. This is down to sloppy writing &#x96; a quick and easy way of putting the viewer firmly on Harry's side, even though he's an irascible coot. The film rarely focuses on these terrorists for longer than it takes to show them committing some atrocity. Their leader comes across as an unhinged coward who creeps up behind unsuspecting truck drivers and elderly security guards and knifes them in the back. When one of his own &#x96; a young girl used as bait to snare those who have what they need &#x96; is shot and wounded by Harry's partner, he finishes her off over the protests of her boyfriend. Boy, this guy has it coming to him and we know just the man for the job, don't we Harry-fans? Harry's new partner is a savvy Tyne Daley, who at least doesn't faint at her first post mortem even though she does turn a bit green. Harry warms to her after a while &#x96; which, of course is a forewarning of doom. It's not long before she's lying on the ground with a couple of that cowardly terrorist's bullets inside her, beseeching Harry in that tight half-whisper all movie characters on the point of death use, to get the bad guy. Now we really hate the cowardly terrorist leader. Now we really want him dead.For all its' sloppiness, The Enforcer is stupidly entertaining stuff. Director James Fargo ensures the pace rarely slips, and Eastwood could do this in his sleep by now, even though he isn't given a snappy catchphrase to snarl. It all looks a little dated &#x96; and not in a good, nostalgic way &#x96; and some of the acting from the minor characters is shockingly bad, but while you won't come away from it feeling like you've watched a masterpiece you probably won't feel you've wasted 90 minutes of your life either. "},{"Title":"Jazzy 70's cop flick","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The next best of the Dirty Harry quintuplets has Callahan (Eastwood) reluctantly paired with female inspector (Daly) as part of the San Francisco's affirmative action strategy to enlist more females and better reflect the constituency, the brainchild of Captain Mackay (Dillman) himself a former personnel manager and thorn in Callahan's side. Callahan is otherwise embroiled in a terrorist plot in which a militant people's liberation army (led by crazy-eyed ex-veteran Bookwalter) abduct the mayor (Crawford) holding him hostage on Alcatraz in exchange for a king's ransom.Jazzy score, solid cast and witty dialogue maintain the winning formula, while director Fargo introduces light comedy to great effect without descending into farce. Bookwalter's twitching villain was a highlight, and it's a shame his film career was so brief. Harry Guardino, John Mitchum and Albert Popwell each return for the second sequel which in my opinion, narrowly pips Magnum Force for next best honours.It took another seven years to spawn Sudden Impact, by which time the formula was predictable and uninspiring. Eastwood here is at his most confident and relaxed (without becoming a caricature), in the prime of his career and the film consequently is both exciting and at times suspenseful. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Down a notch","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The third Dirty Harry movie is, as with the first two, entertaining, but it has a lot less to say. Whereas the first two addressed the issue of the rule of law, the rights of the individual, and where lines should be drawn (albeit from opposing ends of the argument, and without coming to glib conclusions), number three half-heartedly comments on feminism.Harry, a dyed-in-the-wool sexist, has a female partner forced on him (Harry's record with partners is not good). He is offensively patronising towards her as he takes on a case involving a bunch of urban terrorists, but gradually comes to accept that she is a good cop. And then she is killed (I'm not sure what point, if any, this makes).Once again making excellent use of the San Francisco locations, The Enforcer is entertaining enough, but no more. Harry gets another iconic line to say. The terrorists are, frankly, a bit ropy. I enjoyed it, but it is not in the same class as either of the first two. "}{"Title":"Some Notes for REAL Baseball Fans","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Contrary to the claim made by another reviewer, the baseball scene was a real Giants game at Candlestick Park. The claim that because the field is AstroTurf it must have been filmed in Philly is silly. Candlestick had AstroTurf though out most of the '70's. In the film you can clearly see that the team in red has on it's away uniform, gray, while the other team has on it's home, white, uniform. The Phillies home dugout is on the first base side but in the film they are on the third base side. In Candlestick, unlike the current stadium, the Giants home dugout was also on the first base side, just like in the film. Also in the film when they show the mayor walking up the stairs to leave you can see the section numbers. They show the unique numbering of sections known only in Candlestick. Section one right behind home plate with odd numbered sections going up the right field line and even numbered ones going up the left field line. There are a lot more clues that point to the stadium being Candlestick, and none of them as silly as you can see various Phillies fans wearing team hats. "},{"Title":"If it ain't broke...the recipe still works and Eastwood still reels it in","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It is true that the Dirty Harry series might start to feel a little worn out at this point but they certainly know exactly what has made the series so successful this far because they seem to be smart enough to ensure that they do not change the style and recipe that made Dirty Harry a success. I think I have said the same thing about the first two films and that is the series can be compared to a really great 70's Cop TV Show and that isn't a bad thing. The Enforcer doesn't compare to the second film in action, and story, but it certainly holds its own. It focuses on one major storyline in true style of the times using disgruntled Vietnam vets. I don't really know if this is a negative or a positive but the more human side of Harry Callahan that was established with the second film is set back by going back to basics with Harry and making him as outside the box as possible. His magnum blazes through shoot outs, police chases and the loss of not just one partner but two in the course of the film. Steering further away from the first villain there is barely a single face to the evil going on but rather a group of people.Clint Eastwood is of course Dirty Harry. This role just comes easy to Eastwood. Harry has more depth than one could possibly imagine. You see how hard and cold he can be and how simplistic his way of enforcing law is but then he has a human side that is plain to see at the same time. He carries every film including this one and he's fun to watch and deadly serious at the same time. Tyne Daly joins the cast as Eastwood's female partner. Daly's role is very important because it demonstrates the female role in the police precinct in the 70's and how they struggled. Daly is a strong female role in the film but she is over shadowed by Eastwood and doesn't get a ton of screen time. The supporting cast for the film I thought was very small compared to previous films. There was some decent performances but there is so few characters that get screen time. DeVeren Bookwalter plays the lead terrorist and has a few really great scenes but doesn't steal the show like a villain should. John Mitchum feels more like a fill in partner for Harry in the beginning and is a very shallow character. Bradford Dillman is Harry's latest adversary and boss who he buts heads with but again not to the extent of previous films.Oddly enough they chose a first time director, James Fargo, to helm the film. I don't think this was a bad choice but I'm not sure he had the directorial experience or clout to handle the cast and the story. Eastwood would have done better to direct the film like he chose to with the next one. Everyone's reviews seem to say the same...The Enforcer is not quite great but not bad either. It sits in the middle of the series, in the middle of the road as far as good 70's action thrillers. The best part of the film is the climactic ending that has Eastwood's Callahan doing what he does best, guns blazing and taking out the bad guys getting his vengeance for his murdered partners. Regardless of whether this film sits as good as the previous two films it is a must see in the series and you won't be disappointed. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good third entry in the series","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Maverick lone wolf nonconformist cop Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood, as cool nd laconic as ever) locks horns with his ineffectual liberal superiors and gets reluctantly paired with spunky eager beaver female partner Kate Moore (an excellent and appealing performance by Tyne Daly). Callahan and Moore go after a dangerous group of crazed kill-happy hippie kooks who are terrorizing the city. Director James Fargo, working from an absorbing and eventful script by Stirling Slliphant and Dean Riesner, relates the compelling story at a steady pace, neatly mines a dryly amusing line in sharp sarcastic humor, and stages the exciting action set pieces with considerable flair (a protracted foot chase rates as the definite stirring highlight). Eastwood's strong and assured presence holds the picture together and he has a nice natural chemistry with Daly; the relationship of grudging respect between Callahan and Moore gives this movie some well-appreciated warmth amid all the carnage. DeVeren Bookwalter makes for a suitably chilling villain as vicious and cold-blooded psycho terrorist leader Bobby Maxwell, Samantha Doane likewise impresses as the sadistic Wanda, and Jocelyn Jones has a regrettably brief, but still memorably sexy part as the brassy Wanda. (Michael Cavanaugh and Dick Swamp Thing Durock portray two other members of the terrorist group while a pre-Hill Street Blues Joe Spano quickly pops up as ill-fated robber Mitch.) Moreover, there are sound supporting contributions from Bradford Dillman as the weaselly, disapproving Captain McKay, Harry Guardino as the pragmatic Lieutenant Bressler, John Mitchum as hard-boiled veteran flatfoot DiGiorgio, and John Crawford as the pompous mayor. The climax at Alcatraz island is very tense and gripping, with an especially potent downbeat ending. Jerry Fielding's robust and rousing jazzy score hits the groovy spot. Charles W. Short's crisp widescreen cinematography offers lots of lovely panoramic shots of the San Francisco locations. While it never manages to capture the hard, gritty edge of the outstanding original, this film still sizes up as an engrossing and entertaining action thriller just the same. "},{"Title":"You've been assigned to personnel","Date":"16 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Enforcer isn't as memorable as the original Dirty Harry, yet on par with the sequel Magnum Force, but it's still quite a solid three-quel with several memorable lines, delivered mainly by the salty Harry Callahan, who's crankier than ever. This is a fairly exciting film with cool shots of San Francisco, and many action scenes which permeate throughout most of the film. Harry's one-liners are what I enjoyed mostly, and he lets loose some classics(too many to identify)to the mayor, commissioner, etc. The cast was solid and it included Tyne Daly, Harry Guardino(underused), Bradford Dillman and Albert Popwell(a Dirty Harry staple). The Enforcer doesn't have the grit and suspense of the original, few sequels do, but I would recommend this to any Clint Eastwood/Dirty Harry fan looking for an enjoyable 90 minutes.Perhaps my only gripe is how boring Guardino's character is here, as he never butts heads with Callahan, and doesn't add too much of substance here, merely only agreeing with Harry, or laughing at anything he says. "},{"Title":"That meddling Dirty Harry just keeps on Tickin!","Date":"3 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Enforcer is yet another heavily entertaining entry into the Harry Callahan saga. I think what makes these movies so enjoyable is the gritty edge it has to them, and it always takes no prisoners, I always appreciated that. This time around Tyne Daly from Cagney&Lacey fame is Harry's partner. Not too familiar with the show I was happy to find out she had great chemistry with Eastwood and that they made a likable pairing. One of my favorite scenes has to be with Harry, The Mayor and the infamous prick of a Capt. Capt McKay at a conference. Harry's disobedience and his infamous Seven point suppository comment, it's just hilarious. The Enforcer like the 1st two entries manage to pull you in emotionally with well-developed characters who all have their special tactics to make you like them, along with a great story to keep you engrossed. The only thing that bugged me about this entry was the villain DeVeren Bookwalter|Bobby Maxwell| was very weak in my opinion, I didn't care for him at all.Performances. Clint Eastwood is as reliable as ever as Callahan. He's still got that same grouchy charisma that makes us love him. Tyne Daly is a welcome addition to the franchise, I liked how she worked with Eastwood. Harry Guardino role is smaller compared to Dirty Harry, but he shined when he did. Bradford Dillman plays a great snob as the Capt. and I hated him for it. DeVeren Bookwalter is rather bland as the villain and I didn't like how he performed Bobby. John Crawford is very good as the sleazy yet well-meaning Mayor.Bottom line. The Enforcer is yet another greatly constructed Police thriller that captivates from the get-go. If you're a fan of Eastwood and cop films in general you'll love this one, see it.8 1/2 /10 "},{"Title":"Easty and Lacey","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In a third trip to the well for the Dirty Harry franchise, the formula is still working successfully. This time out Eastwood is up against an urban terrorist organization which is trying to extort money from the city of San Francisco. After an initial scuffle with some robbers that sees him bounced down to Personnel, his partner is taken down by the terrorists and Eastwood comes back to his regular detective duties. Much to his chagrin, he is assigned a new partner, a FEMALE, played by Daly. Eastwood's laconic, blunt style is at odds with the green, earnest and dedicated Daly until one instance when she steps in and saves his life. They then form a tentative affinity for one another while he continues to enrage the establishment figures of Police Captain Dillman and Mayor Crawford. The terrorists keep escalating their demands until they finally cross the line and Eastwood pulls out all the stops to defeat them. Eastwood and his role fit together like a glove. It's no wonder he played the character two more times after this, each film having a slightly different tone than the others. This one isn't nearly as stark as the first film, but it does contain a large amount of brutality. Daly infuses the movie with plenty of warmth and repartee. She, in what had to have served as an extended screen test for her later series Cagney and Lacey, establishes a nice contrast to the steely qualities of Eastwood and winds up crafting a memorable character. The viewer longs to see her conquer the inherent sexism of the field she has chosen and make a name for herself. Guardino lends solid support as Eastwood's lieutenant and Dillman and Crawford are appropriately shifty and bureaucratic in their roles. Popwell, an actor who played different roles in four of the five films in this series, is very good as the leader of a Black Power group who reluctantly aids Eastwood. Though the group of extortionists (doing their deeds in the name of the people, though they kill on any whim!) are a nasty, cold-hearted lot, they still pale next to the psychotic villainy of Andrew Robinson in Dirty Harry. A few memorable vignettes highlight the film including Eastwood's disruption of a liquor store hold up, a frantic rooftop chase and an action-packed finale on the island of Alcatraz. Look sharp for an unexpected dip into the making of a porn film as one character stumbles into a five member orgy that has the naked extras/stunt people reacting hilariously to the intrusion. It's a tough, sometimes dryly humorous flick with plenty of gunplay and action, but with a touch of heart as well. Fielding's music score is not quite up to par with Lalo Schifrin's work, a composer he's clearly trying to emulate here. Jones, as the young blonde terrorist, is the daughter of the prolific character actor Henry Jones. "},{"Title":"Nice try.","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  ----Possible Spoilers----Harry's back... and with a woman for a partner.''Marvellous.''    After being put back to personnel, a gang of hippy revolutionaries raid a warehouse full of weapons and kill Harry's partner. Harry resolves to track them down, but things become complicated when the Mayor is kidnapped.    The third Dirty Harry film, although an improvement over the lacklustre Magnum Force (1973), is the least memorable. Harry becomes too jokey, Tyne Daly's role is one-dimensional and the bad guys are cardboard cutouts. We never find out what their objectives are (Their motto is ''Power to the people'') and the performances do not instill terror or uneasiness in the audience.     Having said that, if taken as an action film, it more than delivers. The roof top chase is choreographed excellently and the finale in Alcatraz beats anything in today's action films.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Another Gritty 'N' Bad-Ass Dirty Harry Flick","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Dirty Harry Callahan is back with bad-assery and no sense for nonsense. After Don Siegel's masterpiece Dirty Harry of 1971 which outraged critics but defined 70s cinema and Cop flicks thereafter and the somewhat tamer sequel Magnum Force of 1973, Clint Eastwood comes back as the toughest & coolest Cop in cinema-history, Inspector Dirty Harry Callahan. This third film in the series, The Enforcer of 1976, is arguably the most action-packed Callahan flick (along with the fifth and last one, The Dead Pool of 1988). Harry doesn't only stop trouble with his 44. Magnum, he also uses higher calibers and even cars as weapons in this one. The Enforcer is not the best film in the series (the best is doubtlessly Don Siegel's masterpiece original, my personal second-favorite is the fourth film, Clint Eastwood's own Sudden Impact of 1983). Yet this is another violent, gritty, outrageously entertaining and purely bad-ass Dirty Harry film that should not be missed, especially by action fans. Director James Fargo, who had worked as an assistant director to Clint Eastwood for High Plains Drifter (1973) and The Outlaw Josey Wales (1976) was not as experienced as masters Don Siegel and Ted Post, of course, but he definitely managed to keep the adrenaline-dose up.When Magnum Force tried to becalm critics (who bashed the original for its political incorrectness) a bit by having Harry fight vigilantes, this third film in the series is as politically incorrect as ever. Harry beats the living crap out of punks, rants about everybody, and does all the super-tough things that we love him for. Harry Callahan is not exactly delighted when his superiors assign him a new partner who happens to be female. Inspector Kate Moore (Tyne Daly) has chance to impress her legendary new partner when an extremist organization begins to terrorize San Francisco... Storywise, this is not the most interesting film in the series. However, the action is great and Clint Eastwood is great as always as Dirty Harry. Tyne Daly as his female partner is somewhat cute and somewhat annoying at the same time. This is the second of three times Edward Popwell appears in a Callahan flick, this time as a the leader of a black militant group. Popwell had also appeared as a robber in the famous 'Do You Fell Lucky' scene in Dirty Harry and would appear again as Harry's colleague and buddy in Sudden Impact. Overall, this is yet another violent, tough-minded and vastly entertaining Dirty Harry flick that is a must-see to Callahan-fans and highly recommendable to all action-lovers. "},{"Title":"Dirty Deeds","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  THE ENFORCER (1976) *** Clint Eastwood, Tyne Daly, Harry Guardino, Bradford Dillman.  Third Dirty Harry flick with Clint reluctantly partnered with Daly (making a memorable screen team) out to stop a kidnapping of the mayor by a group of militants.  Best bit opening sequence with Harry as a hostage negotiator at a liquor store robbery.  Asked by his partner What do they want? Harry A car.  Partner What are you gonna do? Harry I'm gonna give 'em one and drives said car into the plate glass window of the store blowing the punks away! "},{"Title":"PC and counting","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Somewhat 'Harry' movie, that goes further down the self-parody road; finally explored fully in the weakest Harry film, namely The Dead Pool. This is the second PC installment of the series, and seems more made for tv than feature release. In Magnum Force, Harry is no longer the 'loose cannon' but is made to battle some rogue traffic cops on bikes. He stays 'in the system' (never mind what he did in Dirty Harry). Here, the plot revolves around the admission, even preferential hiring of the unqualified, female cop from 'records' to serve as a detective on the streets. But Harry finally sees it the PC way, and the female detective dutifully and heroically perishes. San Francisco did pride itself on exactly this sort of preferential hiring for many years.That's the plot. The politics of quota hiring. Literally the subplot involves a trendy nod to the 'headlines of the day'. Here you have some thugs teaming up with a 'people's liberation group' or whatever, in order to steal some military ordinance from a civilian warehouse called, Pacific Overseas Shipping. Ultimately, they decide to steal the mayor, as well, and hold him for ransom. They go out to Alcatraz, probably just late of the disastrous Indian squatting and occupation. And Harry tracks them down and kills them, but not before they get the female detective, who shouts a warning to Harry to save his life. She can't get out of the way of the bullet in time.Bookwalter's Maxwell is frightening, in a Fellini film sort of way. He tries to play the military-trained killer with a touch of added sadism. But there's just not that much to say about the film. It departs from the careful cop film of the original, and as the second began to do. Harry's former partner goes after the gang in the warehouse heist, by himself, without waiting for backup. His partner proceeds to stand in front of a moving vehicle as it bears down on him. The Dillman boss is so annoyingly loud, threatening and incompetent - the little dictator of a boss we've all actually seen and loathed in the workplace - that he almost renders his scenes comedic. This Crawford's mayor, unlike Vernon's, is also so foolish, so incompetent, that you honestly wish he were closer to the final Bookwalter blast. You see him climbing down the ladder and say to yourself - this is not good.What made the original film work is not that it was the gunfighter brought successfully to the role of urban policeman. That was certainly part of it. The music was similar to Leone, and that also worked. The music in this film isn't up to that. What really made it work is that is was simply a cop film, about a brave cop, doing often reasonable things in a risky way. But he was still a cop, who only went it alone out of a personal sense of revenge against a particular foe. And when he went that far, he also went farther. That was the complaint that led to him having to pair off against the killer bike cops in the second film. People thought he was setting a bad example. But the first film rang true. And this third film had left it far behind. PC won out. Mere unmotivated action won out. And it hurt the movie.These films don't quite work as they become generic action, and more fantasy than gritty reality. So the only thing that still works, here, is Eastwood, himself. He does carry the film. He has the Eastwood jogging gait, that we've seen ever since, and since his first Dirty Harry. He's deliberate in his aim, as in the Italian westerns. He tries to come up with clever 'James Bond' throw-away lines, without the effect of the first, or fourth, film in the series. There's still some truth to the locations. And the HOJ explosion rings true, and gives some sense of ultimately where the militants (that's what they used to call, terrorists) are going. Al Popwell, in yet another role (hey, wasn't this the guy he shot in the first film, oh - wait - the pimp in the second, buddy in the fourth, well?), is pretty convincing as the softie local black militant leader. In fact, since Popwell was only in the first four, each as literally a different character, you might see that as an indicator of which are closest to Harry films, and which one is completely off base. "}{"Title":"Harry Callahan's third coming","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Clint Eastwood's third coming as Detective Harry Callahan is once again a stylish, well-made, fast-paced and wonderfully strong police thriller that's definitely worth a watch or ten. Personally I've seen it numerous times but I guess when you love something as much as I love Clint and his works you're probably stuck with it. I do admit The Enforcer may not be the best sequel to Dirty Harry but it sure as hell is, like Callahan himself would put it marvelous. Of course Harry says it when he wants to be sarcastic and I really mean it. Tyne Daly played Kate Moore, Harry's lady partner who had no street experience of the real police work. Late Albert Popwell had a different role in all of Dirty Harry flicks except the last one. He was the unlucky bank robber in the first movie and pimp in the second. This time he played Ed Mustapha.The Enforcer also included an uncredited cameo of Joe Spano who few years later got an excellent part of Henry Goldblume in the magnificent television series Hill Street Blues. And let's not forget that Harry's Magnum .44 is one of the most important characters of the film. Plot is average and not as inventive and interesting as it was in Magnum Force but this movie contains perhaps more humor than any other part of the series and at least two of my favorite Dirty Harry -moments. Other one is the scene where Harry puts an end to an armed shop robbery and a hostage situation by driving a police car inside the store (very unusual police work and a crazy stunt you can only expect from Callahan) and the other one's when Harry blows away a tower in Alcatraz with a rocket launcher. The Enforcer is splendid, enjoyable, classic 70's action flick and a great forerunner to Sudden Impact. "},{"Title":"the worst Dirty harry flick","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The enforcer once again stars Clint eastwood as inspector harry Callahan who's partner is killed in action and he is partnered with a capable but slightly timid inspector Moore played by Cagney and laceys Tyne Daly . Harry and kates assignment is to prevent a Terrorist group named the peoples revolutionary strike force who have abducted the mayor of san Francisco and unless there demands aren't met he will be killed . This movie to me is the worst of the Dirty harry pictures simply because of the quality of the villains that are just a group of locals banding together to wreck havoc in san Francisco and go on a massacre throughout the city killing anyone who gets in there way there just clichéd villains who you could find in any action picture who could do the exact thing and the main leader of the gang named bobby Maxwell looks like a right retard throughout sure he has the appearance of a right psycho but when it comes to projecting dialogue he is stiff and dull . Anyway the action scenes are average and the performances by Eastwood and Tyne are outstanding and are the only the things in the movie which are worth watching so I guess if you liked the other dirty harry pictures check it out but you really aren't missing much this is undoubtedly the worst film of the series . Rated x violence/brief full frontal nudity "},{"Title":"Female Advice Is What Harry Needed and Got.","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This Dirty Harry film was great, a film that includes the entrance of females in the police field-YES. I thought it was great a Dirty Harry film and he partner's with a female cop-classic. You can tell he was not to enthused working with a female cop, in fact the word hate comes to mind. It was cool to see how his attitude changed and that's why Iliked this one. This is also the film were Harry loses his long time partner. It is the shortest one of the Dirty Harry series and that's the only negative I can say about this one.The story is about a small group of people that call themselves The People's Revolutionary Strike Force. They are anti police big time and will kill any1 who gets in their way, including their own. It begins with the People's Revolutionary Strike Force stealing a gas van and heading to San Francisco. There they stab a guard, steal weapon's and kill Harry's partner. As the story goes the PRSF create havoc in San Francisco, by killing innocent people, kidnapping the mayor and creating fear in the Bay Area. It is up to Harry and Kate to stop these maniac's before it's too late.I believe any Dirty Harry fan will love this one, Harry Kicks ASS, starts to respect his partner, and hates the Captain. It's true Harry all the way, you'll love it.Kris L. CocKayne "},{"Title":"Formulaic Action Movie, but Enjoyable in its Way","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Enforcer, the third in the Dirty Harry series, was originally intended to be the last episode of a trilogy, but the character of Harry Callahan was resurrected for two further films in the eighties. It is standard violent Callahan fare. Whereas the villain in the original Dirty Harry was a lone serial killer, and the villains in Magnum Force were a gang of right-wing vigilante cops, Harry here takes on the political Left in the form of the People's Revolutionary Strike Force, a terrorist group (loosely based upon the Symbionese Liberation Army) whose crimes include raiding an Army storage facility and kidnapping the Mayor of San Francisco. Apart from shoot-outs and other violent action scenes, the film includes a number of plot-points which seem to be common to all entries in this particular franchise-1. Harry must be in trouble with his superiors. Early in the film Harry, together with his partner, shoots up a gang who are holding up a liquor store and frees all their hostages, only to be reprimanded for excessive use of force.2. In his disputes with his superiors, Harry must be proved right. His superior, Captain McKay, wrongly attributes the PRSF's crimes to a black militant organisation who in reality are guilty of nothing more than having a bolshie attitude, and suspends Harry when he embarrasses McKay be correcting him in front of the Mayor.3. Harry must display politically incorrect attitudes. In this case he objects when a female officer, Inspector Kate Moore, is appointed as his new partner, although she has previously only held administrative positions with no experience of homicide or violent crime. In this case, however, Harry is to be proved wrong as, after a shaky start, Kate proves herself to be both competent and courageous.4. There must be a high death-rate among Harry's partners. Two meet an untimely end in this episode, including the unfortunate Kate.One of the standard received ideas of film criticism is that sequels are never as good as the original film and that the more sequels are made, the worse they become. There are a number of exceptions to this general rule, but the Dirty Harry franchise is not one of them. The original film, despite the graphic violence, was a surprisingly deep film which asked a number of troubling questions about law enforcement. The two belated entries from the eighties, Sudden Impact and The Dead Pool, are both flawed movies, the first being flawed by its unashamed advocacy of vigilantism, the second by an unsuccessful attempt to add humour to the basic formula. In the middle we have Magnum Force and The Enforcer, both formulaic action movies, but both enjoyable enough in their way. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Good but seemed to be missing something","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I liked The Enforcer, I really did. But something about it made it feel kind of dry and pale compared to the previous Dirty Harry movies.Maybe it was the acting, there weren't a whole lot of first class actors here really. Clint Eastwood definitely stole the show once again as Dirty Harry Callahan. Harry Guardino returns as Lt. Al Bressler once again, only this time, he doesn't seem to have a whole lot to say. Tyne Daly was good as Inspector Kate Moore, Harry's partner of the movie. John Mitchum returns as Frank DiGiorgio, the sarcastic old buddy of Harry's. Bradford Dillman was alright as Captain McKay, Harry's annoying superior of the movie. DeVeren Bookwalter was not all that great as the villain of the movie, Bobby Maxwell.The plot elements weren't as good here as other movies. I personally think they built up the villains far too much, but thats my opinion.A pretty good movie, but not when compared to the first 2 Dirty Harry films.6/10. "},{"Title":"Not so Dirty","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The third film in the Dirty Harry series and we have a definite fall off from the first two. Harry Callahan along with the series, has gone soft, what happened to the hard, mean and at times racist Callahan, where is the graphic violence that was shocking for the time. All of that is gone which turns a revolutionary series known for pushing the boundaries of expectable content into just another typical cop film. Dirty Harry without all his swagger and mannerisms is just plain boring, throw in a partner and the series has turned into a buddy cop movie. I still do look forward to checking out the remaining Harry films and hope they can set this ship back on course. "},{"Title":"Missing Bar Scene?","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In his biography of Clint Eastwood, Richard Schickel refers to a largely improvised scene between Clint and Tyne Daly, in a bar, where they compare notes and get drunk. Schickel calls it the best scene in the movie, and a first for any Eastwood film. They rolled camera and the actors just cut loose. At one point, Tyne even gets up to go to the restroom and, according to Schickel, it was so good it was left in the release print. Director James Fargo then shot some extra pickup footage, extra coverage, then edited the whole thing together. Again, he called it the best scene in the film; one that really cemented the close relationship between the two characters. So I'm watching the film last night. Both Clint and Tyne spar with each other, talking about getting a beer. Then we cut to a two shot, on a wharf pier, at a juice stand. Eastwood says All they had was apple juice. The actors start walking and drinking... the dolly movies... and they do a brief walk & talk. No bar, no improvisation, etc. And not much of a scene. Was this picture edited for video? Is this a replacement scene for TV? Very strange. "},{"Title":"Avoids the obvious just enough","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This third chapter of the Dirty Harry series finds 'Inspector Callahan' up against a small band of terrorists who are blackmailing the city of San Francisco for millions of dollars in the name of the people. And to make matters even more trying, Harry has a new partner. A woman!Tyne Daly makes a refreshing change as 'Kate Moore', in another Clint Eastwood vehicle which is nothing new, though it does have enough action and humour to keep his fans satisfied. Of course what befalls our hero is predictable, but at least the film avoids the obvious just enough to remain enjoyable.Sunday, October 25, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Right character, wrong Dirty Harry Movie","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have already submitted this comment to IMDb for correction, but haven't seen anything yet.The credits for The Enforcer show Will Hutchins as Stakeout cop(uncredited), but does anyone else agree that that role and character were actually part of the liquor store stakeout/holdup sequence in Magnum Force instead? The sequence, right after Harry has dinner with Carol McCoy and her kids, has Harry entering the back of the store, where Early Smith is posing as a cashier. Harry heads to the manager's office where, along with Will Hutchins, dressed in uniform and wearing a bulletproof vest and holding a shotgun, is waiting as well. Harry sees the three perps walk into the store and comments, Well, there are three salty looking dudes. After the shootout, where Will Hutchins' character bungles part of it because he hesitates, he actually has a line where he shakes his head after looking at the carnage Harry has wrought and says, I've never shot a man, whereby Harry looks at him in disgust and says something to the effect of Help out with the customers, will ya? Does anyone else remember it this way, and note that Will Hutchins is credited to the wrong movie, or am I missing a role in The Enforcer that I forgot about? I remember Hutchins because I hadn't really seen him since Merrill's Marauders and Sugarfoot and happened across this in the IMDb.Remembering trivia like this is a disease, I tell ya! "},{"Title":"The best","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I think this is the best out of all the Dirty Harry movies.  This one has style.  Some of the best one-liners are from this movie alone.  That's mighty white of you  After seeing this movie...Clint is Dirty Harry. "}{"Title":"Marvellous","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood returns to his most famous non-western role of Inspector Harry Callaghan in the third of the San Francisco based crime thrillers. This time he is up against a group of terrorists who have robbed a military warehouse and are threatening use their newly acquired arsenal if the city doesn't give them two million dollars.Of course this being a Dirty Harry film we see him dealing with a shop full of armed thieves in a way that leaves the shop in ruins and Harry transferred to Personnel, a department he does not hold in high regard. Luckily this transfer doesn't last too long, after the arms robbery he is back in Homicide with a new partner, the recently promoted Inspector Kate Moore, played by Tyne Daly before she found fame in Cagney and Lacey. At first Harry isn't too pleased with having to break in a new partner but inevitably grows to value her contribution.The terrorists unfortunately seem a little too insane, they claim to be doing it for the people but happily kill anybody who crosses their path... at least the chief bad guy gets a spectacular ending which I won't spoil here. Almost as important as the case against the terrorists is the city politics where the mayor and chief of police wish to talk up Harry and Kate's role just to further their equal opportunities policies even though they had no role in the arrest they are getting the credit for.Despite the film having some weaknesses I'd still recommend it to anybody who enjoyed the other Dirty Harry films or just like cop films in general. "},{"Title":"Check this one!","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Released in 1976 The Enforcer marks the third installment in the Dirty Harry franchise. The film?s plot has Inspector Callahan (Eastwood) paired with a new partner policewoman Inspector Kate Moore (Tyne Daly) as they hunt for a group of terrorists that are blackmailing the city of San Francisco for two million dollars. Callahan none-too- pleased by being teamed up with a woman must put his job first and the two attempt to shut down the terrorists. Moore however proves herself after she and Callahan pursue the terrorists to their hideout in the prison of Alcatraz. Special Features ? New Commentary by director James Fargo Director Fargo takes an entertaining look at the film that launched his career as a director including the day Clint Eastwood nonchalantly let him know he had the job. ? New Featurette The Business End Violence in Cinema An unflinching look at the ongoing debate on violence in cinema. ? Featurette Harry Callahan/Clint Eastwood Something Special in Films "},{"Title":"The Third in The Dirty Harry Era","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The third picture featuring Clint Eastwood as Dirty Harry. Clint Eastwood resumes his role as Police Inspector Harry Callahan; Tyne Daly plays the role of Inspector Kate Moore and Harry Guadino as Lt Al Bressler. Harry gets into one of his usual predicaments when his is relegated to Personnel to help interview patrol officers on the list to make inspector. While filling his duties in personnel he learns that there are eight openings for inspector and three of those eight will be filled by woman. A group of people who call themselves the People's Revolutionary Strike Force (PRSF), led by Bobby Maxwell, are making plans to go on a crime spree all over the city of San Francisco. When Dirty Harry's longtime partner is killed by the PRSF during a major weapons theft, Dirty Harry vows revenge and, surprisingly, is given some support by his superiors. Harry has one problem, he's given a new partner and it's non other then a lady inspector. After the Mayor of San Francisco is taken its up to Harry and his new partner are expecting to find him. All and all I give this movie 8 weasel stars. "},{"Title":"Basically a rehash of the first two Harry films,but entertaining nonetheless","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Installment three of the Dirty Harry series is something of a letdown. It's still a perfectly entertaining cop thriller,but it doesn't build on the original like Magnum Force. In that film,Harry was developed a little,the plot was substantially different and it had a slightly different feel. The Enforcer,however,seems content for much of it's length to rehash the first two films. Once again,a villain captures someone and blackmails the city,once again Harry is suspended but carries on with the case on his own time,once again he has a new partner who he eventually comes to respect,and so on. The film lacks freshness.Nevertheless,even Harry-by-numbers is good fun. The obligatory scenes where Harry exasperates his superiors and is told off are possibly the best in the series,and for the first half at least there are a surprising number of laughs. Watch out for the scene where some robbers demand a car from Harry,who proceeds to give them one....... The relationship between Harry and his female partner is predictable but well handled,although it's a shame that it concludes somewhat suddenly.Running close to half an hour shorter than Magnum Force,the film has a quicker pace and has one terrific and very long foot chase which gives the one in Point Break a run for it's money. The final big showdown on Alcatraz is something of a letdown though,and like Ted Post the director of Magnum Force,helmer James Fargo just seems content to film the script and bring little style or personality to the proceedings. Jerry Fielding's jazz score is interesting but does not go with the images as well as Lalo Schifrin's great efforts in the other four films.Still entertaining enough,and fans of the first two films will still enjoy The Enforcer. The next one,Sudden Impact would be far more interesting though.... "},{"Title":"That 70's Harry Part 3","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film was to be Dirty Harry's last outing in the seventies (do not worry though, he had two comebacks in the eighties). It is easy to compare this film, with the two previous Dirty Harry movies, because there some things have (still) not changed. First of all, Harry (obviously) kept his cheeky mouth, which again provides the viewer with the necessary laughs and his boss with the necessary headaches. This is not the only thing that has stayed the same though. Again some of the scenes could have been shorter, thus (theoretically) making The Enforcer a much tighter package. A perfect example of that is the scene in which Harry chases a bad guy to the rooftop of a building. Not only could this scene have been shorter, but it could also have been much more exciting had there been adequate use of music and cinematography. There is however one upside to this installment in the Dirty Harry series, which is, that it is far more stable than it's predecessors. It is not a decent or good film film, but it gets very close, mainly because of the good acting and the fact that the film remained interesting for the despite it's downsides. Best Dirty Harry film until then. If you want to know if it is the best in the series, check my comment for Sudden Impact.6,5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry The Comedy","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After a so-so effort in Magnum Force,  Dirty Harry goes comedic. Coupled with  some great comic lines and action, this  proved to be a turn in the right direction,  considering this film showed a different  side of Harry which we had not seen yet.  While I was disappointed Lalo Schifrin  did not conduct this film's score, Tyne  Daly brought in a new dynamic which  had not been seen in the other films.  While this could be considered nothing  more than a transitional picture, it did so  with some class and dignity. "},{"Title":"Pretty lame sequel","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  James Fargo directed this third Dirty Harry film in 1976. It stars again Clint Eastwood as Harry Callahan, who this time gets a female partner (Tyne Daly) for himself. They are after a group of terrorists, who keep San Francisco in horror as they kill and demand ransom from the mayor. Finally they kidnap one very important person, and want huge amount of money in order to not to kill the hostage. At this point, Harry decides to solve the case with power, which again doesn't please his superiors..There are no signs of the social commentary and depiction of corruption that made the first film so powerful, and The Enforcer manages to offer nothing but action and excitement, but on that level, it works. The film seems to be the first feature film of its director Fargo, and he does adequate job in here. Nothing special in cinematography department, but still an action film that manages to interest even after couple of viewings. If there had been more things under the film's surface, this would've definitely been greater piece of 70's Hollywood action cinema, as Don Siegel's Dirty Harry proves. The Enforcer has plenty of violence and brutal killings, but is not as near as powerful mentally (and also physically) than the original film. This film is even more shallow than the first sequel, Magnum Force. Eastwood acts greatly as always, and with the charisma of his, this is easy to sit through. The Enforcer gets 6/10 from me, and the stars are deserved mainly because of the film worked at least as an action film and exciting thriller. Still, cannot be mentioned in the same sentence with the first film, which also lacks all the comic elements found in these sequels, which are mainly meant to be more entertaining and easy to take for larger audiences. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry Lite!","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Very good action movie that takes the Dirty Harry style more mainstream this time.The story/script here is only average and does not have much depth but the action and Eastwood's charm still makes this film one of the best action movies all time.The deterioration of Dirty Harry movies start with this one but you will still enjoy the action here.Just don't expect a masterpiece.The sound quality was below average.You can tell this film had a B movie budget.The cinematography is also just average although there are great shots of the San Francisco scenery.Only for action fans and big Eastwood fans.....     "},{"Title":"You really *are* a dirty bastard, ain't you, Harry?","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I really felt Dirty last night, so I revisited this film along with The Gauntlet and Magnum Force. Sometimes, you just need to immerse yourself into the world of Dirty Harry to remember what life is all about.There are sheep and there are goats. Most of us are sheep, but we need goats like Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) to remind us that ...if you want to jerk all these people off, you can, but don't do it with me. Too often, we go along like sheep while the bureaucrats do their song and dance. Nothing gets accomplished, and people get hurt.I am not a big Tyne Daly fan, but she really did a good job as Harry's partner. Bradford Dillman, who will be back with a different name in Sudden Impact, was perfect as the toady who would kiss any butt to get promoted.Lots of action, and the heart of Dirty Harry shines through the rough exterior again. "},{"Title":"Downbeat and disillusioned Dirty-ness...","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Dirty Harry movies always manage to work at least part of the way, mainly because of the hammering they give audiences--it shakes up something primal in the viewer and one can easily become absorbed by all the violent nonsense against one's better judgment. In The Enforcer, Clint Eastwood resurrects Dirty Harry Callahan for the second time (following 1973's Magnum Force, a sequel to the 1971 original). His non-conformist police inspector, walking the crime-infested streets of San Francisco, continues to be a cartoonishly intimidating force, and Eastwood's steely eyes and stony-yet-incredulous expressions are still a lot of fun. He gets a partner here (Tyne Daly) in a violent quest to track down a twitchy freak with feathered hair, while Bradford Dillman plays Callahan's shape up or resign mouthpiece of a boss. The action is well-choreographed, but the picture looks terrible, with gummy, gloppy cinematography and incoherent night shots. Daly is fine in her role--if a bit too soft--and Clint doesn't disappoint, but the film piles one bummer scene atop another, and is so emphatically disillusioned at its core that viewers don't walk away from it feeling anything but remorse. ** from **** "}{"Title":"Let the bullets fly!","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Dirty Harry Callahan(Clint Eastwood) is back on the streets of San Francisco. This time he goes after radical Vietnam Veterans who want to take over. They first kill the men for a delivery truck, take all the weapons they could use, killing a guard and a cop at the same time. That cop was Callahan's partner. He gets a new partner which he's not too thrilled to have. A rookie female(Tyne Daly) who happens to be slow at first but has a lot of resilience. In order to get the militants they look up to an all-black group named Uhuru. The leader Mustapha(Albert Popwell), gives out information which is helpful. However, the captain and the mayor captured them, and Callahan tells him where to put his badge. I liked it more when he tells his superior about his mouthwash ain't making it! What can you say, the captain's a blow-hard, and the mayor is self-absorbed. Both he and his partner go to Alcatraz for the final confrontation, and it took one bazooka shot to stop the leader. This movie was a lot of fun, I liked the part where Callahan took out the crooks at the liquor store, and the last one got his jewels blitzed. This version has more bang for the buck! 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Sacrifice's Must Be Made!","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" **SPOILERS** There's this gang of psychos calling themselves The Peoples Revolutioary Task Force terrorizing the city of San Francisco. while this is happening the city fathers from the clueless mayor, John Cawford, on down are only interested in being politically correct and force on it's top cop Insp. Dirty Harry Callahan, Clint Eastwood, a woman Inspt. Kate Moore (Tyne Daly)as his new partner.Harry having trouble with the top police brass about his unorthodox methods in law enforcement, shooting first and asking question's later,is hardly amused with Kate. Feeling that her Job should be in the home doing house-work and bringing up a couple of kids instead of being on the streets hunting and shooting down bad guys. Armed to the teeth the revolutionaries lead by this psycho Vietnam Vet Bobby Maxwell, Deveren Bookwalter, decide to strike it big by kidnapping the mayor himself and hold him hostage. Maxwell will then ask for 5 million dollars with a promised from the state and city of safe passage out of the country.You can easily see where the movie is leading up to with Harry being stymied at every turn by his gutless superiors. These gutless political hacks are more interested in their jobs photo-ops and promotions then in the safety of the people of San Francisco. Harry was about to break the case wide open when he got former militant Black Panther leader and now Man of Peace Big Ed Mustapha, Albert Popwell, to finger the terrorist group leader and where he and his gang of terrorists can be found. It was Harry's egomaniac boss Capt. McKay, Bradford Dillman, who blew the entire deal by storming Big Ed's headquarters and arresting Big Ed and a number of his followers who were unarmed and not breaking any law to speak of.On the streets with his new partner Insp, Moore tagging along Harry goes to see the outspoken Father John, M.G Kelly. Father John runs a church that Maxwell was involved with and member in since he was in prison at San Quentin. Father John lambasting Harry about entering a house of God with anger and violence in his heart and a gun in his holster is suddenly left startled. That's when one of the nuns in his church of love and peace Sister Wanda, Samanta Doane,is shot down and killed not by Harry but his partner the rookie Inspt. Moore. It's revealed that she herself, Sister Wanda, was secretly a member of Maxwell's terrorist gang. Sister Wanda was also packing a shotgun, in a house of God no less, and was just about to blow an unsuspecting Harry away. A now totally distraught but brought back to the real world Father John, finally seeing the light,tells Harry that The Peoples Revolutionaries are holding up, with the kidnapped Mayor, in the now closed Alcatraz Island. Harry and Insp, Moore head out to The Rock' for a final showdown with Bobby Maxwell and friends in the movies bullet riddled and explosive final sequence.We see here a more humanized and humorous Dirty Harry who at least tries to follow the law, and not try going above or around it, in doing his job. It's the likes of Capt. McKay and the city bureaucrats like the Mayor that makes his job almost impossible to do. Harry who at first had little respect for his new partner woman cop Kate Moore later was almost in tears when she was gunned down saving his life, for the second time in the movie, by taking a bullet that was meant for him. Harry after saving the Mayor's life, by blasting his kidnapper Bobby Maxwell with a rocket launcher, walked away from the grateful Mayor in disgust; He instead spends his remaining moments in the movie standing alone and grieving over his dead partners, Inpt. Moore, body. "},{"Title":"Pretty weak 4/10","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I think Dirty Harry is a super cool character, but this third installment is just the pits.  The film has a been-there-done-that feel to it.  Nothing adds to the film by giving Harry a female partner -- and what a poor excuse for a villain.  Just a dull, shabby, action picture. "},{"Title":"Poorly made","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film stinks, and it is the worst of the dirty Harry saga.  The beginning is entertaining, and the robbery scene is great, but the rest of the film is slow, and lame.  They have a foot chase scene which kills this film, its so long you could go to the bathroom, and then get a sandwich, and when you come back it would still be on.  The running around, the arguing, and listening about how bad police management gets a bit much.  To top it off the female co star is the worst, she kills this film, there is nothing to like about her, she makes you want to cheer for the bad guys.  After the viewer suffers the middle part of this awful film, nobody cares about the conclusion, which becomes very anti climatic.  It looks like they did not have a script, and forced this film to copy the success of the first 2. "},{"Title":"Not a great Harry flick.","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Made three years after Magnum Force Eastwood has lost some of his mojo. He's suddenly looking his age. Tyne Daily was good in her role, and it was a little awkward when she and Clint had a long walk together and the subject of sexual innuendos came up. You just know that Ms. Daily's character would gladly jump into bed with Harry, but as for Harry?...naahh....she's just not gonna get any guy that excited. But then again, that was refreshing. Daily's character was real - she wasn't a Farah Fawcett-type sex object. Then, there was that ridiculous marathon foot chase - set to jazz music, when Eastwood chased a black guy that looked like he could have easily left him in the dust, about a mile behind. Eastwood jogs in his lanky, lurching way while the guy he's chasing has the gracefulness and speed of a gazelle. It's not clear how Eastwood finally caught up with him, but he manages to tackle the guy and he goes down quicker than a submarine with a screen door. Then, there was the leader of the Strike Force SLA wannabees. He looked like Alan Seuss from Laugh-In. The guy just wasn't that menacing. The best line in the show was when Eastwood was being chewed out by his a-hole superior. Can I make a statement?, requests Harry. That mouthwash you're using just ain't cutting it. I actually used this line on my boss as she was chewing me out...it worked and it was very gratifying. "},{"Title":"Harry's back! In his third, disappointing, adventure!","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Enforcer is definitely not as good as the original Dirty Harry (can't compare it to the second one, haven't seen it yet). The first movie had a simple premise. Simple and yet, genius. One bad guy, One cop. But in this movie, people die and the audience is left wondering, why. Characters you've never seen before are killed and you're wondering if they're important. Harry's back on the police force in this movie, which angers me. The ending to Dirty Harry where he throws away his badge was perfect. Also we barely get to see any action from Harry. There's only about 2 scenes where he's fighting someone. Overall, it wasn't bad, but it wasn't great. I expected more from Clint. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry 3","Date":"7 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" number three in the series is not as good as the previous two,in my mind.i found it pretty slow going,and i didn't think the story was of much interest.the action is pretty limited.there are no one witty one liners that Harry Callahan(Clint Eastwood)is known for.Eastwood is good as Harry.Tyne Daly,probably best known for the 80's cop show Cagney and Lacey co-stars as Harry's partner.she is one bright spot here in what is other wise an average production at best.the music is actually pretty interesting though.in terms of quality thought this movie is quite a step down form Magnum Force,the second and best film in the series so far.for me,The Enforcer is a 5/10 "},{"Title":"Least Memorble of the Dirty Harry Thrillers","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The third Dirty Harry movie, director James Fargo's The Enforcer, ranks as the least memorable police procedural entry in the five-picture franchise, and its chief gimmick is pairing up our gritty, trigger-happy, insubordinate cop with a female rookie sidekick. Tyne Daly's superb performance, Bradford Dillman's obnoxious captain, a couple of murder and mayhem scenes, and some dandy dialogue make this Dirty Harry sequel an above-average entry. Harry loses his long-time male partner and winds up breaking in a new partner. Inspector Kate Moore prefers for him to refrain from performing favors for her. Callahan manages to keep her alive for most of the movie, including an amusing scene on a ordinance testing range when the military demonstrate the use of a LAWS rocket. When he isn't dealing with Bradford Dillman's clueless police superior or his new partner's inexperience, our hero is tangling with a group of murder-minded radicals who abduct the mayor and occupy Alcatraz. The Enforcer opens with a radical group known as the People's Revolutionary Strike Force killing a security guard at an warehouse arsenal in San Francisco. Bobby Maxwell (DeVeren Bookwalter of The Omega Man) is an angry Vietnam veteran who was discharged from the service on a Section 8. Maxwell's people smash through the fence and steal some M72 anti-tank missiles, designated as Light Anti-Tank Weapons L.A.W.S. Meanwhile, Harry has his usual introductory episode where he handles crime the Callahan way as judge, jury, and executioneer. He confronts several robbers in a liquor store who want a car, so he crashes his police cruiser through the glass storefront and blows the opposition away with his Model 29 Smith & Wesson 44 Magnum. Meanwhile, his new boss, Captain James McKay (Bradford Dillman of The Way We Were) makes it abundantly clear to Callahan in that he doesn't approve of his Neanderthal methods. The snooty McKay has him transferred to Personnel. Initially, his sidekick is Inspector Frank DiGiorgio (John Mitchum of Dirty Harry), who appeared in the first two Harry movies. DiGiorgio was in the scene when Harry climbed the fence at the football stadium in Dirty Harry. Not surprisingly, like most of Dirty Harry's partners, DiGeorgia suffers a cruel fate at the hands of the radicals. Eventually, secondary characters in film franchises bite the dust and DiGiorgio takes a bullet from a radical and dies. The radicals abduct the mayor (John Crawford of The Towering Inferno) and take him to Alcatraz. They rely on the latest advances in technology to kidnap the mayor. They use a Tazer. Predictably, Harry is not about to let them get away with it even if McKay has booted him off the force. Nevertheless, the city of San Francisco punishes him and he decides to take matters in his own hands. Future Cagney & Lacey star Tyne Daley is appropriately unglamorous as Harry's sidekick Inspector Kate Moore. Daley is simply superb in her feature film debut. Watch the way that she handles her service revolver when she rescues the mayor on Alcatraz. There is a rooftop chase that goes on far too long and at one point Harry falls through a skylight window and plunging into the middle of a porno movie in production. James Fargo directs with an impersonal but efficient enough style. Clocking in at 96 minutes, The Enforcer is competent but never inspired. Daley easily steals the show as the most sympathetic of the characters. Of course, she has to die at fade-out, but it is the reason for her death that stands out. She dies trying to defend Harry. Naturally, she wins the admiration of the eponymous character. The Dirty Harry movies fell into a rut with this entry, though there is a humorous scene in the Personnel interview sessions. The donkey joke is hilarious. Jerry Fielding wrote the music. The villains don't hold a candle to either the mad sniper Scorpio in Dirty Harry or the clean-cut rookie cops in Magnum Force. The next Dirty Harry Sudden Impact restored considerable tenacity to the franchise and still gave the leading lady something important to do. "},{"Title":"From amateurs to professionals","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is the third episode of the saga. The mould was established two films ago and the first variations were introduced in the second episode. Now we have the third episode and the variation is clearly defined.On one side the group of criminals are politically motivated, like some kind of revolutionary secret army that manages to steal a whole lot of state-of-the-art modern weaponry. On the other side the police who is completely impotent because of the political pressure that imposes women and at the same time a more civil or polite if not courteous way of dealing with criminals and crime. Ms Miranda again. Absolutely Shakespearian!That of course goes against the grain of what Dirty Harry considers as good police work. The pseudo-revolutionary group kidnaps the mayor of San Francisco, then demands a couple of million and then a helicopter to transport them to the airport where the money will be waiting in a plane that would be ready to take off. Dirty Harry is provided with a new partner after the killing of the one he had at the beginning and that new partner is a woman. She has to prove herself in the eyes of the famous Dirty Harry. She picks the challenge and she succeeds against all odds.This time what makes the police inefficient is the political pressures they are suffering from, and that crashes them down. The mayor is saved in extremis by Dirty Harry and his partner, but the partner is killed and the mayor survives for sure but deeply shaken by the method used to liberate him. The main criminal detaining him is purely, truly and authentically blown into smithereens by a rocket launcher just hardly one meter over the head of the Mayor. In this case it is your best friend who makes the police incompetent. The last touch of the film is the helicopter arriving and announcing the money has been collected and is waiting for you at the airport along with a plane on its loudspeakers just minutes if not seconds after the killing of the main criminal and the freeing of the mayor. It shows how far behind their own times these modernistic politicians can be. Your worst enemies are always your best friends.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Women are put on trial for their ability to survive in a Blokey Movie.","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Women are on trial in The Enforcer for their ability to survive not in the real world, not in a man's world, not even in the police force - but in a Blokey Movie.And perhaps that trial has more relevance than their being on trial in a wider, social sense - which the world has progressed far beyond these days as to render so antiquated.So the trial happens on Blokey-Movie terms. Its whether a chick can be left alone with a group of horny black guys without getting assaulted (this is not me saying this, but the movie, remember), its whether she can keep from losing her cool with a gun in her hands, its whether she can keep up with Dirty Harry on a police chase on foot.5/10. Its B-movie cheese with cool 70's music, dated hair and social relations. Little things about the way the world was in 1976 really date this movie. Like the fact that women were considered lesser human beings, and the white man still believed that one day the black man really would take over the world.PS. Tyne Daly from TV's Judging Amy was an even funnier looking woman when she was young. She plays Dirty Harry's young partner. "}{"Title":"The Enforcer is Gone!","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  ****Excellent***Good**Fair*PoorThis is the third installment in the Dirty Harry franchise and probably should have been the last. After successfully creating a character who's as brutal as the enemy in a violent society Clint Eastwood turns Dirty Harry into an action star. No longer is Harry battling the enemy but his female partner who has to prove to Harry that she can be a great cop.The plot is actually quite good and Eastwood still delivers but the film lacks impact and the art imitating life premise is gone. Not to mention that the action scenes are a bit dated. RATING 2 STARSMustapha You really *are* a dirty son of a b---h. Harry Callahan The dirtiest. "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry Rules!!!!","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The third film in the Dirty Harry series is more of a regular action film than a Dirty Harry movie.  It has a plot so basic it was probably thought up in 5 minutes.  Still, that does not make it a bad movie.  Harry still focuses mostly on tracking down the bad guys so there's plenty of good action.  I liked SUDDEN IMPACT more but this is definitely better than THE DEAD POOL.  If you are either an action fan or an Eastwood fan, go out and pick this, its a fun movie.  4/5 "},{"Title":"The series begins to fall apart","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is the third Dirty Harry movie and the series begins to lose it's legs. While the first two movies were about violence in society this one is basically an action movie. The movie is entertaining but the impact is gone.**out of****stars "},{"Title":"AS the guns get bigger, the films get lamer","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Dirty Harry part 3 sees Harry teemed up with one of his expected nightmares for a partner- a women. And who can blame him given Tyne Daley's character, Inspector Moore, despite attempting to go out on her own, basically follows Harry in every scene, particularly in what seems a 50 mile hike across San Fransisco. This culminates with a comedy crash through a sky light into a porno movie shoot, a scene that echoes Roger Moore's 007 antics of the time. She does however save Harry's life with her first 'kill' when he is ruffing up a pinky- liberal priest- who we never fid out why he's siding with the militant loons that will go on to kidnap the mayor.Arguably the Mayor gives us the best scenes in the film, firstly his shockingly bad hair and the scene where he stands by while Harry tells his superiors to take his star as a five point supposatory. He subsequently goes and takes Harry's advise to 'jack-off' the press with a cover a story as to why Callahan isn't receiving his commondation. Ultimately though the Mayor is a stereotyped lying, self- obsessed politician, as is the man Ayrian bad guy with the 'wild' stare.The revolutionaries in this film are particularly poor, and highlight the lack of direction in the story. Again we never really find out their reasons for kidnapping the mayor, albeit for the ransom, that they were like in 'Dirty Harry', ready to pay. These guys are way over the top and the leader is particularly bad.Overall the series begins to lose direction with this film, arguably they should have stopped here. The character outline of Harry Callahan made in 'Magnum Force' disapeers and the filmmakers commit the ultimate sin of the Dirty Harry series- failing to make the set pieces interesting. The finale is interesting in that Clint would return a couple of years later for 'Escape from Alcatraz' but overall perhaps it would have been better to leave Harry at this point while Clint was still relatively young.5/10. Worth seeing if you liked the other two, but don't expect too much. It is again nice to hear reference to Harry's last partner by name and not just a faceless 'dead partner' as is often linked with Dirty Harry's image. "},{"Title":"The Enforcer","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'll admit I trailed off a little towards the end, but this second Dirty Harry sequel from director James Fargo (Every Which Way But Loose) didn't seem very interesting anyway. Basically 'Dirty' Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) foils a liquor store robbery after driving a car the robbers wanted through the front and killing them, causing thousands in damage. As punishment he is relegated to Personnel to see which patrol officers become inspectors, three out of eight places to be filled by women. Meanwhile a group called the People's Revolutionary Strike Force (PRSF), led by Bobby Maxwell (DeVeren Bookwalter) plan a rampage in San Francisco, and Harry's long time partner is killed during their big weapons theft. Vowing revenge, Harry and his new partner, not brilliant Human Resources department officer Kate Moore (Tyne Daly) try to catch these suspects, and she later proves resourceful. Eventually the PRSF kidnap the Mayor (John Crawford) and demand a $2,000,000 ransom, so Harry goes undercover to find Maxwell and his gang, leading to a final showdown. Also starring Bradford Dillman as Capt. McKay, Harry Guardino as Lt. Al Bressler, John Mitchum as Insp. Frank DiGiorgio, Albert Popwell as 'Big' Ed Mustapha, Samantha Doane as Wanda, Jocelyn Jones as Miki and M.G. Kelly as Father John. Eastwood still does well with the gritty attitude and one or two good one liners, and the film has its moments of action and explosion, but to be honest, it was a little boring. Clint Eastwood was number 18 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 61 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and Harry Callahan was number 17 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains. Okay! "},{"Title":"Pretty lame by today's standards","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Eastwood still smoulders as Harry, but not even his performance can save this, the third in the Dirty Harry series, from seeming dated and even embarrassing today. The dialog at times is almost plain funny (pigs, fuzz, etc), and the characters border on exploitation. Some nebulous 'black power' gang, one of whose members looks about seventy, and a group of sort of terrorist-hippies whose psycopathic leader looks about as intimidating as Leif Garrett. Similarly - though this isn't really the film's fault - the maverick cop with a (female) partner he doesn't want routine; all the plot devices which may have been new at the time of the first Dirty Harry film, have been run into the ground by now and just seem predictable and boring. Really, even in its day, it's hard to imagine this film would really have caused much of a stir. From memory, it's probably the weakest of the Dirty Harry series. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Enforcer!","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This Dirty Harry film is really the most different one. Eastwood was good as always and I was surprised by the performance by Tyne Daly. John Mitchum and Albert Popwell were good! It has some good action! In this one the music by Jerry Fielding and its a decent score! If you like Eastwood and and the Dirty Harry movies then watch The Enforcer! "},{"Title":"Dated, Sexist, Trash!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had an inkling that the worst was yet to come after watching the second chapter in the Dirty Harry series, Magnum Force. The second film showed promise but still remained in the shadows of the original and best, Dirty Harry.After first viewing The Enforcer back in 1977 I felt really disappointed with the entire story & the cheesy acting by Eastwood of all people.My attitudes haven't changed in 25 years of sporadic viewings of this rubbish. And today it really feels so dated and terribly sexist. I felt Eastwood was just going through the motions in this movie, showing little or no true conviction that was so apparent in the first two Harry films.I felt he was almost playing his character as some kind of pantomime parody of himself, with his tight jaw, blistering glare and his little soundbite of marvellous, which just made the film lose even more credibility.I didnt like the way Harry's new female partner (Tyne Daley) was portrayed either. To me it only served to drive a bigger wedge into the banality of this film, as well as emphasise the overtly sexist nature of the Callahan character. I wasn't impressed at all. (Examples of this heavy-handed masculine attitude include the following scenes the autopsy, the rocket launcher, the visit to Big 'ed Mustapha etc) Neither was I convinced with the rather lame story of freedom fighters kidnapping the mayor of SF for millions of dollars and then fleeing to Alcatraz of all places for the ultimate showdown with Eastwood & Daley. To say that I was disappointed with its conclusion would be a massive understatement. Talk about a damp squib!!The direction was poor, the cinematography dreadful and the film score totally disjointed (in one chase scene between Harry & his prey the music takes on a jazz motive!!! What an odd choice for what is supposedly a tense scene of cat & mouse over the rooftops of San Francisco)The entire film & set direction looked tired & unoriginal; the actors remained unconvincing & the humour in general poor taste and the kudos of Harry bares little or no resemblance to its superior predecessor.In truth The Enforcer couldn't enforce itself out of a wet paper bag!!!Dreadful**/*****  "},{"Title":"not as subject-heavy or thematically engaging as the first two, still as entertaining","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It's hard to call The Enforcer the best of the Dirty Harry pictures, but it isn't a disappointment at all; the quotable lines are still there (this time the repeatable line is marvelous), the chases, the the male-driven humor, the (slight) political undertones, and the notion that the hero will get his man (men/women). This time Harry is partnered with a rookie female cop (Tyne Daley, good in some scenes and in some a little aloof), and with the time given in the film not much is explored with this kind of idea. It's good that not too much is weighing the film down with the 'radical' idea that a woman can be a partner with a cop from homicide, and in a way it sort of matches up with the less weight given to the plot-line involving the 'Liberation-front' group as the film's villains. Both could've been developed more in some ways, though on the other hand at an hour and a half it makes the film tight, even when some scenes feel a little looser than they should.A highlight for me, and one of the great sequences in any Dirty Harry film, is Harry's roofs-top/alley chase of a suspicious man. The expectable 70's 'action' music is there, but not distracting, and there are enough surprises to bring a few big laughs among the general excitement of it. The climax to the film, in a way, isn't quite as exciting, it gives what we expect and not too much more (aside from a very unusual and cool weapon used by Harry at the bad-guys). While it's been a few years since I've seen the Dead Pool or Sudden Impact, this feels to be generally more of the 'Hollywood' Dirty Harry film, with Eastwood giving no more or less than his usual, and the story having just enough meat to keep one watching. Nothing great, but nothing too shabby either. "},{"Title":"Some Notes for Baseball Fans","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Two notes for trivia/blooper fans...The scene where the Mayor and his aide leave a supposed SFGiants game at Candlestick Park was shot during a PhiladelphiaPhillies home game at the Vet in Philly -- not only is the artificial turfa dead giveaway, you can see various Phillies fans wearing teamhats (plus neither team playing is the Giants).Cut to the Mayor leaving outside Candlestick park, which looksmore or less in the right position.Then, in the scene where the Mayor's car is stopped and he'skidnapped by Bobby Maxwell's gang, current SF Giant fans willrecognize the bridge -- it's the one right outside present-day PacBell Park! There's a later allusion to the (correct) location as ChinaBasin (aka what is now McCovey Cove).The funny thing is that indeed that used to be a shortcut of sortsfrom Candlestick to downtown (City Hall) that a mayor might use --cut through the pier and docks district over the Channel bridge. Sothey had a true-to-life geography in the mise-en-scene...butcouldn't be bothered to film at a real Giants game...? Weird. "}{"Title":"Dirty Harry on autopilot","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" ABSOLUTELY MARGINAl spoiler below, one irrelevant scene is described in detail...Unlike the first Dirty Harry, and maybe the first sequel, this one misses out on all fronts. Harry doesn't seem to want to get all dirty this time, he's on cruise control throughout the film. His female newly assigned partner (later she played Lacey in the Cagney and Lacey TV series) is annoying. A prop that breathes. Since this type of flick doesn't lean on a thoroughly crafted plot and storyline to begin with all that remains are action scenes, car chases and above all a lot of fast paced action with questionable violence interspersed with the main character's cynical witticisms. I'll give it 5 out of 10, and that's because I am in a good mood today. If you have nothing better to do and are into 70s style hero cop flicks, it's watchable. This punk didn't feel lucky this time! Tip notice the ridiculous jazzy score accompanying some of the action scenes. It's funny. So seventies!Funniest scene/dialog Female cop is being 'tested' for adequacy as inspector with the force. Some stuck-up local government tart sitting at the interview table clearly hates his guts and his behaviour Harry (to candidate) Let's say I walk on the street and Mrs Grey over here makes me a proposal for 5 dollar I'll do a show with a pony for you. Which misdemeanor is applicable, apart from animal abuse, obviously !? "},{"Title":"Why does it have to be so unrealistic?","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Dirty Harry wasn't really my favorite movie, to say it nicely, but I have to admit that The Enforcer didn't annoy me that much. Probably because I knew what to expect this time. Much hasn't changed in the concept of the movie since the first one. It's still about 'Dirty' Harry Callahan who has to wipe all the bad guys out of the streets of San Fransisco. This time he has to face some revolutionaries who have kidnapped the Mayor and who threaten to blow up the entire city. Again he carries a gun the size of a little canon and again he has a new partner.I guess this must be an excellent movie for the fans of seventies cop/action movies, but it didn't convince me. Like I already said in my review of Dirty Harry I don't like it that the movie is far from realistic. The shooting has been improved a bit, but now the story isn't worth much. No, I can't give this movie any more than a 5/10. "}]