[{"Title":"inspiring, in a way","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"56 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I can't help but agree with most of the other comments  the sloppy production values, the scenes borrowed from better movies, the countless anachronisms, the distracting subplot about Lt. Garth and his Japanese girlfriend, and so on.  But for me, this movie has two strong points in its favor.  One, when they get around to the actual battle, they follow the history with surprising accuracy.  (The Pearl Harbor makers could have learned something from this one.)  So the movie's hard to follow?  So was the actual battle!  Personally, I think they did a pretty good job of keeping the flow coherent while still remaining faithful to its source material.The second thing in its favor is that, from the moment I first saw it in the theater as a 10 year old, it ignited in me a passion for the Battle of Midway that remains to this day.  I can't think of any other movie that even comes close to getting me as hooked on its subject as this one.  Maybe it's a good thing I first saw it when I was young, when I was much less discerning about production values, etc.  That way, I could concentrate on the story itself.If you have even the slightest interest in military history or even in important historical events in general, do yourself a favor.  Watch Midway to get an overview of the event (fast-forward over the love-story scenes if you like), then go read Incredible Victory by Walter Lord (which is a better book than the one for which he is most famous, A Night to Remember).  You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Flawed But Still Satisfying","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"46 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Of course Midway is a flawed movie.   The subplot about Japanese-Americans is ridiculous and seems like a forced attempt to be PC during the post-Vietnam 1970s when it wasn't in fashion to be completely celebratory of America.   Of course it's unsatisfying that the Japanese actors don't speak Japanese and we have to hear Paul Frees dubbing Toshiro Mifune.  Of course the stock footage isn't going to please aviation and naval buffs who know these details like the back of their hands, but to me this is a trivial complaint that fails to take into account the limits of 1970s technology or budgeting.   Pearl Harbor ultimately got those details right through CGI and the end result was a far worse film in the final analysis.   Because ultimately, for all the flaws that are in Midway it succeeds because it does stick to the essential truths when telling the story of the battle, and I know this because when I first saw this movie on the CBS Late Movie around 1979, I got so hooked that I went out and read every book on the battle I could find including Walter Lord's Incredible Victory.   The movie had given me a starting reference point and while I was sorry that some key aspects of the latter stages of the battle were not depicted (such as the torpedoing and eventual sinking of the Yorktown), I couldn't have asked for anything better in terms of getting me to learn more about this great turning point of World War II.   As far as I'm concerned, it's good that Hollywood did tackle this subject in an era when the influence of Tora! Tora! Tora!, The Longest Day etc. still hung over the proceedings because if it hadn't been made back then, we would today be forced to see it given the Pearl Harbor and Titanic treatment that is pure garbage.John Williams contributes one of his finer pre-Star Wars scores with two great themes, the Midway March (which is only heard in the end credits of the theatrical version and became more popular in an expanded concert arrangement by the Boston Pops) and the Men Of The Yorktown March which dominates much of the score and offers great foreshadowings of the Throne Room sequence in Star Wars and the Smallville music in Superman. "},{"Title":"Blast from the past","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"41 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Saturday night TV is a bit of a dead zone down here so I suppose one should be grateful for the odd watchable movie, even if its 20 years old. This one looks older than it actually is, due to the liberal use of stock footage and a cast that's a retirement counsellor's dream. A relatively youthful Charlton Heston is in the lead, but there's Henry Fonda, Glenn Ford, Robert Mitchum, Robert Webber and even the great Japanese actor Toshiro Mifune. A curious aspect is that every military character with a speaking part is an officer; the grunts just get to grunt. It's very much the view from the bridge (and the pilot's seat). Despite this aspect and the attempt at historical realism it's not made clear quite how it was that the Japanese made the error that cost them the battle, getting caught with their flightdecks full just as the American torpedo bombers arrived. The contribution  of the American land-based aircraft is also given scant recognition.Still you do get a bit of a story, though the less said about the silly sub-plot involving the Heston character's son and a Japanese-American girl the better. The director, Jack Smight had extensive T V experience, as did many of the younger actors, and this shows up in the rather static dialogue scenes you get when you aren't allowed to move the cameras much. The Japanese voices are dubbed, so that Paul Free, the voice of Boris Badenov in Bullwinkle, (and countless other cartoon characters) is Admiral Yamamoto. The music was written by John Williams who a year or so later did the music for Star Wars and you can sense the similarities.In the film the military operations side of things abounds with anacronisms, partly due to the liberal use of stock footage as mentioned. I don't think you can be too hard on the producers (the low profile but financially successful Mirisch Brothers) for not using a real Japanese World War 2 aircraft carrier since they are all at the bottom of the sea, but the crashed jet on the Yorktown's flightdeck was a bit sloppy. Tora Tora Tora, which cost more money, was a better film. Not because it cost more money but because it was more carefully made, more balanced (both side's story told well) and more honest, perhaps also because it dealt with defeat rather than victory from the American viewpoint. Midway has some suspense, plenty of action, and the the patriotism drum is not banged to the point of pain. "},{"Title":"It's overall what counts","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"43 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This was one of my favorite movies when I was growing up and building models of land, sea, and air craft of the WWII period. Of course we all could have done without the romantic interest, but what counts is the overall telling of the story accurately (even if that includes sideline dramatizations etc.). In a nutshell Midway was a gamble and even though we knew where they'd be, we still took it on the chin with the loss of most of the aircraft and the Yorktown (which left only 2 effective carriers in the pacific and 1 in drydock). In the end we were lucky enough to be able to inflict sufficiently more damage on them than they did on us. This is the story that is told so well. It doesn't matter that the special effects were less than stellar (e.g., view of the fleet from the sealevel - obvious miniatures) or that they showed Essex class carriers which did not yet exist getting hit by kamikaze. The film is true in its depictions of gambles, gaffs, and good fortune which in the end allowed us to be victorious and end Japanese expansion. So quit knocking it and enjoy it for what it is! "},{"Title":"On The Turn Of a Dime","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"27 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The film Midway shows in graphic documentary style, the battle that did nothing less than save America and ultimately allow us to win World War II. If the Japanese had prevailed at Midway, they might very well have taken Hawaii and been blockading our continental Pacific coast. We might have had to declare a truce and hope that public opinion would allow us to continue the European and North African war. Remember the USA was brought in to the war because of the Japanese attack at Pearl Harbor, not Hitler's attack.There is a plot of sorts with Charlton Heston as the fictional pilot group commander who's involved in helping his son Edward Albert help a Nisei family who've been interred for the duration of the war because Albert is engaged to the daughter. That's the one weakness of Midway, the story really wasn't necessary and detracted with the very precise telling of the Midway tale. Had they left it out, Midway had the potential to be a classic like The Longest Day.Without Charlton Heston and his family problems, the story of Midway is told with remarkable historic accuracy. Henry Fonda who played Admiral Chester W. Nimitz in all but name in In Harm's Way, gets to play Nimitz again in Midway. Robert Mitchum and Glenn Ford play Admirals William Halsey and Raymond Spruance who between the two of them won America's Pacific war. A whole lot of fine character actors like James Coburn, Robert Wagner, Robert Webber, Hal Holbrook and many more fill their naval roles to precision.The story of the Battle of Midway should be told and told again in America's public schools for future generations. Not just because of the sailors and airmen of America's greatest generation who fought and prevailed at Midway, but because of just how close a run thing the Battle of Midway was. One very fateful decision by Admirals Yamamoto and Nagumo turned the tide of battle on a dime. By the way the oriental players in Midway like Toshiro Mifune as Yamamoto and James Shigeta as Nagumo and others also play very well. The American cinema certainly came a long way from when they previously cast the Japanese as bucktooth primates. When the viewer sees just how much pure luck played a part in winning at Midway, they will come away with one of two impressions. The first might be that a divine providence is guiding and protecting America. If so, who's to say that will always be the case. And if not, the second lesson might be that we as a country might not always be so lucky.If they could edit out the Heston family story, Midway is a great film for history classes studying World War II. "},{"Title":"A good movie about how grand battles are won and lost","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I remember reading that this movie was made primarily because they had excessive footage from when they shot Tora! Tora! Tora! and some of the shot looks like they did came from that film. But this film also includes old actual shots taken by service men and news people.The movie is based on the American victory off Midway Island. The movie was made 30 years after WWII and a couple of years after Vietnam, so it doesn't have a jingoistic feel to it. It has more of a matter of fact feel to it, more a docudrama than propaganda.The movie is different from most war movies because it shows how Grand battles are won and lost. There isn't much individual heroism from ordinary soldiers shown. Instead we see how commanders, in this case admirals make decisions and take risks usually based on sketchy information. They put their reputations on line, along with the safety of their men, and the security of their nations. We see how the outcome of a battle can hinged on risky decisions or sometimes on indecision. We see how commanders have to sweat out their decisions as History hangs on the balance. Yes! History! This battle after all is considered the turning point of the War in the Pacific.In this movie decisions are made on what certain letters mean, whether enemy carriers are where they are supposed to be. If viewers give it the appropriate attention, they will see that this movie plays like a giant chess match. The outcome determined by gutsy moves and bad decisions, sometimes indecision.The movie boasts an impressive cast which include, Henry Fonda, Glenn Ford, Robert Mitchum, Cliff Robertson, Charlton Heston and they all do fine jobs. They play the typical Grand characters in epic movies, they move the story along but has no personal stories themselves. The one personal story belongs to Edward Albert, who plays Heston's son. He's not very convincing and playing opposite a pro like Mr. Heston, he comes across as being weak almost amateurish.The movie is good but far from great. I love how the filmmakers remained true to the events. But the special effects looked cheap and the use of actual combat footage feels inappropriate and even exploitive. Nevertheless I think it's a good film not to be missed by Military History buffs. "},{"Title":"Well, The Video Was Better Than The Theatrical. Release","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This is one I first saw when it was in theatrical release. In that, it had the whole Coral Sea sequences in it, and the film dragged. My thought was, even then, that they had a lot of battle footage they wanted to show, nothing more.And on the battle scenes. Some of them appeared to be stock footage originally shot on 16mm, then blown up and cropped for widescreen. In the theater, the graininess of the footage was masked by showing the scenes by defocusing them! Although a lot of the film is superfluous, one aspect of it rang true the cryptanalysis of the Japanese RED cipher, and the mousetrap set to determine which target AF was. Commander Rochefort was not treated well at the time, but at least this film gives his efforts the credit they deserve.The release of the film to videotape helped considerably by chopping out a lot of superfluity, though not all of it.Compared to The Longest Day, or other equivalent war film, this one doesn't have their stature, but at least it provides the viewer with entertainment. "},{"Title":"OK War Film, Great Documentary?","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This film is not an action-packed war film filled with constant loud heroism and stirring speeches. It is, however, a film which gives a good overview of how the battle of 'Midway' unfolded. Fewer explosions, more dialog - almost like a documentary in its pacing and focus. It has a large cast, and thus cannot focus much on character development, instead looking to the events to power the story (again, like a non-biographical documentary). Though the 'goofs' page is filled with anachronisms and inaccuracies (stock footage from the wrong era, using Essex-class ships for Japanese, etc...) the film does get the major 'plot' points down. i.e. American signal intelligence intercepts revealing the Japanese plan, the sequence of carrier and land attacks, the critical decision(s) to arm and rearm the Japanese attack craft, etc...Overall, this film seems to be one of a lost genre - big-budget semi-documentaries. Similar to 'Tora Tora Tora' or 'The Longest Day'. A large cast of big-name actors, focus on factual retelling of the events. "},{"Title":"WW2 in the PAcific Turning Point for the US","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I've been an avid war movie junkie since I was but a wee boy. I still am. Lately I've revisited one of my favorites. Midway. I have seen this movie countless times on TV but recently picked up a DVD copy of the special edition. I have previously spotted several flaws in the film but forgave them since there is only so much real combat footage to be had and the movie does blend it rather well, rather well for 1976 anyway. However as I viewed it late one night I spotted a rather troubling image! An SBD(dive bomber dauntless) was attacking a Japanese carrier( I don't remember which one and it doesn't really matter) which opened fire on the diving aircraft. When the scene switched back to the plane it was a German twin engine BF-110! I am serious, I had to pause the footage and slowly rewind it frame by frame to be sure. I am sure. The footage clearly shows a twin engine plane exploding, frame after frame the image develops in which you can see one of the engines blowing off the wing and then a black cross(swasitka) on the opposite wing. The scene changes suddenly and the plane is never shown again. Did the editors miss this or did they assume the public was too ignorant to spot it? Either way this is a terrible blunder. A German plane at Midway attacking a Japanese carrier!? Wow! Beyond this the acting and dialog is as other reviewers have stated, dreadful! The extra scenes made for the TV release as well as a VERY SHORT docu with Charleton Heston add little to the original release. Honestly, I like Charlrton Heston but I'm not sure why. His acting is always the same. Bad. Still there is a draw to him. There are a number of early acting cameos by Erik Estrada, Robert Wagner and the like which are very entertaining after so many years(almost 30). The overall history reproduction is good with the good and bad luck shown clearly. This battle should have favored the Japanese but instead was the beginning of their demise in the Pacific. I still recommend this movie but watch closely for planes to change from SBD's to TBD's and so on as they mix and match real footage with models and props. An engrossing if flawed 1976 WW2 classic! "},{"Title":"Torpid, Torpid, Torpid","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This has to be one of the slowest-moving war movies ever. And I was afraid of it back when it came out, because it was in Sensurround, which meant the woofers were tweaked low and you got to not only hear but feel every rumble as the bombs and torpedoes lit into the oil tanks and set the carriers ablaze. That was a pretty intimidating sound back in the day, lemme tell you. But that was a million years ago.Midway was one of the greatest military battles ever, certainly the greatest naval contest of the greatest war ever, and as a conflict showcasing equal parts bravery, strategy, and luck. But this movie is a strange recreation that promotes aging 1970s star power over a coherent plot line. Most perplexing is the concentration on many over-the-hill American actors in telling the story of how the battle for Midway was won by the Red, White, and Blue. Charlton Heston carries much of the story, yet both his character and his actions are highly unrealistic. For a near-flag officer, we're asked to accept him called on in a pinch leading a dive-bombing squadron at such an advanced age. Henry Fonda scratches his head as Admiral Nimitz, stuck at Pearl Harbor as the war is fought hundreds of miles away, while Robert Mitchum's Admiral Halsey is confined to bed with a nasty skin condition, and Hal Halbrook as an intelligence chief seems to suffer from a bad case of BO. At least we were spared a John Wayne cameo, as an admiral who couldn't leave the john with a nasty case of hemorrhoids.In movies about D-Day or Operation Market Garden, we got to see a little more of a few of the trenchline view, which enhanced our appreciation of what was endured as well as what was won (and lost). Here it's all a case of transferring flags and staring at maps by the highest commanders. Boardroom battles. Meanwhile, the Japanese high command seems populated exclusively by Arnold from Happy Days, Jack Klugman's assistant in Quincy, and assorted North and South Korean extras from M*A*S*H. A nice sense of the decade, except that decade is the 1970s, not the 1940s.It's a battle whose story deserves telling, but not with cutscenes from Tora, Tora, Tora and The World At War. The tacked-on subplot with American-boy-loves-Japanese-girl feels suspect, like a politically-correct nod at inclusiveness at the expense of telling the story the way it happened. If they really wanted to be inclusive, it would have been a Zero pilot and his Yank girl, who swears she has nothing to do with awful FDR and his foul plans against Japan's Asian Co-Prosperity Sphere.What else is there to lambaste? The ridiculous supers we get around various characters, including no less than three around the lone survivor and Kojak sidekick George Gay, as played by Kevin Dobson? The silly radio chatter among the American pilots, who sound more like American Top 40 DJs than warriors trying to sink the Imperial Navy? I like the occasional hints of verisimilitude we get, like the oil burns around the cowlings of Avengers about to launch, but the blue paint on the American jeeps and the Essex carriers that substitute for the Japanese fleet distract too much for any real enjoyment. Read Gordon Prange, and leave this be. "}{"Title":"Mediocre war film can't live up to predecessors.","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Like The Longest Day and Tora! Tora! Tora!, Midway follows the true story very closely and features an all star cast.  And like the Longest Day, it features Henry Fonda, Robert Mitchum, and Robert Wagner.  However, whereas the first two are war classics, Midway falls short in many departments.For one, the movie seems to have no sense of building suspense.  In the Longest Day, the paratrooper landings and the scenes of bombardment vessels creeping toward the shore let you know that all hell is about to break loose.  Likewise, in Tora! Tora! Tora!, scenes of anxious commanders, desperate analysts, and the oblivious Hawaii residents are separated by scenes of approaching Japanese bombers to hike the suspense factor.  Yet, despite the fact that Midway was the most decisive naval battle in modern history, we don't get a true sense of how important the pilots' jobs are or how grave the implications of the battle are, except for from titles before and after the movie.  Where were the scenes of planes prepping for takeoff or of pilots, wary but dutiful about a mission that may be their last?The battle sequences are another problem.  First off, most of the footage is actual war footage or stock footage.  The stock footage works fine for the bombing of Tokyo (since the shown footage is actually about that event) but is a little less convincing when the footage shown is supposed to be of Hawaii's Hickam Field but is passed off as Midway Island.  Worse than the presence of stock footage is the editing.  While maps of the ocean are shown repeatedly so that we know where the action is taking place, it's hard to tell what's what when we're away from the maps.  We see planes crash into water and bombs explode, but most of the battle sequences could use a little more coherence.  Had the makers of this movie shot a little combat footage of their own, even if only to make the battle scenes less jump, the movie would have benefitted.For the most part, the cast is pretty good and fares well with only occasionally trite dialogue.  However, only Heston, Holbrook, and Shigeta stand out.  Many of the other players are simply not given enough time to make an impact.  Coburn, especially, has little to do.The flaws of this movie notwithstanding, it's still watchable, and it gives you a pretty good idea of the events and decisions leading up to the battle, as well as the errors and luck that went into the battle itself.  And when you can't figure out what's happened from the uneven visuals, at least Nimitz (Fonda) or his at-sea commanders are there to describe what happened and add some perspective.** out of **** "},{"Title":"Admirable intentions, middling results","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Producer Mirisch was an avid WWII buff and really wanted to bring The Battle of Midway to the screen. Unfortunately, the only way he could swing it, financially, was to keep costs at bay, which meant utilizing a lot of authentic, but grainy, war footage and leftover stock from previous WWII films. (To his credit, the film owns up to the real war film footage right away and is even proud of it.) The result is a sprawling, big-name cast, war epic that comes off as a sort of patchwork quilt of explosions, mid-air battles and plane crashes held together by lots of men in navy or khaki pushing model planes and boats around on large table maps. A jaw-dropping cast was assembled, but is, in most cases, wasted. If the names in the credits actually shared a lot of scenes together or interacted beyond the few moments they do, this would have been quite a spectacle. Unfortunately, Coburn, Robertson and Mitchum only pop in for go to the john and miss 'em cameos. Mitchum was so lazy about it in real life that he wouldn't even stand up and plays a character who is bed-ridden with a skin disorder! The primary role in the film goes to Heston, who was a major star at the time. He plays a fictional character who seems to weave through and interact with most of the chief players in the military strategy. (This approach was later used quite successfully in Titanic, in which the fictional young leads rubbed elbows with characters based on actual passengers as they made their way through the disaster.) Albert has a featured role as Heston's headstrong son who has the bad luck to have fallen for a Japanese-American student who's been sent to an internment camp. Fonda, Wagner and Ford log a bit more screen time than some of their peers, but neither winds up with anything really substantial to say or do, though Fonda does get to deliver the closing food-for-thought line. Perhaps it is due to the truly bland portrayals turned in by those around him, but Holbrook is guilty of some atrocious overacting as a nonconformist commander who discovers the Japanese plan to attack Midway. As for the Japanese, many familiar Asian actors from such TV shows as Happy Days, Quincy, etc... stand next to Shigeta and Mifune (who, in a very, very bad move, is dubbed by distinctive voice actor Paul Frees in a growly, blunt fashion) wearing forced scowls on their faces and in some cases sporting deadly-awful, false greying in their hair. The pilots speak in ludicrously modern-day Americanized English as they approach their targets. Sprinkled into the cast are many unknowns who would later make a mark in television such as Estrada, Selleck, Dobson and Kanaly. Other mid-level stars like Markham, George and Corbett attempt to be glimpsed through their flight goggles, the fake clouds blowing on them and the chintzy, studio set airplane mock-ups they are sitting in. Kokubo, as Albert's girlfriend, is the sole female in the film and is a huge detriment. Her very first line, I'm an American, dammit! is delivered in a loathsome contemporary manner which immediately discounts her entire role. The script is, for the most part, an abysmal mess anyway. It has the same pieced-together feel as the visuals. In fact, one major character dies at the end solely because someone found old footage of a fiery crash and wanted to insert it into the film! Despite the many flaws, both visual and, to a lesser extent, historical, the film is reasonably watchable just to see that cast go through its paces and to examine the strategies and occurrences which became this important battle. Audiences willing to throw their sense of disbelief out the window can still enjoy the actual plotting and circumstances of the event. There is also one truly horrifying moment when Albert's cockpit catches fire. When the film was aired for TV (in a four-hour, two-night event) additional footage was shot. In an odd twist, Mitchell Ryan and Susan Sullivan were the primary actors (albeit not together) in this footage and they would later go on to play spouses on the long-running Dharma and Greg. Sullivan's work is quite strong and would have added a lot to the feature release had it been included to begin with (perhaps in place of Kokubo's storyline.) Incidentally, Heston's wig in the added footage is much more flattering than the one he wears in the original film! Heston, Nelson and Estrada had all appeared in director Smight's previous film Airport 1975. It's a subject that was close to the producer's heart, but unfortunately does not hold up as a memorable piece of film-making. "},{"Title":"How bad is this movie ? Let me count the ways.","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" How bad is this movie ? Let me count the ways... Alright, I'm a WWII history buff and I have seen some really good WWII movies. This is NOT one of them. This is very unfortunate because The Battle Of Midway is one of the most important naval battles ever fought in the entire history of the world. Others before me here have pointed out various problems with this movie so I will try not to rehash them. It is obvious that this movie was made on a shoestring budget, and part of that problem is that they may have spent too much on the salaries of the actors. Just about every actor in the film, even in the smallest of roles, is a big star. Plus, it's obvious that they stole scenes from other movies, including Tora ! Tora ! Tora ! which is a MUCH better movie, and far more historically accurate. There are many glaring inaccuracies in this movie, but I think the worst omission, is the sinking of the USS Yorktown. The USS Yorktown was an integral part of the Battle Of Midway, and its sinking was a terrible loss. But it isn't even mentioned in the film. This is a great disservice to the mens' lives who were lost on her as well as the heroic efforts of the men to save her. If you don't know ANYTHING about WWII, you might be entertained for a few hours with this. If you DO know anything about WWII, you will be sorely disappointed in this hack job, and I wouldn't waste my time.It's a terrible shame too, because it is one of the most important battles ever fought, and if it had been done with the same style and care as Tora ! Tora ! Tora !, it would have been a great film. But it's a turkey. "},{"Title":"Ignore the bad press. This is a good film","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Again I am forced to say this. History is impossible to film as it happened. Everything is based on someone's memory and rarely on the facts, whatever they happen to be. With the possible exception of Charlton Heston being over cast for what should have been a lessor role with a lessor actor, this film has nothing...I repeat nothing to be ashamed about. The viewing of the events leading up to Midway, just as in the equally watchable Tora! Tora! Tora! is helped by being viewed from both sides. It makes it easier, for one thing to understand the motivations of both sides.I am always entrusted in the music, and the music here was excellent as always. Very fitting to the film. I have to say I am not one for war movies usually, so it takes something special to interest a history major like myself. "},{"Title":"The editor must have been drunk","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I was very predisposed to like this film. So, when it debuted I went to the theater to see it when I was 12. Sadly, I noticed that the film was an abysmal mess. The only thing GOOD about the film was the rumbling of the Sensurround sound system at the very beginning (when it showed a bit from the Doolittle Raid). I saw it on TV years later, and it hadn't gotten any better.The movie is about half acting and half old stock footage from WW2 air battles. The parts created by the studio were okay--lots of competent actors doing an adequate, though not especially inspiring jobs. However, the stock footage shows complete contempt for the audience. I am pretty knowledgeable about WW2 aircraft (and was as a kid, too) and I was very irritated to see planes in the movie that were not even in use until after the June 1942 battle. I guess this is sloppy but forgivable. But, to show stock footage of planes that literally change from one type of plane to another in mid-flight shows utter contempt for the viewers (MANY of which will spot these flaws). For example, you might see a dive bomber diving on a ship and then it shifts away to another angle and it is now a torpedo plane or fighter. These sorts of things happened A LOT--not just once or twice. Sometimes, the color of the plane even changed. And, to top it off, much of the footage was EXCEPTIONALLY grainy and unusable. And some, like the plane that splits in half on landing, have been shown 1001 times on documentaries, so they're terribly familiar.Now I am not saying they should have blown up valuable planes just for our entertainment, but come off it folks! Films such as The Battle of Britain and Tora, Tora, Tora did a much better job of at least ATTEMPTING to get it right!! They used models, existing planes and similar planes--not grainy footage randomly thrown together. This along with a little modern content does NOT make an acceptable movie to pawn off on the unsuspecting public. "},{"Title":"'Midway' revisited...mediocre war film with uninspired star cameos...","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Most of the male stars who appear in MIDWAY look as though they rehearsed their grumpy expressions and gruff delivery of dialogue before a mirror and then went before the cameras without sufficient rehearsal. None of the acting is more than routine and Hal Holbrook has been permitted to do some serious overacting in possibly the worst performance in the film.Some of the drama does comes through with the use of actual footage of the greatest naval battle of World War II which decided the defeat of the Japanese when their carriers were destroyed. But tacked onto the complicated military maneuvers is a subplot involving Edward Albert and a Japanese girl he wants to marry. It further weakens the already shoddy story structure.Hopefully, some day a real account of the Battle of Midway will be done without putting the focus on some overaged male stars who do little to preserve their acting reputations with this one. Charlton Heston comes off best but the others are strictly playing their roles by the book Henry Fonda, Robert Mitchum, Glenn Ford, Cliff Robertson and Robert Wagner included. Mitchum is totally wasted as a man who must suggest his replacement for battle because he's bedridden with a skin disorder.If you watch closely, you can catch Tom Selleck and Erik Estrada in bit roles. The stock war footage has been rather awkwardly inserted in the midst of the battle scenes and further detracts from enjoyment of the film. "},{"Title":"Like the battle, movie was a quasi-success","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Midway has long been a favorite video to rent on occasion & relax in front of (although my only time to watch it on a TV with stereo sound nearly shook paint off the walls!). I've always wanted to rent it and Tora, Tora, Tora some weekend & watch T,T,T, then Midway back-to-back. One or the other was always checked out, though.Perhaps if I HAD gotten to see them back-to-back, Midway's deficiencies would be more clear to me. I certainly agree that the lame subplot is distracting and unrealistic. Heston's character (Capt. Garth) is interesting, but (as others have noted) no more so than the REAL officers involved. Henry Fonda played Chester Nimitz more than once, but never got to REALLY portray him. This is sad, since he fit the bill to a T. (Although the imbecilic  little speech they give him at the very end always makes me want to gag!) James Coburn's twangy southern code-breaker was the most likeable character in the movie. The rest of the cast is solid, too, even when the writing may not be.I'm not swift enough to pick on wrong insignias being used or stock footage being from other movies. It always looked (and SOUNDED) cool to me.I liked the gradual development of the duel between Nimitz & his commanders & Yamamoto & his. To me the carrier tactics and the interpersonal debates that affected them was much more entertaining than the hokey romance subplot. It WAS a tad strange to see Pat Moran as one of the Japanese officers. (And I'm amazed to read in other reviews that Admiral Yamamoto's voice was the same as Boris Badinov!) Personally, I had trouble telling the Japanese admirals apart -- not to mention Admirals Fletcher and Spruance.Overall, I would call the movie about what we called the battle -- a victory, but one where a number of things went wrong. I would give it a 7/10 rating.  "},{"Title":"Not Enough Focus On The Actual Battle Of Midway","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" As an account of the World War II Battle of Midway - considered by most to have been the turning point in the Pacific theatre - this movie has definite strengths and weaknesses. The Battle itself is pretty well depicted, but is unfortunately left to basically the last third of the film. At that point, it perhaps overdoes the use of film footage of planes being shot down and loses sight of the human side of the battle from time to time. It does manage to get many of the details right, and it successfully manages to avoid for the most part the good American vs the bad Japanese stereotypes. These Japanese were military men out to fight and win a war - just like their American counterparts. There was no sense of moral superiority of one over the other. These were two countries at war and two fleets involved in battle, with neither being sure of what the other was up to. If there had been more focus on the battle itself - and especially the human side of the battle - I'd rate this a lot higher.A lot of the runtime of the film, though, is taken up with the planning for the battle. That's important, of course, but not really the stuff out of which excitement is manufactured. The biggest weakness, though, is the rather forced subplot about the internment and mistreatment of loyal Japanese Americans, introduced by having Tom (Edward Albert) engaged to a young Japanese American woman who's about to be shipped off to an internment camp, and Tom's father Captain Garth (Charlton Heston) involved in some tension with his son over this issue. It was unnecessary and it wasn't really either developed or seen through to fulfilment. The cast is pretty well known, but really there were no true standout performances. This is a lot weaker than, for example, Tora! Tora! Tora! which had been made a few years earlier. (6/10) "},{"Title":"MIDWAY (Jack Smight, 1976) **1/2","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" In the vein of THE LONGEST DAY (1962) and BATTLE OF THE BULGE (1965), this one’s basically the equivalent of BATTLE OF Britain (1969) – as well as a sort of companion piece to TORA! TORA! TORA! (1970). For this reason, it tries hard to be as authentic and detailed as possible (with stock footage of the real WWII battle and constant captions indicating names of places, vehicles and personnel) but then doesn’t allow much acting opportunity to its star-studded cast with this in mind, the contribution of James Coburn (as an officer who mistrusts the information denoting Midway as a probable enemy target), Robert Mitchum (more on his character later), Cliff Robertson (as Heston’s former buddy and superior to his pilot son) and Robert Wagner (as Commander Henry Fonda’s aide) results in being especially negligible.Charlton Heston is the nominal lead he’s seen having problems with son Edward Albert over the latter’s inopportune relationship with a Japanese girl (when the latter continues to mope about his personal situation, Heston snaps in his inimitable fashion “You better shape up, Tiger, or some hotshot Jap pilot's gonna flame your ass!”). Henry Fonda is, as ever, the authoritative figure – playing the Admiral in charge of the defense operation at Midway; Glenn Ford is Mitchum’s low-ranking replacement (the latter appears as the well-known Admiral Halsey, who’s been confined to hospital due to a skin disease apparently, the bulky and notoriously laid-back actor could have chosen to play any real-life character involved but deliberately opted for this thankless role – even so, he lends a welcome dose of humor to the proceedings, especially when he rebukes Ford, who wants to shake Mitchum’s hand for displaying the utmost confidence in him, with “You want us to lose the war?!”). Hal Holbrook is the enthusiastic old-timer who first detects, through a coded message, the Japs’ intention to attack Midway; Robert Webber is the Commander of one of the three U.S. cruisers who see action during the famous and decisive battle. Monte Markham is the intelligence officer whom Heston approaches to intervene for the Japanese girl and her parents, who have been detained; Christopher George is unrecognizable in the cock-pit as one of the leaders of the various flying squadrons involved in the dogfight sequences. Toshiro Mifune and James Shigeta are the most renowned actors on the Japanese side (one can notice the effort they all did to speak their lines in English!) – the country’s defeat at Midway was clearly the result of over-confidence (brought on by a previous victory, albeit a sneak attack, at Pearl Harbor) and constant bad judgment on the part of the officers concerned. Incidentally, just for the record, the film features three actors from the cast of THE YAKUZA (1974) – which I’ve just watched – namely Mitchum, Shigeta and Christina Kokubo (Albert’s girl).The various strategies by which the battle was fought maintain reasonable interest throughout, and the action sequences – which virtually take up the last third of the running-time – are certainly spectacular enough. Hell, even the domestic asides emerge to be less distracting than I had anticipated (though the same can’t be said of the few scenes from the so-called “TV version” of the film included among the DVD supplements, which introduce the useless character of Heston’s much-younger girlfriend!); having said that, this added footage does dwell a little on Heston's inability to fly due to a hand injury (which, of course, has a bearing on his eventual fate). In the long run, however, I feel that MIDWAY comes across a bit stiff as entertainment. "},{"Title":"One bright splash of colour at the start - then rather dull,sadly.","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" There was one single splash of colour,one small sign that the cameraman was Harry Stradling,right early on in this movie,when the Japanese officer runs through the gardens of the house where the admiral is billeted.There is a bright red Chinese bridge nestling among the jungle greenery that creates a false dawn for what is essentially a rather flat movie in shades of brown .Made towards the end of a cycle of war films that featured characters that were still living,it is very respectful in tone,treading on no one's toes.The Japanese High Command have powdered hair and moustaches to add gravitas,the Americans apparently all knew each other,their Navy,presumably being much smaller. Judged purely on its merits as a movie Midwayis nothing to shout about,much of whatever merit it has is due to the familiar faces doing their familiar things and trying to stay awake whilst doing them.I mean no disrespect to any person living or dead on either side who was involved in this Naval Action when I say that the movie failed to grip me.I don't know enough about the war in the Pacific to comment on its accuracy,but I know tired old footage when I see it,and clichéd characters and situations when they are paraded across the screen. I wanted this to be much better than it was,but,I have to say,I feel it is not a worthy tribute to the brave sailors and airmen who took part in the battle.Mr Smight has succeeded in making all look rather matter - of - fact ,which,you can be sure,it definitely wasn't. "}{"Title":"A decent movie that could have been a very good movie","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I have done a fair amount of reading on the battle of Midway.  Military historians rate it very critical to the war in the Pacific; the death of a large number of skilled, experienced Japanese pilots on 6/4/42 probably shortened the war.  The battle was very involved; approximately 50 ships (7 were aircraft carriers) and 600 planes were involved.  One would think that this would be enough to make an entertaining and educational movie.  But the producer had to clutter it with the relationships between four fictional characters; Charlton Heston's character, his ladyfriend, his son, and his son's girlfriend.  The time involved could better be used in presenting more of the many details of the battle.  A very good source was available Midway; the Battle that Doomed Japan by Mitsuo Fuchida.  He was there; when the bombs were falling. "},{"Title":"Great Film When It Sticks To History","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Midway as follow-up of sorts to 1970's Tora! Tora! Tora! works for the most part when it sticks to actual history.  And I know because watching this film as a child on television in the late 1970s inspired me to read more about it, and with the real names of the commanders and flyers already ingrained in my mind thanks to the film, it started a fascination that has endured to this day.Unfortunately, the film is ruined by having less stellar production values than Tora did.  First mistake is having the Japanese characters speak English, instead of the subtitles approach which worked well in Tora. This decision really comes home to roost when the great Japanese actor Toshiro Mifune, as Admiral Yammamoto, is dubbed by cartoon voice Paul Frees, which ruins the effectiveness of the scenes every time Yammamoto opens his mouth.Also bad is the whole unnecessary subplot involving Charlton Heston and his son and his son's Nisei fiancee.  It is so irrelevant, and valuable screen time that could have been spent on the sinking of the Yorktown or other aspects of the battle get lost completely as a result.Still, Midway is a competent way of introducing people to the real history of the turning point of WWII in the Pacific.  It's worth a look in both its theatrical version and expanded TV version.  And John Williams, in his next-to-last score before Star Wars turns in a fine effort.  "},{"Title":"No epic here","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  If you take away the W.W.II stock footage, The Tora Tora Tora footage and Away All Boats footage this film has very little production value. Frankly when I go to the theater and pay full ticket price for a movie I expect to be getting my money's worth and Midway is like paying new tire cost for a tire retread. Charlton Heston one of the greatest actors of all time leads an all star cast of old has been's and soon to be nobody's in this TV like disaster film production. When the film focus's on the actual battle its not too bad. When it reverts to subplots with Chucks son and his Japanese girlfriend and the expanded TV prints which include more subplots with his wife its cornball silly drama again resembling the nonsense they throw into all the disaster films produced in the 70's just to fill in the time between the action.  All in all its OK for the late show if you're a war movie fan but this is no epic or great drama. "},{"Title":"OMG- this is really terrible!","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I had known about this movie for decades, but never watched until last weekend. The more I watched it the more I couldn't help but feel it was not targeted for an American audience. Every one in the movie is so sweet and sympathetic- on both sides, and seemingly inept. Isn't this a war film? The cast is obviously star-studded and perhaps the budget spent on them could have been better spent on a good script, a good director, a dialog coach, a good set-designer, a capable editor and cinematographer. I have never seen Heston so plastic, Fonda so emotionless, and Hal Holbrook's corny southern twang made me laugh out loud. But what was far worse was the script which was infantile, and totally unbelievable, certainly not penned by anyone with any type of experience unless the purpose was to make it as ridiculous as possible. There's ton of edited-in stock war footage that doesn't come close to matching the lighting. Most of the actors for the Japan side are not even Japanese. They found some Asian girl to play a love-interest who was so bad, I felt embarrassed for her.  What's that up on the road, a head? Some of the set designs were marginal, some of the explosions credible, but thats about it. But the story and the scenes jump around, disjointed. They ( the film's military characters) seemed to have the same little planning as the film makers. The music is cliché'd and the ending epilogue quoting a Winston Churchill statement about the Midway conflict seemed thrown in last minute to give it an injection of good ol' patriotism. This is by far the worst major-release war film I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Poorer!Poorer!Poorer!","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Not a patch on Tora!Tora!Tora! in production values or anything else for that matter. I watched it for the first time since its release in 1976 and didn't realise how bad it was. Shoddy production values,crappy sets, wooden acting, mistakes galore, but I loved the ending with the couple of hundred extras they rounded up to stand on the dock watching the carrier still dressed it seemed in their 1976 clothes! As if they would let them all anywhere near a naval base in the Pacific in 1942 anyway! "},{"Title":"They sacrifice themselves like samurai, these Americans.","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Those were the reputed words of Admiral Nagumo after he saw the fate of the fifteen crews of torpedo squadron eight from Midway. - This movie is not quite up to the standard of the classic Tora! Tora! Tora!, but it is not without redeeming value. As has been mentioned, the awkward love story could have been dispensed with entirely. Also, the Japanese should have spoken Japanese and used subtitles. Other than that, it is useful in keeping to (to some degree) the historical events. The part about Admiral Nimitz growing up in a Texas prairie town was a bit much, though typical of Hollywood's idea of Texas... "},{"Title":"A True Waste of Time","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" It's unclear if Midway was intended as a theatrical movie and then expanded for television viewing, or if it was shot was a television miniseries and then cut down for theatrical release. Whatever the case may be, Midway is one war movie that should never have made it to the big screen. For those unfamiliar with the plot, I will enlighten thee In June of 1942, the Japanese planned a surprise attack on the American naval base at Midway Island. This would give them access to an airstrip from which they could attack the American mainland. American code breakers stumbled upon this plan, and the US Navy rushed out to the Pacific to engage the Japanese task force. It became one of the most significant turning points in the Pacific theater. Sound like an entertaining premise for a movie? Think again.As a youngster, I loved Midway. TNT used to show the miniseries version every Memorial Day, and it was something I refused to miss. Almost 10 years later, with another 300 war movies under my belt, I can say I've seen the light. Everything about Midway is bad, except Hal Holbrook's performance. And I've got evidence to back up my claims.Midway boasts an all-star cast, much like The Longest Day and A Bridge too Far. This could be a great thing &#150; every one of the leads is a legend in their own right with marvelous talent. Here, watching them is a pure waste of time. Most of the big-name actors are shuffled on-and-off stage so quickly that they don't make any impact at all. James Coburn, Cliff Robertson and Toshiro Mifune are the most embarrassing examples. Coburn only has a few lines as an intelligence officer who shows up to investigate Admiral Nimitz's theory of an enemy attack; Robertson gets to mutter profanity about everyone and everything in a bar scene with Charlton Heston; and as Yamamoto, Mifune is badly dubbed by Paul Frees, the voice of TV's Bullwinkle.The only good actor who actually gets something to do is Heston as Captain Garth - whose credibility is ruined because all of his dramatic moments revolve around his pretty-boy son, poorly played by Edward Albert. His best moments come when he's engaged in discussion with Fonda, and later on, gets into a heated debate with an old friend (the devious Ed Nelson). Fonda is a sincere Nimitz, but even after seeing this movie dozens of times, there's nothing memorable about his performance. Hal Holbrook is a real standout as the oblivious Commander Rochefort, the intelligence officer responsible for cracking the Japanese code. He's a pleasure to watch in his few scenes.The Japanese actors don't get much to do except deliver long-winded speeches about the importance of defeating the Americans or engage in boring explanations of how their tactics will be employed. To make matters worse, both the American and Japanese commanders constantly move little model ships around on a big board representing the Pacific Ocean. We want to see ships at sea. I wanted to see things getting blown up, not constantly hear people talk about doing this and move little toy bots around with long sticks. I wanted to see it actually happen.When it does happen, every bit of the attempt to re-create the battle are distorted and false. Instead of shooting original footage, Director Jack Smight and Producer Walter Mirisch used actual battle footage and stock shots from several other movies. The combination is very poorly edited. For one thing, much of the action revolves around stock footage from the Japanese drama I Bombed Pearl Harbor, which uses cheap-looking miniatures. Then there are jarring cuts to gun camera footage from the 1940s of a ship blowing up. Come on! In a 1975-76 production, the battle scenes could have been made much more convincing! What irks me even more is that the entire Japanese side of the story is lifted almost shot-for-shot from I Bombed Pearl Harbor. I don't just mean the action footage - the dialog and even the framing of several scenes. It's like watching the exact same sequences over again, only played out with different actors. It's a shame that the great Toshiro Mifune and James Shigeta were wasted in roles hacked right out of other forgotten scripts. It looks as though no time or energy was put into the Japanese sequences not only do the characters lack any dimensionality, but the sets which serve as ship's bridges and war-rooms look like they're made of cardboard. The movie starts out well enough, with a great scene between Garth and Rochefort about the ability of the Navy intelligence department. Even the first exchange between Heston and Albert seems like it has potential to set up a strong, developed subplot. But shortly thereafter, the script loses itself in a muddle of details and before long we could care less about the proceedings. And it's all wrapped up with one of the most clichéd, gung-ho climaxes ever shot, in which Captain Garth, here only as an adviser, heroically joins fellow bomber pilots to attack the last enemy ship.For the masses, Midway can serve as a very entertaining if ultimately hollow World War II drama. It's undeniably good, faithful history. But for a serious fan of war films, its flaws are more than evident and the few good things about it get lost in the mess of the bad editing, bland script and cheap feel of the entire production. It's impossible for any serious critic to say that this is a good movie, because, really, it simply sucks. "},{"Title":"How To Remove Suspense and Drama in One Easy Lesson","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Midway Island is actually comprised of five small brush covered sand bars located in the Pacific Ocean roughly center between Japan and Hawaii. Until 1942, most people had never heard of Midway outside of military circles. In the first week of June of that year, this insignificant island group would grab all headlines of all major newspapers world wide.  The reason?  The largest of the islands contained a working harbor, paved airfield, and a U.S. Navy/Air Corps base of operations.  It was known as The Gateway to Hawaii and the Japanese High Command would love to occupy the island as a possible jump off point for a future invasion of Hawaii.  Admiral Yamamoto, C in C of the Japanese Combined Fleet, has his mind more on luring the last of the American aircraft carriers in the Pacific to Midway for the purpose of having one last all out slug fest, using his superiority in carriers and aircraft to destroy them.  With that accomplished, Admiral Yamamoto feels the Americans will then negotiate a peace with Japan, ending the war.This is but an overview of the situation in the Pacific in early June, 1942. America's back is against the wall.  The Japanese Army and Navy have been running unchecked throughout the Pacific for six months.  There is enough drama and suspense built into the situation for five movies.  But then, in 1976, director Jack Smight and screenwriter Donald S. Sanford made Midway.Midway is presented like an expanded episode of TV's Baa Baa Black Sheep.  I saw Midway twice with friends in the theater when I was 13 in 1976.  Then it worked.  By the time I was 18, the film had lost all credibility for me.  The production values are low, the acting by all concerned is forced and the use of stock combat footage undermined the recreation of the reality of the situation.  The visual look of the film became disjointed.  At one point, actual footage of U.S. Navy Douglas SBD Dauntless dive bombers (which were at Midway in big numbers) are edited into the film as if they are Japanese Vals bombing American ships!  This kind of missed detail runs throughout the film and made me yearn for Tora, Tora, Tora.  In that film, director Richard Fleischer took pains to ensure even the national insignia on the American aircraft were of the period!  This kind of attention to detail might seem minor, but when done correctly, the detail does justice to those who were really there.  When recreating a non-fictional historical situation, there is no such thing as artistic license.Charlton Heston's character was fictional and as unnecessary as the character of his fictional son and the cliched fictional romance his son is involved in with a Japanese-American woman.  The plight of the Niesi in the United States during World War II is sad and best left to another feature film where it could be fully explored.  Here, in Midway, it serves to constantly break the tone and narrative of the main story.Jack Smight and Donald S. Sanford attempted to capture the human emotionality of the situation through those two above characters. Everyone else came off like Hollywood military robots.  Probably the saddest event to occur during the Battle of Midway was the loss of almost all the U.S. Navy aircrews who flew torpedo runs against the Japanese carriers alone, without air cover, in obsolete Douglas TBD Devastator torpedo planes.  They were hacked out of the sky without scoring one hit.  They knew the odds and went in anyway.  The only survivor was Ensign George Gay, who floated in the water for two days before he was found and rescued.  Although this is all presented in the film, it is touched on emotionally lightly and Gay's feelings are never explored.  His could have been a story all it's own. Smight and Sanford also never make it clear that the torpedo crews sacrifice was not in vain-they unknowingly brought the Japanese Zero combat air patrol fighters down to water level to defend against them while, by either divine intervention or luck, three lost groups of U.S. Navy Dauntless dive bombers happened to meet directly over the Japanese carrier fleet at a much higher altitude.  They were able to pull off their bomb runs unmolested by Japanese air cover because the Zeros were still down wave hopping, looking for surviving torpedo planes.  It was all effectively over in less than five minutes.To learn about events leading up to and during battle and feel the intense suspense and drama of Midway, I recommend reading a book of oral histories told by the people who were there.  Midway, the film, could have been titled How to Remove All Suspense and Drama in One Easy Lesson.  "},{"Title":"An astoundingly bad movie!","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Astoundingly bad!   They took one of the pivotal battles of history and turned it into an absurd little vehicle for Heston and Wagner.  How could it turn out so bad?  Wagner and Heston's characters were not in the actual story at all.  Someone must have owed a favor to the over-the-hill-Charleton to put this God-awful schlock into it, where it must have consumed 25% of the screen time.  It would have rated about minus-3-stars except that the outstanding performances by Hal Holbrook and Toshiro Mifune made their characters real, fleshing them out as I have never envisioned them before. There was also some good footage borrowed from Tora,Tora,Tora, but when they brought in their period footage for the battle scenes, they committed another of their astounding mistakes  They needed torpedo planes,  a type called TBD's.  Apparently they could find no footage of TBD's, so they dropped in some shots of SB2U's.  Yes, there were SB2U's at Midway, and they took part in one of the truly heroic roles of World War 2.  But the cretins making this travesty never even alluded to the heroic but futile ride of Major Lofton Henderson's USMarine SB2U's.  Good God, they could have put in TBF's for torpedo planes, and it would have been closer to right, showing another heroic but futile part of the battle, but they completely, inexcuseably screwed it up.  Shame, shame on these people for so dishonoring the memory of the men who actually fought at Midway.  If you want to see old footage of 1942 aircraft and battles, find a source for Victory at Sea, the Midway is East episode.  If you want to learn about the battle of Midway, read one of several good books.  If you want a good enactment of the events of the first six months of World War 2, find Tora, Tora, Tora. And if you want to see a haunting memoir of this battle, track down Robert Ballard's search for the sunken ships of Midway, and see the Yorktown as it now rests on the bottom of the Pacific Ocean. This is a story for the ages, not one to be handed to the hacks and has-beens that populate this pathetic travesty.  "},{"Title":"Stinkeroo","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Viewed as a history lesson about World War II, this is an absolutely abysmal film, on a par with Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band.  Well, maybe not *that* bad, but bad enough.  Viewed as another Seventies disaster movie, it's better -- not as good as The Poseidon Adventure but better than The Towering Inferno.For historical inaccuracy (including multiple shots of aircraft that didn't fly until over a year after the Battle) and ridiculous romantic subplots (anyone remember Pearl NAS?), this can safely be ignored.  "}{"Title":"Cheap, lazy, easy way to make money","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The Battle of Midway was a crucial battle of WW2. However, this movie does it injustice. I personally thought that the producers of this film were lazy. They crammed in any old stock footage from WW2 - including film from Battle of Britain - Now there's nothing wrong with using stock footage but when its used incorrectly, ie. when a US plane is attacked - they incorrectly show footage showing a Japanese plane crashing.In fact, virtually all their entire combat footage is stuff taken from other War movies or common stock footage.Example they borrow heavily from the movie, Tora Tora Tora. So you have scenes of airplanes fighting in Pearl harbor (for goodness sake you can see the ships are in harbor!!!) substituting for Midway Battle scenes fought in the open seas. Some people will say - yeah, so what big deal. But hey, what if you went to see ... say, the latest action blockbuster movie and found that they had recycled footage from a dozen of other films for ALL their action sequences - what would you call that??? Ridiculous.Its cheap, its lazy, its a quick way to make a quick buck. If this was for a TV show, I'd understand. But this is for the big screen and for an important battle in the Pacific war! Sarcastic mode on Hey, but its a feel good sort of movie ain't it? The good guys win - the bad guys lose. That's the most important thing for most cinema goers. They should have ended with Heston kissing a nurse for good measure in the end scene. Then jumping on a Mitchell bomber flying off the deck of the Hornet, turning into a B-17 to fight off a swarm of enemy fighter planes and Tie-fighters, before transforming into a B-29 and dropping the A bomb on Hiroshima, Take that you b@stards!!! Sarcastic mode off.It looks like the producers of this film blew their entire budget on hiring a few major actors and cutting the best bits from previous movies. Porn films do that and make mega profits too. But I don't call them great films. "},{"Title":"Could have been a great war film.","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This movie could have been one of the best war movies ever made. It had a great cast, great music by John Williams and good action. The thing I hate about it, is that this film used way too much stock footage from other movies and they didn't create any new special effects for the film. Instead they took footage from other movies like I bombed Pearl Harbor and Tora! Tora! Tora! and didn't create any new scenes. This was a major draw back and gave me the thought that this movie was cheaply done (possibly due to the money needed for actor salaries) and could have been made better. I hope they make a new movie about Midway and do better. "},{"Title":"Last of the Big War Movies","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The traditional war film went into something of a decline in the 1970s, and Midway is one of the few examples from the second half of the decade. It features an impressive line-up of top Hollywood stars, including Charlton Heston, Henry Fonda, Glenn Ford and Hal Holbrook. Some other big names, including Robert Mitchum, Cliff Robertson, Robert Wagner and James Coburn, all appear in relatively minor roles. The well- known Japanese actor, Toshiro Mifune, plays Admiral Yamamoto, although his lines had to be dubbed into English; most of the other Japanese roles are played by Japanese-Americans such as James Shigeta and Pat Morita. Most of the big-name stars play real-life individuals; Fonda and Ford, for example, play the American commanders Chester W. Nimitz and Raymond A. Spruance. The main exception is Heston who plays the fictitious Major Matt Garth, a naval pilot who takes part in the battle. The film is mostly a factual account of the battle itself, but it also involves a fictional sub-plot. Garth's son Tom, like his father a naval pilot, has fallen in love with a Japanese-American girl who has been interned along with the rest of her family. The film has one or two flaws. The romantic subplot struck me as unnecessary and was not well integrated with the rest of the film. There was on over-reliance on stock footage in the combat scenes. Trying to recreate these events might have been expensive, but the old newsreel shots have a very different look to the rest of the film and tend to stand out like the proverbial sore thumb. The film-makers have also been criticised for using one ship, the USS Lexington, to represent all the carriers involved in the battle, whether American or Japanese, but in this instance they really had no alternative. All the Japanese carriers involved are now at the bottom of the Pacific, and it would not have been feasible to try and construct replicas. (James Cameron might have tried, however, had he been acting as director). As I said, this is a fairly traditional war film, but in one respect (apart from the use of colour) it clearly reflects the fact that it was made in 1976 rather than, say, 1946 or 1956. A film about the Battle of Midway made just after the war, and certainly one made during the war itself, would have been made with a much more propagandist agenda in mind, emphasising the moral superiority of the Allied cause and probably depicting the Japanese as bloodthirsty warmongers. There was none of this in this film; the battle is simply shown as the clash of two navies, not the clash of two ideologies, and certainly not as the clash of good and evil. There is no suggestion that the Japanese commanders are any less honourable than their American counterparts. Perhaps the trauma of Vietnam had made Americans less confident of their own moral superiority in foreign affairs than they had been previously.The standards of acting are fairly high, but as is often the case with ensemble casts of this nature there is no one outstanding contribution. Anyone familiar with World War II will of course know how the battle ended, but for anyone else director Jack Smight is able to conjure up a fair degree of excitement. Rather oddly, this is generated not just by the battle-scenes themselves, which are nothing particularly special, but also by the tense game of cat-and-mouse show in the earlier scenes as both sides try to work out their tactics without being 100% aware of the strength and location of the enemy forces. At the end we are left realising just how big a part luck played in the American victory at a time when defeat could have led to the war taking a very different course. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Dated, flawed and imperfect, but gets many things right","Date":"9 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" As many others have stated, the flaws in this film are many. There is the unnecessary subplot of an American aviator and his interned Japanese/American girlfriend, which serves as nothing more than a gratuitous distraction. Limits in 1976 technology forced the use of cheap-looking special effects and recycled footage from other movies and war footage, often resulting in incorrect historical portrayals of the ships and aircraft present. Some historical plot details were omitted or glossed over entirely, mostly due to production and budget limits. And the acting was uneven, and in a few parts pretty bad, and sometimes failed to realistically portray a few figures.But there are few war movies that can generate as much excitement in me to this day like this one. I first saw this movie as a two-part NBC Movie of the Week when I was ten years old and instantly developed a passion for the Battle of Midway and WWII military history in general. The climatic scene of the dive bombers pounding the Japanese carriers into wrecks still gives me goosebumps thirty-five years later, as does the horror of watching a young fighter pilot nearly burn to death in his plane. The John Williams score was fantastic, as it was in many movies, and kept the sense of drama on the edge. And for me, the standout performances were by Henry Fonda as Admiral Nimitz, Glenn Ford as Admiral Spruance, and James Shigeta as Admiral Nagumo. Fonda brought to life Nimitz's cool but tough demeanor, and his willingness to take calculated risks based on his intelligence sources, rather than play it safe and guard what he has left. Ford played Spruance well as a calm, cerebral admiral that plays by his own instincts rather than the way the man he replaced (Halsey) would've played it. And I enjoyed Shigeta's portrayal of Nagumo as a leader who, despite his perceived material superiority, is wary of the lack of intelligence and communication regarding the whereabouts of the American fleet, and the uncertainty of what really may be waiting for his carriers as he undertakes his mission.It's real easy to pick apart the historical details of this movie, especially given more recent information and sources that weren't available back in 1976. But even allowing for that, the movie stays mostly true to history. And to those who aren't looking to nitpick details and just want to enjoy the story being told, there's more than enough wow in this movie even almost forty years later. I would recommend it as a primer for young kids (but not too young, there is some blood, language, and tense scenes) with an interest in military and WWII history that hasn't yet researched more comprehensive works written like Walter Lord's Incredible Victory, Gordon Prange's Miracle at Midway, and Anthony Tully/Jonathan Parshall's Shattered Sword.I would like to see Hollywood do another adaptation of the battle of Midway someday, but am fearful of them turning it turning into another Pearl Harbor, or becoming a political statement rather than the retelling of an incredible true story. Until that day comes, this one will have to do. And it does surprisingly well, if you can tolerate the flaws and just enjoy the show. "},{"Title":"Slightly Above Average","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This movie starts off with the famous Doolittle Raid on Japan by B-25 bombers taking off from the U.S.S. Hornet. Although the actual raid didn't do much damage it essentially resulted in the Japanese decision to attempt another surprise attack upon the American fleet. This time however, rather than attack Pearl Harbor, the Japanese navy decided to invade Midway and hoped to catch what few American carriers were left out in the open for a decisive battle. Now, although this movie doesn't have the special effects that Tora! Tora! Tora! had 6 years earlier it does have more in-depth characters and better acting. Likewise, from an American point-of-view it also has a better historical ending than the afore-mentioned film. On the other hand, as mentioned earlier Tora! Tora! Tora! had outstanding special effects and action and in an apparent effort to bolster these two areas Midway reuses some footage from that movie along with film from actual World War 2 tape. Some might like that but I thought it was a bit cheap and dishonest. Be that as it may, I figure the entertainment value is still pretty good and I rate this movie as slightly above average. "},{"Title":"Midway means average","Date":"17 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This film tells the story of the famous Midway battle from the viewpoint of both the Japanese and Americans. This being a Hollywood film, the Americans naturally get the lion's share of the treatment. the Japanese are shown only in their military capacities, the American have their back stories fleshed out. Surprisingly this does not play to the Americans' advantage. Too much time is spent on exploring Charlton Heston's relationship which his son. A potentially interesting situation of the son being engaged to an imprisoned Japanese girl is squandered by cliché ridden soap opera writing. So too is Heston's overwrought and unconvincing attempts to get her released. It is at odds with the authenticity sought elsewhere, with major participants names appearing under them when they appear and actual war footage inter-cut into the film. Still more time is wasted on wheeling out old stars for brief appearance. This film is of the type, popular in the 70s, with an all-star cast. Unfortunately there is very little for most of them to do except accept their pay checks and phone in a performance. "},{"Title":"Not without merits","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Not a Tora! Tota! Tora!, but not altogether without merits. Yes, a son serving under his father (also sleeping with the enemy to save one character) is a cliché, and no, a commanding officer on a battle ship doesn't suddenly take off as a fighter pilot and Japanese should not be talking English. But, after cutting Charlton Heston, his family and in-laws, what is left is not all that bad. I was fascinated by the strategic cat-and-mouse game and the hesitating, often irrational, decision making. As far as I know, this corresponds more or less to historic Midway. Many technical flaws are reported, but only one is really too evident the repeated use of the scene where the Japanse officer points his stick to direct AA guns. "},{"Title":"film review","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This is another great war movie that shows you a different perspective of battle, which is the view from the officers. In this view we see different high levels go at it about what course of action they should take to best protect their ships, and to destroy Japan. This means you loose a lot of action and battle scenes, but it is replaced with a great plot and the view of what goes on before and during the battle in order to make sure you get the advantage. The acting is also very good giving you a very believable sense of what it would be like to be a captain, or a commanding officer for Japan. Overall this is a good movie and it is a movie that anyone who likes war movie has to see. It is also one of the more well known movies so its worth seeing just so you can talk about it and have a good conversation with other war movie junkies. So i would say this weekend go out and rent Midway, its a great movie and is worth watching. "},{"Title":"Midway","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This movie was well made but because it was made a while back, the graphics and attempts to make it warlike are a bit shaky. The producers did a good job with what they had to make a watchable movie that actually does a good job interesting the viewers. The Japanese voice overs are a weak but they work. I also like the factual knowledge put into this, like the part about the fake messages before pearl harbor attack. The women who loves Tom is a pretty bad actor but she knows English. The emotional scenes in this movie are weak. The Japanese have a great plan but how could they not keep it a secret. The Americans have a strategy that should only work if it surprises the Japanese fleet. Both armies are just being stupid. The bombers went in without cover and got lit up, then the Japanese waste time switching between Torpedos and Bombs wasting a lot of time. Thee explosions were done well. Overall a decent movie. Yamumoto had everything going for him. Were the Americans better than the Japanese or just luckier. "},{"Title":"Midway,Then and Now (spoilers)","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I first saw this movie when it was opening as a 10 year old boy who was enamored with WWII. At that time to me, it was one of the best war movies I had ever seen. Due to my prior readings on the battle, I knew it followed the history fairly well, and I was able to tune out the romance sub plot. The look of movie was something that was something I was not familiar with in war movies up to that point. The indoor officers were in nice neat uniforms, while the pilots, Marines, and common sailors had a weary rumpled look. And the language! I had not yet heard so much cursing in a war movie (it was 1976 and for the most part John Wayne type movies were the norm). But I loved it all! I knew most of the planes shown on screen were not accurate, and much of the combat footage was from later in the war. But it showed a different type of war movie. The Japanese were strong, smart, and nearly invincible. Not monsters or maniacs, but allowing overconfidence at times to cloud some decisions. The Americans were brave, novices, unsure of themselves at times, yet determined not to fail, no matter the cost. Not the overpowering unbeatable force of years to come later in the war. Watching during the initial phases of combat as obsolete US planes were shot down one by one by the superior Japanese fighters, I was captivated by the self sacrifice(a year later the ending dogfight in Star Wars would make me think of Torpedo 8). Then the tide turned as events, luck, and timing change the course of battle. In the end, the US wins, the Japanese are defeated, and survivors ponder the results and reasons why briefly. Flash forward 32 years later and I watch this movie again on my DVD copy on the 66th anniversary of the battle. This movie holds up not too badly against the test of time. Much time has passed in by movie making and in my gaining knowledge of this subject. To me the strengths still hold, as do the weaknesses. The interracial romance subplot is certainly a 70s addition. Certainly not believable in a historical context. The stock footage of aircraft certainly still glares in error as well. Color footage was shot during the battle and released in a documentary. A small amount was incorporated into the movie. Much more could have replaced other sequences that were used in the movie. Many of the Tora!Tora!Tora! conversion aircraft were still local to Universal Studios at Orange County or Chino airports at the time of filming. Some were used in the Midway Island bombing sequence, but not in the Yorktown attacks. Too bad they did not make more use of them for a better look. The Japanese film sequences from Storm Over the Pacific actually worked very well for their capturing the look of the Japanese carriers and the activities on board. As did the lifted opening from 30 seconds Over Tokyo. Much of the dialog on film is true to life with certain quotes historically accurate. Look at that b*****d burn, was the first radio message clearly heard on the US carriers letting them know any of the air strikes had made contact and been successful. It also holds up sticking fairly close to the time line of actual events, but there are several events omitted. Finally the effects were not bad. For pre CGI the choices are to build full scale mocks ups, use an area or item that has a resemblance or miniatures. All three methods were used to good effect. And the results were for the most part just as good as, if not better than the more modern (film making wise) CGI heavy Pearl Harbor. All in all, a decent war movie, still worth watching, flaws and all. "}{"Title":"Poor, but intriguing","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie in a theater back in 1976. My classmates and I had been invited to see it by our history teacher, who had good praises about it. At the time, I found it quite entertaining and informative. And after seeing it again lately, I am like a lot of reviewers on this board I now realize what a poorly produced movie it is. I will not present the details that make the movie such a bad production, they have accurately been presented by earlier reviewers. Although the usage of all sorts of historical footage tends to make the cinematography very shaky, I must say that the use of the actual radio communications of the various squadrons during the battle is a plus as it very efficiently brings the viewer in the mood of the battles helpless (just as it must have felt for the various naval commanders). "},{"Title":"Split on my decision!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Originally when I first saw this movie it was on one of the Saturday afternoon shows. The movie had an all star cast not to be out done by many other movies by even todays standards. Then, I thought it was one of the greatest movies ever. Now, I am not so sure it would rank so high.It's factual part was well documented and informative. However some of the (real life) footage was either the wrong era, or wrong ship. Such as the angle flight decks on carriers didn't exist until after the war, and after a little research, I found out that the voice used for Admiral Yamomoto was the same one used in the old Bullwinkle cartoons for Boris Badenov. The bad part was that it used footage from the film Tora, Tora, Tora. So it seemed like they had cut cost and put in whatever they found laying around.Like I said earlier, I was split on the movie. Overall they kept the historical part just right, and I like the dialog between the characters and the overall direction of the film. Overall take this film for what it was worth.    "},{"Title":"They sacrifice themselves like samurai, these Americans.","Date":"12 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" A critical part of WWII gets the big epic cinematic treatment, with all star casting and lots of noise. Though purporting to be exactly how things were during this particular battle, a pinch of salt is also needed. Much of the film is taken up with laying foundations for the air-sea engagement of the title, political posturing and military machinations are joined by needless sub-plots. The dialogue is often cheese laden, some characterisations equally so, while the splicing of real life footage and other war movie moments start to detract. However, the last third of film is thrilling and worth waiting for, a whirl of battle action as the Pacific conflict comes vividly to life both visually and aurally. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"midway ww2","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" in this movie it talks about how the us navy is out number and dos not know what is going to happen and is always on it toes about what is going to happen next the japans has been plaing this attack a long time and bealive that in this it show how the us navy can been out number and see that they over when the japans at there own game and how maybe stop the japans from taking over the hole west cost. in midway the us navy is able to come back and attack the japens at there own game and stop the invitation and hope not lost any of there carriers midway is know were japens are going and us navy is finding trouble and can not find them at all and are tricking them at all cost to abily them to do there job and take mind way i think it was a great plain and japens did a good idea to do that the us navy has know idea what is coming and i think that us navy is going to get kill because the japans were abily to find out what was going on and could not find out what was going on in that time. i bealive it was a good movie and i like it a lot "},{"Title":"Hollywood turns exciting history into bore-fest","Date":"26 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Much was expected of this movie, following as it did such true historical epics as Patton and Tora! Tora! Tora!....unfortunately what emerged is a huge bore-fest that manages to completely leech out any interest in the subject. How did Midway disappoint? Let us count the ways. First, Hollywood made a big mistake by turning it into a spot-the-star movie. Very distracting. When one views Tora! Tora! Tora!, what you find is an ensemble cast of very competent character actors (same with Patton, minus the two leads). Midway instead tries for all the star power it can muster, as if big names alone will make a good film.Next is the silly and ridiculous soap opera surrounding Chuck Heston, his pilot son, and a Japanese-American girl the son happens to be in love with. WHY WHY WHY was this included??? As a sop to the political correctness crowd? This subplot is both unnecessary and even painful to watch. The 1970's TV movie Farewell to Manzanar dealt with the subject more sensitively and with far more depth. The inclusion of this silly subplot reduced Midway to cartoon level. (That, and the comic-book characterizations of the stars, such as superman Heston who manages to be where ever anything of consequence is happening).Personally, I didn't object to the extensive use of real footage (as some viewers have); at least they added something of authenticity to a movie that otherwise had little. They come off as better than the battle footage that was shot for the movie, which is very inconsequential indeed! But what I strenuously objected to was the misuse of Tora! Tora! Tora! footage, which was completely out of place. I mean, a battleship's distinctive cage-mast on Midway Island? Give me a break. Yes, as others have posted, there were many historical inaccuracies in the planes and ships used; though after seeing the travesty Pearl Harbor, THIS film's sins don't seem so bad now!!!The whole look and feel of the movie fairly screams SEVENTIES! The haircuts are too long, even for civilians of 1942, let alone military men. Especially laughable is the first scene with Yamamoto -- an Japanese Imperial Navy aide comes in to tell him of the Doolittle Raid, and this young officer actually has a long page-boy haircut flowing to his shoulders! Like he's ready for the disco floor! Such lack of attention to detail is found throughout the movie. Very sloppy.Interesting that the TV version added about a half-hour to the running time, and told the story of the preceding Battle of the Coral Sea. As a history buff, I found this interesting, but for most viewers I'll bet it just added to the tedium. Finally, the use of the Sensurround gimmick (pioneered in Earthquake) in the theaters was an unnecessary distraction. I personally found it annoying, and I heard many stories of the problems Sensurround created for the theaters and adjacent businesses. Fortunately it was a short-lived gimmick! "},{"Title":"Quasi-history lesson in three hours","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" My main problem with the production had to do with some of the dialog, which sounded like it was aimed at a junior-high-school audience. The premise by which this movie was produced was obvious to me when I saw it as a high-schooler in 1976 get the main facts right and let the special effects really sell the story. In that respect it was like Star Wars without the light sabers and the blasters. (You obviously had to stick with the weapons systems available on Earth in 1942.) There were bits and pieces of the story left out due to time constraints, like the Japanese dive-bomber attack on 'Yorktown' getting chewed to pieces by F4F wildcats. Time constraints also forced the leaving out for proper explanations of strategic decisions like Nimitz's decision to keep his remaining carriers in the vicinity of Midway after 'Yorktown' is damaged. There was more to it than just 'wanting the fourth carrier'. I don't have too much to say about the sub-plot involving Ensign Garth and his Japanese-American girlfriend that others haven't already said. Probably the most historically-correct aspect of the movie was the differences in the effectiveness of American and Japanese intelligence. All Japanese errors stemmed from their poor intelligence regarding the location of our carriers, and most of what went right for us stemmed from us knowing where there's were.The fact that I usually watch it whenever its on says enough for my opinion of its watchability. "},{"Title":"Cringe-inducing dialogue","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I can think of no other movie that has as many big stars all acting like wood and speaking constant clichés. The writer and director were clearly looking at the big picture, and you'll have to as well. Pay no attention to the laughable sub-plot lines and dialogue, and ignore the high school acting. From a historical perspective, the movie is informative and really does try to put you at that point in time. As a popcorn historical war film it is entertaining enough. That's why I gave it a 7. (Same goes for 'Pearl Harbor' by the way. Another good war film doomed by bad sub-plotting.) Fast forward past the mini-dramas amongst the characters and get to the good stuff. The characters' angst doesn't matter and you won't care about missing it. "},{"Title":"Some movies improve with age","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Some movies improve with age, becoming more appreciated for their contribution in context of their time. This is not one of them. Many of the appalling technical and historic offenses have been noted here, so I'll just say that the first time I saw this turkey, I lost track at 70-plus avoidable errors.  Those reviewers who say it's pretty close to the facts simply aren't paying attention.  What in blazes was the purpose of dividing the events of 4 June and rolling them over into the 5th? There are no outstanding performances--none.  One of the worst is Hal Holbrook, who plays Mark Twain playing Cdr. Joe Rochefort. The movie has been thoroughly cussed and even discussed on the Battle of Midway internet roundtable, which includes numerous veterans of the event. The absolute best thing that can be said is that the film made a young generation aware that there had been something of significance between Pearl Harbor and Hiroshima. Meanwhile, it's a story that begs for a decent retelling.  Until then, forget this abomination and rent Gary Cooper's 1949 Task Force. "},{"Title":"Made from quotes, but not so bad","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I got the video in its original version after i saw it on german tv in a cut version. General approach  following the history book quite closely, which promises enough excitement by itself. Hampered by an american-japanese love story not leading anywhere really (except that people can be lovers despite their nations being at war, can you believe it ?), using many footage from other movies (30 sec over Tokyo, Tora, Tora, Tora,) and real material from 2nd World War, it gives a reasonable tale of the history spanning from Doolittle's raid to Midway decision battle turning the tide in the pacific. Good battle scenes, good action, rather stereotype acting esp. Charlton Heston and James Coburn, good enough to light up a boring saturday night. "},{"Title":"Terribly made film","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This entire process was a total waste of time. The film is about the most pivotal sea battle in WW2. The treatment given some of the most famous figures in the war is nearly criminal. Only Henry Fonda can properly play Adm. Chester Nimitz, and he does so well in this film. Everyone else, including the *star*, Charleton Heston, is terrible. Many of the performances, particularly those of the Japanese actors, are very mechanical. Heston, whom I have never liked as an actor, stinks in this one. The entire charade of the love affair between his son and his Japanese girlfriend should have been left out. The use of stock footage included many ships and aircraft of the wrong era, reuse of film from Tora! Tora! Tora! and overall very poor editing make this a lousy film. Don't waste your time on this one! "}{"Title":"Average at best","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I loved this movie as a child but after seeing it for the first time as an adult I have to sat it is almost unwatchable. I am fortunate to be familiar with the battle of Midway and it's a good thing that I am because otherwise I would have been totally confused by the terrible editing of the film. It is also hard to take the movie seriously when they use aircraft carriers that were clearly from the post WW2 era. The love story doesn't help matters either. Watch a good documentary on the History Channel instead.  "},{"Title":"Breathtaking and spectacular film about  a crucial and decisive naval battle in the Pacific Theatre of World War II","Date":"20 June 2015","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This lavish production by Walter Mirish reenacts the events up to famous battle from both American and Japanese points of view . Midway became notorious battle as the site of the overwhelming victory of American carrier forcer over the Japanese fleet . This was the most stunning and decisive blow in the history of naval warfare which shifted the balance of power in the Pacific . Between 4 and 7 June 1942, only six months after Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor and one month after the Battle of the Coral Sea, the United States Navy under Admirals Chester Nimitz (Henry Fonda) , Frank Jack Fletcher (Robert Webber), and Raymond A. Spruance (Glenn Ford) decisively defeated an attacking fleet of the Imperial Japanese Navy under Admirals Isoroku Yamamoto (Toshiro Mifune) , Chuichi Nagumo (James Shigeta) , and Nobutake Kondo near Midway Atoll, inflicting devastating damage on the Japanese fleet that proved irreparable. It was Japan's first naval defeat since the Battle of Shimonoseki Straits in 1863 . The Japanese operation, like the earlier attack on Pearl Harbor, sought to eliminate the United States as a strategic power in the Pacific, thereby giving Japan a free hand in establishing its Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere . The Japanese hoped that another demoralizing defeat would force the U.S. to capitulate in the Pacific War and thus ensure Japanese dominance in the Pacific. The Japanese plan was to lure the United States' aircraft carriers into a trap. The Japanese also intended to occupy Midway as part of an overall plan to extend their defensive perimeter in response to the Doolittle air raid on Tokyo. This operation was also considered preparatory for further attacks against Fiji, Samoa, and Hawaii itself.The plan was handicapped by faulty Japanese assumptions of the American reaction and poor initial dispositions . Most significantly, American code-breakers were able to determine the date and location of the attack, enabling the forewarned U.S. Navy to prepare its own ambush. All four Japanese heavy aircraft carriers&#x97;Akagi, Kaga, Soryu and Hiryu, part of the six-carrier force that had attacked Pearl Harbor six months earlier&#x97;and a heavy cruiser were sunk at a cost of the carrier Yorktown and a destroyer . After Midway and the exhausting attrition of the Solomon Islands campaign, Japan's capacity to replace its losses in material (particularly aircraft carriers) and men (especially well-trained pilots) rapidly became insufficient to cope with mounting casualties, while the United States' massive industrial capabilities made American losses far easier to bear . The Battle of Midway, in combination with the Soviet victory against Germany at the Battle of Stalingrad half a year later, are considered by some to be the turning points of the Second World War .A historical picture with well staged scenes , it is accurate and being faithfully based on facts . well documented script shows major and minor blundering on both sides , creating tension enough . Great actors were assembled to bring to the big screen this important battle of WWII . Although many well-known players contribute their skills , they are overshadowed by the realistic re-creation of the climatic attack , abounding stock footage , and shots taken from Tora Tora Tora ! picture . Tremendous scenes , spectacular battles , drama that maintains interest , lots of dogfighting and awesome production design and art design by Walter Tyler . Nevertheless , a subplot involving Charlton Heston , his son Edward Abert and his girlfriend , a Japanese girl is really out of place . Colorful and evocative cinematography by Harry Stradling . Rousing and classic musical score by the great John Williams . The motion picture was professionally directed by Jack Smight. "},{"Title":"If you are war tactic fan, watch it and love it ).","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Good film for the war fans, especially for tactical war fans this film will rock, it contain so many tactical problems goodly and realistic filmed from both sides with extra hot portion of tactic as bonus, exactly how war fans love it. Japanese hiding and attacking and USA searching and defending. Classic strategy action, but not for me.Midway is too long for me, more than two hours is little crazy. Isn't bad if war film is little longer, but must be filled with some action. Problem of this film is, that half of the Midwy film length are tactical meetings, personal problems and simply no action to the 13000 (when Japanese starting attack) of this film. This was so boring for me, that i can't survive to the end of this movie, and only rewind it to end watching attacking airplanes...Summary is, if you are war tactic fan, watch it and love it ), if not go away, you will be bored. "},{"Title":"This film could have been so much better","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The only redeeming point this movie has is that it was accurate in it's portrayal of what many could argue was one of the top 5 most important battles in US history.I think the use of actual combat footage was a plus, but the use of footage showing the crash of a Panther jet was pretty lame. Did the filmmakers think that most of the audience that would be viewing this film would miss that?For wasting the great Charlton Heston on a fictional character and adding that totally useless and pure BS subplot regarding his son and his Japanese American girlfriend, I only give this movie a 2. It would have been so much better without that garbage. "},{"Title":"Stock footage and a love story","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Midway is a blundered mess. An all star cast of veteran actors are assembled looking gruff most of the time. A good portion of the war footage is stock footage that usually doesn't match the look of the actual movie. What's worse is a ridiculous subplot involving Charlton (our hero) Heston's son and his affair with a Japanese woman. It bogs down the entire movie and should have been removed. I suspect it was included to pad the running time which is way overlong. And, for some reason, the filmmakers decided to shoot the film in Sensurround which helped turn Earthquake into a blockbuster. The sensurround machines rumbled everytime a plane engine roared onto the scene. Perhaps the filmmakers realized they had a shoddy film and needed a gimmick to make it a hit. The gimmick worked as Midway was a success. But watching it on television shows off how lousy the film is without the gimmick. Come to think of it, it was a lousy film even with the gimmick. "},{"Title":"Not that good","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I felt that the movie was missing a lot. The dialog was weak and didn't cachet my interest. The only time I enjoyed the movie was laughing at the bad acting. The battle was poorly showed and edited terribly. The original film wasn't add to the movie well and made the battle look fake. The blood looked really fake and the original plain crashes were not put into the movie well.The dialog didn't have much thought into it and made the acting even more fake. Some parts were ruined the battle because battle just stopped for dialog then it started again.Overall it was a movie that I would not want to see every again. "},{"Title":"Not So Hot,.","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" There's no need to go on about this prototypical piece of chauvinistic rubbish except to say that it's an insult to the brave people involved in the battle. Every subtlety is deleted. Every American error glossed over. Obtrusive subplots detract from the essential story. The editing is a mish mash of model work, actual overused combat footage, and excepts from a previous movie, and is confusing to the point of, well, confusion.The film has a good cast, although Robert Mitchum looks nothing like Admiral Halsey, who had a face like a Pomeranian. There's a good deal of realistically salty language. But who can deliver these stilted lines? The Americans are waiting tensely for reports from scout planes. The Japanese fleet is still undetected. Nobody even knows if it exists. At last, a PBY spots the armada. The pilot turns to his co-pilot and exclaims, Do you see what I see? It's a line expressive of extremely lazy or inept writing. It isn't alone. A PBY ducks into the clouds and the co-pilot remarks, Those Jap fighters will never find us in THIS soup.The role of sheer luck is downplayed. The Japanese fully expected the American carriers to sally forth for a big Mahanian confrontation, which they did, and sent scouting submarines towards Pearl Harbor. But by the time the subs reached their assigned positions, it was too late. Our carriers had already passed to the west. The sole reason we were able to pull this off was our decryption of Japanese plans, which enabled our forces to move far more quickly than could reasonably be expected. At the Battle of Midway the Japanese carriers, their airplanes, and most of their pilots were destroyed, of course, but there was still an enormous striking force afloat. This force slowly turned away after the battle, tempting the remaining American forces to follow and initiate another clash. Had we struck at the lure, the best guess is we would have been clobbered, if only because American forces were so outmatched. And there is an excellent likelihood we would have lost the island of Midway. Spruance wisely chose to withdraw his forces rather than leap aggressively at the bait. Had Halsey been in charge, had he not been hospitalized with a skin disorder, it is difficult to imagine his turning down such a tempting offer, but luck was with our side again, and Spruance, having achieved victory, departed the field, while Halsey itched. The Japanese are treated fairly and at least the script includes some usually neglected details. We see the ill-fated Torpedo Squadron 8 in a gallant but suicidal attack. This is familiar stuff. But there is also an allusion to the Brewster Buffalo, an ancient relic. The Buffalo was flown by Marine pilots against the Japanese Zeroes at Midway and were shot down almost as soon as they left the field. But on the whole, the movie fails, both as a feature film and as history.At the same time, I must say that in light of the fact that a substantial number of high school seniors don't know who fought who in World War II, maybe it ought to be required viewing in high school history classes. The film itself may be padded and erring in some respects but at least the students will know there was a naval battle called Midway and that the Japanese were on one side and we were on the other. "},{"Title":"An entertaining, reasonably accurate portrayal of a critical battle.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Many of the user comments deride this movie for its use of stock footage and edits from previous movies (Tora, Tora, Tora, for example). I think these miss the point. The version I watched on videotape includes a brief notice at the beginning that says that actual footage was used whenever possible (although this may have been added recently). Also, why not use footage from other similar movies? I am just grateful SOMEBODY made a movie about this important battle. Sure, it contains numerous visual errors, anachronisms and moments of historical license, but give the producers of this film a break! It is a better movie than 9 out of 10 films Hollywood releases each year.   "},{"Title":"Worst WW II","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I know I WILL catch flack for this, but this was just bad. They used footage from other films, and I think this started the love story in war movies theme. The Japanese spoke perfect English...in Tora! Tora! Tora! I loved the sub titles... they conveyed so much more about the actual speaking and history of Japanese, in my opinion. I have this movie, just cause I am war movie fanatic, but I don't watch it. The couple of times I have seen it, I am set for life. Tora! Tora! Tora!, The Longest Day, hell even Where Eagles Dare, are much better movies. Just was a very weak movie. Check out Airforce or Wake Island. The Sands of Iwo Jima....and yes I am looking forward to seeing the movie, Flag Of Our Fathers. "},{"Title":"Can a bad movie still teach history well?","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Stripped of all its embarrassing mistakes, I figure this is a pretty decent movie. Decent in that it teaches history better than the average America-hating crud Hollywood puts out. It's like Mel Gibson's Patriot, a deeply flawed, badly acted, and overlong mess that makes the viewer proud of American history. I'll just mention that the acting is terrible, the special effects are laughable (although a heck of a lot better than, say, In Harm's Way, another, better WWII flick), and the whole sub-plot involving a Japanese-American girl and Chuck Heston's obnoxious fighter-pilot kid belongs in the wrong decade, but, if you don't know the story of the moment when the tide turned in favor of America in the Pacific war, this over-blown Sensurrounded mess actually does its job. Now, do yourself a favor and read Incredible Victory by Walter Lord! "}{"Title":"The battle of Midway","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This movie shows how it was like during the battle of Midway - The turning point in the Pacific during World war 2. We can notice scenes from the U.S. side and scenes from the Japanese side. We watch all the strategies before and during the battle. How to discover the enemy's fleet. The kind of equipment they use for fighting, how they defend the island on the land against the Japanese planes. We can watch the fighting in the air from right behind the pilots back. We see how they communicate between each other. They always inform about the amount of planes or ships, their position and their speed. We can notice the pressure the guys feel before their mission and than how they deal with all the spontaneous problems. We see the exuberance from the victory and the sadness from losses. It's all the battle fields brings a lot of noise, pressure, pain and death. "},{"Title":"When will a uncut version of Midway be released on DVD?","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I've owned a copy of this movie on VHS several times in the past, and they all have one thing in common all of them make mention of something brewing down in the Coral Sea area, after which you hear mention of Jack Fletcher's task force being sent down there to check it out. However, later, after Henry Fonda (as Admiral Chester Nimitz) flies in, someone asks if we got hurt in the Coral Sea, and someone (Heston) answers Yah...we got hurt. The only thing is--the Coral Sea battle is not shown at all. Every so often, this movie gets shown on network TV (usually late at night), and you actually see the Coral Sea battle. When will these scenes be shown on DVD and video? A similar thing happened with the movie MacArthur (Gregory Peck). If I'm not mistaken, the great Japanese-American actor James Shigeta played a Japanese general who, I assume, was supposed to be MacArthur's opponent (Yamashita, or Homma, maybe?). He is riding in a transport, which crashes. Later, he is brought up on war crimes charges. None of this appears in the DVD or the VHS version, but does appear (occasionally)on network TV. "},{"Title":"old Hollywood war epic","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The film starts with the Doolittle raid in April 1942. Then it follows both sides as the Japanese plan the Midway raid while the Americans try to decipher their plans and then plan to surprise them. It culminates in the Battle of Midway on June 4-7.This is the dying breathe of the old Hollywood war epic. It reused many stock footage from the war and from other war movies like Tora! Tora! Tora!. I saw the theatrical version. I don't like the inclusion of the Japanese-American love story which feels like a politically correct addition. It needs to concentrate simply on the Midway battle. The acting power is filled with great old warhorses. The war action is pretty good mixing in the various difference styles of footage. The use of real footage is very effective. I especially like the prominence of the Japanese side of the battle. It helps enlighten the battle. There are a few minor disputes on accuracies. In general, this is a simple straight forward war movie without much nuances. "},{"Title":"A war's defining battle,A nation's defining moment","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" December 7th 1941,the Japanese attack Pearl harbour, destroying many US navy ships and killing and wounding thousands, on April 18th 1942,in retaliation to this event, Lieutenant Colonel James Jimmy Doolittle of the US army air force leads an extensive bombing raid on the Japanese mainland which would later become known as the Doolittle raid. This caused heavy damage to Japanese cities, namely Tokyo and morale too, the Japanese now knew they were no longer invincible to American attack and planned to attack Midway, a small island just off of Hawaii, hoping to draw the American forces out into the open and obliterate them. The Japanese hoped to also occupy Midway in order to extend their defensive perimeter, therefore enabling them to repel future American attacks, the battle that would decide this provides the basis for this film,MIDWAY,made in 1976.First of all, I fail to understand why everyone hate this movie so much, nearly every reviewer on IMDb bashes it.I thought this movie was awesome,I really enjoyed it and was absolutely awestruck by the way it was filmed and put together. The cast and crew seemed to have put a huge amount of effort into making the film and looked to have given it all they had and what do they get for their pains?, nothing but stick, the film as a whole looked extremely ambitious. Even though it does appear a little cheap, I'd rather have this film over the CGI crap of today, but that's just my opinion.MIDWAY depicts the battle superbly and the battle scenes in the film are just spectacular. Real battle footage and footage from other war movies is used to an amazing advantage, the first battle where the Japanese attack the airstrip on Midway was just fantastic, even though half of it was taken from TORA!TORA!TORA!(1970),the shots of the Machine Gun being fired, Trucks furiously exploding and crashing and a watchtower crashing to the ground were excellent. The two main air battles,especially the first one where the American planes battle it out with Japanese planes and a Japanese battleship really blew me away. The final 3 battles were the best parts of the movie, my favourite one being the first where the American dive bombers destroy 3 Japanese battleships whilst being bombarded with heavy Cannon and Anti-aircraft fire was exciting and really impressive, the explosions were so epic and realistic. The second battle where the Japanese attack the Yorktown was equally impressive and spectacular, watch out for the part where a Japanese Zero comes crashing into the ship's bridge(which is taken from Universal's very own AWAY ALL BOATS from 1956),causing an explosion and engulfing it in flames, again the shots of the heavy artillery giving the Japanese planes hell are ear shatteringly magnificent. The final explosive battle in which Charlton Heston's character and a squadron of Dive bombers destroy and sink the last remaining Japanese battleship was riveting and packed with adrenaline.The special effects were outstanding,especially during the final 3 battles, the shots of the planes and battleships exploding were extremely exhilarating, as were the shots of flames tearing across the decks of the ravaged battleships. The use of real World war two footage was a great idea and looks remarkable spliced into the battle scenes, the fact that this footage is in colour makes it ten times better, this footage was expertly chosen. I was really impressed with the images of Cannons and Anti-aircraft guns bombarding and battling it out with attacking aircraft but what really looked amazing were the shots of two different aircraft crash landing and exploding on the deck of the aircraft carrier.John William's soundtrack is excellent and gives the film a modern feel as does the camera-work, the way certain shots linger add to the seriousness of the film. The acting is top notch, Charlton Heston is perfect as the main character and other stellar performances come from Henry Fonda, James Coburn, Glenn Ford, Hal Holbrook, Robert Mitchum,Cliff Robertson and Toshiro Mifune.Yes,the dialogue does get corny at times, but that's only to be expected of a Hollywood war movie. The romantic subplot between the American pilot and the Japanese girl was irrelevant to the plot but soon becomes forgotten about as the planning and battle scenes take over, so it doesn't spoil the film.MIDWAY is a terribly underrated and spectacular war drama packed with some of the greatest action scenes ever seen in a movie, explosive special effects and excellent acting also compliment the film and make it definitely worth watching, MIDWAY is up there with all the other war classics.10/10. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not a patch on Tora! Tora! Tora!","Date":"1 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" THE BATTLE OF MIDWAY is one of those all-star war films in which a string of ageing Hollywood heroes are paraded out, one after the other, to occupy the stiff-shirted roles of various Naval officers. The background of the film is the famous battle between the Americans and the Japanese during the Pacific War.I mean, the cast is great. Any Hollywood fan can't cease to be wowed by the amount of talent around. There's old Chuck Heston, gnawing his way through the scenery wherever he can, and a fading Henry Fonda, making the best of his once-legendary status. There's a blink-and-you'll-miss-him Robert Mitchum, laid up in bed for his cameo appearance, and a ubiquitous Toshiro Mifune. The actors keep rolling in Cliff Robertson, James Coburn, Robert Wagner, Glenn Ford, Hal Holbrook; a veritable who's who of famous faces. I love ensemble productions like this.Sadly, the rest of the film can't hope to match a cast of that calibre. The plot seems slow-winded and unfocused, and it takes forever - more than half the running time - before the battle actually kicks off. And when it does kick off, the film is let down by the almost total lack of newly-filmed battle sequences; instead, grainy old stock footage is used from WW2. While I appreciate the authentic quality of such footage, the difference in quality to the rest of the film is just too noticeable.For now, TORA! TORA! TORA! remains the definitive film on the events of the Pacific War, although fans looking for an army rather than naval perspective should check out the Spielberg-produced miniseries, THE PACIFIC. "},{"Title":"The Turning Point Of The War In The Pacific","Date":"19 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" As the Japanese had feared, the attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941 had awakened a once-sleeping giant in America. But in the six months that followed the attack, the Americans were still at a disadvantage. The thirty-second raid over Tokyo early in April 1942, followed by the Coral Sea battle, were a boost to morale, but what was needed was a way to figure out the next move by the Japanese Navy's supreme commander Isoroku Yamamoto, and to outsmart him. That next move was the Battle of Midway in June 1942. And in 1976, that pivotal battle for America, both for World War II in general and the Pacific theatre in particular, was translated into a hugely successful film in terms of box office (if not for critics).Structured much like past all-star World War II opuses, especially THE LONGEST DAY, BATTLE OF THE BULGE, and TORA! TORA! TORA!, MIDWAY dramatizes how American intelligence got wind of the Japanese Navy's plans. By letting it get out over the air that the water condenser on the island of Midway, a small atoll at the far northwestern end of the Hawaiian Island chain, some 1200 miles from Pearl Harbor itself, was down, the American Navy planned to ambush the Japanese and make a stand by huddling a somewhat depleted force of carriers and planes in reserve to the northeast of the island. The risk in this ambush was that it could either leave the Aleutian Islands and Alaska vulnerable to invasion, or possibly even Hawaii and the mainland West Coast. As it turned out, of course, the decision by Admiral Chester Nimitz (portrayed by Henry Fonda) was the correct one; and the Japanese were caught completely off guard, suffering the most crippling defeat of the war. Prior to Midway, the Japanese never lost a single battle in the Pacific; after it, however, they never did any better than a draw; and it was a three-year road towards the atomic horror of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.Amongst this dramatization of one of the great battles of World War II, MIDWAY inevitably draws in a subplot of sorts that may or may not have actually existed a love affair between the pilot son (Edward Albert) of a senior officer (Charlton Heston) of the U.S. Navy, and a Japanese-American woman (Christina Kokubo) that he has just met, and whose parents have been interred at Pearl Harbor simply because they are Japanese. This particular element was one of the things many critics, quite mercilessly, slammed the film for. Their reaction was really quite overblown, however, because in the end, it is a minor distraction from the actual lead-up to the battle; and MIDWAY, like TORA! TORA! TORA! before it, gives equal credit to the Japanese and their revered admiral Yamamoto (the legendary Toshiro Mifune), this even though the dubbing of some of the Japanese actors' voices (Mifune's is dubbed by Paul Frees) is somewhat dangerously close to being laughable.While some of the special effects shots must seem painfully dated in the age of CGI (indeed, some of the footage is also taken from the 1944 film THIRTY SECONDS OVER TOKYO), MIDWAY nevertheless does a very good job of things, and thankfully is not a huge hunk of gung-ho John Wayne theatrics. The film's all-star cast also includes Hal Holbrook, Cliff Robertson, Robert Mitchum, Robert Webber, Robert Wagner, James Coburn, Glenn Ford, Monte Markham, Ed Nelson, James Shigeta, Clyde Kusatsu, Kip Niven, Erik Estrada, and many others. Most of them largely have walk-on cameos, as is traditional with many World War II and 1970s disaster films, so the major focus of the film is on the planning on both sides for how the Battle of Midway will play out. Jack Smight, who helmed films like HARPER and AIRPORT 1975, directs the film largely unobtrusively, letting the cast, including Heston, Fonda, and Mitchum, get on with the business of acting.As it has often been pointed out, accurately, the Battle of Midway, if it had ended in defeat for the U.S., would perhaps have been the beginning of the end of America as a nation, and led not only to the Japanese takeover of the Pacific, but the takeover of all of Europe by Nazi Germany as well, since the 1944 D-Day landings wouldn't have occurred. The fact that America's winning of that battle off of Midway was the result of risk-taking was important, however, in that it gave the U.S. the advantage it needed to win the war in the Pacific, and did so by stealth. Despite the melodramatic interludes in Donald S. Sanford's screenplay, MIDWAY is a fairly accurate portrayal of those three days in the late spring of 1942 that turned the tide in America's favor when it came to World War II. Williams' superb martial music score, one of the few he has ever done, is the icing on the cake of MIDWAY, one of the most tragically undervalued war films of any kind in any era. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites, but needs a remake","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Not much I can add to the battle's decisive outcome and how it altered the course of the Pacific war. So I guess I'll recap. What was stacking up as another in a string of decisive Japanese naval victories in the Pacific was turned on it's head through masterful intelligence, leadership, instinct, and luck. Just six months after the humiliation of Pearl Harbor, cryptologists of the outnumbered American navy break the Japanese code and decipher their plans for their coming invasion of Midway Island; a tiny, isolated U.S military outpost hundreds of mile northwest of Hawaii and the perfect staging site for a Japanese invasion of Hawaii. Bringing four fleet carriers, 260 planes, thousands of troops, and dozens of support ships the Japanese intend to lure the remaining American carrier force into battle and destroy them. But armed with forewarning of the attack the three remaining carriers are staged for a surprise attack of their own. Having no idea the American carriers would be waiting for them, the Japanese commanders are suddenly forced to make new tactical decisions to deal with a sea battle they had not yet counted on. And some of those decisions would alter the course of the war and lead to the slow death of the once unstoppable IJN.This movie had a fantastic cast and I have to say was artfully directed. I had two major problems with it. The overuse of stock film footage, most of which comes from other Pacific battles or even other films. A lot of footage is taken from Tora! Tora! Tora! and John Ford's Midway. I'm not sure if the footage was intended to preserve the film's budget or was added in as an artistic choice to press home the fury of real combat. In either case it came across as hacked together and cheap. There are inaccuracies and anachronisms everywhere, seemingly unapologetically so. The second problem was the use of English speaking Americans cast as Japanese officers. While it may have provided a different angle to connect with the Japanese perspective it just didn't feel right. I never stopped thinking of them as actors. Toshiro Mifune, conversely, barely spoke English and his dialog was later dubbed in. There are fictional characters, Charleton Heston's Captain Matt Garth is fictitious as is his brooding fighter pilot son and his boring Japanese love interest. But it's a film crafted to entertain as well as instruct. Otherwise if it followed facts only it would get dull very quickly. That's why it's called a dramatization.But what works is the painstaking historical veracity and an excellent cast chemistry. It takes an otherwise complex and confusing set of events and present them in a way that makes sense and draws you in. Midway was without a doubt one of the most stunning military upsets in the history of modern warfare. In an era before satellites and long range radar the battle's outcome depended on who found who first followed by the right (or wrong) decisions. This film allows you to walk way understanding just how the mighty IJN lost all four of it's carriers at Midway. It doesn't cover everything, there are holes and questions left unanswered, but it does it's job in paying homage to the men who won the battle while also paying it's respects to their Japanese counterparts. I do think this film needs a remake, it was that important a battle, it arguably saved the U.S from defeat in the Pacific theater, and it's legacy should never be forgotten. "},{"Title":"a great movie showing the strategies of the pacific war","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Midway showed a different approach to a war movie, instead of showing infantry combat this movie showed the strategy of the war in the pacific. Midway showed a racial issue of an innocent Japanese family being held by the FBI for being questionable citizens. It was slow at the start introducing the different characters. This movie took place 4 months after Pearl Harbor when the American Pacific fleet was out numbered to the Japanese. I was surprised to see how the technology made things difficult to know where the enemy ships are; it reminded me of the game battleship where sinking a battleship was based off of luck. The quote at the end said by one of the officers in command was I don't know if we were better than the Japanese or if we were more lucky than the Japanese. This was a good representation of what this battle at sea was. Overall I'd give it an 8 out of 10 with the great acting by all the Asians in this movie. "},{"Title":"movie comments","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The movie was quite good. Since it is an older movie the acting is corny but other wise it is very good. I liked the film and it was very cool that they used actual footage from the battles to make those scenes. The sea battles were very gripping. It was hard to look away from it when I was watching. The acting of the Japanese was extremely corny and so was all of the others. This is to be expected of an older movie but that does not change the fact that it was a good one. The real footage of the battles made it seem less real but gave a better description of what was happening to the pilots than it they had been made in another way. In all it was a good movie. "},{"Title":"Film Review","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I thought this was one of the more entertaining war movies. I liked the mix of the real footage from the war with the newer scenes from the film. The battle scenes were, even though over 30 years old if the filmed parts, or 60 years old from the war footage, very cool to watch, and very accurate in the planes and way they would engage in dogfights. I always find the Japanese military and navy specifically to be both intimidating and impressive, with their big red dots and suns on everything, to their extremely orderly uniforms they would wear. I like the acting even though it is a little lack luster with the pilots in the planes almost always looking overly confident in themselves, even as they would crash and things. I still think the historical point got through, and the film made a lot of sense to me for its affects on soldiers, sailors, and pilots of both sides of the conflict. "}{"Title":"Midway says it all... 5/10 stars","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The battle of Midway was the turning point in the battle for the pacific, and the motion picture gives the audience a glimpse into the intricate strategies that went down. The movie captures not only the warfare, but also the romeo & juliet affair of a soldier in love. Six months after pearl harbor, one can imagine the tensions between Americans and Japanese citizens, but none the less Tom falls in love with Horoku. They long to be together but are forced to be separated because of their racial difference. This movie accurately shows the affects that war can have on society, and how hate of the enemy is sometimes considered enough to cancel out love. throughout the whole movie, the characters must overcome odds and go above and beyond to win, and they do just that. It was a good movie and everyone should watch it to learn about Japanese vs America... THE ULTIMATE SMACKDOWN "},{"Title":"Shows WWII Naval Warfare, From Both Sides","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The film portrays both the American and the Japanese navy in their struggle to win over Midway. Both archival footage and staged footage is shown, and the switches are seamless. This is no fictional story; it actually happened. It also shows a glimpse into the Japanese internment camps for US citizens, and the American paranoia for Japanese-Americans. The initial subplot is fictional. I like how it showed the constant spy game between the two nations. The acting of the Americans is great, especially Charlton Heston and Hal Holbrook. The Japanese acting is competent, but it is clear that some of the actors aren't native English speakers (yes, everyone in the movie speaks in English). The viewer isn't forced to hate the Japanese characters; they are merely shown are sailors fighting for their country, just like the Americans. The sets are well- designed, and the film captures occasional claustrophobic life on an aircraft carrier. Being a WWII movie, the film is mostly serious, but there is some light humor. The ship scenes become very tense as the film progresses and the two forces movie towards one point. The actual battle scenes are quick and brutal. If you're interested in an entertaining war film about Pacific naval warfare, definitely check out Midway. "},{"Title":"Old and Good","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" If you can't stand some bad acting as well as some very poorly done action scenes (do to the time it was made). However, this movie is not only historically accurate but it is also interesting and educational if you want to understand the events that happened during the turning point in the Pacific War. The Japenes really like to party and dance and yell and the American translator is a lazy smoking dude who walks around in a bath robe. A strange looking movie with odd lines and music (or lack of) makes for a funny and odd experience. On the other hand the movie gives you a feel for the strategy used by both US and Japenes Admirals used at that time. Another plus is the way you get to know the individuals throughout the movie. Because of lot of scenes where people are simply talking you start to understand the way each individual man thinks. This is a should see for World War Two fanatics or for people who just like classic old- school movies. "},{"Title":"So-So movie, that shows both the Japanese and American sides of the battle well","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" One of they only movies o show the battle of midway. Shows both the Japanese and the American tactics. A long movie that shows all aspects of the battle. Shows how the Americans and Japanese decided to fight the battle, and there battle plans. Shows the tension between Americans and Japanese living in America. The sup-plot love life seems a little distracting at times, but represents how the Japanese-Americans were treated during World War 2. Movie lasts a long time and by the time the movie is ending the audience has grown restless. One of the best movies to show the stress and randomness of sea battle in world war 2. Still a good movie to watch if you are interested in the pacific theater. "},{"Title":"Not up to Wing and a Prayer","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  The 1944 movie, Wing and a Prayer asked Where is our navy? Why doesn't it fight? and  communicated the fear that enemy invasion of the U.S. west coast was possible unless all the  right moves were made. Midway has none of this How do you dig foxholes in the ocean to  hold the line? feeling. Walter Lord's Incredible Victory had that win or else feel to it, and I  hoped that Midway would tell this tale. Instead, the U.S. Navy did it all by it's lonesome,  since there is scant mention of the Army or the Marine aviators who shook up the enemy  armada as it approached. Finding footage of the right kind of aircraft being launched, let  alone on the way to battle is a challenge; in Wing and a Prayer, Hellcats stood in for  Wildcats, Helldivers stood in for Dauntless dive bombers, and TBFs stood in for TBDs. So,  seeing F4Fs, SBDs, and TBFs in action in Midway is one of the few pluses of this soap  opera-like war movie. They sure didn't recreate Tora! Tora! Tora!, but they could have done  a better job. So, I'll watch Don Ameche take the TBF pilots to task whenever Wing and a  Prayer runs on TCM until a better movie comes along. "},{"Title":"Poor Movie, but Salvagable","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  When I saw Midway as a teenager, I thought it was a cool movie with lots action (despite the unnecessary subplot of Lt. Garth and his girl) and, as far as I could read from my history books, reasonably accurate.  Years later, I saw it again and taped it--as a teacher, I saw an opportunity to catch the attention of my students in history.  Carefully editing out anything that had nothing to do with the historical plot, I came up with a fairly good educational video--the TV version edited out most of the strong language, though a good lip reader could fill in the blanks.  Excellent discussion opportunities concerning the Battle of the Coral Sea, the amazing repair of USS Yorktown in 72 hours, the change in command of the taskforce from Halsey to Spruance, the diversionary attacks on the Aleutians, and the mistaking of the Yorktown for two different carriers.  Yes, there are a lot of mistakes, but most teenagers could care less. "},{"Title":"Big Budget Bomb","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Another World War II turkey.  An all-star cast is wasted on a wildly inaccurate ( land-based bombers ?  never heard of em. we lost a carrier ? never heard of it. etc... )depiction of the turning point of the war in the Pacific.  Using cheap production values ( footage lifted from Tora ! Tora ! Tora ! ), irrelevant sub-plots ( Edward Arnold ) and omitting crucial history, this movie is a total waste of time.  As a student of World War II, I don't understand why these producers waste huge amounts of money and resources on these big budget disasters ( The Battle Of The Bulge also starring Henry Fonda comes to mind.  It's even worse than this. )  If the producers would concentrate on the script and storytelling, they would learn that they could do a lot more with less.The cast should be embarrassed and you shouldn't waste your time with this movie. "},{"Title":"A Major Turkey!  Universal Studios Let Us Down!!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Around 1976 many war movie fans waited for the release of Universal Studios' movie `Midway' with great expectations since it was supposed to be a quasi-follow-up movie of the artistically successful Tora, Tora, Tora of 1970. Universal Studios let these fans down in a major way.  Even though this movie was supposed to depict a major World War II naval battle, which changed the course of history, it turned out to be a cheap patch-up job with a mediocre script and horrendous film editing.  The editing of this movie shows how the director and producers of this movie tried to cut corners as much as possible, and the cheapness of their job shows.  The battle scenes were largely borrowed from three sources 1) archive footages (colorized in a phony way), 2) 1970 movie Tora, Tora, Tora and 3) 1962 Japanese war movie I Bombed Pearl Harbor.  The editors did a rather sloppy job of editing the different archive footages.  For example, the movie contains post 1942 archive footages (one can tell by the newer version of the U.S. insignia) and even some post-World War II archive footages.  There are numerous other examples of sloppy editing like this. To keep the budget down, the director filmed almost no original special effect scenes for this movie; the special effect scenes were largely borrowed from I Bombed Pearl Harbor.  Japanese film buffs used to think that Hollywood was the international center of filmmaking.  After seeing this cheap patch-up job, they mocked and sneered at the cheapness of borrowing so much from an old Japanese movie and decried the decline of Hollywood's creativity.  This movie is one of the numerous history-based Hollywood movies in which the screenwriters added their boring and mediocre fictional story lines to the historical events and ended up messing up the whole movie.  I wonder why so many Hollywood screenwriters do that.  Often the insertion of fictional story lines adds nothing positive to the script.  In fact, by adding fictional story lines, fact-based movies tend to lose authenticity.  Furthermore, the addition of the fictional story lines to the historical events unnecessarily diverts audience's attention from the more interesting historical events. In many cases, including the Battle of Midway, the factual historical dramas are so fascinating that there is no need to add anything fictional.  In this movie what was the need to create the fictional central character Capt. Garth?  There were so many interesting historical characters who could have been the central character.  Even though I am highly critical of  the mistreatment by the U.S. government of people of Japanese origin during World War II, I do not understand the purpose of inserting the thin story line about Garth's son courting a Japanese young woman. This story line did absolutely nothing dramatically or artistically. The screenwriters of this film did not give any of the stars--including Charleton Heston, Henry Fonda, Robert Mitchum, Glenn Ford, James Coburn, Hal Holbrook and Toshiro Mifune--a proper opportunity to showcase their talents.  Because of this shortcoming in the script, the acting of the cast members looked rather bland and disjointed.  Also, Japanese characters in the movie (e.g. Admiral Yamamoto, Admiral Nagumo, etc.) should have spoken in Japanese with English subtitles added.  That would have added to the authenticity of the movie.  This maybe a minor point, but Admiral Nagumo had closely cropped hair just like many of the Japanese naval officers of World War II.  James Shigeta, who played Nagumo, should have cut his hair shorter or at least worn a wig.  (If the reader of this comment wants to see Mifune doing a much better job of playing Adm. Yamamoto, he or she should see the 1968 Japanese movie Isoroku Yamamoto in which Mifune starred as Adm. Isoroku Yamamoto.)The only interesting thing of note about this movie is the depiction of the Battle of Coral Sea, a very significant pre-Midway aircraft carrier battle, which has been largely neglected by Hollywood until this movie.In spite of great expectations, Midway turned out to be a big, disappointing turkey.  Watch it only if you have lots of extra time to spare.  "},{"Title":"This film could still be saved","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a wonderful film for history buffs.  It could be so much better if you cut out completely the Charlton Heston - Edward Albert subplot, and reshot the scenes with real Japanese actors instead of these stock Hollywood orientals.  Oh, it has Mifune - horribly dubbed by a cartoon voice actor. "},{"Title":"Dramatic License Taken on Historical Figures","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Watching this movie you'd think everybody in the war got along and were all happy and likeable.  Sorry.  The Hal Holbrook character Joe Rochefort was very easy to perturb.  Had a Captain Garth approached Rochefort, he no doubt would have had his head handed to him on a platter.  Not to mention Halsey's ire. "}{"Title":"I am glad to be able to say something about good movies","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Quite a good movie. But I can think of another actor who should have taken the part of Admiral Spruance; John Forsythe for instance. His facial resemblence to Spruance was a lot closer then Glenn Ford's.  And I think James Cagney would have fitted in perfect for Admiral Halsey.  Cagney's facial resemblence to   Halsey in The Gallant Hours was       quite startling. But were my choice is concerned I guess I would rather settle for John Ford's Oscar-winning documentry The Battle of Midway "},{"Title":"Not bad, but could have been better","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This film wasn't bad but could have been so much better without (a) the totally unnecessary love affair between Heston's son and the nisei woman, (b) the dubbing of the Japanese voices (should have used subtitles), (c) the reference to Admiral Nimitz missing the flatlands. (The Admiral's home was not in the flatlands. It is in the Texas hill country not far from where Lyndon Johnson was born and raised.) (d) a reference to Nimitz having been able to walk across a lake during the dry season. There are no wet and dry seasons in Texas. The incidence of rainfall is quite unpredictable, but this film was made in 1976 when the prevailing view of Texas was that of the whole state bing like the Last Picture Show. "},{"Title":"Bad footage / Bad sub-plots ruin it","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Have to agree with other posters. The sub-plot here (interracial Japanese/American romance) is out of place and forced. Good idea though - Japanese interment camps are largely forgotten today.However, this movie is seriously marred by lack of historial accuracy in the stock footage.Korean War jets crashing on decks, 1960s US carriers shown as Japanese, Dauntless dive-bombers turn into Corsairs... on and on.The casual viewer may not care, but in a movie, the idea is for the viewer to suspend reality and be sucked in. I can't enjoy this movie (despite the riveting subject matter) with such shoddy production value. "},{"Title":"Damn! Another War Classic With Gun Fanatic Charleton Heston","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Overall, this was a decent offering for the resources available. The sub-plot of the whole interracial love thing was more or less useless, and seemed more like a time filler than an important part of the film. As far as the story and its relevance and the portrayal thereof, it captured adequately the point of the battle and the sequence of events. I'd give it a 7 out of 10, due to the fact that I'm just used to a little more finesse, and am easily entertained by shiny stuff and loud noises. Midway Was Really Important. M.W.R.I. Sweeeet stuff I have a love-hate relationship with it. Spoiler Alert! Actually, no. Not a spoiler. Have fun and enjoy watching. "},{"Title":"Battle","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The epic feel of this movie is somewhat diluted by the almost-comical scenes involving the Japanese Admirals. But of you are not distracted by that, then you will most likely enjoy a solid war movie that portrays the battle that saved the American Navy, and perhaps the entire world. If the Japanese had won at Midway, then they would have moved on and completely destroyed the naval base at Pearl Harbor. Then they would have moved on the the mainland, and America would not have been able to invade Europe, and the Nazis would have conquered all, and Hitler would have completely dominion over all life for all time, until Frodo could destroy the ring, that is. The movie does not do as good a job making the audience recognize the importance's of the battle as I would have liked. The view is not likely to recognize it, but despite these shortcomings, the movie is a very good one, and I can honestly say that it's well done, even though some bad acting and some very outdated special affects can get in the way of the enjoyment of the film. "},{"Title":"The love story was essential in this movie..","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Some reviewers suggest that the movie might of been better had the story of the Japanese girl and the navy pilots love affair not been a part of the movie, but I disagree. It was a very integral to the overall story in that it showed the indifference that was heaped on Asian people merely because of their race relation to the people who bombed Pearl Harbor.It was used much in the same way that a love story was part of the movie Titanic(1997) and made it a more interesting and compelling movie. If there wasn't something we could relate to in a personal way(such as a love story) then we might as well be watching a documentary and we all know those are usually quite tedious and boring to watch on a Saturday afternoon! "},{"Title":"The Battle Of Midway. An epic depiction of a famous WWII battle.","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Midway brings the viewers a realistic scenario of events that occurred before and during the battle. Exhausting efforts to break the Japanese code and also seeing the anguish of the Japanese Commanders when their task force was defeated is most interesting. The facts were depicted fairly as I know them. The romance of a junior officer and his Japanese girl friend seems a little odd, especially, when it causes problems with Charleton Heston's character. The Battle of Midway was a very historic WWII battle. I don't believe enough American People really understand the consequences if the USA had lost the battle. This picture realistically depicts the epic portions of the battle. Overall, I liked it and it was made with excellent standards in choice of words rather than trash talk. "},{"Title":"Midway was the best of the Sensurround movies","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I went to Midway the summer of 1976 in Billings MT. It was being shown in a classic old-style theater which has since been torn down. This was the first movie where I saw an attempt at making the whole experience more realistic through the use of the four huge speakers that had been set up. Even though the technology is crude by today's great sound standards, it was still an impressive experience. The version of Midway for sale or rent in video stores is not the same as the original production. For some reason, they added a bunch of combat footage and a slapped-together story of the Battle of the Coral Sea. I believe they may have done this to extend the length of the movie to accommodate filling two evenings for a television broadcast. One of the funny moments when I saw the movie came after the US Navy planes finally land a bomb on a Japanese carrier after dozens of US planes have been shot down trying. The funny part is that the audience was so worked up and angry at the Japanese that they spontaneously cheered when the bomb exploded. Latent WWII hatred I guess. While the pathetic love story subplot was a downer for the movie, the historical significance of the picture makes it a good production. Midway was THE battle that turned the tide of the war in the Pacific against Japan. US forces were grossly outnumbered and with everything on the line, three US carriers sent four Japanese carriers to the bottom and forced the Imperial Navy to begin a retreat which continued for the rest of the war. It is a great movie plot that happens to be a true story for a change. "},{"Title":"Version and Date of Midway","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I remember seeing a earlier version of this movie, having additional details about the Battle of the Coral Seas with a lot of scenes for Mitch Ryan and Steve Kanaly. Also in the earlier version, Mariette Hartley was Hesston's love interest. I believe that this version showed in 1972.Over the years, every time I have seen this film more has been pruned from it. Now Hartley isn't even mentioned in the cast and the date is given as 1976.Clearly the producers weren't history buffs, concerned about faithfully representing history. There are a lot of errors.Does anyone else remember this earlier version? Why would they continually rehash the original? I feel cheated by the latest version. "},{"Title":"Sacrifice is key to every battle","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I could imagine how brave pilots and crews sacrificed their lives for their country. Next, Midway is the turning point of the Pacific War during World War II. In addition,although the U.S. have heavy casualties during this important battle,the Japanese lost their four main aircraft carriers. Third,Midway proved that in order to win,a country should sometimes take a risk to be successful. In conclusion, the Battle of Midway was intense, this movie showed how aggressive and potential it is. Also,airplanes buzzed like dragon flies every hour in this battle.Finally the battle showed that airplanes are useful. Without them, the Japanese  have advantage to bomb or shoot innocent people like sitting ducks.I considered this movie a great and memorable one.Because I like to see Airplanes including Zeros and Grumman Wild Cats. Next, this is based on true events. Third, it explains how did the U.S. navy have won in this battle.Finally, the actors performed great.They helped the movie become more authentic. Also, I gave this movie a ten out of ten. Thanks to the actors,directors and performers that made this movie possible. Remember you have to sacrifice and do put much effort to become successful at your goal "}{"Title":"Enjoy it for what it is!","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  The story of the pivotal Midway campaign is told in a factual manner utilizing archival battle footage and clips from other Hollywood war movies.  If you can accept these facts you'll enjoy the film.The new Collector's Edition DVD is a real treat as it contains many extras that enhance the viewing of this underrated movie.  If you have Dolby Digital 5.1 you can appreciate to a certain extent the aural impact of Sensurround on this movie.  While the description at Amazon lists the mix as 1.0 mono it is actually 1.1 with the Sensurround track going to your subwoofer.  It won't rattle your fillings like the theatrical version, but it will give you some idea of how those original screenings sounded.Director Jack Smight and producer Walter Mirisch make no attempt to hide their use of actual color combat film as well as scenes from Tora!, Tora!, Tora!, Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo and other war  movies.  They explain that any attempt to accurately depict the massive battle scenes in this story would have been too expensive and not very believable. This is not a special effects spectacular, it is a realistic docudrama that draws upon many sources to detail the events leading up to a decisive moment in U.S. military history.  Get the new DVD and enjoy it for what is.   "},{"Title":"Midway (1976)","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  For a movie which starts out by saying this is the way it happened, it contained a lot of historical errors and omissions.  There are so many that it would fill a book.One of the errors was when the movies showed a radio broadcast announcing the leader of the Doolittle raid the day after it happened.  With our fliers behind enemy lines, it would have been stupid to do that.  Actually, it was months before we finally admitted that we had bombed Japan.Another error, was when Charlton Heston (a fictional character) was asking Hal Holbrook (a real person) how much he could decipher from Japanese intercepts.  When told only 10%, he was astounded.  Does anyone believe that this was news?Another mistake was when the movie showed Adm. Halsey scheduling himself to go into a hospital.  Adm. Nimitz put him there.  As for Adm. Nimitz being taken aback when Halsey recommended Ray Spruance to take his command, that was hogwash.  Adm. Nimitz was thinking of Spruance himself, but wanted to give Halsey the professional courtesy of naming his replacement.  And by the way, Adm. Spruance was not the skipper of a cruiser as the movie implied. He was a rear admiral in charge of Halsey's cruiser-destroyer screen. Rear admirals do not command cruisers.Another mistake was when the movie showed Glenn Ford (playing Spruance) saying he wanted to attack the carriers at long range while Halsey's chief of staff was against it.  In reality, it was Capt. Browning (Halsey's chief of staff) who suggested it.  What was Spruance's idea was to launch an all out attack.And then we see Max Leslie getting on his radio and telling the other pilots to arm their bombs.  That was dumb.  Not only could the other pilots hear him, so could the enemy radio operators.  He might as well send out a radio message telling them they were coming.As for their splicing in actual war footage, they used poor judgment.  One of the scenes showed an Iowa class battleship at Midway.  We didn't have any battleships there.  Also, that class wasn't even in service in 1942.The biggest mistake they made, was putting fictional characters with fictional sub-plots in a movie which was supposed to be about our greatest naval victory.  And splicing in scenes from other movies was also bad.  I counted four Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo (the opening scene); Away All Boats!, Tora! Tora! Tora! and last but not least, I Bombed Pearl Harbor (which accounted for most of the scenes on the Japanese carriers).  If you take away all those scenes, you're left with precious little that Universal shot.I have to say that the stupidest line in the movie was when Cdr. Rochefort suggested to Adm. Nimitz that we get our boys out of there.  Does he actually believe that the Japanese would pack up and go home when they still had one carrier left?  Whoever wrote that in must have really been dumb.Tora! Tora! Tora! was a lot better movie than this one.  It flopped because of it chronicled our biggest naval defeat.  Midway succeeded because if was our greatest naval victory.  It didn't deserve it though. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but nonetheless an accurate historical record","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I almost completely agree with grahamsj2's review of this movie, especially Heston, whose acting is surpassed in terribleness only by his character's son's fiance, the beautiful yet thespis-challenged Christina Kokubo.  The inclusion of this strained love affair between the son, a GI, and Kokubo's character, a japanese-american is ridiculous and baffling, especially when one considers that this movie offers an excellent historical account of the pivotal WWII battle.If one can tolerate the largely abysmal acting, the robotic voice-overs of some of the Japanese characters, and the horrible edits between actual footage and the phony and cheesy Hollywood soundstage recreations, it is otherwise a very well done history lesson.  If it weren't for its historical merit, it would indeed be generous fodder for the likes of an MST 3000-type spoof. "},{"Title":"Good depiction of Midway Battle","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I saw this in the theater as a kid and loved it. Its been on cable allot lately and i still say it holds up very well. Not sure why it gets bad reviews from allot of viewers. Sure the love segment might be a little sappy, but compared to nightmare movies like Pearl Harbor, i can deal with it. I guess todays generation can't sit still to watch movies like this and Tora Tora Tora that have long periods of story build up. They need movies like Black Hawk Down and Saving Private Ryan action. Both movies i also like very much. If you like to watch documentaries on History channel about war events, than this movie do just fine. "},{"Title":"Horrible but...","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this in a theatre when it came out.  The acting was dreadful, historical inaccuracies abound and the dialogue sounded like it came from a (bad) 1940s Hollywood war film.  And don't get me started on the pointless love story shoehorned in!But, in original theatrical engagements, this was shown in  Sensurround.  Anyone remember that?  It was developed for the movie Earthquake and also used in Rollercoaster and Battlestar Galactica.  During the action sequences, theater chairs vibrated and (if I recall) actually leaned back a little giving you the feeling that you were in the battle.  Also the stereo sound was blasting full force.  THOSE sequences were great but only because of the Sensurround experience.  Without it, it probably plays as a dull war movie.  So, I have fond memories of it but I'm afraid if I saw it on TV I'd hate it.   "},{"Title":"The Respect of Detail and Truth","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Midway (1976) This one is as good as Tora Tora Tora for recreating a major battle of World War II. Though entirely filled with established stars (and soon-to-bes), Midway does a great job of retelling the important U.S. defeat of Japan on the Pacific in 1942. Flip-flopping between the Japanese and the Americans, we watch code breaking, fact checking, logical guesswork, chess-gaming, and just plain good and bad luck at work during a crucial, everything-is-at-stake moment in WWII history. What is especially gratifying is the respect given to the details and truth, as well as the use of much original battle footage. The war was 30 years over at the release of this film, but those who survived were there to see it was done right. "},{"Title":"Spoilt by a love affair.","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  The affair between Charlton Heston's screen son and a Japanese-American totally spoils this film. For the purposes of the film it is not needed. There are plenty of other ways in which you could show the internment of Japanese-Americans by the US authorities.  "},{"Title":"An historical movie with a great cast!","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I've loved this movie ever since my Dad brought me to see it at a theater in 1976 (when I was nine)!This movie is literally a 'who's-who' of great American and Japanese stars and super-stars, such as Charlton Heston; Henry Fonda; James Coburn; Hal Holbrook; Glenn Ford; Toshiro Mifune; Pat Morita; Robert Mitchum; Cliff Robertson; Robert Webber; Robert Wagner; James Shigeta; John Fujioka; Robert Ito...and, many more.I love this movie, and, I love how actual World War 2 footage is inserted into the film to add to the scenes. Yes, ha-ha!D Sometimes, a certain type of plane is shown, and, in the next scene, it suddenly becomes another type of plane; but, who cares, the movie is great! The black-and-white scenes at the beginning of the movie are from Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo (1944) with Spencer Tracy, Van Johnson, and, Robert Mitchum (also in this movie). And...of course, a love story (a controversial love story for this period) is fitted into the movie, as in almost every other war movie ever made.A lot of people 'bash' this movie, but, I happen to love it; and, any and every library and collection of war movies isn't complete without this! ) "},{"Title":"Dudway","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Man, this one really stinks.Jack Smight's faded direction with his shameless use of stock footage from other war films makes this action exercise a total bore. Or perhaps it's Smight propping up of Charlton Heston as some kind of 'Moses' of War World II, or Toshiro Mifune's horrendously dubbed voice, or Pat Morita's comatose delivery of his lines, or the inclusion of the sappiest love story since Robert Francis woo'ed May Wynn in 'The Caine Mutiny' 22 years earlier. Whatever the culprit, this 'Middling-way' belongs in the can --- and I do mean the can in the men's room ..... flush twice. "},{"Title":"Not edited very expertly","Date":"15 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" It was the style in the Seventies to produce epic films with an all-star cast, and this film is no exception. The stock combat footage was not edited in very expertly, and the same can be said of the footage from other war movies, like Tora, Tora, Tora. Having said that, I'm sure it would have cost a fortune to make everything from scratch. There were a lot of awesome actors in this film, but not all of them were performing all that well. It pains me to say that it looked a bit like Charleton Heston was mailing it in. And you could say the same, if a bit less obviously, about Henry Fonda. Hal Holbrook, Robert Mitchum, Glenn Ford, and James Coburn did very well, although some of them had very small parts, little more than cameos. The film did, for all of its faults, tell the story of the battle fairly well. It is okay, but I cannot really recommend it. "}{"Title":"all things that are good","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" an interesting movie to be sure. the acting you can tell is dated, i think it would be easier to appreciate it if the acting wasn't as bad. the battle of midway was surely one of the most important naval operation of world war two. if the Japanese had been able to take midway they would have easily been able to launch attacks against hawaii, and Aleutian islands, even the American west coast. i liked the movie because it showed real war clips of how flying was. the real crashing of the planes was amazing to look at. when this movie was made they didn't have the ability to special effect the airplanes flying or to show them bursting into flame as the careened out of control, and obliterate themselves into the blue ocean. as it goes though i have nothing more to say on the matter. but i have to write ten lines. so i will talk about man bear pig , and just keep repeating it man bear pig man bear pig man bear pig. "},{"Title":"The sum is less than the parts","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  What did this movie want to be?  A slick, star-studded and personalized retelling of the most significant sea battle of the last century?  Or a pseudo-documentary of the same?  I don't know and apparently neither did these folks.  I'm still just trying to work out which war(s) the Fondas approved of and which they didn't.  Much longer than it should be, by the time they get to the exploding Jap carriers you'll be asleep. "},{"Title":"Gets a Lot of TV Airings Considering","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This treatment of an account of the Battle of Midway was originally done for theaters in Sense-Surround sound. That meant that when the planes took off, your ears would think it was real sounding & the theaters would shake from the sound. This was Hestons Second film using this technology, the first was Earthquake.There is an aged all star male cast in this. There is also a love triangle involving Heston's son & a Japanese girl which adds nothing to the film. There is some decent action sequences but most are watered down & some of them are actually stock footage from Tora Tora Tora, & some reprocessed World War 2 footage.Overall, this film from Mirsch productions was really an effort to get another Sense-Surround film into theaters. There weren't but a handful made & at the time it was Hollywoods main effort to get folks out of the living room & back to the theaters. I have seen worse films, & also better ones, but if you like the war genre, you will find this is better than some films. "},{"Title":"Too Slow and Then Too Anticlimactic","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Unlike Tora, Tora, Tora, which also dealt with the Pacific War between the U.S. and Japan, Midway employed American actors and actresses of the Japanese descent. I think it was the first mistake. Somehow the Japanese actors didn't sound and look real.The beginning of the movie was good. The B-17 raid of Tokyo off a U.S. aircraft carrier alerting the Japanese military leaders seemed tense and realistic. But the moment the movie began to develop characters, it began to slow down -- way down. I think it was totally unrealistic to introduce a Japanese-American girl who is the object of affection of a Naval officer. The producers wanted to convey the message that it was the Imperial Japan, not the Japanese people, was the enemy, but it was syrupy, predictable and boring.The climax of the movie has to be the surprise attack by the American dive bombers on Japanese carriers, but it was rather anticlimactic. Couldn't they have come up with better exclamations that Hooray and Hail Mary? were "},{"Title":"Bit of a disappointment","Date":"2 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The first time I saw Midway in 1976, it was an exciting event as I have always been a collector of WWII movies. I thoroughly loved the movie. But later I was disappointed, since every later cut of the movie I was able to locate had totally removed all mention of Captain Garth's relationship with a woman in Honolulu. His ex-wife gets a mention, and his son plays a prominent part, but Captain Garth's girlfriend is totally eliminated from the film, removing a critical character aspect of the man character of the story. I do realize that the battle is the main focal point of the story, but if the writers are going to develop a character as they did with Captain Garth, with his son, his wife, his association with the other officers such as Admiral Pearson, of Naval Intelligence, why leave out the most significant, current, personal relationship in his life? "},{"Title":"The TV edition omits history.","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The TV edition of Midway omits a major part of history that new viewers should have the opportunity to know. The Japanese thought they sank the US carrier Yorktown at the Battle of the Coral Sea a short time earlier. However, the severely damaged carrier limped back to Pearl and was made battle-ready in short time to face the Japanese at Midway.The Japanese were shocked when they discovered the Yorktown at Midway and attacked it twice, thinking it was two different carriers! This was due in part to the superior firefighting training and damage control skills of the US sailors.The Yorktown is a legend in naval history. See a historically accurate scale model at the San Diego Naval and Space Museum. It was built by the late Lt. Cmdr. Fred V. Fraas, USN (Ret). "},{"Title":"can anyone recommend good WW2 flick?","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I Just watched Midway and Das Boot but I am looking for a movie with some action scenes, war scenes. There are some great movies about Vietnam war Deerhunter, Apocolpse Now and Platoon. And there are some good movies like Behind Enemy Lines and Black Hawk Down. But I cant find a good WW2 movie with conflict scenes. The subplot in Midway got in the way of the war. Bridge on River Kwai good but I want to see the US forces in battle with the bad guys. Any suggestions? I have seen Run Silent, Run Deep....the submarine movies are pretty cool. Pearl Harbor too.Das Boot was good but WAY too long. What ones am I missing? I know there must be a ton of good war movies. "},{"Title":"Darn good war movie","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I really don't understand why so many people 'dis' this movie.  Read Walter Lord's INCREDIBLE VICTORY and Gordon Prange's MIRACLE AT MIDWAY -- it's pretty close to the truth.  The purists could take any movie apart. The war movie that deserves the 'stinkeroo' award has got to be U-571. We have a generation of kids thinking that the US Navy got the first enigma machine.  It's a shame that that movie was ever made. Other war movies that people love like Kelly's Heroes and The Dirty Dozen -- now those are true movies.  Or how about The Guns of Navarone -- a great movie but a fairy tale.  Plus it has one of the worst acted scenes in all of movie history (Anthony Quinn's act at Gestapo hdqs). The romance scene was lame and this seems to bother most reviewers. But don't you think that Hollywood was making a social/political comment? This is a great movie and it's a shame that it has been received so badly. When I think of bad movies Armageddon and Battlefield Earth come to ind  -- how can you say that Midway compares to them?? Another plus -- you can check out your stereo system.  Great sonics!!  "},{"Title":"Long, Talky, Anachronistic, and Just Above Awful","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" If You are Young and not that Familiar with the Stock WWII Footage that was used in this Film for that The way it was. Feel, this Might be a Somewhat Satisfying Entertainment and a Primer for the Important Naval Battle. You also have to be a Youngster and New to Movies to Gloss Over the Bad Acting and Dialog and the Cartoonish Presentation of the Non-Battle Scenes and the Battle Scenes that were Lifted from Numerous Other Movies.Problem is that the Non-Battle Scenes are So Bad that Wading through the Waves of Anachronistic Haircuts and Over the Hill Actors Paraded Out for a Scene or Two do Nothing but make the Whole Exercise Quite Laborious.This is a Bomb. A Misfire. It is a Bad Production with Clunky Intertwines and Confusing Scenes of Aircraft and Flattops Floating and Flying Around with Hardly a Hint at their Position and what it All Means. Despite the Laughable On Screen Titles like...such and such Airplane, 30 Miles from such and such Ship. Even the Filmmakers Knew that None of this made much Sense to the Audience and so They Literally had to Spell it Out.Listing the All-Star Cast is Futile (some are only on screen for half a heartbeat and others like Glenn Ford just stare out a window), but Suffice to Say that Charlton Heston and Crew All Look Bored and Firmly Planted in the 1970's not the 1940's both in Style and Script. "},{"Title":"Very Accurate Movie","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This movie has a large number of well known actors who portray this epic battle in a very appealing way. Spoiler alert.Do not read on!!!!The parallel story of Tom Garth with his Japanese American girlfriend does not detract from the overall plot. The music of John Williams and the stock footage from Tora,Tora,Tora certainly adds to the movie. The fact that John Ford was filming on Midway during the attack lends some authenticity to the movie. Jack Fletcher and or Ray Spruance were not given enough credit during the film but in total, the movie was very accurate. The intelligence provided by Rochefort is well shown. Most, if not all of the time lines of the battle were correct except the sinking of the fourth carrier. I think the movie shows the heroics of the American torpedo squadrons but history has not given them enough credit for the victory. Overall, military history buffs would grade this movie very high but those looking for melodrama would not like it. The movie accurately depicts the fog of war and the some of the problems of communication and decision making processes. I never tire of this movie because of it's attention to detail. The turning point of the Pacific war only 6 months after Pearl Harbor. "}{"Title":"An outdated World War II movie.","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I realize that this movie is over 20 years old, however I think even back then this movie would have been disliked by most. The acting is very poor and the battle scenes are lacking to say the least. Also, the idea of the officer and his girlfriend being locked up is semi far fetched. The idea that she would be locked up due to magazines in her father's apartment and her distant association with some Japanese patriotic groups is quite bizarre. Also, the dubbing of the Japanese officers ruins many scenes by making the film look just ridiculous. I realize this movie was filmed a while back, however the battle scenes are few and far between and they are poorly done. They seem to switch between a stationary cockpit and what looks like battle video from another movie or video. My expectations for this film were low, yet I was still disappointed by it. "},{"Title":"Started off well, but then sank","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The battle of Midway is one of the most famous naval battles in history.At Midway in June 1942 the giant American and Japanese navy's were pitched against each other in the pacific theatre of world war II. this battle, like Stalingrad, was an important turning point in power during the second world war and a decisive victory for the Americans.During the 1970's Hollywood studios were making second world war films by the dozen. These films were attracting big audiences in the US,and other countries allied to the USA! It was now possible,due to Technicolour,special effects and an endless supply of US air,army and naval equipment decommissioned gracing studio companies. These war films were big budget,examples Tora,Tora,Tora. Patton.A bridge too Far. The longest day. .All focusing on the American victories and the great Uncle Sam. Into this arena of victories for the Americans, showing the world through cinema its past glories(remember Viatnam was still dragging on!!)It wouldn't by long before a studio financed a Hollywood's version of the battle of Midway. Unfortunately this wasn't one of the better ones.Battle Of Midway for the first hour was an entertaining step-by-step account of the strategics of battle from both the Japanese and American view. The picture was both factual and interesting at this point of how and why the battle was to take place. When the battle set pieces eventually appeared on screen they were old documentary shots and even scene from other war films!! This spoiled the film,which had so far been good. The epic movie had become like a 1940's news reel mixed in with a Hollywood picture. Also so many scenes of old footage was used that the film became confusing. Midway in the last hour was just shots, some unnecessary, of American, then Japanese plans attacking Battleships and Carriers. All were clearly shots of old footage pasted into the main plot of Midway. This is what let the film down in a big way.Midway contained a all-star cast. Charlton Heston played Captain Garth. This was one of Heston lesser performances, he just mopped and whinged about his son marrying a Japanese girl through out the movie. On the other hand, Henry Fonda played the role of Admiral Nimitz with good effect and also the same can be said for Glenn Ford in the role of Admiral Spruance. Both actors plus Cliff Robertson has Commander Jessop made the movie entertaining.Another disappointment was the Japanese talking in English instead of their own native language of Japan,this is one of my pet hates in movies!!!It takes away the realism of the drama. On a plus side, the movie used authentic locations in the Pacific,the camera work was,in most parts,good. However the two important factors that spoil Midway are for one the use,and over use, of documentary,news footage and Naval footage of the actual battle of Midway, there were little evidence of battle scenes filmed on production of this movie. Secondly the Japanese talking in English. If these irritations had been removed, for example filmed their OWN battles scenes them Midway mould have become a better movie. Yes i'am taking into account that this film was made in the days when special effects were of lesser quality and blue screen was still relatively new. But using old footage from the 1940's was a bad idea. "},{"Title":"Vice-Admiral William F. Bull Halsey's skin disease?","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" In Battle of Midway, Vice-Admiral William F. Bull Halsey, played (for only a few minutes!) by Robert Mitchum is hospitalised with a skin disease. He complains that he cannot sleep and itches 24 hours per day. He is being treated with a skin cream and oat-meal baths. What did Halsey suffer from? Psoriasis? Talking with Rear-Admiral Ray Spruance, Halsey refuses to shake hands implying the possibility of passing on an infection - thus probably not Psosiasis. Admiral Halsey later commanded Fleets and Task Forces, so the problem was cured, or at least, brought under control. "},{"Title":"You could do it by yourself nowadays (almost)","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I can not hide, that this movie, as rightly awful as it sometimes is, has some fascination for me. I couldn't quite explain it, possibly the thing is, that today, with a state-of-the-art PC and a DVD library subscription, you could do the most of the film by yourself. Get Tora, Tora, Tora , 15 Seconds over Tokyo, Victory at Sea on DVD and start your cutter / editor career. What you don't have (and what the movie certainly doesn't need) are the cameo-like Cast appearances (R. Mitchum, R. Wagner, James Coburn) and the absolutely unnecessary love story. But as i said, for all the kitsch and badly put together compilation it is, i can't stop watching it from time to time. Judge by yourself (rent don't buy, unless in China, where it goes for a dollar or less). Charlton Heston ? He doesn't wear sandals for a start... "},{"Title":"the Mirsch company does it wrong!!!!!!!!","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This was a theatrical film that was done when the Mirsch family ran Universal. During the Mirsch era...most Universal pictures look exactly alike in terms of art direction etc....they had a cheesy made for tv look. (this film is no exception) The premise is great but the blatant reuse of footage from TORA TORA TORA is unforgiveable. I mean that film and this film were about two completely different battles!!!!! This film cut costs and it showed. The cast was comprised of a lot of tv actors (ie. PAT MORITA arnold from HAPPY DAYS) who had no business being in this type of film. Then we had A grade actors like HESTON, FORD, FONDA, etc. however, this film played lip sevice to the real battle and was improperly filmed and written. This would have been a adequate made for tv yarn but as a theatrical piece...well, er, IT BLOWS!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Error","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This may be trivial but needs to be listed by the editors....the character played by Ed Nelson...Capt Matt Garth's friend Harry Pearson, is a Commodore..not a Rear Admiral...this was a rank only used in wartime by the USN and was the equivalent of a Brigadier General....this can be demonstrated by looking at the rank epaulets on his shoulders.....they bear 5 gold half-inch stripes as compared to Capt Garth's 4 stripes..a Rear Admiral would be wearing 2 stars on his epaulets and not 5 gold half inch stripes....a Commodore was technically considered a 'flag rank' by the USN and usually commanded a Squadron such as Commodore George Dewey who won a victory in Manila Bay during the Spanish-American War "},{"Title":"Watched it on the History channel!","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  One of Heston's better performances, and overall watchable.  Well directed, but the effects, script, and acting is dated in spots.  I would watch the whole movie on TV, but would not stay up for it.  Average movie nothing special here. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A Snuff Movie","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  The title sequence is bad enough , a mixture of stock footage and back projection which is so unconvincing it reminded of the title sequence of THE NAKED GUN series . This a really badly made film but the most objectionable thing is its use of stock footage . Films are always made as entertainment , but any form of entertainment that uses footage of real pilots burning to death or sailors drowning when their ship is sunk makes me feel slightly disgusted . As poor as it was PEARL HARBOR didn`t fall into this questionable trap  "},{"Title":"Only judgeable in three different aspects","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Especially to this movie, there are three possible general points of view from which it can be 'judged' or simply absorbed emotionally and intellectually while watching it.I prefer to call that chewing on the pieces of propaganda America's distorted image of what happens here on earth throws on the ground before us, as if we were dogs like those poor scorched jap and us soldiers - Lancaster, for once here, was really disappointing, he could have spent a lot more time with his injured son, instead of ever being present on the stupid bridge - but then again, a modern possible version of this movie or any scene like that, where big war competes with personal, private, emotional issues, would have in the contrary put much too much weight on the emotional - this is the strong side of the movie Although fully a propaganda, as if to calm America down after Pearl Harbour, even only from the historical eye of the Fifties and Sixties, this movie succeeds in showing some strategic truth, really well-combined with the personal feelings of each character, BUT On this point, as I said, where war and emotion meet, it immensely fails to achieve our moral and ethical standard of today, which might be spoiled, but the solution, also for a movie, is NOT to put more weight on the issue of big war than on personal emotions, but to realize those two issues are deeply related, out of which this movie makes a mockery.Never are we made aware that the individual is trapped between patriotism and its own conscience - the movie is forbidden to show this, because it is a definite try to delude our view of the political truth, which is that America is all but the hero of the world, even if the Japs were in fact poisoned and really infected with nothing else but fascism, at that time - America went so hard on Japan because Japan was too strong an ECONOMICAL opponent rather than only a war enemy - war or peace and business always go along together in our corrupt system of international relations.In the two categories 'strategy' and 'emotion', I would give this movie full support and only the best notes, whereas in the third and most important one, the political objectiveness and frankness of the movie, it fails so badly, that I can hardly tell how much and at what many, so many times it lies, lies, and lies again.That Fonda agreed to demonstrate such American chauvinism, probably really desperately needed both the fame and the money the job got him. Sad. But I do enjoyed this movie, you just got to cut out the whole view it wants to indoctrinate you with.So I'm feeling now quite a most tiny bit like Kramer from 'Seinfeld', when he popped out of his hiding cave (his apartment), only to say Hey, I just watched 'Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo'! "}]