[{"Title":"Dated, a bit silly, but still fun","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"141 out of 173 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was twelve when Logan's Run came out and I thought that it was the best thing since sliced bread. It blew me away. So when I picked it up recently on DVD and watched it for the first time in twenty-eight years I was wondering how it would fare after all this time.Well, not too badly. Many of the IMDb reviewers of Logan's Run hit the nail on the head when they say that this film is definitely a product of its time. Yes, the special effects are sort of laughable now (the teeny tiny maze cars zipping through the a model of the city that looks about six inches tall), but you have to judge those sorts of things in the context of the time they were made. As strange as it may seem to people who now expect Lord of the Rings-quality special effects, Logan's Run was cutting edge in its day. And a few of the special effects still stand up fairly well. The light envelope that comes down over the Carousel or the matte shots of Washington. Not great for twenty-first century film-making, but a minor miracle for 1976.The story has more holes than a piece of swiss cheese and the acting is a bit touch and go, but that doesn't get in the way of a fairly entertaining movie. Seeing the movie all these years later I suppose the few moments of bad acting hit me more than anything else. As a kid I thought that Peter Ustinov's old man was brilliant, but now it just seems like awkward overacting. Which isn't to say that his character isn't somewhat endearing.Michael York, a really wonderful actor, misses the mark a few times, but generally he and Jenny Agutter do a fine job.Listen, this isn't a brilliant movie, but it does have its moments. Most science fiction movies made in the 1970s haven't endured the test of time especially well. With the purple mascara, pastel-coloured costumes and hair feathered like a great phoenix. But all in all I still found Logan's Run to be an entertaining and enjoyable trip back to the strange world of 1976.  "},{"Title":"Before Luke, There Was Logan","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"85 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the year 2274, a faction of the human race, following global war and other apparent catastrophes that have ravaged the Earth, live together in a giant domed city, completely sealed off from the outside world. Here, in this bubbled society, the young, healthy, beautiful people who populate it live in total and complete pleasure, free of labor & strife, and free to do anything & everything they want, sexually or otherwise. It's a total state of hedonism.But there's one catch no one is allowed to live past the age of 30. On your 30th birthday (known as Lastday), the little jeweled lifeclock attached to your hand blinks, and you must be expelled from this society of pleasure through an arena event known as carrousel, in which, the city's young people believe, your soul is renewed, afterwhich you will be reborn into the city's society and start all over again.But some 30 year-olds in this city know the real truth about carrousel---that it is, in fact, a death sentence---and they try to escape. They're called runners. The domed city has a faction of policemen who hunt down runners, and they're called Sandmen. Logan (Michael York) is a 26 year-old Sandman. Life in the city is good for him, but suddenly, he is given a secret mission by his boss---the city's master computer---that will change him. Logan's assignment is to go undercover as a runner, escape the city and go outside, where he is to find a so-called haven for escaped runners called Sanctuary, and destroy it. But Logan soon learns the truth about carrousel himself, and, with the aid of a beautiful girl named Jessica (Jenny Agutter), whom he falls in love with, he must now figure out how to free his people from their horrible fate at the age of 30....1976's Logan's Run is an all-time science fiction classic, and one of my personal favorite films ever since I first saw it on TV as a kid. I've always been fascinated by the storyline, and although the film's Oscar-winning visual effects have long since been surpassed, they're still quite colorful to look at (including the groundbreaking use of holography). There's fine performances all around, such as the perfectly-cast Michael York as Logan, the very lovely Jenny Agutter as Jessica (she & York have terrific chemistry together), as well as the delightful Peter Ustinov as Old Man (who Logan & Jessica discover living alone with his cats outside the city), Richard Jordan as Logan's best friend Francis, and there's even an enjoyable appearance from Farrah Fawcett (Majors) in her sexy, 70's prime, as an attractive assistant working in a facelift shop called New You. And director Michael Anderson steers the film quite nicely from beginning to end.Some have criticized Logan's Run as being too long, saying that the film bogs down in the middle when Logan & Jessica get outside the city and meet the Old Man. I say hogwash---I've always enjoyed this part of the film, featuring Ustinov's charming turn as the Old Man. Besides, it's an important part of the story, as Logan & Jessica fall in love with one another, and learn through meeting the Old Man that there IS, in fact, life after 30. Without this segment of the film, Logan's Run would be pointless. It's there for a reason, and I like it just as much as the rest of the film.Upon it's release in 1976, Logan's Run was arguably the hippest sci-fi film ever made up to that point. Then, of course, the original Star Wars was released the following year, which pretty much knocked Logan's Run off the sci-fi pedestal. But no matter---the film remains an enduring classic of it's genre, with a big following to this day. Over 25 years later, Logan's Run is still a ton of futuristic fun. -) "},{"Title":"And I Thought Turning 40 Was Supposed To Be the Bad Age....","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"76 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must admit that I should be ashamed as a sci-fi fan I hadn't seen this film until recently, and I wanted to better understand the parody from Free Enterprise.But I enjoyed the film.Watching this film against the more recent glut of sci-fi films, I have to say that they made them a little more original back in the 70's-80's, instead of everything being techno-computer-CG-spaceship fights.  A grim look at the downside of maintaining an ideal, utopian society.  When you hit 30, you either have the option of willingly submitting yourself to be killed under a pretense of renewal, or having the Sandmen play with you before they go in for the kill.  Neither option seems really appealing.  But the idea of one of the killers having to face their mortality is an interesting idea.A little slow in places (but I did keep wanting to see what would happen next), and some of the special effects look really dated (even to '77's Star Wars), but the story holds up well, and it's an entertaining ride overall.It's truly a classic of the genre, and I wish I had seen it sooner. "},{"Title":"Awesome Sci-Fi 70's Flick","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"90 out of 123 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie left a lasting impression because the story and concept are fantastic and the lead characters did a great job. The campy feel of the technology does not deter from the impact of this ageless film. People today tend to get hung-up on technology and forget the value of the story and the acting. I believe a lot of viewers today probably will not understand this film, and people who didn't get it back in the 70's probably still don't get it. The social statement is so true it's not even funny. We do not like old people. Just look around at print media, advertising, Hollywood, music, or sports. We treat older people like the plague. "},{"Title":"I Love this Movie!","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"68 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this movie for a number of reasons   It's got a wonderfully original storyline, eye candy visuals, great 1970's hairdos, doesn't require a PHD to figure out and is just plain fun to watch.  I know there are some people on this site that have dissected Logan's Run like a frog in Science Class and have dismissed it for some short comings.   But if you attempt to watch this movie by holding a magnifying glass up to it and comparing it's special effects and sets to films like Star Wars, you're not going to enjoy it because it doesn't compete on that level.  It's strength is an emphasis on the human condition and rebelling against a regimented society that lies to it's people and the special effects are just along for the ride.   Also unlike Star Wars, I look at this movie as a period piece because it's  a 1970's perspective on one possible future society and watching it (especially now)you never forget that.  Yes it's dated, but like many things from the 70's reminds us of a simpler time and place we can remember fondly. "},{"Title":"Somehow, I'm not sure how, but this is a great flick!","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"49 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, it's got a hoaky plot with lots of holes in it, special effects made from matchbox sets, some mediocre acting (Farrah Fawcett?!?) and dialogue, a big ole this was made in the 70's stamp all over it, and I think the editing, direction and sound track are lousy too.  And yet somehow it all works.  I love this movie! Maybe it's the campy cornball that gets me every time.  I dunno.  Yet by the end I feel uplifted and even touched.  What a great scene with the timid girl touching Ustinov's beard at the end with Logan and Jessica in each other's arms looking on.While the acting is average (or perhaps its the lousy script) there are exceptions, thankfully mostly among the main cast.  Richard Jordan is just great as the relentless and unremorseful sandman.  And Ustinov is a lot of fun as the kooky old man.  Michael York, who've I've always liked, is servicable as our hero (thankfully they don't ask him to stretch his acting skills too much here). But without a doubt the real jewel is Jenny Agutter as Jessica-6.  I can't recall a part more perfectly cast.  Ms. Agutter is the epitome of beauty, youth and doe-eyed innocence.  And her underlying sensuality is impossible to miss in every scene she is in.  And as if that weren't enough she can act to boot!Of course there's a lot that I don't like about the movie, it's quite easy to pick apart.  But again, I don't know how, Logan's Run is much better than the sum of its parts.I hope they get the rumored remake off the ground, there's some good underlying sci-fi to be explored here and with a tightened up script, upgraded effects, better direction and editing you could have *real* winner. I just don't think they'll ever match the original casting job for Jessica-6. "},{"Title":"A science fiction film that gives the genre a run for its money","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"43 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Beyond the entrapment of lavish special effects (for which Logan's Run won an Oscar anyway), few science fiction films actually present a good story, much less one that makes you think and/or presents new ideas.  Logan's Run is one of those few.Before Stars Wars enraptured audiences with its stunning special effects and created a precedent for a string of similarly effects-laden knock-offs and genre wanna-be's (mirroring what The War of the Worlds had done for audiences in the 50's), true science fiction films such as Logan's Run were giving us stories simply complimented by special effects, not about them.  I say true because Star Wars is of the fantasy genre; it is not a science fiction story, though it does share some common elements.Logan's Run presents us with a vivid, somewhat horrifying vision of a possible future.  It doesn't take place a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away.  It happens on earth in a believable time frame.  It doesn't ask us to greatly suspend disbelief by accepting alien races and magic powers. Instead, it presents us with a chilling fast forward of our own technology, attitudes, and policies.  Concerning the latter, the film includes an almost creepy euthanasia undertone to it.Though, in all honesty, I care more about and become more closely associated with the characters in Star Wars, the disassociation I feel for LR's characters somewhat aids the lack of individuality that the story tries to convey.  The actors, however, give great performances.Beautiful cinematography and settings greatly compliment the film's mood and timeframe, from the sterile domed city to the decimated Washington D.C., which still provides one of (if not) the best visuals of a post-apocalyptic world that I've ever seen.  It's right there with The Planet of the Apes' Statue of Liberty.Another thing that SW does well is disassociate itself from the decade in which it was created.  You have to overlook this aspect in LR because like so many films of the 70's, it carries its decade's time stamp.Though minor, another thing I, in particular, enjoy about LR are the weapons.  Unlike every other weapon in and out of science fiction history, LR's blasters do not actually shoot anything.  There is simply an explosion at their designated target.  It may be campy (or corny), but it's definitely different and a fine example of real, working props.Another interesting note the film varies greatly from the original novel, but most people agree that the film is much better.  I tend to agree with them.For me, in terms of science fiction, Logan's Run takes its place among such decade-defining films as The War of the Worlds (50's) and The Planet of the Apes (60's) and among such thought-provoking science fiction as Soylent Green and Gattaca.Ask yourself this what or where is sanctuary?  Isn't that what we're all looking for?  Answer both, and you'll have the film's theme.  "},{"Title":"What a Delicious Turkey!  So Good and So Bad at the Same Time","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"36 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you hate Sci-Fi, then don't bother. There will be so many things in this dated film to bug you, that there's really no point unless it's assigned for class. If so, I'd like to congratulate your teacher Some of these concepts are timeless and presented in provocative ways. For instance, does God exist, or do we, similar to the way that the young people of Bubble City believe in Sanctuary, want and need God to exist? Another question the film asks us to ponder is something about the tendencies and the central essence of youth-based culture. What's good about it? What's bad? Some of the questions this film asks (and Peter Ustinov's Eliot-spouting performance) are genuine joys within the muck of cheesy sets, effects, and cityscape models that look more like Avacado Mall than City of the Future. Auguter and York look beautiful (and have real chemistry between them), plus Richard Jordan's Francis 7 was so memorable, they had to bring back his character from the dead for the TV series. Not only do I love the quest or journey theme in this film, but pondering the movement inside Logan--from Sandman killer who never questions authority to lover/runner with Jessica as his muse and accomplice--makes for interesting arguments. For instance, what was Logan's relationship with Francis and did he betray his best friend because of being betrayed by the central computer? Would Logan have been able to love Jessica if he didn't realize that the central computer's teachings about love and commitment were flawed? Farrah's awfully pretty, and the look is so 70s you almost can't stand it, but all kitching aside, it's a fun run. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Sci-Fi Ever and Absolutely Ahead of Time","Date":"31 May 2009","Score":"38 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 2274, the survivors of a war live in a great domed city sealed from the outside world and their society provides all possible comfort to them. However there is a catch when the dwellers reach the age of thirty years old, their life clocks become red, accusing that it is time of renewal and they must participate in a ceremony called Carrousel. The misfits are called runners and they are chased by the police force called Sandmen and terminated. The efficient sandmen Logan 5 (Michael York) and Francis (Richard Jordan) work together and they are best friends. When Logan meets Jessica 6 (Jenny Agutter) in a sexual encounter, she sees that he is a sandman and refuses to have sex with him, claiming that it was a mistake of the circuit. Then Logan terminates a runner and when the computer analyzes the belongings of the victim, it assigns Logan to an undercover mission. His life clock is advanced in four years and he is ordered to take the key and seek the Ankh Sanctuary. He uses Jessica to help him, but he falls in love for her while chased by Francis. Logan questions the system and leaves the domed city with Jessica; in the outer world, they find and old man, changing their perspective of life beyond 30.Logan's Run is one of the best sci-fi ever and absolutely ahead of time. Even in 2009 and after watching this feature at least six times, I still love it. The original and engaging story is supported by magnificent cinematography, scenarios, set decoration, special effects, costumes, make-up and music score. Jenny Agutter is amazing and shows a wonderful chemistry with Michael York. One of the best moments is when they do not know the meaning of beloved husband and beloved wife since these concepts do not exist in their society. Last but not the least, the name of my daughter was inspired in the character performed by Jenny Agutter. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) Fuga no Século XXIII (Escape in the 23rd Century)Note On 20 Aug 2015, I saw this film again. "},{"Title":"Like A Trip Outside Today!","Date":"5 July 2015","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadThe first half of the film is a masterpiece. It is like opening your front door. You know, godless, lobotomized pagans seeking only pleasure controlled by computers? I love the criticism of it being phony? Yes, brainless, pleasure seeking zombies controlled by computers, Oh, how phony! Also, let the shopping mall setting go; where did you think High Noon was shot, in the Old West? The obsession with the crummy effects, move on it was forty years ago. We had these things called scripts, with character development better just go watch Tape Boy in Guardians Of The Galaxy again. This is for big people. I loved the first half, carousel, the runner, the control of age, infiltration of the sanctuary underground; we do not need age control the media destroys reason here. Also, they created video games to control the young, sadly, no need to lock them away. It is very well written and imaginative; then disaster strikes They Go Outside. The theater I saw this in was packed to the rafters and kept everyone there, until they went outside. Then, the exodus began. At first one or two, then couples and finally groups. They wander around outside supposedly Washington D.C. with the worst matte paintings you will ever see. Gee, who lived there? Fred Flintstone? This goes on forever until, finally, they run into poor Peter Ustinov and every cat at the local shelter. They hang out with the cats until Francis shows up and tries to kill everybody but the cats. After he dies, it turns into Logan's Run The Game Show 1. Where are your parents?, 2. Why did you get married?, 3. What is playing in the theater next door?. On and on, forever Boring!! This is when the exodus accelerated in the theater. Eventually, they decide to return to the city with the old man. I love the people lionizing the first use of hologram's in a movie during Logan's interrogation. This was never mentioned until it came out on home video. Look, the scene is awful. Do you really believe a supercomputer that ran that city for decades would blow up and meltdown just over an inconsistency in Logan's testimony? It is such a painful plot contrivance to free everyone and get them outside with the Old Man. It is like that bad original Star Trek episode where the crew acts goofy and melts down Harry Mudd's robots. Come on, how phony. I still have a hypothesis about this movie. I think the screenwriter who did the first half died or had a nervous breakdown; they were forced to hire some freshman at the nearest film school to finish the movie. Have you ever seen this level of a disparity between two halves of a movie. Young people, watch the movie until they go outside and see the sun for the first time. Get up, take the disc out and watch something else. Do not say I didn't warn you!! By the time it ended, there were me and twelve other people out of hundreds. This movie died a slow but sure death at the box office when word of mouth spread that 1. Farrah doesn't take her clothes off, 2. The second half sucks. A Mediocre Movie "}{"Title":"Whether you're Green, Red,or Over 30 This is Great Sci-Fi!!!","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"29 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Logan's Run is an excellent stylish sci-fi film from 1975 starring the great Michael York and the beautiful Jenny Agutter. It blew my mind seeing it as an 11-year-old and was so obsessed with it my mother used to say, He thinks everything's the 23rd century. Logan 5 (York) is a Sandman who kills runners, people who reach the age of 30, but reject the chance to Renew on Carousel. As the film begins we see the cool domed city with Jerry Goldsmith's futuristic trippy soundtrack. In this world mainly filmed in a Fort Worth mall everyone has a life-clock and when they reach 30 it starts to blink red. Those who believe in renewal attend the Last Day ritual when the 30-year-olds come out with hoods and masks, then Identify...be strong and you will be renewed says the female computer voice. They disrobe to reveal tights with Evel Knievel designs and start to spin around and float up and blow up to the cheers of the crowd.Logan and his friend Francis (Richard Jordan) go on a hunt for runners killing them with fire spewing guns. Then Logan finds an Anck key and the master computer makes him search for Sanctuary by posing as a runner (some reviews of this film say Logan is 30, but he's 4-years-away, i.e. 26--York was really 32 though).The best thing about this is the stylish futuristic designs, the great believable acting of the stars, and the off-the-wall nonsensical speech of the senile old man (Peter Ustinov). And there's some great adventure as Logan and Jessica are chased out of the city by Francis through the labyrinthine subsystems, Box the crazy robot, and a beautiful ice cave scene. And for us guys our favorite line is we better take our clothes off before they freeze, kind of weird that they put them back on, but our wish throughout the film comes true with a quick glimpse of Jenny Agutter disrobed.  Actually there is a fully nude scene here with them in each others' arms while Box sculpts them as per the book, alas it was cut from the film for a PG rating.  I never did quite get what Box was supposed to be.The plot itself has some serious inconsistencies. In the book the age for Renewal was 21, and the author got the idea from '60s youth culture (it was written in 1967). The idea was that youth would take over and get rid of all adults. The reason for the change to age 30 is the stars would be unbelievable as 20 year olds. You have to make many leaps over logic to suspend your disbelief here. You could say the city used this as population control. The idea of Renewal, well you can believe in reincarnation, but in this world it's implied Renewal means some scientific process controlled by the computer. When the computer tells Logan there are 1056 unaccounted for runners he says no one's ever been renewed?! However his conclusion cannot be logically drawn from information on unaccounted for runners.In the cool surrogation scene with Logan in multiple hologram images saying There is Noooooo Sanctuary, his answer does not compute so the city blows up....or was it his shooting the computer with his gun...or both. Here's a way to rationalize it though the computer has a secret program to destroy the city when someone prefers life outside the dome...the purpose of shelter for what's left of humanity is fulfilled and it's time for them to go outside.  And how they get outside the city to meet the old man so quickly and without a scratch on them is beyond me.  But I felt at the end, what happens now?  That cool city of sex, drugs, and cool carousel ritual is gone.  As Francis said, Is this good, is this what you want?!  Now they are free to scrounge for survival and grow old and decrepid.  I believe in the book it wasn't an enclosed city, it was the whole world.  I wonder what the world outside the DC area was like in the film's backstory.Bottom line is the film is great not because of the plot, but because of the creativity and style. It won a special academy award for special effects and it's a true classic. Michael York still gets people who come up to him telling him Logan's Run was their favorite film of his (even with all the other great roles he's had).  And the rumors are flying about a remake! I'm working on a screenplay now to submit. "},{"Title":"Pretty good Futuristic Sci-Fi","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Logan's Run (1976***) is a futuristic Sci-Fi epic that takes place in an isolated domed city in the 23rd century after an unspecified catastrophe has rendered the outside world unlivable.  Its inhabitants are only allowed to exist until they are 30.  Echos of other movies from the past (Planet of the Apes) and the future (Blade Runner) abound in this fairly effective adventure, with amazing sets and production design but a rather clunky script that bogs down seriously in the final half with the introduction of Peter Ustinov as a lone survivor of the outside world.  Ustinov is not given anything interesting to say or do during these scenes.  The domed city is apparently located on the outskirts of Washington, DC, which is where Michael York finds himself before he encounters Ustinov, who lives in the remnants of the U.S. Capitol.  The IMDB has an extended series of essays on this film called Logan's Run as a Postmodern Myth, which even brings in Marcuse's theories on capitalism!  The DVD has a running commentary by the director and Michael York, so it's possible to really immerse yourself in this film.  Incidentally, the richly eclectic score by Jerry Goldsmith is one of his best. "},{"Title":"Great story, good film, some flaws.","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Logan's Run is a polarizing film you either like it or hate it, there isn't much in between.  It also tends to be loved more by the people who saw it in the 70's and early 80's.  It features an interesting dystopian society and plenty of action, plus top notch special effects (for pre-ILM 1976).Spoilers- Logan's Run is based on the novel by William F. Nolan and George Clayton Johnson.  The movie departs from the novel in several aspects, the main ones being a lifespan of 30, instead of 21; and a domed city, rather than the entire country as a playground.In the movie, after overpopulation brings on a cataclysmic war, society is restructured so that life ends at 30, and the citizens must go on Carousel to try to renew.  However, some people don't like these options and go on the run.  Sandmen are charged with hunting down these misfits.  Logan is a Sandman who is ordered to track down these runners and destroy Sanctuary, the final goal of the runners.  The controlling computer alters the lifeclock embedded in his palm and advances it three years, to Logan's Lastday.  Logan encounters Jessica, a young woman with knowledge of the route to Sanctuary.  Together, they go on the run to find Sanctuary, while Logan's partner, Francis, hunts for them.Logan and Jessica find a whole world outside the dome of the city and encounter an eccentric old man.  They return to the city to reveal what they have seen and tear down the system.Michael York and Jenny Agutter are excellent in the lead roles of Logan and Jessica.  Robert Jordan and Peter Ustinov make for a fine supporting cast. All are classically trained actors who bring a lot to the film.  Farrah Fawcett appears in a small role and is little more than window dressing.The effects were state-of-the-art, for 1976.  ILM would bring a revolution in effects work the following year; but, for the time and the budget, Logan's effects were quite good.  Some of the model shots are obvious and the Sandman's gun takes some getting used to, but it works.The costumes are pure Disco, which puts them on par with other films of the era.  Even Star Wars didn't totally escape this problem.  The Sandman uniforms look fairly menacing and the citizens' clothes do fit in with the hedonistic society.The story is a byproduct of 60's and early 70's concerns (the novel was published in 1967); overpopulation and a large youth culture who felt marginalized.  The story is more cerebral, in keeping with other sci-fi films of the era (like Silent Running and the Planet of the Apes films), but does have a healthy dose of action.The main flaws of the movie occur when Logan and Jessica discover the world outside the domed city.  It's never quite as interesting as the city, and the discovery of Washington, DC is swiped  from Planet of the Apes. Although Peter Ustinov adds some color and humor to the film, these scenes tend to slow things down too much.  When Francis re-enters, things pick back up; but the time in between seems too long.I've always loved the film, although it's not perfect.  I don't consider it to be the greatest sci-fi film of the 70's, it is one of the better ones. Consider the major sci-fi films of the 70's  Soylent Green, Omega Man, Escape from/Conquest of/Battle for the Planet of the Apes, Dark Star, Silent Running, Logan's Run, Star Wars, Close Encounters, Outland, Alien, Star Trek TMP, Battlestar Galactica, Buck Rogers, Superman.  The best films came in near the end of the decade of the 70's.  Logan's Run is kind of a dividing line between old sci-fi films and the more modern.  Sure, Soylent Green and Escape from the POTA are considered classics (by some) but they are still mainly cult films.  Logan's Run is closer to being a blockbuster than those early films (with the possible exception of Escape).  It shares the more plot and character-driven elements of those earlier films, with the action and special effects of the later films.  It's not a perfect synthesis, but it was a step in that direction.  In some ways, sci-fi has regressed; too many films now are glorified action pieces, with futuristic trappings; but, little in the way of deep thought or forward-thinking ideas.Logan's Run is an excellent film that still, mostly, holds up well.  It is a blend of thoughtful ideas and action, in an interesting setting.  The performances are good and most of the effects serve their purpose well. It does slow down in the later half, but it has a good ending.  Definitely a must or any student of sci-fi cinema. "},{"Title":"Still worth the watch 30 years later","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie, though a product of it's time, the glorious 70's, has staying power. Sure, special effects have advanced greatly, and a remake would be much more visually believable, you have a feeling that the entire movie is shot in a mall while inside the 'City'. But get past that, and watch the film. The acting, with Peter Ustinov, Michael York and Richard Jordan carrying the entire film mostly, is extremely well done. Jenny Agutter is young and cute in the film, which is about all her character requires. It's an interesting statement of a society that gets a little out of hand with it's youth worship, holding up a mirror to our own. It's especially poignant if you saw it yourself when you were under 30, and see it again at a 'maturer' age. Farrah Fawcett has a brief role here, and Agutter has a nice brief nude scene. The scenes of Washington DC are memorable even by today's technology standards. "},{"Title":"Amusing and outlandish Sci-Fi about a domed city whose  inhabitants are obligated to die at 30","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Popular and lavish Sci-Fi with some nice effects sequences with imaginative sets about a futuristic society where young people are allowed to live an unending pleasure until the age of thirty (though Michael York, Richard Jordan and Michael Anderson Jr. were all over 30 when they made the film) that are compelled to die , adapted from a novel by William F Nolan and George Clayton Jackson . 2274 some type of holocaust has decimated the earth, and the survivors sealed themselves into a computer-controlled bubble . To maintain the population balance, the computers that run the city have decreed that all people have to die at 30. This system is enforced by sandmen (Michael York , Richard Jordan)  black-clad cop operatives who terminate hunting runners ,those who try to live beyond 30. Logan, a sandman, whose job is to hunt fugitives , is sent on an assignment to find sanctuary, which is a code- word used by the master computer to describe what it thinks is a place to which runners have been getting away. Then Logan nearing the limit searches desperately for a way to avoid mandatory extermination . As a day outside the bubble Logan along with Jessica (Jenny Agutter) discover new emotions .This classic Sci-fi contains suspense , thrills , action , breathtaking production design and is pretty entertaining though with some feeble stereotypes . Impressive big-budgeted production by Saul David enhanced immeasurably by an enjoyable cast as Michael York , Jenny Agutter , Farrah Fawcett and special mention to great Peter Ustinov . Roscoe Lee Browne both voiced and performed Box the robot on-set. The unwieldy costume made it impossible for Browne to right himself if he fell over. Colorful and spectacular cinematography in Todd-Ao 35 by Ernest Laszlo . Rousing and evocative musical score by the maestro Jerry Goldsmith . Jerry uses a full orchestra with no electronic instruments when the action is outside of the city. When inside the city, his orchestra consists solely of strings, piano, and electronic instruments , the music at the beginning of the film during the credits does add the electronic instruments with the full orchestra though. Dated but effective miniatures about a domed city near Washington, D.C. It earned a special Academy Award for visual effects by Glen Robinson . The motion picture is originally directed by Michael Anderson . Rating  PG (Parents guide) for some nudism and violence. Good but overlong and some corny moments, worthwhile watching . Followed by a brief TV series with Gregory Harrison , Heather Menzies and Donald Moffat "},{"Title":"Really - It's Better Than You Remember","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Over the last 30 years, Logan's Run has become somewhat of a laughingstock, the poster child of bad '70s science fiction. Its mention evokes images of cheesy sets, bad action, silly plotting, and heavy-handed yet ultimately empty social commentary. Is this reputation deserved? On viewing it recently, I have to say, no.That's not to say that Logan's Run doesn't have its flaws. Its main problem is the dialog, which is often leaden, unrealistic, and exposition-heavy. This creates an unfortunate challenge for the actors, who often appear to be visibly struggling to make a scene work despite the stupid lines the script gives them.But once you get beyond that, there's a lot of good stuff to be found. The plot is tight, and Logan's gradual shifts from undercover agent trying to discover the whereabouts of hundreds of unaccounted-for Runners, to becoming a Runner himself, to revolutionary dedicated to ending the false Renewal ceremony, ring true and engage the viewer's sympathies. The sets, while certainly dated (particularly in technological terms), are impressive and evocative. And if anything, the film's vision of a future obsessed with youth, beauty, and obedience is even more meaningful today than when it was released.The concept of Sanctuary is particularly well handled. Early in the film, Sanctuary is a legendary place, a haven for Runners who manage to escape, which no one inside the dome has ever seen or had contact with, yet inspires Runners to attempt escape from their society's strict codes of behavior. Later, we learn that there is no real Sanctuary; the Runners who pass beyond the final gate and escape from the Sandmen have been captured and frozen by a malfunctioning food-storage 'bot, and there is a strong implication that Logan and Jessica are the first to fully escape the dome and reach the outside. What they find is a real Sanctuary, a lush, green world where people could live freely, without the oppressive restrictions of dome society.Other notable features include Peter Ustinov's wonderful performance as the confused, lonely Old Man, living in the ruins of Washington, D.C., and Logan's interrogation scene on returning to the dome, where holograms are used to represent the computer pulling information out of his brain.So, why is this film ridiculed? I have a theory. Within about a year, Star Wars was released, and literally changed the audience's expectations of how an SF film should look. Logan's Run, with it's clean, simple design, human scale, and strong moralistic tones, represented the last gasp of a now-obsolete style of film-making, and as such, suffered greatly in comparison to the new wave of SF films. I think it deserves another look. "},{"Title":"Logans Run, is classic SF, Don't Judge It By...","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Logans Run is classic Science Fiction (SF), Don't Judge It By Star Wars or Other SF after that time. At the time it was being made, Special Effects was more of a horror to Hollywood Studios than an attraction to them. Computers were nearly unheard of in film making. Budgets didn't permit computers or SFX en mass and Star Wars was a major exception. Logans Run had it's comparatively meager budget, and a Director has to make what he can, with what he's got financially available. At the time of it's release, it was considered to have very advanced SFX.To be fair, every film looks dated as SFX advances year by year, to include Star Wars, Jaws, 2001, they all look dated now. And none have a tenth of the story content that Logans Run does. (Digitally Updateing films like a mindless megalomaniac does not count here, we're talking the original product OK) It is always a great disappointment to come to this site and see so many people who are obviously young, born in the late 70's or 80's who have no clue or appreciation for what makes a great old film like this great. The constant and unoriginal cry for remakes of great films like this is sickening. What remake has ever been worthy of it's source material, not one. Imagine how Jerry Bruckheimer's production values would KILL this movie.That our culture has produced several recent generations of young people who can't see past a films primitive SFX and sets to actually get the message of this film is only indicative that Logans Run' message of the dangers of youth centered culture are dead on.Like much of 1970's Sci-Fi Cinema (Omega Man, Soylent Green, THX-1139) Logans Run is about one man (and one lovely lady) set against the much larger faceless oppression of the System whatever it may be.Put yourself in Logans shoes for a moment, everything you've ever known or believed is a lie, and you were part of what enforced that lie. Suddenly one day, circumstances and an alluring stranger demand that you give up all you hold true, and all you know as safe and comfortable, and you go against it all to run. Like joining a cult, only for once the cult is correct. You think you are running toward the lie to find the truth. And as your world falls apart around you, you realize you are running from a lie to the truth. This is Logans quandary, the world beyond the domes of his City are a terrible affirmation that the malcontents within the City are actually right.Logans run has amazing moments where the main characters experience fear, aloneness, and love for the first time. These are amazing scenes that show the mindless danger of Utopian existence over generations, and how dystopian visions of the future can still lead to human-kind finding a way to endure without the total destruction of the planet.Sure I love 1970's Sci Fi/SF, but you can't compare it to the modern stuff. Not SFX wise anyway. Movies were artistic and well written before George Lucas and Spielberg made SFX the prime motivators in film (along with mega budgets.) So I love the films that came before 1977, those that came before the utter stupidity of the mega priced blockbuster. They don't have the budget and eye candy, but they do have something the blockbusters don't...they have a story.The path and story, the arc if you will, of Logans character far exceeds almost any SF Movie characters development before, during, or sadly to say much of after to this day.Logan's Run is a classic 1970's Sci-Fi Cinema/Drama/Love Story, and well worth the time to watch "},{"Title":"Unbelievably bad!","Date":"25 December 2012","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have been looking for a DVD copy of Logan's Run for years and have just come across one.What a waste of $4.99 Many others have described the story - if story isn't too strong a word, so I won't waste time going over the whole, sad, plot again.Considering this dog was made during the 2001 era it STINKS. As another has said, I really wonder if some other reviewers watched the same movie as I. The acting is, by today's standards, absolutely wooden to the point of self-parody. The sets would do justice to some of the campiest Dr Who efforts. The effects use plenty of pyrotechnics. Finally, the gaping holes in the plot and action, the illogicalities, left me wondering why I'd bothered to get past thirty.Please watch it - it will show just how bad a movie can be. "},{"Title":"A great looking sci-fi film that fuses ideas with action","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Logan's Run is a 70's sci-fi movie that fell slap bang between the intellectualism of the earlier 2001 A Space Odyssey and the later action-adventurism of Star Wars. It seemed to allude to the past while hinting at the future that sci-fi was about to take. As a result, it is very satisfying. Its mix of dark dystopian conundrums with fast-paced action works very well.It's set in an enclosed world in a post-apocalyptic Earth. The inhabitants lead hedonistic, care-free lives. But the catch is that everybody has to submit to forced euthanasia at the age of thirty. The vast majority of the brain-washed populace, however, believe what they are told by their overlords and think that they will be renewed to live their lives again. The story tells of a sandman (a state hit-man) who starts to have doubts about this and is sent on a mission to the outside world to find a place called Sanctuary.Over and above everything, what makes Logan's Run such a delight is the excellent set-design and detailed model work. The colourful large interiors of the domed world are extremely attractive, while the ice caves and overgrown Washington D.C. are very well done also. The model work may look like, well, model work but it's beautifully designed and adds a certain charm. The story itself is good enough; although things do slow down somewhat once the characters leave their city and venture outside leading to a rather unsatisfying ending. But there is enough quality beforehand to make up for this. The film benefits from its two principal actors, Michael York and Jenny Agutter. York is as reliable as always, while Agutter probably steals the show as the beautiful and mysterious Jessica 6. "},{"Title":"One of the worse movies I have ever seen.","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Logan's Run is an awful movie with no redeeming factors. The plot has no direction and is very weak, the acting is poor, the costumes are atrocious, and for 1976 (8 years after 2001 A Space Odyssey and 1 year before Star Wars) the visual effects are just poor being reason. Plus most of this movie was filmed in a shopping mall (not kidding). This movie was a little under 2 hours long, but felt like forever. And once it is over, you feel like cheated because the whole time you expect something to eventually happen, but nothing does.Logan's Run is a failure on all cylinders and if you feel you need to watch a great Sci-Fi movie from the 70's, I recommend Westworld, Star Trek The Motion Picture, or Star Wars. "}{"Title":"Why don't they make movies like this anymore","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing this movie for the first time when I was a kid and my mother loved it. In fact whenever it was on television my mother would sit down and watch it, though I would think that it was a little touch and go. However, years later, I watched it again and I must say that this film pretty much blew me away, and so when I saw it on DVD I bought it instantly, and when I brought it home, my Mum basically took it and put it amongst her collection of DVDs (and while I could jump up and down about her doing this, considering what my mum has done for me, her taking and keeping one of my DVDs is a minor thing).Look, we could talk a lot about the touch and go acting, and the 1970's special effects, or the continuity flaws, but that is not what I write about when I come to movies. Personally I prefer to write about the content, the themes, and the plot, and in this regard this movie simply stands out on all accounts. The book upon which this film is based is pretty ordinary, and as such this is one of those very rare occasions where we can say that the film is actually better than the book. In fact, after watching this film again, I toyed with the idea of rereading the trilogy, but decided that waiting to return to Adelaide to pick up the books was probably not worth it and thus I think I will just write my commentary based on the movie alone which, once again, is something that not many movies enable one to do.Basically the movie is about a dystopian world were everybody lives in what they believe to be a perfect hedonistic society with only one catch, life must end at 30. They are led to believe that once they turn 30 they go to a place of carousal where there will be reborn as children to live life over again. However some are suspicious about this and attempt to escape this fate, which a faction known as the Sandmen are employed to prevent.While some may consider this to be a Utopian world, in reality this is a dystopian world, and it is a world that I suspect that Nolan, the writer of the original book, could see where we were heading. Earth had been destroyed (so they believed) by a war, and the outside was uninhabitable, so humanity created domed cities in which to live. However this world is a world of hedonistic pleasure, but it is also a world where progress does not exist. It is a tyranny, a tyranny where a computer rules and its tyranny is enforced by the Sandmen. People are not allowed to think, and in a way thinking is discouraged through excessive pleasure.The movie is about a search for truth, as Logan, who is originally sent on a secret mission to attempt to uncover a place called sanctuary, believed to be the place where successful runners have fled to. However it quickly becomes apparent that it does not exist. Unfortunately, by the time Logan realises this, it is too late. He has been exposed to the truth, he has seen the outside, and he has seen old age and the beauty of it, and has not choice but to return and attempt to reveal the truth to the people living in their hedonistic dream world.I guess this movie, and the book in a way, confronts us with this reality. The hedonistic world is a stagnant world which does not progress. Humanity is killed off at the age of Thirty, meaning that people cannot pass down wisdom of the ages. People do not see beyond their thirtieth year, and have no exposure to the older generation. They basically live only in the now and only experience the now. In a way, it is not a dystopian future, but a criticism of the present, much in the same way that 1984 was a criticism of the present. The movie, made thirty years after World War II, a war that ravaged the world, has morphed into a dystopian world where pleasure is the only thing that keeps people going. Many of the famous stars of this era were dying at the age of 27, and in a way this has continued. In fact, the further we go, the less interested in history and the past we become, and the more disconnected from the older generation we become as well. In a way, we all need a Logan to expose us to the truth, so that we do not, like Logan's world, become caught up in a stagnant cycle of a history that never seems to go anywhere. "},{"Title":"lots of good qualities in this one..","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First, the plot is interesting. It draws from Albert Huxley's 'A Brave New World' and goes where few films had gone before. If you take the 70's production with a grain of salt what you have is an excellent sci-fi thriller. The movie flies by. It builds and builds and even when we approach the end of the film we only wish it would keep going...keep answering all those questions that go unanswered...which really is the appeal of the film. This is a timeless sci-fi cult-classic. I am very much looking forward to the pending remake, but will be surprised if it is more effective than the original here. While the production values are at times questionable - the film thrives in terms of creating tension, and the pacing is fantastic. It's provocative, and at times quite violent and cruel. 'Logan's Run' delivers with constant thrills and intrigue, but still never gives us all we want... we want more. Films like this one use the unknown of the future to hold the audience in suspense(Much Like Planet of the Apes). We want to know how society evolved, but we are only privy to so much. Such is the intrigue of 'Logan's Run'. This is merely a 'good' movie .. with the guts of a truly great movie. "},{"Title":"See this not as futuristic, but of its time....","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm going to SCREAM if I hear one more person complain about the look of this film. It's so easy to nitpick and complain about how horrible 70s set design and fashion were from a vantage point of 25 years later. People fail to realise that science fiction films, even if futuristic in nature, are merely mirrors of the periods in which they were made. 50s science fiction? Laugh-out-loud funny. 60s? Same story. Even 80s science fiction looks incredibly silly, but you have to get past the look and consider the message of the piece. Soylent Green and Rollerball look pretty dated now too, but they still seem to get more respect than this one. Logan's Run is the ultimate indictment of the Me Decade. It takes on the hedonistic pursuits of the 70s (swinging, narcissism, disco) and removes them to another space and time so we can view this particular society objectively. It points a finger at those who buy the I hope I die before I get old line without question, and shows them how myopic that point of view is. It shows us that the world is what we make of it. So sure, laugh at the costuming, the special effects, the sometimes inane dialogue, but watch the movie a couple of times before you jump all over it.The first time I saw Logan's Run was in a TV cut in the early 80s, and I didn't really get it. Now that I have reached Carrousel age, I see it differently and understand its point. See it with an open mind, if that's still possible. "},{"Title":"Will people please *listen* to the plot, instead of picking at it!","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So many comments here have said Logan is a man, who up until now has killed many runners. It's now his 30th birthday, and he wants to run... etc...He is not thirty in the film. He was only 26. He was sent on a mission to find and destroy sanctuary outside the dome, and was deliberately made a runner.The film, although it looks soo dated, is a wonderful sci-fi yarn about how a society run by machinery totally stagnates the human mind. Wonderful performances all round, especially Richard Jordan (Francis) as the friend who chases Logan all the way to Washington.Don't watch the film, expecting a Star Wars epic. It was never going to compete with that film. But please listen to the plot. Many of you obviously haven't. "},{"Title":"Science Fiction Classic","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Logan (Michael York) is a Sandman, someone who kills all those who refuse to sacrifice themselves on their 30th birthday. But when his clock starts ticking, Logan and Jessica (Jenny Agutter) make a run for it.I had seen this film in the mid-1990s for a class, and thought it was pretty good. Re-watching it now (2015), I can see why it is a science fiction classic, though some holes are now there. And I do not just mean plot holes (of which there are a few). The city exteriors are obviously a model, and it is almost humorous how easy it is to tell.But the story is very good and now a part of pop culture. The two leads are great, and I wish Agutter had done more horror and sci-fi in the 70s/80s. Farrah Fawcett's role is small and sort of peculiar. Peter Ustinov is great, and nice comedic relief. Now sure what was up with all the nudity, but... "},{"Title":"Let's take our clothes off first before they freeze on us.","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the 23rd century, people live a hedonistic lifestyle in a domed utopia run by a super computer. When people reach the age of thirty, they are publicly put through a ritual called Carousel that involves them being blown apart in mid-air (you have to see it to believe it). Some refuse to accept their fate and run away. They're called Runners. The police types sent to track them down are called Sandmen. Michael York plays one of these Sandmen named Logan. He's sent undercover by the super computer that runs things. It wants him to infiltrate the Runners, hoping they will lead him to a supposed safe haven they have called Sanctuary. He meets a pretty runner played by Jenny Agutter and the two find themselves pursued by Logan's closest friend and fellow Sandman Francis (Richard Jordan).A smart, creative, and fun science fiction classic from the '70s. Mocked by many but I love it. It's a great story adapted from the novel by William F. Nolan and George Clayton Johnson. The sets are amazing and the old-school special effects are colorful and charming. I always appreciate the artistry and craftsmanship that went into crafting the visuals for science fiction and fantasy films pre-CGI. Nice Jerry Goldsmith score, too. Michael York and lovely Jenny Agutter are very likable. Jenny has a couple of nude scenes that many will appreciate. Peter Ustinov has an amusing role as possibly the oldest man left living in the world. Farrah Fawcett has a small part here. She's attractive but her acting is not good. It's a very interesting and entertaining movie. Not perfect but what is? If you enjoy futuristic movies like the Planet of the Apes series or Soylent Green, you'll probably like this. It's got robots, lasers, babes, ice caves, and all kinds of fun stuff. "},{"Title":"Still fun after all of these years.","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the year 2274, the survivors of a great war live inside a giant domed city, sealed away from the outside world. While their technologically advanced society caters for all of their needs, there is a catch at the age of thirty, when the life-clock in their palm turns red, they must enter 'the carousel' for 'renewal' (in other words, it is time for them to be hoisted into the air by a forcefield and zapped with lasers while the other citizens watch in awe). Those who try to avoid renewal by running are terminated by the 'sandmen'.When the super-computer that controls the city learns of a place called Sanctuary, where many runners are rumoured to have fled, it tasks sandman Logan 5 (Michael York) with discovering its whereabouts, forcing him to pose as a runner by turning his life-clock red. Along with beautiful Jessica 6 (Jenny Agutter), who is also curious about Sanctuary, Logan attempts to escape the city, pursued by fellow sandman Francis (Richard Jordan). Once outside, Logan realises that his life thus far has been a lie and resolves to return to the city so that he can tell others the truth that it is possible to reach old age.I first saw Logan's Run in 1976, at the age of eight, and it has stayed with me ever since. I'm not going to pretend that it's the greatest film of it's ilk&#x97;it has dated rather badly in places and seriously loses momentum during the second half&#x97;but there are just so many memorable things about this imaginative sci-fi film that it's impossible not to enjoy the basic premise is rather brilliant, if a little flawed; the film's '70s vision of the future is so cheesy that it proves utterly irresistible; Jerry Goldsmith's bold score ranges from sterile bleepy electronica to fully blown orchestral grandeur; there's some wonderful matte paintings and impressive model-work; ditzy blonde Charlie's Angels actress Farrah Fawcett-Majors plays a ditzy blonde and gets blown up; Box, the killer robot that tries to freeze our heroes, is a truly menacing creation (despite his clunky appearance); and best of all, lovely Jenny Agutter gets naked (now that's the sort of thing an eight year old doesn't forget in a hurry!).7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Logan's Run is the best.","Date":"5 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Logan's Run happens to be my favorite film. For me a film is good if it entertains and does not bore me. In that respect Logan's Run delivers the goods. A film like The English Patient fails in every respect.Logan's Run came out in 1976 and I couldn't wait to see it. Unfortunately for me my parents wouldn't let me see a film until they saw it themselves. It was back in the days when parents cared what their children saw. There was no way they were going to let me see this movie with the amount of nudity on display. But of course I saw it anyway. They didn't have to know. To be fair the film would have been rated R today.Where to begin. First off they actually have gay people in Logan's Run. Can you name another science fiction film where there are any (non-stereotypical) gay characters in it. I didn't think so. Certainly not any of the Star Wars films. Then the idea where people are exterminated at 30. Sort of how our society treats it's senior citizens.Jenny Agutter was stunning in it. Although Michael York really should have played Frances and Richard Jordan should play Logan. Farrah Fawcett-Majors was pretty.About the special effects. I am well aware of how they look. The city scape was unconvincing. When Jessica and Logan meet Box in the ice cavern the resulting explosion was not good. But a good story can overcome this. And it did. If you watch Star Wars today some of the special effects did not stand the test of time. Smoke in space. I didn't know that could happen. It is far easier for an effect to look good in space then a real setting. Don't get me wrong I think Star Wars in a fine film. It's still popular today. Although buns on the side of her head! "},{"Title":"It's silly, but fun to watch","Date":"12 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the 70's, science-fiction films gave way to a meaning of life that was affecting our own time. Such problems that was notable during this decade are oil shortage, inflation, government scandals and even wiretapping. Few of those films portrayed the future as nightmarish and startling. But, what if there was a future where people can live in a world of pleasure? What if you didn't realized the difference the truth and the untruth?Well, then, look no further to Logan's Run. The setting for the movie takes place in the 23rd century. In this futuristic society, you can live in a world full of pleasure and wonder. However, there's two problems. One there are no old people in this society. Everybody is young and free. Two By the time you reached the age of 30, your time is up. Furthermore, a silver crystal that is imprinted on the palm on your hand tells you if you're time is up. If it blinks red, your time is up. If it doesn't blink, you still have time to live. Our main protagonist is Logan 5 (Michael York). Logan is a sandman, which means that his job involved hunting down runners who don't want to get renewed in a place called the Carrousel. But, when Logan himself decides to become a runner himself, he put his own job and his life on the line. His female lover, Jessica (Jenny Agutter) decides to run with him. Together, they venture out of their own domed future society and into the abandoned world of Planet Earth. By this time, in the year 2274, Washington D.C. has become a derelict. When Logan and Jessica come across a old man (Peter Ustinov), they realized that they can live old and never have to die. Knowing that their futuristic society is being manipulated to believe in lies, Logan and Jessica must exposed the truth before they get captured by the Sandmen. The movie isn't great science-fiction, unlike other serious science-fiction movies like A Clockwork Orange or 2001 A Space Odyssey. But, it's silly and fun to see, even if you're seeing some obvious plot holes. What I like most about Logan's Run is that the premise is similar to Brave New World. In that book, the main characters, Bernard and Lenina escape from their own society to venture out into a very different and very much ignored society that seems to be forgotten. Yet, there are some interesting things that Logan's Run provides to the viewers and those who are science-fiction fans. And that is, the world isn't always truthful when you manipulate people to believe in lies. That kind of concept is mirrored in this movie, similar to a real-life event that occurred in the 70's that really shocked a lot of people. That event was Watergate.As for the special effects, they seems to be dated since this film was beaten one year later by the massive success of Star Wars. The art- direction is very well-done in this film, even though it was shot on location in Texas. Beside all of the dazzling, yet dated special effects, there's a interesting character named Box, who is a metallic robot that attacks Logan and Jessica. He may not the next HAL 9000, but Box is somewhat special, even though he may be the most unlikeliest movie robot I've seen, beside the fact that he's voiced by Roscoe Lee Browne.The acting in Logan's Run is good, but at certain times in the movie, I felt that the actors were simply enjoyed being in this future world. York is convincing as the hero, so is Agutter as Logan's lover. As for the supporting cast, I admired the supporting character of the old man, played by Peter Ustinov. Ustinov's character seemed to be way out of Logan's and Jessica's lead when it comes to their presence. Farrah Fawcett-Majors plays a small role as a beautician, who gets caught up in Logan's run from the law. I'm not sure if Fawcett is in the right role in this movie, but I accepted what was the screen because of the film's zany and quirky view of future values.Logan's Run won a Special Achievement Academy Award for Visual Effects and was also nominated for 2 Oscars. For its time, Logan's Run seems to poke fun at the 70's with values, but it's nevertheless silly and fun, even if you're not following the plot holes.Besides, who said that science-fiction could be so fun?★★★ 3 stars. "},{"Title":"A good film","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even after all these years this remains a good film. Some dated effects yes - but that happens with sci fi. And yes Peter Ustinov is a little irritating. And please let me know how all the city inhabitants just walk out at the same place at the end of the film, when Logan and Jessica have to take a treacherous path out (the only one known to exist by the runners).But aside from that just enjoy the plot - which is not over-complicated but holds together well, unlike much sci fi of the time. The acting is generally good. Even Farrah Fawcett-Majors comes out well as the bubble-headed plastic surgery receptionist and secret member of the 'runner' escape line.I hear tell that there have been plans to remake this film but they haven't got it out of 'development hell'. Well in case you hadn't noticed, this film has already been remade. It is called 'The Island'. No it's not an official remake but it's a good film too and if you don't spot the huge similarities to Logan's Run then you're not awake. Right up to and including the ending with the citizens leaving the city.Look out for Logan's Run. It's a classic and well worth your time. "}{"Title":"For Sci-Fi fans, who wants to watch Pre-Star Wars films, I recommend this picture.","Date":"15 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The MGM Sci-Fi flick Logan's Run (which was theatrically released on June 23, 1976) is one of those films that relates the idea of isolated society versus the outside world, just as seen in the movie The Truman Show. The specific genre of the Logan's Run is a futuristic dystopian/Sci-Fi film (Just in case if you don't know what dystopian means in our current era  A dystopia is a community or society, usually fictional, that is in some important way undesirable or frightening.). The movie was made on a big budget of $9,000,000 - a budget similar to the well known Sci-Fi 2001  A Space Odyssey (1968).This futuristic story takes place in the year 2274 (23rd century). The survivors of a holocaust now live within an isolated city called Domed City. There men and women are only allowed to live until 30-years old due to population control and limited resources. At 30 the people have two choices They can either take part in a extermination ceremony called Carousel where they are promised a rebirth or they can go on the run and escape to outside the Domed City.Michael York portrays the main protagonist named Logan 5, who is a Sandman (police assassin). His main job is to terminate and hunt down all Runners who refuse to be exterminated on Carousel and escape to outside the city. Logan finds a symbol and the computer, that controls all life in the city, gives him a secret assignment find and destroy a mysterious place called Sanctuary by disguising himself as a runner. He must also erase the last four years of his life from the crystal on his pawn. Logan ends up on the run himself and hunted by his partner and best friend Francis 7. He and a beautiful woman named Jessica 6 (portrayed by Jenny Agutter) end up working for an underground resistance group helping all Runners search for Sanctuary escapes. They manage to escape from the Domed City and find themselves in a devastated Washington D.C, where they discover another world. Realizing there is much to live for, Logan begins to question the system. It's at this point in the film that they discover and befriend an elderly man (played Peter Ustinov).Farrah Fawcett, then recognized as a blonde sex symbol, is cast in this film in the supporting role of Holly, a woman who works in the face surgery department. Even though I am a movie buff of both old and contemporary films, I found most of the visual effects cheesy and outdated. Here's a moment of the movie that shows an unrealistic and outdated visual effect Logan and Jessica look at the Abraham Lincoln in the Lincoln Memorial, which showed an art painting effect style. It would have been better if the Abe Lincoln statue had been made by the film production team. Today I find films from the 1970s, showing an art painting effect style, to be very outdated.The way that most of the cast played their characters was actually not bad at all. If anybody is big into science fiction, you will be entertained by the acting performance of the characters. The concept of the performance of the movie is pretty much the same way as the acting from the old 1930s & 40s Sci-Fi short subject films just like Flash Gordon. The way the cast spoke their lines and acted out on their characters mimicked the earlier style of Sci-Fi shorts.The film score that Jerry Goldsmith composed for the film, I found really catchy. Mostly the sounds and chorus of the score are what make the score so catchy. The moment during the score when it sounds epic is when Logan and Jessica get out of the ice cave into the outside world. For Sci-Fi fans, who wants to watch pre-Star Wars films, I recommend this picture. There are other great Sci-Fi pictures that came out before George Lucas released Star Wars - like Metropolis (1927), The Time Machine (1960), and 2001 A Space Odyssey (1968).I give that film a 3 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"A good product of the '70s","Date":"12 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Logan's Run is a dystopian story in which in the future people live in a city where residents aren't allowed to live past the age of 30. Although there's some talk of people getting renewed, the reality is that they die and if you run, you're hunted down by people called Sandmen and you also die. As a colourful dystopian story from the '70s, Logan's Run has some of the same feel of A Clockwork Orange. Likewise, with its science fiction action it has some of the feel of Star Wars.Leonard Maltin dismissed this movie by writing it had a dreary second half. The comment illustrates why Maltin isn't a great film critic. Actually the whole movie, not just the second half, is kind of dark. People die after short lives (I'm nearing age 30 myself), and then we find out there's no Sanctuary. But the ending is a bit optimistic, as it suggests the people are now aware that they can live to old age. Another criticism I've heard about this movie is that the special effects aren't great, but that's not so important to me for older movies. The city does look at times like a miniature model, but the explosions are probably more convincing than the ones in Star Wars.Probably the real weaknesses are that the Sandmen are all terrible shots with their laser guns and some of the acting isn't quite what it should be. The beginning is kind of hard to follow (what's renewal? How does Carrousel work?). Generally though, Logan's Run worked for me. It has colour, imagination, some spectacle and Jenny Agutter, who gets naked again here, although the sexiest part was probably her first scene where she's wearing a robe that exposes just her hip. Unlike what Maltin says, it's not a bad thing to explore dark themes; life itself is dark. The future depicted by Logan's Run may never come true, but we can still value its message. "},{"Title":"a brilliant use of models","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A really good use of models, second best use of models I've seen in film after Metropolis, which this looks like it follows, also this shows the way to many other films and looks like it shows the way to Blade Runner, Brazil and Total Recall, just to name a few.I think its a brilliant story, the old man in the building in Washington, it is really believable.The models are really well made and used, and this reminds me of old Dr Who episodes (which I love more than the recent, for the models and badly made suits).A must see if you like sci-fi films, like the ones mentioned before. "},{"Title":"Glitzy, weird sci fi that uses imagination to cover other faults","Date":"25 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes timing is everything in the movie world. If Logan's Run, which premiered in 1976, had come out a year later, there's no way anyone would've remembered it in the midst of the Star Wars pandemonium that broke out in '77. In fact, Michael Anderson's sci-fi dystopia could've used a George Lucas/Industrial Light and Magic touch.It's not that Logan's Run lacks for imagination, however, as it's a colorful, abstract vision and Anderson is unafraid to milk the effects and the production design, even if it means exposing how cheap they look.Based on the 1967 novel by William F. Nolan and George Clayton Johnson, Logan's Run takes place in the 23rd Century when what's left of humanity lives in domed cities with pleasure and happiness being the sole focus of existence. Not a raw deal, except for the fact that everyone's killed off at age 30 in order to maintain equilibrium. This catch causes many almost-30-year-olds to try and run, and it's Logan 5's (Michael York) job as a Sandman to stop them when they do.This world is more visually fleshed out than it is through storytelling. Everyone dresses in loose-fitting clothes of either red, green or yellow to indicate their age range and silver amusement park-like trains transport people between locations. Sex is also an open part of society, but for censorship reasons that doesn't quite come across.This dystopia is the focus of the first half of the film, and consequently it's superior half. There's plenty of date special effects to laugh at, but everything's too imaginative to not get excited or fascinated by it. The renewal ceremony for 30-year-olds hoping to be selected for a longer life is one of the most bizarre and delightfully unnecessary spectacles ever committed to film.But all along we know that Logan is the seed that will disrupt the system, so this rich, weird world begins to fade once we have the context Anderson feels we need to continue with the story. Logan is very happy with his role as a Sandman, but after exterminating a runner carrying the Ankh symbol, he's asked to secretly investigate by posing undercover as a runner. When he realizes he's about to have some years taken away from him and might not get them back, he turns into an actual runner. He seeks out Jessica (Jenny Agutter), a green girl who he previously saw wearing an Ankh and together they try and find the necessary channels to escape. On their trail, however, is Francis 7 (Richard Jordan), Logan's friend and Sandman partner.Sadly, when Logan and Jessica finally escape to the outside, the movie gets remarkably dull and the script even worse. The city is somewhere near Washington D.C., as we see the Capitol, the Washington Monument and the Lincoln Memorial all covered in vines. Writer David Zelag-Goodman then wastes our time giving Logan and Jessica lines in which they wonder what life was like here long ago on the outside, a social commentary that's anything but subtle (or necessary). Considering our curiosity is all about what goes on inside the dome, this second act disappoints.In it, we meet Peter Ustinov's character, an old man who has been living in the House of Representatives. He's the only old man these people have ever met, but he carries no secrets for us. He's vital to this world and the story, but we never feel it because we have trouble empathizing in this regard with our main characters.But Logan's Run is still gutsy, over-the-top sci fi that would make Flash Gordon shed a tear. There's so much here that you want the film to explore that it never does (I would extremely welcome the planned remake from Nicolas Winding Refn starring Ryan Gosling), but the point is that you at least think about it. Logan's Run will definitely expand your mind and satisfy the biggest fans of dystopian fiction.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"No SANCTUARY?  Don't Tell Me.","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know that anyone could argue that Jennifer Agguter was a particularly expressive actress. She has even features and a geometric nose and wide eyes. She seems to wander through her films slightly open lipped, as if staring at a peculiar animal in a zoo. Nor is she especially graceful. She doesn't move like Diana Rigg or even Grace Kelly. She's walks flat footed. What she does have is a kind of unwitting sensuality. She seems as unaware of it as she is unaware of everything going on around her.Michael York carries his Oxford accent around with him and looks like one of the aristoi with a carefully groomed 1972 hair style. Every man has a 1972 haircut. Some things don't change in a thousand years.York and Agguter live with thousands of other young people in a domed city under the ground. It's all very modern and clean. Nobody has to wield a mop. But nobody gets past their 30th birthday. When they approach 30, they have to go to Carousel, in which they are lifted into the air to the cheers of the multitudes and are shot to pieces by machines or something. Once in a while, someone survives. In that case, he or she is sent to Sanctuary, for which we can read Heaven. York and Agguter decide to make a run for it and gain Sanctuary on their own. After many travails and tragedies -- including Farrah Fawcett Majors being blown up -- they reach Outside. But Outside is hardly the Sanctuary they've been told of. What it is, is Washington, DC, in ruins, overgrown with kudzu and ivy. They meet Peter Ustinov, the only old person they've ever seen or heard of, and they marvel at his white hair and the cracks in his face, while Ustinov hams it up enjoyably and carries on about his many cats.If you try reading any sort of soteriological meaning into it, it gets complicated. We live in a false world. Everyone is stoned and happy, right? And when you are murdered at 30, if you're lucky at all, you get to go to Paradise or Sanctuary, which can't be much different from the world they've just left. And the Outside -- Washington in ruins -- isn't Paradise by any means. It's the real world. In other words (I guess) there is no Heaven, the movie tells us, only the real, rocky, uncomfortable world in which, if you are Jenny Agguter, you're liable to have a lizard (Sauromalus obesus) wriggle up under your hem. The closest we can come to Sanctuary is to make the best of the world we already live in.Okay. That's pretty airy. I won't argue. All I can say otherwise is that, regardless of whether I'm in Sanctuary or the underground city, it would be powerful nice to have Jenny Agguter swimming nude next to me, like Michael York. Just cause he's an Oxford man! Or -- never mind Michael York. Any normal man would settle for the lizard. "},{"Title":"One is terminated, one is born. Simple, logical, perfect.","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Apparently as far back as 1976 it was becoming increasingly evident that as a society, Americans were falling prey to a herd mentality and were much more interested in self gratification than principled dedication to acquiring knowledge and working hard to make something of themselves. By the year 2774, the Occupy Wall Street crowd would have attained their ultimate goal with the 99% living carefree with no thought for tomorrow except how to score some more freebies. The real thinkers of this society were branded as 'runners'; imagine the audacity of refusing to believe an authority that programs one's death at the age of thirty for mere convenience. Sort of like death panels on steroids.What the picture never explores is how things ever got to this point to begin with. Brief mention is made of a devastating war but that's about it. In yet another nod to universal conformity, the masses wear garb of two different colors only, red or green, indicating their respective age groups. This gave it the feel of an extended Star Trek episode, only a decade later and with about the same degree of creativity in set design. I noted with interest the long views of the cityscapes, they looked like those models of a futuristic city from exhibits I saw at the New York World's Fair in 1964. The story even ended like one of the better Star Trek episodes where circular logic is used to terminate a redundant program.My best takeaway from the picture was the character of the Old Man, quirkily portrayed by Peter Ustinov in a role that was right up his alley. He had that Dr. Seuss rhyming thing going for him along with a penchant for portraits of old Presidents. Oddly they survived some eight hundred years in relatively good shape.As for the film's principals, Michael York and Jenny Agutter were generally competent in pulling off their one-dimensional roles. Not having seen this back in the day, the surprise of the picture for me was having Farrah Fawcett show up sporting the same hair-do that she wore in that best selling pin-up poster of all time. She looked like she stepped right off the set of 'Charlie's Angels' to make this picture, and she well may have as the timing involved would have worked well enough.Sci-fi movie junkies probably owe themselves at least a single viewing of Logan's Run given it's notoriety and controversial subject matter. Overall however, I didn't see a lot of new ground broken here in the way of story telling or special effects, certainly nowhere near the caliber of say Star Wars which came out just a year later. Even the dialog leaves a bit to be desired, although Ustinov had a great line near the end of the story. Hopefully he wasn't describing the picture when he said Nothing sadder than a dead fish. "},{"Title":"I Guess Life Really Does End at 30","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hollywood took advantage of the increasingly youth-driven audience demographics in the late 1960s and '70s with countless movies, but most directly and conspicuously was arguably Logan's Run. Nowadays, the movie's nonconformist themes may almost seem too basic, but in the '70s, cinema was all about revolution. It's about another one of those monumental, self-propagating domed cities we're all listed to start living in 300 or 400 years from now, governed by a female voice that may or may not be a supercomputer. This movie is set in a future as envisioned by the disco era, a style so beloved by its followers they must've seen it as prophetic. If you're thinking there'll at some point be a compulsory shot of a well-known Earth landmark now derelict, you are sure enough right.Michael York is Logan 5, a government button man in a control force called Sandmen who, much like the Sonderkommandos in Nazi concentration camps, acquire utmost social bonuses in return for imprisoning or incinerating any runners, old people of thirty who attempt to escape from state-required execution. Indeed, a youth-oriented world these people inhabit. Crystals entrenched in their hands vary in color with the fleeting years. The joke at the heart of the story is Life ends at thirty, literally. Everyone is beautiful, every need is accommodated.You enter a ceremony called Carousel, a dig at organized religion, in which you and others too old to live stand in a massive wind tunnel, get siphoned off to the ceiling, and blow up as your friends applaud. It's held that those who are thusly vaporized are reincarnated. The problem is, Logan is quickly advancing thirty himself, because of a particular assignment his mystifying leaders give him, and he soon has misgivings. Accompanied by a defiant Jenny Agutter, Logan chooses to flee for good to a mysterious, legendary place known as Sanctuary, past the arched ramparts of their sterilized metropolis.The miniature sets and models don't---can't---look that stunning by our modern CGI standards. Still, they complete a picture. Like the first Terminator film, less than state-of-the-art visual effects are almost more evocative of the state of mind out of which the film was borne than the antiseptic CGI of today. The introductory sequences in the totally insulated municipality are surprisingly absorbing, almost more for the astoundingly modern sound of the score, the city seeming like one of today's standard shopping plazas, and, remarkably, the hairdos of three hundred years from now look just like those worn forty years ago. People sport the guideline leotards and miniskirts, and coast around vast interior spaces. They don't appear to eat anything, while they drink stuff that's ostensibly nourishing, and when they want sex they simply link themselves to a teleporting computer dating service and occur in one another's bedrooms.York and Agutter traverse an irrigation system and encounter other sandmen. Richard Jordan costars as Logan's pal and fellow hitter, who determinedly chases him as he runs. We also find Farrah Fawcett-Majors included in the cast as an air head, and Peter Ustinov steals the entire film toward the midsection as a doddering old man. This is all well and good, though never do I gain any patent understanding of why this social order must operate as it does. Overpopulation doesn't look like an issue. And there's a chrome-laminated android who amasses humans in an ice cavern for no clear reason. But hey, it's post-apocalypse. So, you know, there. Regardless, however, it's a proficiently paced story with a distinct sense of threat. "},{"Title":"I've finally seen the movie Logan's Run more than 30 years after watching the short lived TV series version","Date":"19 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" More than 30 years after watching the short lived TV series (of which I remember very little) based on this movie, I finally sat down and watched Logan's Run the feature in its entirety. Taken from the novel by William F. Nolan and George Clayton Johnson, Michael York plays the title character as a sandman who is basically someone who executes anyone who runs from Carrousel which is where anyone who turns 30 go for a supposed rebirth. Richard Jordan plays fellow sandman Francis and Jenny Agutter plays Jessica who goes with Logan when he finds himself in a dangerous situation. There's also Roscoe Lee Browne as the robot Box, Michael Anderson, Jr. (the director's son) as Doc, a stunning young woman named Farrah Fawcett-Majors (she was then married to Lee Majors) as the confused Holly, and Peter Ustinov as the Old Man. I found the plot quite interesting though I kept wondering where Logan's loyalties lay part of the time even when it seemed his heart had changed. Ms. Fawcett herself seemed not too convincing in her performance though I did feel for her fate in the movie. Ms. Agutter was herself quite stunning especially when she disrobed briefly and Mr. Ustinov provided some nice amusing banter as an occasionally forgettable elderly person. I wasn't sure if the ending provided a good enough closure for me but having said all that, I found this feature version of Logan's Run quite entertaining for the most part especially whenever I heard Jerry Goldsmith's mix of orchestral and electronic scores on hand. Well worth a look for Sci-Fi buffs. "},{"Title":"Logan's Run","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like a lot of sci-fi fans, when I was a kid I fell in love with Logan's Run, thanks to the set design and models of the futuristic, automated city, the interesting premise(..regarding the order established where people must die once they reach 30, yet enjoy the pleasures of life before this stage, with those desiring to live past this age, deciding to attempt an escape, hunted down by specialized police known as sandmen;there's a misguided belief that these people will enter a carousel to be renewed not knowing that this is essentially committing suicide), and the special effects involved using light and lasers.I was also quite receptive to Jenny Agutter's beauty(..mainly her pretty face and sexy legs aroused me, as she was supposed to, I guess)and thought the idea of a sandman, someone blindly loyal to the code established in everyone from the moment of birth, choosing to run, partnering with a young woman questioning the system behind carousel, quite exciting and interesting.I did find that once Logan 5(York), the sandman, and Jessica 6(Agutter)escape out of the city into an icy tunnel(..where they meet a homicidal robot following orders in it's programming to freeze and store food, humans who had made it to this point, never had escaped because they didn't have a weapon, the blaster gun Logan was equipped, to defend themselves), it lost some of it's magic..I just loved the look and feel of the city and so once we leave this fascinating place, reality returns us to a world we are accustomed to. Once Logan and Jessica are on the outside, greeted by the sun, recognizing the world that exists from beyond the claustrophobic confines of the domed city, it tends to drag, but the story is developing the characters..having lived in absolute comfort, without understanding the real difficulties of striving to survive on their own without automated assistance, they come to realize there's so much more than just enjoying a life of leisure and lust.The large portion of the first half has Logan and his partner(..and best friend)Francis(Richard Jordan)laying out to us the temperament of acceptance in this way of life, pondering why people would bother running, instead of seeking renewal. Logan finds that there's talk about a sanctuary, a place of refuge outside the domed city, while in the debriefing room where sandmen go to turn in the valuables confiscated from dead runners. The computer insists that Logan leave the city, find the sanctuary, and kill the runners who had successfully fled(..this is where he discovers that there's no renewal, his life span is increased to where he must die, and provides motivation for him to run). When Logan is able to convince Jenny to assist him in fleeing the city, they must evade sandmen, including Francis who later pursues them outside. They find Washington DC in ruins, covered in vines and branches, and meet an elderly hermit played by Peter Ustinov. This is where the film slows down a bit as Logan and Jenny find this old man, with gray hair and wrinkles. His cats, a graveyard, the idea of a mother and father, not to mention being introduced to the method of marriage and burial. As is inevitable, Francis, still, despite what he is witnessing, rejects what his eyes produce, remaining loyal to the system established since his birth, and engages in combat with Logan. It doesn't have to be this way, but Logan has to defend himself or else be killed because Francis is manic and enraged. Knowing that others will continue to die if he doesn't do something, Logan will decide to return to the city in order to stop carousel and introduce the people to the outside and a life past 30.I thought the matte art fictionalizing Washington DC landmarks in ruin were phenomenal, even though the film spends a long time inside one large building with a rather senile Ustinov who has spent a great deal of time alone. Those maze cars which ride on a railway leading to other areas of the city I remember feeling fondly of as a kid still remain rather cool to me even though I hadn't watched this since the 90's. I guess what special effects disappointed me the most was the ice cave collapse because it just seemed to lack the same wizardry of what came before it..a minor quibble since I was so completely dazzled by what the filmmakers had already given me. I love Goldsmith's decision to use those weird and hypnotic score for inside the city, opting for a more orchestral musical arrangement once Logan and Jessica are outside. "},{"Title":"Logan's Run was both entertaining and thought provoking.","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Within the frame work of this series, I found a number of messages that for it's time proved to be profound. In an age of and time of social agitation, ethnic frustration. It seemed to reflect the true human dilemma,(Do humans have the ability to truly guide and direct other humans) or even more direct. Does one class or race have the right to dictate what the individual has the ability to do,(Make personal choices). Logan's Run provided both enlightening entertainment and had a truly profound message. The portrayal of characters blended well with the setting. However I do not see any need to update such a movie. It should be left as a marker of the time in which it was made. "}{"Title":"Terrific SciFi film, all around!","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"   From the wonderful cinematography by Oscar nominated Earnest Llazlo, terrific direction by Michael Anderson, cool special effects (especially that real working prop - the Sandman gun!) and a great cast, this movie is the last great SciFi film before Star Wars would redefine the genre the following year.Agreed, must be watched in Letterbox format to enjoy the sheer 'magnitude' of the terrific cinematography!!!  Look for it on Turner Classic Movies in this format - or DVD and laserdisc!!Keep running, runner.  May you find Sanctuary...  "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was one of my all time favorites. My grandfather Hugh Benson was the Associate producer of this film. It was his first ever Accadamy award winner. It won for best special effects and is considered the film that lead the way for the Star Wars special effects. My favorite part of the movie was the fact that my grandfather always used something about his family in all of his films. In the beginning of logan's Run, when everyone is headed into the first carousel. It is said that it is the carousel of Capercorn 15. (January 15) My birthday. Pretty cool,huh? Hugh Benson passed away in October of 1999. He is missed dearly.Jud Morris Grandson of Hugh Benson "},{"Title":"29.999 year old male seeks pre-30 year old. Purpose   A ride on the Carousel","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is sometime in the 23rd century. The survivors of the global holocaust live in an Utopian-like structure (controlled and regulated by computer system) where mankind lives only for pleasure (plastic surgery, sex, drugs, orgy clubs, swinging, etc) separate from the world outside their domed structures.This movie has a significance much apart from many other movies. It was made in the same year as my birth and this day being my year of renewal, marks this as a special occasion. Is it coincidence that a movie about pre-30 year old, was made at the same time? I shall answer that with a resounding NO. It is not coincidence.Logan 5 (Michael York) is a Sandman. He is essentially the enforcer of the new world. A Sandman takes out runners; 30 years old who attempt to flee the festival of Carousel (white robed and hockey-masked 30 year olds with flashing red crystals in their palms, wearing flaming tights underneath their robes, floating towards a white crystal and are eventually vaporized but they call it Renewal). His world changes when Logan meets Jessica 6 (the lovely and scantily clad Jenny Agutter) and her Ankh necklace. The computer informs Logan that Ankh is synonymous with Sanctuary (the place of refuge for the runners, most likely outside the domes). The computer expires Logan's life clock (flashing red palm crystal) to help him to infiltrate the underground and take it out. His mission becomes increasingly difficult because  1) People are wary of others and are hateful of the Sandmen (only members of this society dressed in all black)2) Francis 7 (Logan's best friend and also a Sandman) discovers Logan's run and pursues to terminateThe future world looks much like a mall. Everyone is young, scantily dressed in bright colors, plastic surgery is quite common, everyone likes to work out and exercise and the people have as much depth as cardboard cut outs. Farrah Fawcett's character (Holly 13) is a perfect indicator of the depth of people of this world. She actually has to be told her lines mid-movie. The movie is quite dated in terms of special effects (even for the time). Future world is a model of domed structures connected by a toy monorail system. The interiors are mall-like and have a 70's perspective of the future (lots of glass, mirrors, and the heavy use primary colors). The clothing is also very 70's like. The movie proceeds in typical fashion of that era's catastrophic future genre (Planet of the Apes series, Omega Man, etc). With all this dated material this movie still manages to maintain integrity through the story (are you reading this George L ?). It is the same reason why 2001 continues to be an important and relevant piece of science fiction almost 40 years after it was made. The movie has the underbelly element of Big Brother, the foolishness and folly of youth, dogma and doctrine, and the exaggeration of the degradation of human behavior through lack of want. The movie is not bogged down by the social questioning nor does it dwell in the action. It is a perfect amalgam of science fiction, social commentary, action and adventure. This is a must see for science fictions fans. Growing old is nothing to fear, especially when you have Sanctuary. See you in Washington, D.C. when I'm 31. "},{"Title":"Mythic","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Logan's Run is quite simply a mythic film. It could survive the critical test of being stored in a time vault for many thousands of years the themes are universal.There is a misperception that it has aged badly and has a dated look. Ironically, since Star Wars virtually all science fiction films have a homogenised computer graphic appearance. Logan's Run was made immediately prior to this watershed and now appears fresh and different precisely because of this. This is distinctly advantageous for a film of its genre. Of course, it is a film of its time but so is all art!The film will transport you into its own world. Quite how or why it works so well, I cannot say though clearly Logan and Jessica are the universal man and a woman on a quest, stronger than themselves, almost at the level of a religious revelation.Logan's Run has that rare attribute of improving with every watching.  "},{"Title":"It set a new standard","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was 8 when my cousin's family and mine decided to take us out to see this movie.  I wasn't looking forward to it; I thought it was going to be some boring drama about some guy named Logan running away from the cops.  My guess wasn't too far off (300 years or so).From the first 30 seconds of the film I was entranced -- MGM had taken us into a highly believable fantasy world.  Nothing on this scale had ever been produced before, and so creatively. We see the color, vast domed city with its sweeping malls, monorails, and intriguing fashions.I think the other reviews summarize the plot quite well a law enforcement official in a hedonistic, sheltered society reaches the end of the scheduled 30-year lifespan and must accept death or be pursued.  What sets this movie apart is that it deals with unique subject matter, touching on key issues in our society, and without resorting to the spaceships, space war, monsters, and bad scripting that Hollywood keeps regurgitating.  Logan's Run is still in a class of its own. If you haven't seen it, and don't particularly care about having expensive computer-generated special effects, you'll be in for a treat. "},{"Title":"Cheesy At Times, But Fun","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Michael Anderson's 'Logan's Run' is a fun little futuristic sci-fi, set in a 23rd century post-apocalyptic society, where overpopulation has been controlled by disposing of citizens as soon as they reach thirty years of age.Michael York ('Cabaret', 1972) is Logan 5, a Sandman who is responsible for tracking down and terminating Runners - people who attempt to flee from death once their thirty years are up. In order for Logan to infiltrate the underground Runner refuge known as Sanctuary, the society's mother computer, unbeknown to all others, advances Logan's life-clock, and so Logan suddenly becomes a Runner himself.Jenny Agutter portrays Jessica 6, the young woman who decides to accompany Logan, whilst Richard Jordan ('The Hunt For Red October,' 1990) is Francis 7, the former Sandman friend of Logan, who must now track him down and terminate him.The special effects, one year before George Lucas' 'Star Wars' was to grace our screens, are excellently done, though some of the model-work of the Dome City is a bit transparent. As a sci-fi film, it is crucial that 'Logan's Run' is not taken too seriously. Though a few of the scenes could be described as a bit cheesy, it is a lot of good fun. Peter Ustinov's (Quo Vadis, 1951) small but very important appearance later in the film was a pleasure to watch.Also, I can't be the only person to have noticed some very large similarities between 'Logan's Run' and Michael Bay's 2005 film 'The Island.' Whether any such inspiration has been acknowledged by the makers of the latter I cannot say, though it does help with my recommendations. If you enjoyed 'The Island,' then there's a pretty good chance you'll enjoy this one, as well! "},{"Title":"Oh lighten up it's a great! (lots of spoilers inside)","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most of the problems I've seen people have with the movie is the fact that they have never read the book. The movie is a great adaptation of the book, most of the locations are there, the domed city, the frozen cave, old Washington, etc., and the basic story is still intact.The book was written in the middle 60's when the whole youth rebellion - don't trust anyone over 30 was going on. I believe Mr Nolan and Mr Johnson turned the age of becoming legal (21) to a death sentence for their characters (it was moved it to 30 for the movie) so you can see in the book's future, Hippies will rule the world! MGM changed the whole youth dominated world to a giant future city complex. OK the carousel sequence didn't make sense but it was a lot more visually exciting than how people terminate themselves in the book (they report to suicide shops). It's like a lot of books, it's tough to transfer to the big screen but in my opinion, they did a pretty good job with this one. I saw it when I was 12 and was completely mesmerized by the concept, now that I'm older (and way past what would be Lastday) I still consider it one of my favorites. So if you liked the movie, check out the books! (There are 3) Also if anyone casting the rumored remake reads this, I vote for Leonardo DiCaprio to play Logan.And by the way, stop complaining about the effects! Yes I know you can do better effects with a Power Book and a copy of Final Cut but this was made in the 70s! Give em a break for crying out loud. - Thanks for reading my post. "},{"Title":"Stunning Sci-Fi","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Logan's Run is a dazzling sci-fi film. It is set in a very alien future of the United States; only everyone is forced to live indoors in a City of Domes. Society is peaceful and fun loving. When you reach 30, you are to renew your life through a ritual or never live again.The story of Logan's Run is quite frightening. Director Michael Anderson does a fantastic job of keeping the frightening aspects of the story going. From the pleasant yet somewhat menacing voice of the main computer to the idea behind the Carousel, you never for a minute doubt what is going on and you really pull for the central characters.The DVD transfer is good, probably as good as they are going to get, because some scenes of the film always looked a little muddy. The enhanced soundtrack is in Dolby and while not 5.1, is still sounds much better than the VHS. The commentary is good but nothing spectacular. And the widescreen is really nice!A word of caution. While the film is rated PG, there are several scenes of brief nudity, one of which really doesn't further the plot any and is unnecessary (in fact, in the commentary, the scene takes the director by surprise and he says he forgot about it). The other is an elaborate scene in the love shop. Despite that, there is very little graphic violence and little to no profanity.Logan's Run is a solid film. It looks a little dated now, but still entertains!  "},{"Title":"The Best of SciFi!!","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Logan's Run was the first Science Fiction movie I saw in the theaters, and to this day - it is still one of the best!!Although very different from the book, the movie version does a great job of telling a similar story.  Reject adult authority!  Don't trust anyone over thirty!  Submit to Carrousel and be renewed with another 30 years (yeah... right....).The casting is excellent!!  Michael York is terrific as Logan 5!  Jenny Agutter as his love interest - Jessica 6  - is both wonderful and beautiful! And the late Richard Jordan does a superb job as Logan's former friend and ruthless pursuer, Francis 7.With outstanding cinematography, pioneering special effects (for which it won the '76 Oscar) and marvelous direction by Michael Anderson, Logan's Run is a trip you'll want to make again and again!Although the film does show its age at times, the storyline more than makes up for it!  Every human life is precious and needs to be lived to completion.  Don't let anyone tell you when you have to 'turn yourself in.'RUN, REJECT CARROUSEL!Just make sure you watch the Letterboxed version!!  The Pan and Scan video verison does not do this film justice AT ALL!!!!  "},{"Title":"25 Years later and still running","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Its been a long time since I watched this classic and how happy was I to find the dvd copy has made this film even more special, Looking around today at the lack of GOOD Sci-Fi I find myself going back to the classics, ( Forbiden Planet, Monolith Monsters, Journey to the Centre of the Earth, The Omega Man, Etc. ) they are all still the best form of entertainment. lets just hope they dont go and remake this or any more classic.  "}{"Title":"Last Day. Capricorns 15. Year of the City 2274. Carousel Begins!","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the consumate science fiction movie for the science fiction movie lover.Like a sci-fi Disney ride, you're transported into a Utopian fantasy world were everything is beautiful---then taken out of it to discover a new world more real and beautiful than the artificial one you once inhabited.It was so completely convincing to me at the time (I'd like to live in a Mall, too!) but now really seems dated.  And why don't we have sex shops like the one I saw in this Movie?  And you've got to check out the dumb broad (Mrs. Farrah herself).There were some really good scenes in the movie, though.  The part where they're at the feet of Abraham Lincoln, and perceive that his greatness was simply because he was old.And I loved the symbolism of Logan grabbing the tattered U.S. flag to fend off Francis during the fight scene.The conclusion for the movie was a bit weak. However, the movie as a whole is very engaging, and the rush on the poor old man at the very ending of the movie is yet another great moment in sci-fi movie history.   "},{"Title":"Disappointed, but entertained.","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having heard that this was a sci-fi classic, I'd hoped it might be in the same league as the Ridley Scott gems, Alien & Blade Runner, but such was definitely not the case. The cast was terrific, but the production values were so bad, it was hard even to take this film seriously. The FX were bogus &#150; even for 1976 &#150; and the props were as weak as those on the original Star Trek TV series. Don't get me wrong; I think many of the old, lower-budget sci-fi futuristic films are brilliant; Fahrenheit 451, for example &#150; but Logan's Run falls far short of the mark set by such 'genuine' classics. However, if you can get past all those minuses, the big plus is that this is a fun-to-watch sci-fi of the 70s and worth viewing when it plays on late-night TV, or some rainy afternoon. The great supporting role of Sir Peter Ustinov was short but juicy. Farrah Fawcett (really young) also makes a cute, little addition to the cast. "},{"Title":"great movie for kids, otherwise just kitsch","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Reading other comments I'm struck by how many people fell in love with this movie when they were kids...and I did too. But as an adult this movie is merely irritating. Rent this for your 12-year- old son, then leave the room. Every one else commenting seems to acknowledge that it's based on a wildly popular novel, but no one seems to have ever read that novel. The book is light years different and really brilliant. The movie is a drastically dumbed-down version, a typical Hollywood mess. If someone were to really film the novel then we'd have something! All the griping aside, Logan's Run is interesting camp. The model of the future city is delightfully overdone, the long scenes filmed in the Dallas Apparel Mart will make you gasp at the architectural horrors of bygone days, plus you get to see lots of iconic movie stars as very young people. If your drunk or high and have nothing better to do, this is perfect. If you're a real sci-fi fan, skip it. "},{"Title":"The pain of it all","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was just horrible. It went on forever. The message was lost by minute four, if even that long. The acting was terrible. Just terrible. Michael York? Oh God how bad. The special effects weren't even slightly special (and could hardly be called effects). THIS received a special Oscar? For me managing to stay awake the Oscar should have gone to ME. The miniatures...oh, and the laser guns. The guns were sparklers. Really, there are better gun effects for toys purchased at the Dollar Tree. I actually wondered at some points if the director was trying to make some sort of awful commentary with these idiotic effects. Really, there were no redeeming things about this movie. How can this have been greenlit with such a bad script and SFX budget? Please save yourself. Don't see this movie. "},{"Title":"Hated it then, hate it now.","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In 1976 I was still waiting for a science fiction movie to top, or at least equal, 2001 A Space Odyssey. To put it mildly; Logan's Run wasn't it. Which explains my bias against this flick... I have quite a soft spot for vintage bad sci-fi; I collect bad B movie SF from the 50's & 60's. But I just can't seem to get into the camp value of LR. I felt ripped off when I left the theater in '76, and lord help me, I'm still ticked off.This film has been nicely picked apart by previous comments so I'm going to try to condense down my litany of hate to the things that slowly brought me to a boil as I sat in the Orange Cinedome in '76. You folks that love this movie; don't take this personally. I just need to vent.Picture the day... it's 1976, I haven't seen a decent science fiction block buster since 2001. Indeed, it seemed like there hadn't been ANY SF movies to speak of in a while. Along comes this major SF pic from MGM... Hey, the same studio that put out 2001! Ought to see some kick-ass effects, eh? (Wait a sec, I have to pause while I laugh a bit... Ok.)At the time, what I was really wanting was a spaceship movie. What Logan's Run delivered was a shopping mall. No, seriously; much of it was FILMED IN A SHOPPING MALL. Possible Mitigating Factor It could be argued that Logan's Run was the darkest vision of the future ever put on film. Can you imagine a more dismal future than of all human society confined to a 1970's shopping mall? I can't. But no, sorry, I don't buy that either. I think it had less to do with a dark vision and more to do with a lack of imagination and budget. Thank you, I could have gone to the mall for free instead of plunking down cash at the box office. And god knows, I wish I had.Gad, what does it say about the Academy that this thing picked up a Special Achievement Award for effects? As they used to say in the 50's; YOU CAN SEE THE STRINGS! Hello?... Strings... wires... whatever. It's EIGHT YEARS after 2001, and there are strings! Kee-ripes! Even folks who are bored to tears by 2001 will admit that it set a new standard for effects. Eight years later, MGM had apparently set the studio calendars back to 1952 or so, because I swear they could have filmed Logan's Run back then and it wouldn't have looked any worse. As has been pointed out in other comments, the Carrousel device was not in the novel.. so the real mind blower here is they went OUT OF THEIR WAY to create a scene they couldn't figure out how to film without revealing THE STRINGS! I love saying that... Strings! The mind boggles.Speaking of retro effects, a few years prior, I remember watching a European made SF movie on TV. My buddy & I cracked up at the laser pistols that fired FLAMES. We laughed during the movie, and we laughed some more after the movie. Oh, those silly Europeans! Butane lighter guns? Little did I know... But it's a shame I couldn't tap into that humor vibe during Logan's Run. Again, we're back to the money thing I guess. I PAID to see this? As Dr. Smith would say; Oh... the pain, the pain!Ok, so far this vision of the future has treated me to A 1970's shopping mall, 1950's Special String Effects, and 1960's vintage Italian cigarette lighter pistols. As a favor to the reader, I've skipped some details having to do with my dislike of the story, script, and every actor/actress seen so far. I'm sitting in the theater tensed with disgust, wondering; how much worse can this *possibly* get?Stop here for a moment, and think of Kubrick's The Shining (1980). Picture if you will, that close-up cut to Jack Nicholson's face where he's first got THE LOOK; slack jawed, wild eyes staring straight ahead. His mind has SNAPPED and you know he'd be just fine with killing every living thing on the planet right about now... Ok... That would have been the look on MY face when I first saw Box the robot of Logan's Run. Yep, up to then I was merely simmering. Box brought me to a full boil. Again, I'll spare you the details. Other comments have suitably described the almost indescribably pathetic and aptly named box that was Box. (Again I pause, this time for a shudder of revulsion.) If Box didn't make you jump the shark, well; you and I are just two different people is all.There are a couple dozen other elements in LR that frosted my rear, but I'll let most of them slide. I do have to fire a last shot at the REAL Holograms! that figured in the promotion of LR. The absurdity of trying to show off a 3D effect in a 2D movie is just, well, I'm back to mind boggling I guess. The same effect could have been pulled off by matting, and probably would have looked better. But we used REAL Holograms!!!! the dolts in marketing would whine. Gee, I guess that MIGHT have amounted to something if that had meant it would have popped out in 3D in the theater, huh? Yawn.And, just so's you don't forget this here is a Hollywood pichur; everythin' dun blowed up at the end! Yee haw!At this point I'd want to find a least a few good things to say, but honestly all I can think of were a few things that were *almost* good. Potentially interesting; a society that practices euthanasia for essentially hedonistic purposes, and also the reaction of it's members to encountering an aged person. Well, it might have been interesting, if the film had broken some ground in dreaming up a hedonistic future. What we got were sex orgies and plastic surgery; not exactly shocking concepts to a 1970's audience. Euthanasia, maybe, but the concept certainly had been explored before LR. IMHO there was some potential here that was wasted by a timid and fairly unimaginative treatment, presented in a silly context. Oh, and the only way for Peter Ustinov to hurt a film would be for him to be badly or under used, and of course; bingo on both.I could sum up my feelings for Logan's Run by quoting Roger Ebert's review of North(1994), but it's copyrighted so it probably wouldn't fly here. If you've got a minute, look it up on the net and read the second to last paragraph (I hated...), It's classic, and I can't think of Logan's Run without thinking of that paragraph.Again, you folks who liked this film, don't take my rant personally. Who knows, maybe someday I'll be able to sit down and get a good camp laugh out of it. Then we can all enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Logan's Run was ahead of its time","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was in this movie as an extra in the Dallas filming in July 1975. Some of the things you see today,and take for granted in movie making, were implemented in this movie. The movie premise, the costumes, the special effects, the acting. It all was ahead of its time. It opened the door for movies such as Star Wars, the Terminator, the Matrix, and X-Men movies. Now people look at it and they say, Well this does not add up to this new special effects story... It did not have any computer graphics and such as the new movies do these days. It did have a story, and a wonderful cast, and a hell of a director! The places it was filmed like the Dallas' World Trade Center, and the Zale Building,and the Ft. Worth Water Gardens were at that time the most modern and futuristic backdrops in which to film. The director Michael Anderson was very creative and he tried to show a perfect future that was flawed by human desires and frailty's. It was my first film experience, the first of six films I have been in. Just because it was filmed in Texas does not make it any less a wonderful piece of filmmaker's art. Watch it again and appreciate it more. This movie was the foundation that set the standard for many great films that we now enjoy. Well, my hand is blinking... I got to run. Santuary awaits... "},{"Title":"A Must-See for fans of dytopian Sci-Fi","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" full disclosure...My dad moonlighted as a projectionist in all the movie theaters in our area. I got to see a lot of movies over and over on the big screen in a beautiful old theater with a whole closed off balcony to myself. Free pop and popcorn. *S* As a boy of 13 years, this blew me away. The memories associated with films like this keep bringing back to watch them again. Yes, I have to agree with some other reviewers about the poor special effects and acting. Still, if you can step back from our modern technological world a bit, this film is still worth watching. I watch it every couple years. It popped back into my memory again after hearing a little audio clip from if mixed into music on SomaFM a few nights ago. I recognized it immediately. Time to watch Logan again! "},{"Title":"Lightweight Dystopian Sci-Fi","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though it makes several head-scratching changes from the novel on which it's based, 'Logan's Run' still manages to be a fairly entertaining--at times even dazzling--bit of lightweight, pre 'Star Wars' dystopian science fiction.Logic is not one of the movie's strong suits, but if you don't think about it too hard, the intriguing premise is enough to carry it. The cast is strong, with Michael York believably bridging the gap between Logan's initial arrogance and flippancy and his altruistic turn as he learns the truth about the system he's sworn to uphold. And then there's Jenny Agutter. From this point on I shall no longer use the word perfect, but instead say Jenny Agutter. "},{"Title":"No masterpiece, but nonetheless entertaining","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw LOGAN'S RUN at a young age and enjoyed it; that enjoyment continues to this day, as the movie is colourful, well paced and wide reaching. The plot, about a 'perfect' society where citizens are murdered on their 30th birthday, is good enough to inspire movies to this day (such as THE ISLAND).Let's not kid ourselves, though; this is no masterpiece. It's rather silly in places, and juvenile in others. The characters are very slim and the production is more about the visuals and sets than actual characterisation or insight. There are a lot of ideas here, and nice turns from supporting actors (the equally crazed Richard Jordan and Peter Ustinov) to keep you watching.I enjoy Michael York's work as an actor, but he has little to work with here. He starts out as a cold-blooded murderer, and yet we're asked to identify with him as the story progresses. Jenny Agutter has less to work with, if that's even possible, and seems merely to act as window dressing, wandering through the film at York's side.The visuals are great, and there are some startling sequences; the 'death machine' bit early on is particularly involving and impressive. The 'journey' structure of the narrative keeps you watching and even helps you to forget about the trivialities of the story or the deus ex machina of the climax. As I said, this is no masterpiece, but it is fun. "},{"Title":"Freedom's just another word for nothing' left to lose","Date":"8 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When this movie came out, it made such a huge impression on me that I went and made my own ankh and carried it in my pocket all the time, as if it might be the key to my own escape somehow. Then I got born again and I saw the movie as being atheist propaganda (there is no heaven), so I threw my ankh into the Sound. When a movie connects with a viewer that deeply, it's real art.Maybe it was the right movie at the right time for a trapped teenager. I'm not so sure it was the product of its age. By 1976, the revolution had already failed, there was no age of Aquarius, and the Summer of Love was just a silly phase a few people had gone through back when they were young. The reality of the mid-70s was inflation, gas lines, and disco music, not the search for freedom and the questioning of faith.I was astounded to see they made this whole movie for only $15 million. A decade ago, they paid Pierce Brosnan $15 million just to read his lines (actual acting would have cost more, presumably) in Dante's Peak. Even though the model city with its model trains is pretty much straight out of Metropolis, and actual locations were juxtaposed rather incongruously (California chaparral next to Texas water park next to kudzu-covered city), the sets are pretty good and do convey the sense of a very clean, pleasurable, Caucasian, and definitely indoor, society -- a suburban shopping mall, in other words. If nothing else, the concept and the story telling are good enough that they transcend some economies of production, and I'm the kind of guy who looks at the flashpots and wonders if the greenish tint is from zinc dust or barium chlorate.There isn't near so much '70s camp in LR as there was in, say, the Planet of the Apes sequels -- no ridiculous sideburns, unzipped shirts on male chests, urban-cool stereotype black guys, platform shoes, and polyester. I actually kind of like the idea of having a shopping mall stand in for the social and religious center of beautifully-trapped people. Shortly after the movie came out, a new shopping mall was built in Federal Way, and when I walked in and saw the sunken circular central court with its circular ceiling detail overhead, I thought I was walking into the Carousel and almost expected to be lifted up in the air.I do wonder what kids these days think about a period-piece like Logan's Run. It's all about freedom, but these days it's connectivity, rather than freedom, that seems important to the young people. "}{"Title":"An interesting 70's sci-fi movie worth seeing","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I didn't get to see the very beginning of this one, but surely enough it will catch up with me another day. The story is complex, and the special effects are of course, from that era. However, one must look at it from a viewpoint of artistic and imaginative perspective to realize that this can easily qualify as a decent sci-fi flick that should not be overlooked, and may even compare with the likes of Planet of the Apes, Total Recall, Ghataca, Minority Report, etc. Okay, don't laugh at the Styrofoam special effects and the many holes left open and unanswered, they did their best. The premise of the futuristic elements of a human android society with a savior-type individual leading to change and find the real truth is what compels one to take this well acted (York, Jenny, Ustinov, and character that was York's sandman friend) movie and watch it over some popcorn. It would be nice to remake it using today's technology, or better yet make a prequel, if it works out, remake the original, and a sequel. "},{"Title":"Standard but entertaining 70's retro sci-fi film.","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take Even dated special effects and pacing can make this look bad. Save George Lucas' STAR WARS, sci-fi movies of the 70's were pretty flashy for their time being, but now they seemed to blah these days. Science fiction has suddenly taken a leap these days thanks to, mainly, big budgets, special effects and top-billing all-star cast. Special effects redefine themselves every time another summer movie is released. These redefinitions makes their grandfathers like LOGAN'S RUN look feeble and obsolete. Still, what great fun film this is. LOGAN'S RUN may seem like outmoded material, and it might probably be, but it has more heart than most recent blockbusters.The film takes place sometime during the year 23rd century (but we all have a more ambitious vision of future centuries by now). The world is now but a dome looming through nothingness. Inside the dome however, is a nearly perfect metropolis, with undeniable pleasure and gee-whiz technology (at least, during the 70's). But with every perfection is a drawback (as we were always warned during every sci-fi movie). When you're 30 years old, you have to give yourself up to a perfect system called Carousel and accept a form of rejuvenation.Michael York plays a sort of futuristic cop who tries to stop those who try to escape from Carousel thinking that it spells doom. Pretty soon, he's turning 30, and he now must run from the system he helped bring up, tagging along a woman (Jenny Agutter) who gets herself involved due to her suspicion. By the mention of this plot line, you know exactly that this is the ancestor of later sci-fi blockbusters as MINORITY REPORT and THE ISLAND. This one is not nearly as innovative and expensive as those recent blockbusters, but comparison isn't required. LOGAN'S RUN, on its own credit, is an entertaining piece of nostalgia. The old-fashioned technological gimmicks reminds us of our own views and imaginations as a kid, and it' quite amusing to see them come to life in this entertaining little film. LOGAN'S RUN is a worthy rental.Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi Adventure Of Future Society Where Old Age Is Forbidden","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the twenty-third century, people live in a utopian bio-dome but life must end at the age of thirty. Logan is a Sandman, whose job is to hunt and kill anyone who tries to escape this mandatory euthanasia. When he is given a mission to go undercover as a runner himself, will he go through with it and what will he find ? Based on a novel by William F. Nolan and George Clayton Johnson, this is one several great bleak seventies Orwellian eco-disaster sci-fi movies (see also THX 1138, Soylent Green, Rollerball, etc) which presents all human existence in the future as essentially meaningless and completely controlled. These are all interesting films and the premise of this one is one of the most intriguing, but of course your perception of it depends how old you are. It never quite makes sense to me however - why do the Last-Day people just accept their fate, who controls all the city's systems for power, food, climate, etc, who built it all, and why is everyone so content just to be jaded pleasure-seekers ? I like the idea that once he escapes the city Logan discovers the nirvana of Sanctuary doesn't exist; there's just one old geezer who's a bit batty and quotes T.S. Eliot all the time. The movie would be better if it left it at that, without the standard disaster-and-rebirth finale. It's all good fun though, with bags of wacky ideas, some great action scenes, fantastic art design by Dale Hennesy (who also did sterling work on Sleeper and Young Frankenstein), a tremendous chase sequence in the middle that lasts nearly half-an-hour, a quirky proto-synthesiser score by Jerry Goldsmith, and Jenny Agutter getting wet a lot (which is compulsory viewing where I'm from). I'm ambivalent about the special effects in this movie; they're actually very good but Anderson films them all wrong - for example, the miniature of the city is amazing but shooting it so wide makes it obvious it's a model. For such a huge concept movie the cast is endearingly intimate - it's essentially a four-character drama (one of whom is senile) and Agutter and Jordan are especially good. I like York too, but Logan is a bit of an enigma; I don't really know when, or even if, he decides to rebel and run for real, and what motivates him to do so, but I'm not sure if that's because of the script or the performer. A great, thought-provoking old sci-fi adventure all round though, shot in some great locations all over Texas. Purists please note - TV prints of this movie almost always run a minute or two short, and all the stuff cut out is nudity/sex, notably in the Love Shop and Box/ice-caves scenes. Trivia - Anderson Jr., who plays the wacky laser-surgeon Doc, is the director's son, and Michael York was 33 when he made this movie ! "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Science Fiction is inherently strange, and it seems like the further back you go, the stranger the movies are, perhaps none stranger than Logan's Run. This film is considered by many to be the one of the best science fiction films of all time, so I decide to watch it for the most recent classics review. My first impression, I've seen weird before, but Logan's Run goes way beyond that, to a point of incomprehensible. After a nuclear war, a group of citizens in what was once Washington D.C., live in a self-sustained domed city. Population control is a big problem, so the builders of the city have convinced the citizen's that at the age of 30, they must enter a device known as carrousel, which will decide if they should be renewed or eliminated, the only thing is, no one has ever been renewed. A group of citizens has figured this out and run from carrousel. They are hunted by a group of officers known as sandmen. Logan 5 (Michael York) is one these sandmen, who goes undercover to try to infiltrate the runners, As his time comes closer, Logan 5 realizes they're right and he joins them, hence the name Logan's Run. The premise here is ingenious and at first I thought I'd enjoy this film, but as it went on, the pace slowed, the quality deteriorated, and the story became ridiculous. For example, after exiting the cave, the worst looking robot I've ever seen, named Box, who looks like a child wearing a box, carries on for fifteen minutes about plankton from the sea, and at that point I almost turned it off. Michael York, better know from his Austin Powers fame, stars and is actually very good, (even though it is never explained why this British guy is in a D.C. city, surrounded by Americans). York was entertaining but the rest of the cast was not, in particular Jenny Agutter, who just complained and carried on the whole time. Farrah Fawcett also makes an appears in the film, in a role that amounts to little more than eye candy. In my opinion, she would have made a much more convincing Jessica. Logan's Run starts out as a terrific futuristic adventure and looks like it's going to earn every bit of acclaim it received, but as the film progresses, it just gets worse and worse to the point of being unwatchable. "},{"Title":"Spectacular Movie!","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the future, a world exists where humans rely on machines for everything, living in a domed city where life is all fun and games... until they are sent off to die in front of spectators. Most residents of this city consider this process 'renewal, as their replacements are all babies waiting to take their place. However, their bodies are sent off to a robot that freezes them and sends them back to the city as food, when plankton from the sea stopped coming. A Sandman, somebody who kills people who threaten the city, Logan, learns from a strange woman about a mysterious world outside called Sanctuary, and escapes with him on a journey to find this supposed place.Logan's Run has similar themes to Soylent Green and the Omega Man, and also some new themes that are not only disturbing but very possible. One is the idea that each member of society should conform; they all dress alike, have the same ideas and are allowed no originality. Another theme is the idea of treating women as objects; the city has various sectors where men can go for sex and when Jessica, the woman who teams up with Logan, comes to him to ask him what being a Sandman is like, his first statement is, Why are you wasting my time? Let's have sex. The horrifying idea of using the dead for food was also in Soylent Green, but in Logan's Run its even worse, to keep a constant food supply every city resident is forced to die at the age of 30, so that there will be food for everyone.With Logan's Run, it starts off a little boring, you have to give it a chance and watch it with an open mind, because it gets much better once the pair leaves the city and meets Old Man, an elderly recluse living in what was once New York, with his many cats. He is eccentric and grew up in the world we all know now, but overpopulation and disease sent most people packing, and he was left alone for decades. The acting of every character was great, the soundtrack was decent and the plot, based on a sci-fi novel, was very original. Goldsmith, the composer who did the soundtrack for the evil ventriloquist dummy movie Magic (1977), performed the soundtrack to Logan's Run.Logan's Run is an excellent film, both eye-opening and disturbing. Luckily although pollution was mentioned there was no preachy hippie propaganda environmental message, it sticks more with the main plot, and despite it's outdated appearance it has remained just as meaningful today as it always was. "},{"Title":"Even Better Than the Original Star Wars","Date":"7 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alright, this movie is not better than STAR WARS IV (which came out one year after it did) if you're looking at it objectively. But, speaking subjectively, I personally think this movie has some real charm and I enjoy watching it more than any of the STAR WARS movies. I won't say this is my favorite movie of all-time (that would be BLADE RUNNER) but it does come really close. BLADE RUNNER, which is another dystopian movie, isn't a movie that I can watch whenever. It's really good but it's kind of depressing. LOGAN'S RUN, on the other hand, is a movie that's incredibly fun to watch.The story makes no sense, to tell you the truth. Out of the many things that don't make sense here are a few1. (This shouldn't be a spoiler because the fact that Logan becomes a Runner is implied by the title of the movie.) If the Computer's goal is to find Sanctuary and have it destroyed, why doesn't it order a team of Sandmen to do the job? Why does it make Logan's life-clock blinking-red, making it look like it's his Last Day? It seems counterproductive to make him a Runner to look for a way out of the city.Which leads to...2. How come the Sandmen and the computer don't know about the room where all the Runners are staying (in the scene where a group of Runners use glowing spears to stop Jessica and Logan from progressing)? If the computer runs the city, shouldn't it know about all of the various rooms it comprise? 3. And why didn't those particular Runners with the glowing spears even try to go through the city's exit?This movie isn't BATTLEFIELD EARTH, though. Even though it doesn't really make sense, it's still fun to watch and it looks nice. According to Roger Ebert's review of the film, it had a production budget of around $9 million. That's not too far below the production budget of STAR WARS IV, which was around $11 million according to Box Office Mojo. Some of the effects look dated, definitely. The miniatures lack detail. Box looks ridiculous (you can see Roscoe Lee Brown's mouth underneath the robot costume's mouth). The costumes are also pretty bland. Most of the movie was shot in a shopping mall. These might seem like criticisms of the movie (and many people will probably dislike the movie for these things) but they all add to its charm. But I do love the entire second half of the movie, especially the ending. I think Michael York and Richard Jordan played their characters well. Jenny Agutter is pretty nice all throughout as well. Jessica 6 is definitely one of the best sci-fi movie heroines of all-time.I don't think anyone will say that this isn't one of the best pre-STAR WARS sci-fi movies. It's not as good as 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY or THE FORBIDDEN PLANET. (Once again, this is objective. I won't deny the greatness of 2001 since it really did change sci-fi film. If we're talking subjectively, though, 2001 is a really boring movie, in my opinion. THE FORBIDDEN PLANET is fun to watch and I thought it was great how they made Shakespeare's THE TEMPEST in a sci-fi setting but it is not as fun as LOGAN's RUN.) Without a doubt, though, it is much better than the majority of pre-STAR WARS sci-fi movies like SOYLENT GREEN, ZARDOZ, FAHRENHEIT 451 (the book is great but the movie isn't), etc.LOGAN'S RUN really deserves more attention. I find myself enjoying it more and more with each viewing. There are quite a few dystopian movies coming out today, like THE HUNGER GAMES. They take themselves too seriously. Sure BLADE RUNNER does take itself seriously, but its premise isn't as outlandish as those of other dystopian movies. I don't think LOGAN'S RUN does. Or, at least, I don't take it too seriously. It's just a fun movie is all I can say. "},{"Title":"It begins where your imagination ends","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" These words from the theatrical trailer sum up the entire film. Logan's Run is a very unique little film, with some clever ideas, imaginative technology, and excellent writing. The year is 2274, and Logan 5 is a Sandman. The sandmen are a futuristic police force specializing in tracking down Runners. What is a runner? Well in this society every life must end at 30, unless renewed at the festival of Carousel. Runners are those who attempt to flee society when their time is up. So, you can imagine the problems presented when a sandman, Logan 5, is forced to run himself. Tracked by his former partner, Francis 7, and accompanied by a woman who loves him, Jessica 6, Logan 5 must do all that is in his power to reach Sanctuary. That is where I must end my plot synopsis for anything more would be spoilers, and this is such a good movie I just couldn't bear to spoil it for anyone that hasn't seen it. All I can say is that this is a truly remarkable film, and if you're debating whether or not to see it I suggest that you see it. "},{"Title":"Behind an intriguing idea a decent amount of unexpected laughs","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Logan's Run is yet another fantastic movie that presents an interesting vision of the post- apocalyptic future of our world. It may be clichéd at times, but it certainly is able to astound with the fabulous visual effects and science fiction imagery of the most futuristic sort. What distinguishes this particular film from many other science fiction projects is the fact that it somehow seems purposefully (or not?) humorous and ironic in its narrative and storytelling manner. And it definitely doesn't worsen the provided experience, as all the marvelously comic aspects seem much more appealing when the viewer takes the whole idea less seriously. In the 23rd century, in an ostensibly idyllic society, where every desire could be fulfilled right away, people live in happiness and peace. However, there is one major drawback to all this people must finish their lives when they turn 30, in a quasi-religious ceremony called carousel (notice the great special effects in this sequence), which mysteriously incinerates all the participants. Those who vapor are later said to be reborn anew. That means there aren't any old people. There are, of course, some individuals who don't necessarily agree with the rituals and try to run; hence they are called Runners. This is where Logan (Michael York) shows up and uses his skills. He is a 'Sandman', a person, who is responsible for eliminating all those trying to escape. Yet, due to a crazy turn of events and an item that wasn't meant to get into his hands, he himself becomes a Runner and is sent on a mission to find a place called 'Sanctuary'. In the process he has to infiltrate an underground army of dangerous fugitives. So Logan runs. And along with him runs Jessica (Jenny Agutter), one of the opponents of the system. After a humorous couple of scenes (specifically the ones in the frozen cave, with a little robot fellow called Box) they finally wound up outside. After a touching moment of holding hands and looking at the sun, they discover the runs of Washington and meet an older man (Peter Ustinov). How overwhelmed they are by all the outer-world details, such as tombstones, animals, white hair and wrinkles. In the distinctly Utopian ending, they go back to convince the cut off community that the purpose of life is to grow old and die when the time comes.The idea is fresh, interesting, and cleverly utilized as the storyline goes. Due to a high budget, the costumes, special effects and visuals are stunning (even nowadays). The acting is somehow fitting, and it is always good to see the great Peter Ustinov make an appearance, this time as a stammering remainder of the extinct civilization. All in all, with its bold quantity of clichés, Logan's Run certainly offers huge amount of fun, and presents an intriguing idea about the future of mankind. It shows that sometimes what's above the surface, on the outside (as in 'Allegory of the Cave'), might seem too frightening for some people, and they simply can't allow themselves to think that there can possibly be more to life. "},{"Title":"Needed to be remade Shoddy special effects. Bad novel adaptation","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I hope that the new remake (not yet released) is better than the original. In its day, it was considered one of the hippest sci-fi movies of its time. It is still a lot of fun to watch, but the special effects don't hold up 1. You can see the clear flying-wires in the widescreen DVD during Carrousel. 2. The city looks like a miniature. (It is.) You can see the overhead lighting glare on the city, which looks like an HO train set. 3. The Arcade scenes look like they were shot in a shopping mall (they were!). 4. The Washington D.C. sequence is missing something--perhaps more extras or a helicopter (or shuttle) searching for Logan? 5. Costumes and (some) sets look like a cheap Star Trek. 6. The computer room overhead lights blink on and off for no apparent reason. 7. An explosions and fire climax which is a typical finish for a sci-fi flick that runs out of gas at the end.Not very well adapted from a novel in which life ends at 21 1. There is a lot more sex and drugs in the novel (big deal). 2. The cubs refer to what has happened to the cub scout movement which has deteriorated into wild gangs of young kids on muscle (a speed and strength-enhancing drug). 3. I do not believe that Washington D.C. is in the book, but there are rocket-powered motorcycles, like in Star Wars! 4. At the end of the novel, they take-off in a rocket ship named Sanctuary. Best scenes Carrousel, The New You laser, Box, Interrogation (an academy-award special effect). Washington D.C. mattes are great.Warning Film should be PG-13 for brief nudity and minor violence. Not for very-young kids, as some scenes have a nightmarish quality to them.Be sure that your copy is widescreen. I have an old-technology double-sided standard-WS disk, and the scanned side is terrible.Try to find the original novel at your library (it's out-of-print). Except for the concept and a few scenes, it is nothing like the movie! It's better. "},{"Title":"Old Men","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of my favorite all time fun movies. I was pregnant with my daughter when we ducked into a theater to get out of the Palm Springs heat to see this. But, does anyone remember the original uncut version? Toward the middle of the film came a bit of a surprise, there were old men in the control room making all the rules for the 30 and under crowed? I have yet to see this version on TV or cable. And I don't know how to tell if I'm getting the real original or not if I buy. Am I the only person that remembers these guys?How do I find THIS original movie to buy? "}{"Title":"Logan - the original running man.","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Centred around the memorable conceit that society has started to cull every human being who reaches the age of 30, Logan's Run holds up in a rather endearing fashion, like an elderly relative who still retains all their faculties but still manages to give you a red face on occasion by sticking out their false teeth and gurning at your friends.Michael York gets to star as Logan-5, a sandman charged with finding and terminating those who choose to run when they reach the magic 3-0. Everything is going well for him until he is asked to infiltrate the sanctuary of previous escapees and has his own life-crystal advanced by 4 years to place him squarely in the danger zone. Luckily for him, help is available in the shapely form of Jenny Agutter (wearing the flimsiest of outfits and basically putting Princess Leia and her slave garb from Jedi to shame) and, after an initial period of mistrust and deception, the pair get running . . . . . . and keep running . . . . . and run some more. Until they can find sanctuary, survivors and answers that may well fly in the face of all they have been told by the computer in charge of everything.Coming across like some mix of Soylent Green and, unfortunately, Buck Rogers, this movie has it's charm but it's a charm that you either go along with or don't. There's nothing here to really draw you in against your will. If you like the leads then you'll go along with things, if you like the concept then you will see how it pans out, if you like Peter Ustinov then you will derive some pleasure from his extended cameo appearance. Sadly, that's it. Director Michael Anderson dazzles us with mediocrity in every frame, whether it's flat, lifeless miniature work, unexciting fight scenes or a mishandling of the moral conundrums that Logan himself faces.Somehow, it still works for me though I don't quite know why. However, I am willing to bet that it has something to do with Agutter looking so damn cute that I wanted to marry her twice.See this if you like Soylent Green, The Island, Circle Of Iron AKA The Silent Flute. "},{"Title":"This movie  holds a special memory for me.","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie when it was first released in 1976. I was in 6th grade and visiting my grandparents in Indiana (I'm from NC). I begged and begged to let me go see this, as I wasn't usually allowed to see PG movies (but they didn't know this of course). They finally gave in. So in a way, this was one of the first GROWN up movies I got to see. Granted, it's obviously not very racy, but I felt quite proud of seeing it. I was always interested in sci-fi and this certainly fit the bill.I remember loving being transported to a different time and place. Granted, the acting isn't top notch and the sets aren't all that great (especially when viewed now as an adult). But as a kid, I could still find myself wrapped up in the story and rooting for the people to escape such a cold-hearted law of being exterminated at 30. It definitely has an intriguing storyline and if you come in it not expecting too much, I think you'll find it entertaining. "},{"Title":"Still enjoy the film","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this film for the first time when I was twelve and loved it. While dated and bit corny, the film is still an entertaining story. The acting of Michael York, Jenny Agutter and especially Peter Ustinov is excellent and for 1976 the special effects are great.There are numerous memorable scenes in this movie, but the one that has always stood out was the gaff at the end when the extra briefly shows a Vulcan hand sign. This is at the very end when the people are gathering around Peter Ustinov. Even at twelve I couldn't understand how that would get through editing. I would be interested to know how many people have noticed it. "},{"Title":"a nice old fashioned sci-fi action movie","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, some of the effects (especially the robot Box, whose arms look like conventional heating ducts) are extremely dated &#150; but everything about the film is ambitious including those effects. The story is from a novel by celebrated sci-fi mainstays William F. Nolan (Trilogy of Terror) and George Clayton Johnson (Twilight Zone, Star Trek) and at least some of the ideas from the book seem to be present here, because the film represents old-school sci-fi of the golden age variety, the kind of thing that wouldn't be out of place in the pages of Galaxy or Astounding SF. It's a dystopia story that shows signs of its lineage from Aldous Huxley's Brave New World &#150; Logan 5 (Michael York) is a cop in a domed city where everything sexual and physical is available for the taking, with a catch &#150; at the age of 30 each person has to go to a weird arena where they undergo a ceremony designed to potentially reincarnate them as a new life form. Logan's job is to hunt down people who become runners and attempt to flee the city to Sanctuary instead of going through the ritual. After being sent on a mission to destroy Sanctuary by the city's authoritarian central computer (shades of Godard's Alphaville and Lucas' THX-1138), Logan begins to suspect that his life might not be as perfect as it seems.The early parts of the film are very striking, the best in the film. I liked how we first met Logan 5 and his friend Francis (Richard Jordan) in a kind of sterile maternity ward &#150; clearly despite his protests Logan has some interest in the concept of posterity and reproduction. We see how he and his friends hunt the runners in a decidedly sadistic way, and how casual sex is available at the push of a button. Then we see the people whose time is up don weird masks and robes and float to the ceiling in the ritual &#150; very striking compositions here, although the way the scene was edited together with the crowd's cheers made it seem as if they're at a gladiator event cheering for people's deaths instead of religious supplicants at a ritual, as they are intended. Also I'm not completely sure if Logan was supposed to come off as quite as much of a fascist as he does here, with his gleeful face and blithe attitude about sex&#133; but then again maybe he is. There's definitely a more complex character arc than you would see in most sci-fi/action movies these days. I liked how the relationship with Jessica (Jenny Agutter) was explored as a counterpoint to his friendship with Francis as he moves towards a greater understanding of his situation and, perhaps, the human condition. Peter Ustinov acts as the spokesman of the human race in the role of Old Man, who Logan and Jessica meet in a ruined District of Columbia that reminds any semi-alert viewer of Planet of the Apes. I didn't like how his character was written, quite a bit too obvious and kind of annoyingly meandering. In fact the script in general was not very strong, although the actors did the best they could with what they were given. The story as a whole starts to get bogged down just after the scene with Box where it's revealed that there really is no Sanctuary. This finally confirms for Logan, also, that the computer that runs the domed city is not infallible.As far as the effects, this is the subject of much debate concerning the film. I have mixed feelings about the use of miniatures in the film; it's a beautiful set and I get a kick just out of looking at it, but even considering 1976 effects there are problems with the set that could have been solved with a bit more thinking. For example it's an extremely bad idea to integrate water with your miniatures as they have done here since water immediately betrays the differences in scale. If they were going to use water at the very least they should have made sure that the water was completely placid because any wave action will ruin the shot. The Box as stated above was just a horrible costume/animatronic, although the idea is still good enough to carry the scene IMHO. However some of the effects in Logan's Run are definitely state-of-the-art for the mid 70s, particularly the use of video effects in scenes like the ritual and when Logan and Jessica are going up in the elevator to the upper levels (just before they reach Box). Also the matte work in the film was all excellent top of the line stuff. The sets are mostly very interesting architectural works from around the Dallas/Fort Worth area that are dressed up with bizarre objects like the giant silver hand with a red crystal in the center of the palm.This is a kind of sci-fi film that you really don't see any more &#150; with plenty of action and sexuality to distract the eye and plenty of ideas to chew on as well. What's interesting about the film from a philosophical standpoint is how blind Logan and the others are to the ramifications of the situation. That's why his speech to the people in the plaza couldn't sway them; like Logan they had to see the outside and the Old Man for themselves. And none of them have any idea about the negative effects of aging, which is quite charming. I think the overall idea is to poke holes in the idea (which had great currency in the late 60s when the source novel was written) that youth culture and free love could save humanity from all of its problems. This could have been a painful pedantic film if the film-makers hadn't had the good taste to never verbalize this film but to simply let the audience soak up the realization. "},{"Title":"Not without problems ....","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is another pre-'Star Wars' film of the 1970s that gave it the ol' college try on effects .... though unlike other films, this one actually did accomplish quite a bit. The production design was superior, though it is hard to not look at actors on wires .... with the wires so clearly visible and not clap your hand over your eyes. While the miniature buildings were really nice, there were too many obvious clues that this was a miniature, and not really what you were supposed to be seeing.This film does come across as a bit dated, though at the time, it was deeply important. For younger folks the late 1960s and 70s was the time when the baby boomers were starting to exercise their political muscle, and there was great controversy about this young generation taking over, and there were many films about the youth of America taking over. Drugs and sex and a lot of other taboo topics were also coming into mainstream. Fast forward on this trend for a few hundred years ...... and the director attempted to show this could be an outcome all the pleasure you could want without any responsibility ..... until you reach 30. Logan's Run shows the obvious weakness of this extension ..... a homogeneous hive-like society is no closer to a real society than a beehive is. This is the reason behind one of the great criticisms of the film why only white people? Answer it is another weakness of the society ..... they are completely homogeneous, and freed from thought which differences might trigger.The one main weakness I see in this film is the scene with Box. I know it was there because otherwise there is no action between the escape and Washington, but still ..... this entire scene could have been removed (unless of course they were looking for one more reason for Jenny Aguter to remove her clothes).There was no real problem with the acting ..... though I think this film is ripe to be re- examined, not only with better effects when needed, but perhaps with a better overall concept of emphasizing the emptiness of a society run like this one. "},{"Title":"slightly dated(yet relevant) futuristic tale of  Utopia(or is it Dystopia?)","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" this is a hard movie to rate.It was made in 1976,so is dated in some ways by today's standards.the special effects,while innovative at the time,are almost laughable today.the story though is relevant in today's age,even more so than 1976.it brings up moral and ethical dilemmas as we may be closer to the events in the movie than ever,though admittedly,still a long way off.the basic premise is that everyone lives inside a walled city,free to do whatever they want,until,that is their 30th birthday.at this time,they must go through a process called renewal,where they start over again.However,there are those,who wish to live beyond 30 and attempt to escape.these people are called runners.an elite police force,known as the Sandmen,must find them and terminate them.this is the sole purpose of each Sandman.As i mentioned earlier,there are many moral and ethical dilemmas brought up by this movie,especially given Earth's History,its present,and most certainly its future.the movie is not heavy handed ,or preachy,however.you will have to watch the movie to find out more.If you are an action junkie,this movie may not be your cup of tea.while there is some action,it is not the bombastic,frenetic type of action found in many of today's movies.the movie is also more dialogue driven and is fairly slow at times.however,it does pick up and is worth watching,especially if you like movies which cause you to think. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Full of Script Flaws But Worth A Look","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I enjoyed this movie in the late 1970s when I first saw it on TV, and I watched the TV series that followed. It was nice to see the movie again in widescreen DVD in Oct 2005.I am willing to suspend my disbelief when I go to the movies. If the filmmakers establish a world with a certain set of rules, I'll buy it, but I have a problem with inconsistencies. However, it is still worth a look. Below is a list of script flaws I foundo Discrepancy over ages 30 is clearly stated as the cutoff age, yet Jessica and Logan both claim to be 6 years old! Uh, hello? The correct answer is 26.o Short term memory loss Logan places on a table in the computer room a set of personal items he removed from the body of a runner he and Francis killed. One of the items is clearly a cross-shaped symbol. Seconds later, Logan asked by the computer if he has ever seen this cross-shaped symbol (identified by the name ankh) before. Logan says no. No? He just had it in his hand a second ago! o No correlation between renewals and runners Logan is told by the computer that 1,056 runners have gone unaccounted for, and Logan somehow concludes that no one has ever been renewed. Huh? Runners are not the same people who die at carousel seeking renewal.o Jessica is falsely identified as a runner Francis refers to Jessica as a runner and demands that Logan shoot her, but Jessica is 26, her life clock is NOT flashing red, and she's just along for the ride. Since it has never been established that going into the underbelly of the city is forbidden, therefore, there is no reason Jessica should be killed. The only person Francis should be hunting is Logan, but then again, I take issue with that (see next bullet).o Clueless Francis Logan's run is just a ruse, a mission, and he has been authorized to breach the domed city's boundaries to go in search of Sanctuary. Why is Francis so frantically trying to kill him? Francis, along with the whole Sandmen organization, should have been clued into the mission's objectives so that he wouldn't have waged such a vicious war to the death with Logan. Also, why doesn't Logan ever tell his friend? There are better ways this could have been handled. It's just not believable.o There is no explicable reason why Logan's and Jessica's life clocks do not work when they have returned to the domed city.o Logan's gun disappears and reappears 1) During his fight with the doctor at New You, Logan's gun is vaporized by the laser machine, yet moments later, Logan retrieves his perfectly unscathed gun from the floor. 2) Logan emerges outside, after the ice cave destruction, without his gun. Later, back in the domed city when his debriefing causes the computer to malfunction, four Sandmen lunge at Logan. He fights them off and miraculously, he has his gun back! This can't be explained as an attempt to steal a fellow Sandman's gun, because none of the Sandmen are missing their guns.o Inconsistent Logan Logan flips on a dime from performing a mission to expose and destroy Sanctuary to wanting to help people realize they don't need to die at 30. Where did that come from? The fact that his mission is counter to Jessica's should have been explored. The writing could have been better. "},{"Title":"The Last B Movie?","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know that Logan's Run was a major studio product and not technically a B movie at all, but with its pre-Star Wars special effects it inevitably comes across as one to twenty first century viewers. After the wizardry of George Lucas I imagine it is pretty much impossible to get people to pay to see movies like Logan's Run&#151;that is, films whose special effects may not be particularly convincing, but whose story is compelling enough to get the viewers involved anyway.And in fact, the premise of Logan's Run was compelling enough for it to become one of the best known science fiction dystopias ever&#151;a world of nonstop pleasure in which, presumably in the interests of population control, everyone dies at thirty. One of this movie's brilliant strokes (or perhaps that of the original book) was to make this grim society a lush matriarchy, rather than a bleak Orwellian patriarchy&#151;the soothing motherly voice of the master computer, the flowerlike uniforms worn by the inhabitants, the circusy spectacle of carousel that disguises execution as a kind of quasi-organic renewal are all enough to almost convince the viewers that these people would allow passively allow themselves to be killed decade after decade. A few runners who have their suspicions always try to flee, but they are taken care of by the Sandmen who in their black uniforms are the only ominous element of this society that looks like one giant shopping mall (and was in fact filmed in one).The film is centred on Logan5&#151;the characters' names oddly anticipated the online names of our own time&#151;a Sandman with qualms(well played by Michael York who has the blue eyed, open faced look of a typical sci-fi hero). He is paired up with Jessica6 (Jenny Agutter) who is part of an underground movement to help runners escape and is in turn a typically tomboyish sci-fi heroine. The two end up fleeing the enclosed city for sanctuary a supposed safe haven for runners. First, though, they must deal with the sinister android Box (with his campy lines Box is both comic and creepy the way movie robots often are and is one of the highlights of Logan's Run). Logan and Jessica finally make it outdoors where instead of sanctuary they discover an elderly man (Peter Ustinov), evidently the last descendant of a community that managed to survive outside. After a relatively peaceful interval Logan and Jessica return to the enclosed city, an ill advised decision that recalls the horror movie cliché of the heroine running back into the haunted house, but they manage to destroy the dystopia and save the others. All ends on a rather sweetly naïve note with the pleasure loving party goers (who lives once included heavy drug use and orgies) clustering around the Peter Ustinov character like expectant children.The movie has its problems. The shift from the enclosed city to the outdoors is rather jolting with regard to tone&#151;we move from the city's sexy, seventies styles hedonism to a far more innocent B movie landscape (the relationship of the hero and heroine is similarly chaste, non-withstanding the nudity and implied lovemaking). There is also a lot of earnest, clunky dialog between Logan and Jessica as they express surprise at the concepts of aging and marriage. And, of course, like all movies about the future, Logan's Run is very much a product of its times. This doesn't merely apply to styles (apparently in the 23rd century everyone wears shags); rather, in our post AIDS, just say no era the rampant sex and drug use that characterize life in the city also seem dated.Nevertheless, on the whole, Logan's Run is an enjoyable film if the viewer can get beyond its relatively unsophisticated special effects. "},{"Title":"Imaginative and Very Good","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lots of critics panned this film or were lukewarm in 1976, but I suppose that's personal preference. This story of a futuristic city in which everyone is vaporized on their 30th birthdays has a very intelligent and imaginative script, very good performances (especially by bad-guy Richard Jordan), not-bad special effects (for 1976) and a satisfying story wrap-up. Only debits somewhat familiar storyline with Ustinov in the Washington, D.C. segments, unconvincing model of the domed city, and wooden performance by Farrah Fawcett (who is much better when she doesn't say anything).Forget what the critics say and watch it. The special effects have dated, as has Michael York's hairstyle (!) but it's great entertainment with lots of action. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Not Perfect, But Entertaining","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen this movie a lot over the years. There are glitches galore gray-haired extras and stunt men who are clearly over 30, the City of Domes miniature that just screams model!. Still, it's entertaining, and it is NOT a B-picture(this was a 9 million-dollar production back in 1976, a big budget for a pre-Star Wars sci-fi flick). BTW, one of L.B. Abbott's f/x specialties was blending matte paintings with live-action sequences, hence, the bombed-out Washington, D.C. scenes. Also, regarding the production design and f/x in general before Star Wars, major studios could get away with a lot of the cheesy stuff in the movie, like those interstellar flare guns, and the shopping mall dressed up with a few mirror and neon sculptures to create a city of the future. Not to mention the Moog and Arp synthesizer noises in the soundtrack. I watched this film on DVD recently, and the picture quality overall is excellent. Who else, before watching this film on DVD, didn't notice that Jessica 6 throws away Francis 7's City of Domes flare gun, causing Francis 7 to dive off the balcony and duke it out with Logan 5 in the Old Man's D.C. lair? So, quick, before the remake comes, watch this, the original movie. "}{"Title":"Great at the time","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Great at the time and still is ! I may sound like a simpleton to some... but I saw this movie 30 years ago with a bunch of friends ( it was the Must See ). Yesterday, I bought it at Sam Goodys for 3.99 and watched it for the first time again. I thoroughly enjoyed it, and do share similar thesis ( as to problems ) with many previous comments, however; it is a must see for sci- fi aficionado's...... don't know what took me so long to do this. Go watch it again, 40 somethings !!! Tha acting is pretty good considering the context, the eye candy is great ( costumes, people ), the technology is great ( in my mind, for the period ), and above all that.... they really had a pretty good idea of how Washington, DC would look in 200 years if neglected. The loose end is definitely is finding the old man. Which is the catalyst for all those trying to find a connection to our own past in the premise. Like myself at age 16. Still good stuff. "},{"Title":"Sure it's campy, but that doesn't mean it's not great!","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's got plot holes, amateurish special effects, some ugly dialogue and one incredibly bad acting performance (Farrah Fawcett is just painful to watch here).  Yet I love this film.Perhaps it's the nostalgia factor as the movie oozes the 70s in almost every scene, right up to the disco ball of death at the top of Carousel.  The costumes, the haircuts, the music, the effects and the youth culture all contribute to bring me back to when I saw this movie as a kid.Or it could be Jenny Agutter.  I can't think of a more perfectly cast actress in a part in any movie.  She exudes youth, beauty and latent sexuality all framed by an incredibly innocent appearance and performance.  Her damsel in distress part doesn't have a whole lot to it, but she does a damn fine job with what she's given.  Note the scene where she goes to Logan's door to lure him to his death.  You can see the conflict of guilt/duty play out in her eyes.  Props to Richard Jordan also for the delightfully manic Francis-7.Or perhaps it is the romantic in me, because at its heart Logan's Run is a love story.  And although the budding love between Jessica and Logan is underdeveloped (taking a back seat to the action) it's done well enough to make a simple line like Yes Logan (on the stairs outside of the Love Shop) hit me in a soft spot.I love the music too.  A great example is when Logan and Jessica first see the sun.  That's a home run shot.Whatever the reason Logan's Run remains a favorite to this day, almost 30 years later. "},{"Title":"70's Sci-Fi at its best","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure, it's 70's Sci-Fi at its best. However, calling something the best of 70s Sci-Fi is kind of a backhand comment. It's a rather limited category - especially when you are considering films made before Star Wars. I start thinking of films like Rollerball, and even the Planet of the Apes movies. They're the type of movies that were conceived with a type of socio-political statement & theme in mind (mostly revolving around a futuristic Utopian world), and in the process of showing that futuristic world, managed to date themselves by showing off their state-of-the-art 70's technology. Even discreet things like the font used for public billboards screams out THIS WAS MADE IN THE 70's !!!. They have that really cheesy curvy quasi-futuristic type of font that was so popular in the 70's for a while. Now you see that font, and you think to yourself damn, people actually thought that looked 'futuristic' at one time ?Still, at the base of this movie there is indeed an interesting underlying story. Sure, it's a bit ridiculous (you can live in a Utopian world - but you can only live until you're 30), but it's still an interesting idea.I remember watching this flick when I was 7 and being completely fascinated with it. I just loved this world. It was amazing to me. I mean, did you see how they could just go into those cars and get taken anywhere they wanted automatically ?!?! WOW ! It reminded me of my family trip to Disney World the summer before !I just watched Logan's Run again for about the 6th or 7th time last night. It's still an entertaining flick. I enjoyed it. But all I kept thinking while watching it was This movie needs to be remade. If they can remake Rollerball and Planet of the Apes, then they need to remake Logan's Run. This is a story that can truly benefit from a remake today. This is especially true when you consider the elements of this movie which are keeping it from being a great movie are fixable. When I say that, I'm not just referring to improved special effects. I'm also talking about the pacing of the movie & the focus. This movie was best when it was focusing on the futuristic Utopian world, during the first hour or so. It started to go downhill after that. I think a remake that focused on that futuristic world, and its interesting society, would be much more entertaining. Obviously, an improved ending will elevate a remake as well.I'm sure someone will eventually remake it. If it's done right, then it will be a better film than Minority Report. "},{"Title":"Background on the Book, Movie and production","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The new DVD out has a very interesting voice over option explaining  a lot of the production and plot adaptions necessary to produce this entertaining and still exciting film.Some items of interest, the plot was moved up from the original death at 21 in the book to death at 30 for the movie for casting purposes.  It was not feasable at all to cast the movie under 21.  Some very interesting scenes from the screen play had to be cut for the movie for time reasons.  Some explanations of the final plot scenes are in the commentary, not in the book, and not fully explained in the movie, again for time reasons.  Some of the more intersting special effects are explained as well and are quite fascinating.The book this movie is based on is now out of print, but it is easy to access from your library by using internet online search and having it held at your local library for pick up.  The book compedium is Logan's World, and the forward by the author William F. Nolan covers the authors intention to sell the book as a movie screenplay and how after several attempts and 10 years some bright fellow condensed the screenplay to its' present form and sold it to MGM for a rather brilliant movie.  The spin off TV series only had the author as collaborator for a short while and the shows suffered and series terminated in consequence.The 2 successor novels in the compedium continue with Logan and Jessica after the fall of the city, and the last is an alternate universe extrapolation.  Poor Jessica gets a rough time in it in all 3 books, which is not shown up in the movie.  It would have changed the ratings.  "},{"Title":"Impressive and highly entertaining variation on the prison movie.","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My first impression of Logan's Run came from broadcast TV in the late 70s. Carrousel's mix of fun and horror stayed with me ever since.  The announcer's soothingly authoritarian female voice was perfect, the doomed participants' glossy white hockey masks both frightening and beautiful. To the cheers of the surrounding audience, everyone slowly floated up from the turning platform and BOOM! People got killed in showers of sparks and the deluded, chanting crowd loved it even more! Witnessing high-tech, society-approved, big budget Hollywood mass suicide was shocking to my childhood self.I saw the uncensored pan-and-scan version on cable two more times in the 80s and found fault with its pacing and cheap looking holograms.  Logan's Run did not pass the if it's on it draws you in and you HAVE to watch it to the end test of great films like Jaws or The Godfather. It was too much of a dull chore to be worth sitting through.I recently gave it another chance with widescreen DVD and loved it from beginning to end. The expansive, futuristic sets and matte paintings of Washington DC ruins were fascinating. The handmade quality of the special effects had a special charm compared to today's seamlessly layered digital images. The perfectly centered shots of New You's chrome/cyan neon hallway and the maze car emerging from the silver tube were worthy of Kubrick. The adventure/mystery/love story held my interest until the shamelessly manipulative yet surprisingly touching climax.The 1998 DVD revealed minor print damage and significant dust, but the bold color, clarity, and surround sound remix came through beautifully. The icy scenes in Box's cave had a particularly appealing storybook quality. The huge Sandman debriefing room set looked stunning, and the softly ticking lifeclock displays in the background were a brilliantly understated touch. The Love Shop was hilarious, especially the sleazy abstract red neon sculpture on the secret escape door. All in all, a wonderful, good hearted film whose strengths far outweigh its weaknesses. "},{"Title":"Better than it's critics say it is","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While I may hesitate to call it one of the grreatest SciFi movies made, it is certainly much better than the movie's detractors would lead you to believe.It is true that this movie wears the decade it was made in quite noticeably. The hair, the costumes, and the futuristic design just scream 70s at you. The special effects, viewed through today's eyes, are certainly dated, but this movie came out about a year before George Lucas revolutionized special effects with Star Wars. (by the way, Kubrick had much more money to throw at the FX in 2001 than they did for this movie!)But there is something about this movie which still resonates even today for me, and it's not just a half naked Jenny Agutter! I just bought this movie from the bargain bin at the local Best Buy, and I was glad I did. Perhaps it is the message that there is much more to life than hedonistic pleasure, or the adventure of two people finding out the truth of their existence, I'm not entirely sure. All I'm saying is that if you can overlook the dated aspects of this flick, there is an enjoyable tale to be told. I give it a 7/10.P.S. Earlier, someone kept referring to a Nuclear Holocaust for the reason the Domed City is built. Had they bothered to read the screen at the beginning of the movie, they'd see it was actually an ecological disaster, not nuclear war, which caused the Domed City to be built.  "},{"Title":"Oh yeah...I love this movie","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Logan's Run is one of those movies that hypnotized you if you saw it when it was released.  Something about it is forever etched into your psyche; could it be death at thirty, complete hedonism, hope for humanity?  Can't say for sure, but Logan's Run goes after it all.Released prior to Star Wars which revolutionized the way special effects are done, the effects are most definitely cheesy.  The acting is a bit on the thin side, but my theory is that it is purposely that way; illustrating the child-like acceptance of the way the world is around them.  The DVD contains many excellent features, which gives the true fan lots of background into the film.I have tried to explain this movie to friends who are not of my age group, without success.  Perhaps it was just the right place at the right time.If you appreciate 70's science fiction this is a great film to own. "},{"Title":"Great B movie","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The sketchy models and sometime bad acting were the only reasons this movie got 2 less than 9 out of 10. I haven't read the book, but I can see that the director/writer of the screenplay was confronted with a challenge.Its a great story. If you're unimpressed with the authors concept of a futuristic society, remember that its not an advanced society. Its a created society. One created by us to solve the worlds problems; problems created by us. "},{"Title":"Better than the book","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one of those rare films which is better than the book it comes from. The book has many logic and plot faults the movie avoids. As a result the movie version of Logan's Run is far more believable than that of the novel especially at the end. However the movie does have periods where you have to pay close attention to what the characters are saying to understand a scene. The encounter with Box is case in point; when you realize what he is actually saying the implications are as chilling as they are frightening. Similarly a comment about the palm crystals later on has interesting implications.For those who have grown up on Post-Star War special effects the movie is not that spectacular but it is not the effects that drive this picture it is the characters. Once you get engrossed in the characters then problems with some of the models is  unimportant. "},{"Title":"A very good movie","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie as a kid on the long gone Science Fiction Theatre we all used to watch in the late seventies early eighties.  If you can get past the goofy models of the city, you'll enjoy the idea, concept and action in this movie.Don't be surprised to see this movie re-made using new technology. True Minority Report (2002) is similar....  But, I'de love to see a remake of this classic sci-fi thriller.You will be hard pressed to find anyone 30+ years that hasnt heard of or seen this movie. "}{"Title":"One of the great sf films","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While watching Logan's Run, you may find the effects dated and flawed in many parts, but what makes this movie work is not the effects, the miniatures, or (especially) the dated musical soundtrack, but the story. SF in the late 60s and early 70s took on a more sociological tone, and this movie holds true to that philosophy of SF.  The basic plot the Earth has suffered a holocaust and humans have taken refuge within massive domes. To prevent overpopulation of the domes, people are given 30 years of life at the end of which they are given the chance to renew (earn another 30 years) or die in the attempt.  Of course, no one ever renews.  Still, some don't submit to this ideology of population control and want more without earning it.  Enter the sandmen whose job it is to stop those who refuse to accept their fate.  Logan is a sandman, who, having years taken away from him by the controlling computer in an effort to locate an underground movement that tries to help people escape the totalitarian regime of the domes, decides he has been shortchanged and decides to run himself.  Inside the domes is where the greatest commentary on current, at the time of the film's making, society.  A utopia filled with young people who live a life filled with hedonism, sex and drugs.  This is essentially the story of the Fall of Rome, where all that has been disintegrates under the burden of human desire and lack of love, morals, and ideals.  Among the hedonists are, of course, a few idealists who strive to overcome the accepted behavior.  Love is the groundwork of this film, for it is essentially subplotted with an atypical love story which at times hinders, and other times accelerates the story. The casting and costuming are superb (the scant clothing of the dome inhabitants reflects total disregard for contemporary values).  One could write thousands of worlds dissecting the strengths and weaknesses of this film, but overall, for just a superb story told with carefully controlled pacing, its hard to beat this film.  On a scale of 1-10, I give this film a solid 8.5 (rare in a field filled with trite plots and poor acting) "},{"Title":"The turning point in sci-fi","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After years pre-60's style exposition in sci-fi film, Logan's Run set an entirely new standard for future shock and speculative fiction.  Although a handful of other films had experimented, some successfully, with a less intrusive form of plot exposition than was the norm, to date, only this one seemed to have the power to actually bear lasting change on the genre. The astounding acting talents of Michael York and the immortal Peter Ustinov combine to create an unforgettable experience in a literary dissertation on human existence and the desire to survive.Both in book and film form this story altered the course of all science fiction to follow, and to this day can be seen both echoed and referred to in nearly all sci-fi film and literature.My thanks to William Nolan and George Johnson for reshaping a genre, and to David Goodman for making sci-fi film a viable and serious art from that would lead us into a remarkable and fantastic future.  "},{"Title":"Origin of Basil Exposition","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having heard of the film's reputation, I took the opportunity when Target became sufficiently anxious to be rid of this merchandise that they marked Logan's Run on dvd down to 5.99.  While some have praised the film for it's inclusion of landmark 70s bathing beauty Farrah Fawcett, I call this one of the film's low points. In addition, while the film generally portrays the future convincingly, the sets are somewhat bare. Furthermore, I do believe that the Old Man sequence is longish, though the old man is enjoyable to listen to.So those are the flaws as I see them. On the other side, Michael York is a pleasant changeup from more typical scifi stars. The effects were as enjoyable as the contemporary Black Hole. Most importantly, the film contains something that is integral to science fiction yet has been regularly left out since the work of Jules Verne and others. Here I speak of genuine intelligence and coherent philosophy. Enjoyable though the then-groundbreaking effects were, this alone sets the film apart. And let me finally state that I eagerly await the arrival of the wall-mounted Chick Generator Matrix from the folks at Bell Labs. "},{"Title":"Damn Good Fun!","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Your review misses the point ,Logan's Run is a good laugh. The prospect of Carousel on reaching your 30th is an interesting idea when it comes to population control. It only looks dated next to Star Wars(which I personally think was tiresome !)because it didn't have the same budget. That plus the fact that a lot of the interior shots were filmed in a shopping mall in Texas!.Fantastic!. "},{"Title":"Still Engaging","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm sure I'm biased, as this was one of the first films I saw at the cinema as a young teen. I have seen it multiple times since and I still find it engaging. The opening sequence, shot long before CGI is well paced and perfectly balanced with the wonderful and somewhat groundbreaking score.The story is greatly simplified from the novel, to its credit. Logan (York) is essentially a murderous puppet of the regime - his growth to the conclusion of the story helps engenders sympathy towards him.Jessica (Agutter) is stunningly beautiful in a very classy way, and also goes through a metamorphosis along with Logan as together they stumble towards the truth surrounding the domed city in which they live and realize that love is the better way.Ustinov as the old man is perfect.The domed city is very well realized, I would say definitive until something better comes along.All in all I highly recommend this film, just don't expect CGI or sex or needless violence or dull, dreary grim proceedings similar to what science fiction films in the 21st century has become - is it because we're in the future we all yearned for and it didn't come true? "},{"Title":"As Close to Porn as PG Can Take You","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the most bizarre movies I've seen in a while-- a period of time that includes Six String Samurai and Jesus Christ Superstar. It is a very good dystopia tale, but mostly it relies on gorgeous special effects (abundant) and sex appeal (supposedly abundant, but I think rather scarce) to drive its themes home. The performances are appropriately campy, so there's no contest from me on that front. What I find the most unnecessary about this movie is the (somewhat) frequent outbursts of nudity that might be somewhat important, but come at very odd times (Let's take our clothes off before they freeze). Peter Ustinov's brief performance as a madder-than-a-hatter old man is amazing, but the comparatively small portion of this movie that needs to be redeemed still lies in limbo in spite of it. I wouldn't tell anyone to avoid watching this movie, because it is fairly entertaining, but be warned-- this isn't even traditional as far as sci-fi movies go. "},{"Title":"How can you improve on perfection?","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The classic Logan's Run is perfect just the way it is. I can't imagine how they improve on the perfection that is Logan's Run with the upcoming remake, but I just pray they don't screw it up like other remakes which shall remain nameless. Now to the classic story of Logan's Run, the cast does a great job, the story is wonderful for a God I hope not future. There are some minor character issues which I won't get into. But for the most part, the best villain of the movie is Box, the crazed robot that thinks he has to freeze anything and anyone that he meets to preserve as food. That is one cool monster robot. The effects were assume for the time period and the acting is perfect. So to cut a long review short, I give it 9 STARS. "},{"Title":"Interesting pre-STAR WARS sci-fi!","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" LOGAN's RUN tells the tale of Logan 5, a sandman (or a policeman) living in an Utopian society, where everything is nice and clean in an underground city covered by a huge dome. The trouble is, no one in this city gets to live past their 30th birthday. People who are approaching that age partake on a ceremony, where they believe they will be renewed or have a life beyond. One day, Logan is sent on a secret mission by the city's central computer, which is to find the sanctuary. People who try to escape this city want to get to this sanctuary and it's up to Logan to find out if this place exists or doesn't but not before he's betrayed by the same computer. He befriends Jessica, a young woman who doesn't believe in the renewal thing and who also believed that there was something beyond the city's dome. LOGAN'S RUN is the perfect example of pre STAR WARS science fiction and the reason why Lucas's space opera made this 1976 film decidedly archaic overnight. Nevertheless, LOGAN'S RUN is a surprisingly entertaining movie. A bit uneven at parts and with some major explanations never addressed, LOGAN'S RUN still made for an entertaining 2 hours. Jenny Agutter is hella sexy as Jessica and Michael York's portrayal of Logan is believable enough. The late Richard Jordan gives an energetic performance as Francis, the sandman who is out to get his ex buddy Logan and Jessica for escaping the dome. Most of the Special Effects do look extremely dated and very 70's. Still, the production design is good and Jerry Goldsmith's score mixes traditional orchestra with what sounds like early 80's arcade game noises. I haven't read the book this movie was based upon. With that in hand, we never know who's behind this Utopian society or what controls them and who established the death at 30 and renewal philosophies. By the same token, we never know what drives people to run away from what otherwise seems like the perfect society. More recent pictures like THE ISLAND (the 2005 movie, not the Michael Caine one)look as a virtual remake of LOGAN'S RUN. Other movies like TOTAL RECALL and even THE MATRIX seem to have taken cues from LOGAN'S RUN here and there.I would love to see an actual remake of LOGAN'S RUN. With smoothed out story and better SFX it would be a real show stopper. In the meantime, enjoy this piece of 70's science fiction! "},{"Title":"The Joys of digital remastering","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, the effects are a bit dated, but consider when it was done.Every want and desire is taken care of for you by the City. You get to indulge yourself in every possible way.. but there's a catch. When your Lifeclock starts blinking, you are 30 years old, and must take your chances on the carousel to be 'renewed'. Those that want to live get hunted down, toyed with, and then killed by Sandmen, judge jury executioners.Utopia with a frightening population control method. And even in a Utopian society, there were the juvenile delinquents, housed in Cathedral. As much as it is enjoyable, I can fully understand why William Nolan was irked at the changes that veered away from his book. I had read the book several years before seeing the movie. I do think the original plot line would have made a great movie. Instead of 30 years old, and the carousel, it was 21 years old and Sleep. Francis is another Sandman, but he is a statistical anomaly, his life clock malfunctioned, it never changed from red to black, so he had lived a 'double lifetime' in disguise.Washington was devastated by a small dirty nuke, not overgrown, or overrun by cats and only having one person living there. Logan wanting to tell Francis that the young don't build, they just use.And Logan and Jessica didn't go back to the city, but escaped to Argos Space Station, with the help of the disguised Francis. "},{"Title":"OK, so life ends after 30!?!?","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the quintessential sci-fi movies. It was totally original and a break through for it's time.Set in an Utopian society, this movie tackles the problems with such a society and relentless pursuit of youth. It makes you take a look at the world we live in now and think about how we treat our elderly.Logan's run doesn't have the greatest sound track or script ever written, but it has a great plot some solid performances and some great cinematography. It also has a great twist along the way that creeps you out.I saw that they are scheduling a remake of this for sometime in 2007. I am looking forward to it so much!!!! "}{"Title":"Dated?  Who cares still fun to see York, Farrah and Jenny )","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was 16 when I saw this movie in the theaters...all my friends and I were so excited about it. We loved it...we were not movie critics, we were kids and we liked it. We thought the storyline was fantastic and it could really happen in the future!Now, years later I bought the widescreen version of this classic and....yes the special effects look cheap, the soundtrack is enigmatic and adds to the suspense of the drama the acting is not that bad especially from York. The voice of the Master computer is soothing and enchanting, seeing my boyhood idol Farrah Fawcett-Majors, back then she was not a great actress, just a pretty model who had an actor for a husband that helped opened doors. Jenny Agutter walks around barefoot half-naked thru the pleasure dome ! Don't expect to see the greatest movie ever made but just a silly fun flick about the future, no more no less. "},{"Title":"Great pre-Star Wars sci-fi movie that is still interesting to watch","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a fan of a lot of sci-fi related films, especially ones that introduce alternative ways of living and society in the future, so this film was right up my alley. This film had been recommended to me for awhile, and after I saw it, I can see why it was recommended.The story is pretty easy to understand A man goes undercover in a future society to catch people who run away from the society because its standard of living is to kill off everyone at the age of 30. That means that this movie tackles religion, sociological advancement, and free thought/speech topics all in one film, which is spectacular.The movie plays out like THX-1138, except not as experimental and abstract. (They tell you explicitly what's going on unlike THX.) It features great visuals, great concepts on the future for government and society as a whole, and great design of every art form (music, interior design, and models of holograms and other fixtures). The actors had a great chemistry together, and everything was shot to emphasize these people bonding and pushing each other away in whatever given scene.I didn't like the cheap look of the mid-70's style movie (still with its rough edges and weird film qualities), but it is nice to see this historical work of art in sci-fi's culture. The music was interesting and very avant garde, featuring mostly noodling on a Casio keyboard, except the minimal style in the songs actually helped the feel of what Michael Anderson, the director, felt that the future music standard might be like. The film as a whole felt that it was dragging in parts where new characters were introduced, but it had a good premise.Overall, I only gave it a 6/10, because while most of the film had a good feel to it, I felt that the dated film processing and rough feel to the action/special FX actually took away from the fluidity that it really could've used. "},{"Title":"Stunning SCI-FI","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Logan's Run is a dazzling sci-fi film. It is set in a very alien future of the United States; only everyone is forced to live indoors in a City of Domes. Society is peaceful and fun loving. When you reach 30, you are to renew your life through a ritual or never live again. The story of Logan's Run is quite frightening. Director Michael Anderson does a fantastic job of keeping the frightening aspects of the story going. From the pleasant yet somewhat menacing voice of the main computer to the idea behind the Carousel, you never for a minute doubt what is going on and you really pull for the central characters. The DVD transfer is good, probably as good as they are going to get, because some scenes of the film always looked a little muddy. The enhanced soundtrack is in Dolby and while not 5.1, is still sounds much better than the VHS. The commentary is good but nothing spectacular. And the widescreen is really nice!A word of caution. While the film is rated PG, there are several scenes of brief nudity, one of which really doesn't further the plot any and is unnecessary (in fact, in the commentary, the scene takes the director by surprise and he says he forgot about it). The other is an elaborate scene in the love shop. Despite that, there is very little graphic violence and little to no profanity. Logan's Run is a solid film. It looks a little dated now, but still entertains! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable nostalgia trip","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For reasons best known to themselves, Fry's are selling this DVD for $5.88 - a great deal! Since the cover art alone is worth that price (it has psychedelic style cartoon representation of the movie, not the photo-based artwork shown on IMDb), I bought it. For an old movie it has respectable extras, consisting mainly of a commentary track with director, star (Michael York) and costume designer, recorded after the fact (but before 2000, when the costume designer Bill Thomas died), as well as a 10 minute featurette (more of an infomercial really!) and the trailer.I won't go over the plot again. There is some clunky dialogue, especially when Logan and Jessica are expressing their astonishment at the concept of marriage. However, I enjoyed the movie and, after some disappointing DVD buying efforts recently (anybody want a copy of 2010?) found it very satisfying. The special effects are OK except for the aerial shots within the dome - which look like a Hornby train set hahahah! Michael York, Jenny Agutter (24 at the time, she looks fab!) and Peter Ustinov (the 55 year old actor caked on the makeup to play an older man living outside the hermetically sealed city) all do a good job. However, the real star of the movie, Agutter's extremely flimsy and frequently soaked non-costume, is uncredited!  "},{"Title":"Not much has changed","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After watching this film for the first time in almost 30 years three things are still the same1) The film is quite watchable despite it's many flaws.2) Farrah Fawcetts performance is truly as bad as any I've ever seen. Absolutely embarrassing.3) Jenny Agutter is HOT!!!!! Just beautiful, clearly the best reason to watch the movie.This film is truly dated though. Those ridiculous 70's hairdos have definitely not stood the test of time. And another thing where are all the brothas in this film. Other than a few background players they are nowhere to be seen.  "},{"Title":"Interesting concepts, loopholed story, poor set and effects","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't believe this movie received an Special Achievement Award Oscar for visual effects. People then must've been blinded by the flashy lights and skimpy skirts (what is it with the Christmas colors motif?). I'm sure the Academy regretted their decision the next year when the immensely superior Star Wars was released. Granted the art direction and special effects teams had a tough job on their hands - creating a futuristic city with little resemblance to the now - and they do a good decent job at times, but many details still smack of ineptitude and incompetence. For example external shots of the city are clearly of models; when people levitate, you can see the wires; when shots are fired at the ground by flare-like guns, you can see the line of flash powder that ignites; and oh god, the robot looked even faker than the Tin Man in The Wizard of Oz, if that's possible.The screenplay for Logan's Run - originally a novel - is ambitious. It succeeds on some levels but fails on others. It manages to give us a good feel of the 23th century city life, a life not unlike the one in Aldous Huxley's Brave New World - a world of conformists, a section of savages, a few questioning individuals, and a whole new system of doing everything, including an intriguing method of procuring sexual partners for a surprisingly ambisexual society.Unfortunately this movie fails plot-wise. The problem with movies that take place in completely new worlds is that the duration of the movies have to be divided between introducing the audience to the world and actually telling the story. With books, it is more easily done. Hence, even at a lengthy two hours, this movie still has loopholes left gapingly open (like the robot, what's that about?).Michael York is a surprisingly charismatic and dashing lead, something you wouldn't have been able to tell from his roles as Basil Exposition in the Austin Powers movies. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie!  Timely message","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has woven through my mind deeply.  There is nothing more thought provoking then seeing beautiful people refusing to permit old-age.  Logan is 26, 4 years away from Last Day when the story unfolds (not 30, like the paragraph above states!), and then undertakes a task because the computer forces it upon him by speeding up his life-clock!  The society tries so hard to be a Brave New World but there are those who rebel against this Renewal at 30 concept.  For those who Run there are the Sandman, and they track down the runners.  Logan's one of these, which is in itself a Paradox.It's interesting seeing how the 1976 movie maker envisioned the future to be like.  The Hedonistic attitude was rather humourous, and the Circuit I think was a combination of Star_Trek (beaming) and TV!Knowing the York has been in other movies, like Cabaret, it's great seeing his acting abilities in something a bit lighter (years before the SHAG ME BABY movies!).This movie is one of two that I put together (as I can see that the reviewer before me also must do!).  I consider Soylent Green and this to be a one-two punch for a society wake up call in the midst of the turmoil that was the 70's.I consider it a must see movie.  And if that fails, there's always the Young Farrah Fawcett? "},{"Title":"Logan Just Finished Before It Ran Out of Gas!!!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The year is 2274.  All inhabitants of the earth live inside cities that are covered by environmentally protective domes, or do they?  Everyday's a party in the domed city.  Do what you want, you can do no wrong.  Booze it up, sex it up, live it up, that is until the day before you turn thirty.  On that day you get to ride the Carrousel to death and hopefully to Rebirth, but I wouldn't bet on it.Michael York plays Logan 5, a Sandman (cop of the future)who tracks down Runners, those who would try to escape their fate and make it to the outside world!  Suddenly Logan is close to 30, is he really a Runner now?  Or does he just want to find Sanctuary so he can terminate those who ran before him!The song Disco Inferno could have been used as the theme for this seventies sci-fi outing and I don't think it would have seemed the least bit out of place.  I can't believe that this movie actually won an Academy Award for visual effects.  It looks more like the mall of the future, then the city of the future.  I have seen train hobbyists make better minature sets then the makers of this film did.  Thank God Star Wars was only a year away!!!  Michael York did a fine job playing Logan, a bit stiff maybe. Though he was playing a 26 year old and in reality York was 34 and looked every bit of 40.The costars did a fine job also.  The story was fine, it held my attention. That was the main problem with this movie, everything was just fine. Nothing was great or outstanding.  It didn't suck, but it was just fine. Farrah Fawcett-Majors was fine in her cameo also (she looked like she just walked off of Letterman's couch).This was a long movie, just under two hours.  In those two hours a lot of stuff went unexplained.  Who ran the cities?  Was it a computer or were there a group of men behind it?  Who the hell would just start listening to a computer one day?  Where did the food come from?  Everybody was happy as a clam, but who gave them all this crap to keep them happy?  Enquiring minds want to know!  They spoke English, did they read English?  Why didn't they read some of the books they found with the old man and find out what the hell happened to society?I actually liked the movie.  I enjoyed seeing what it was like to live in the 1970's.  My only real problems were that it moved a tad slow and could have covered more valuable ground with it's time.  I also hated the fact that nobody questioned anything, even when Logan gets out, he doesn't ask the important questions.  It reminds me of the TRL youth of today, give them their pleasures and they don't care where it comes from, just as long as it keeps on coming.  The more I think about it I think this movie perfectly predicted the spoiled ass punk youth of today. "},{"Title":"Dated - but very provocative","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I agree with the first comment on the movie, but to a certain point. Albeit the film does radically switch gears on you after a certain amount of action and very interesting interaction... it is still most interesting considering the time in which it was made.I saw the film when it was first in theaters, and then later on read the novel on which it was based.  If you've read the book, it became more interesting when the end-age was 21 rather than 30.  Although, the book had more detail (as they often do) they would never be able to make it again closer to the novel without breaking several laws!I wish that the DVD had better sound, as I really always have loved the movie.  Still... if you haven't seen it... give it a try!  At the very least, it has some interesting scenery in it "},{"Title":"Don't trust anyone over thirty- kill them.","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the 1970s there was a clear division of opinion among film-makers about how the future would look. Those who made films like Rollerball, Westworld and Capricorn One did so on the assumption that the future would look like a marginally trendier version of the seventies and that they could therefore save money on designing expensive sets and costumes. The other school of thought held that the future would look very different from the present, although even this school tended to rely on a few clichés rather than use their imaginations. Logan's Run was made according to the tenets of this second school, and duly trots out their standard received ideas. We learn, for example, that in the twenty-second century all buildings will still be in the Modernist style of the twentieth, only made of plastic rather than steel, glass and concrete. Men will wear Lycra shell-suits and women diaphanous mini-dresses. Everyone will travel by monorail or moving walkway. And everyone will be young, beautiful, fit and healthy.The plot borrows elements from a number of other science-fiction works. From Arthur C. Clarke's The City and the Stars it borrows the idea of a domed city, hermetically sealed off from the outside world. From Huxley's Brave New World it borrows baby factories; children are not born naturally but produced in hatcheries. The scenes of a ruined Washington DC owe something to the Statue of Liberty scene in Planet of the Apes.Logan's Run has one original idea of its own. There is a good reason why everyone is young, beautiful, fit and healthy; at the age of thirty everyone is subject to compulsory ritual euthanasia (euphemistically known as renewal). The greatest crime is to run, to try and leave the city in order to escape this fate. The title character, Logan, is a sandman, one of an elite police force whose function is to hunt down and kill runners. The film explores what happens when Logan himself becomes a runner and tries to leave the city with Jessica, a beautiful girl with whom he has fallen in love. Pursued by Francis, a former colleague of Logan, they escape to a now-ruined Washington where they meet an old man living with only cats for company.There are a number of gaps in the plot; it is never explained how Washington came to be ruined, what has become of its former inhabitants or how Peter Ustinov has managed to survive there while everyone else has been killed or fled. Plot-holes are not necessarily a bad thing in science fiction; we do not, for example, waste much time while watching the original Planet of the Apes in wondering how the apes came to take over the Earth. (There were, of course, four sequels made in which it was explained exactly how they did so, but none of those sequels is anywhere near as good as the original). There is, however, a more vital plot-hole in Logan's Run, one which I think does affect our enjoyment.The film is (like Brave New World and Orwell's 1984) an example of dystopian science fiction. Although such works are ostensibly set in the future, they are really satires on the ages in which they were written. Their purpose is to draw attention to some feature of modern society which the author finds objectionable and to show how that feature could, at some future date, have disastrous consequences. (Orwell's main targets were totalitarian ideologies like fascism and communism). The main character is typically a young man who is discontented with the values of his society.In general Logan's Run follows this pattern. The social evils against which it appears to be targeted are the generation gap, the tendency, very prevalent in the sixties and seventies, to glorify youth at the expense of age and the don't trust anyone over thirty mentality. Logan is the young malcontent equivalent to Winston Smith or John the Savage, with Jessica the equivalent of Julia or Lenina. In one important respect, however, it departs from the standard model. Most dystopian novels have a raisonneur, equivalent to O'Brien in 1984 or Mustapha Mond in Brave New World, whose task is to persuade the rebellious hero to conform to the values of his society. There is no equivalent character in Logan's Run, so we never find out exactly what the ruling value-system of Logan's city is, why it is considered necessary to kill off the entire population in the prime of their lives and why so many people accept this fate uncomplainingly.When I recently saw this film for the first time in many years, I realised that I had confused its plot with that of the spin-off TV series. In that series the city was controlled by a hidden elite of elderly men who killed off everyone else at thirty in order to prevent their power from being challenged. Francis was so anxious to hunt down his former friend because he had been promised membership of this elite if he succeeded. Although the series was not a great success, it did at least try and answer some of the questions that the film avoided.Michael York, 34 when the film was made, is strictly speaking too old for his role, but looks youthful enough to get away with it. (Richard Jordan, who plays Francis, was 38). The lovely Jenny Agutter makes an appealing heroine as Jessica. Jenny was one of a number of British actresses from around this period who looked to be on the verge of becoming major Hollywood stars but never quite made it. Seen as a simply science-fiction adventure the film provides some exciting moments, although some scenes today seem unintentionally comic, especially the one with Box, the frozen-food processing robot. Seen as a film of ideas, however- and I think that was how its makers intended it to be seen- it never really works. 5/10 "}{"Title":"17 and IN LOVE","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I only saw Logan's Run for the first time two nights ago, it was on cable, I loved it. Sure, its got old technology that is so obviously fake, but it more than makes up for it in story-line and acting. Although I don't (personally) agree with many of the statements the film has made (several religious undertones) I am deeply impressed with its use of symbolism. I look forward to seeing the new version of the film, and I've already seen the original twice (i taped it the following day!!!) But i don't think anything will beat the brilliant portrayal made by Michael York, especially in the scene before the final carousel ITS A LIE!! YOU DONT HAVE TO DIE!! Am I right in assuming I'm not the only one who adores him now! "},{"Title":"A movie that was way ahead of its time (and still is)...","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is enthralling from start to finish. Awesome, timeless special effects, great acting, a great plot and excellent direction and production. It really takes you to a whole different world, an innocent, young world, but also a scary one.This movie can be seen by the whole family because there is no hardcore violence or bad language and the little nudity is not blatant. I would recommend this movie to anyone who loves sci-fi, a great story and film as an art.It is truly a masterpiece, and Peter Ustinov plays one of the most endearing roles ever seen on the silver screen. "},{"Title":"This is one film badly in need of a remake...","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Classic Science-Fiction usually revolves around a central theme geared toward modern humans, though told in a post-modern setting. That theme is generally the human condition. What does it mean to be human? What is humanity? Are we really free, and if so, how would we know? It's funny that it takes crazy-ass movies set hundreds of years in the future with robots and lasers and aliens and god-knows-what-else to bring this message across. But, that's classic science fiction for you!Logan's Run focuses on our hero, Logan as it is, and his running. Running is what you do when you flee when it's your time to be ceremonially killed when you reach the ripe old age of 30 in the hyper-modern, freedomless society of 23rd Century Earth. Logan, as a Sandman (futuristic policeman) is normally working hard to chase down runners, but now it's his turn as ordered by the giant computer than runs the huge domed-in city in which all the known citizens of Earth reside. He's really on a journey to discover his own humanity, as if you didn't see that coming, right?Here's the breakdownThe Good--Classic Science Fiction, who doesn't like that?--Pretty good acting.--Nice sets and interesting visuals.--Where'd all this nudity come from? This is PG, right?--Pretty decent special effects.Didn't Hurt It, Didn't Help--Ridiculous computer technology, especially from a modern (21st Century) viewpoint.--This came out only a year before Star Wars, so why does it feel like 15 years?--Story, characters all portrayed and delivered well.The Bad--This particular vision of the future doesn't hold up well over a span of nearly 30 years. Star Trek predates it by several years and is a more accurate representation.--Awful costumes, and damn uninspired.--Not a helluva lot of depth.The Ugly--Early synthesizer-era film. So, throughout a large portion, there is some of the most horrendous, repulsive synth music you could dare imagine. I swear&#151;it's like they just handed the keyboard to some drugged-up, fingerless semi-retarded hippie and let him compose blindly in a room with dive-bombing bats attacking him from all sides. What the hell is wrong with people in the 70's?Well then, this PG-rated SF film had nudity. As a matter of fact, it had quite a damn bit for a PG film, including, a chase through a wildly-lighted, imaginatively visualized sex club! The film rolls by as though through the haze of a dream and itself feels quite dreamy&#151;which isn't bad. It adds well to the atmosphere, which is only hindered by the truly awful music headbutting it's way uncomfortably into the film. The story, as I said, has a central theme, which is the human animal, and the human condition. It is, very clearly, classic Science Fiction, and quite enjoyable to watch. Although, by today's standards (this being written in 2005), it is terribly dated as are some of the effects, which for the most part are done well enough. However, the film's prediction of the future leaves a lot to be desired, and if you compare it to the truly visionary works such as Star Trek (late 60's) or Star Wars (which followed only a year later), Logan's Run teeters on the brink of obsolescence. It's unfortunate, but that's the way it is. We can all rest assured, however, that the story here is what really matters, and thankfully, it comes through rather nicely.Acting 7/10 Story 8/10 Atmosphere 7/10 Cinematography 8/10 Character Development 6/10 Special Effects/Make-up 7/10 Nudity/Sexuality 8/10 (this is a lot for a PG film) Violence/Gore 3/10 (no gore, mild violence) Music 1/10 (synthesizer music be damned!) Direction 8/10Cheesiness 4/10 Crappiness 1/10Overall 7/10 (Originally, I had gone with an 8 for this, but the more I thought about it, the more inappropriate that seemed.)Excellent piece of SF for fans. Nice story, cheesy futuristic vision, awful music. Recommended for Science Fiction fans and film buffs.www.ResidentHazard.com "},{"Title":"Crude, but entertaining","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was an enjoyable movie, a bit too long since I was expecting Logan to run (which he does, but for about 20 minutes), but it manages to round itself up nicely. Michael York, who in my mind is a living parody of himself is a very good lead, but the best part is reserved for Jenny Agutter, one of the sexiest women in a 70's movie. She's shaggadyllic, groovy and very very... lovely. Had it not been for her I'd probably give up on this movie after the scene with that robot. But hey, they at least made the city model look believable. NOT!!!!!!!! A very different score by Williams and a nice plot make Logan's Run credible, although I can't really imagine why anybody never wondered if the outside world was still radioactive or whatever. A nice cameo by Ustinov and Fawcet who still shows she never could act.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Whats a nice girl like Jenny Agutter doing in a film like this?","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is so bad it has to be seen to be believed. The dialogue and special effects are so wooden and transparent they are hilarious, all  the more so because it takes itself seriously. It would be impossible to make a spoof of this because it would never be as funny as the real thing. Watch out for the miniature city complete with electric tube trains and cute little papier mache trees. Also don't miss Box, a  robot played by an actor wearing a tin foil mask, flexible aluminium ducting over his arms sitting in a big silver box. I bet Lucas got the idea for Yoda's backwards grammar from Box. What is even funnier is that the film won an Oscar for visual effects.The film has many other saving graces especially Jenny Agutter running  around in a green tunic, a scene involving Farrah Fawcett Majors with  lots of lasers and a cameo by Peter Ustinov playing an old man living  with a bunch of cats.  "},{"Title":"Average film","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Technically, some parts of this picture are excellent, the set design is good, the photography is fantastic and the widescreen frame is used very well. This film can only be viewed in widescreen otherwise you haven't really seen it.The film suffers in its narrative, there is no depth to it.  At times, the film is not saying anything to you. The screenplay required beefing up.The special effects are not the best, the matte work is poor. The acting is poor too.I can't recommend it, it's very average sci-fi. 2001 is still the best example of science fiction. "},{"Title":"Cool concept, but a lame movie--this movie should be remade.","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What do I like about this movie?  The whole idea of a future world--a 23rd century domed city where only young people live (and they have to be put to death once they reach the age of thirty).  It's a very interesting concept.  I also really like the electronic music used in the movie.  The cinematography is also very good.  However, there are more things to dislike about this movie than there are to like about it.  This is not a bad movie....it's just too campy.  I guess it has to do with the fact that this is a sci-fi movie from 1976.  What don't I like about this movie?  To begin with, I don't really like Michael York playing the title character.  He's just wrong for that role.  And what's with the costumes and hairstyles in the movie?  They can be described as ancient Greece meets the seventies--talk about tacky!  The only passable costumes are those worn by the sandmen.  Speaking of the seventies, Farrah Fawcett has a small role in this movie....I guess the whole purpose of her role was to display her then-popular big hair.  Also, many of the scenes in this movie should not have been filmed inside a shopping center (of all places)....I mean, electric escalators in the 23rd century???  Furthermore, the first 45 minutes or so are ok, but then the rest of the movie gets really slow.  To top it off, the cheap-looking special effects don't help the film at all....they may have been innovative in 1976 (before Star Wars), but they're certainly dated now.  I don't think this movie is too bad though.  In spite of it's campiness, it is worth watching--I have this film on video.  It's ok to watch on a rainy afternoon.  Yet, I would love to see this movie remade, with today's filmmaking technology. "},{"Title":"As Seventies as platform shoes and pet rocks.","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To say this film set the tone for seventies SF, ala War of the Worlds (ever heard of Forbidden Planet or Destination Moon?) for the 1950s or Planet of the Apes for the 1960's (whatever happened to 2001 A Space Odyssey ?), is rather silly. A typical Hollywood hack job on a fine novel by William F. Nolan, with an insipid cast who slept through their performances. A guest appearance at the close of the film by Washington D.C. and Peter Ustinov could not save this botched mess from itself. Particularly aggravating is the performance of a pre-Charlies Angels Farrah Fawcett, whose augmented breasts provide the film with it's only high points. The film closes with an explosion, befitting such a bomb, when Logan short-circuits the master control computer for the domed city. Uhm, Hollywood, please note for the future  the circuit breaker, and the fuse, were both invented in the 19th century. One of the worst films ever, not just in the genre, but in general.    "},{"Title":"One of the best sci-fi films ever. A triumph of American cinematography.","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A great plot. Groundbreaking special effects. Paved the way for Star Wars and other modern classics "},{"Title":"A great Movie","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theater when it came out and I thought it was great then. I read the book shortly after that and thought it was also great. I watched it again when it was on tv and taped it and I think it is still a great movie. I showed it to many of my friends and they never saw it and they all thought it was great. I like Michael York as Logan (also liked him as a musketeer) he is the most gentlemanly, polite and considerate character I have ever seen in a movie. I have been waiting to meet a Logan ever since. People on this comment page are a little too crazy comparing this to that. You are supposed to comment about your opinion of the film--not insult other raters or to say how much better so & so movie was. Geeeez calm down and give your opinion and end it already. Sheeeesh. "}{"Title":"See Logan Run.","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  See Logan Run. See Jessica Run. See Francis chase them. Hope they trip up.This is not a terribly bad film, but it isn't brilliant. The gun effects are nice, but I suppose lasers were out of the question due to budgetary restrictions, let alone FX considerations.Nothing great or particularly bad about the film, though Jenny Agutter's scene with Peter Ustinov where she sees someone old for the first time is rather cringe-inducing.The robot, Box (imaginative name) is truly pathetic. In an issue of Empire magazine in 2001 it was listed as one of the ten all-time worst robots in cinema history. It looks like...well, words fail me. Some sort of chrome-plated thing. You have to see it to laugh at it.That aside, the film isn't bad. It looks a bit 70's these days (which is when it was made, of course) and we mustn't forget Star Wars came out the following year and totally eclipsed it. All in all an average movie. "},{"Title":"Euthanize me now","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If, in the future, we're forced to live in an endless shopping mall and wear Christmas colored baby doll dresses, maybe I want to die at 30. They obviously threw a lot of money at this film and, yet, it looks like the Tuesday Night Movie of the Week. The scene where they have a shoot-out with what appears to be a very high-end cappuccino maker is right out of Santa Claus versus the Martians. This was made ONE year before Star Wars and eight years after 2001. There's no excuse for the production design of this film. The Andromeda Strain (1973) is as slick as hot grease compared to this. I might have given it credit for campiness if it weren't two soul-sucking hours long. Its only redeeming qualities are that Michael York is at his Michael Yorkiest and that the set for the plastic surgeon's office is very high style. Bring a book. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest Science Fiction Films EVER!","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If I hear one more person compare this film to Star Wars I am going start throwing empties at the screen, what a simple comparison.  Someone compare it to Star Wars Phantom Menace and the contect of that film.  Let's end the comparison discussion with GEORGE LUCAS CHANGED THE WORLD OF SCIENCE FICTION FOREVER.  The initial trilogy was arguable the greatest series of movies, not science finction movies, but movies at the time.  Star Wars is the highest grossing picture of all time after the re-release and when you consider merchandising it is by far the most successful film ever.  When people saw Star Wars they were not expecting what they saw, and it's acceptance by the public changed film forever.Now, Logan's Run is a science fiction film.  The first one to speak on a socialogical, romantic and intellectual level, (something a lot of people apparently missed).  The only other film to come close to this although there was no romantic element was Things to Come circa 1934.  And I will be happy to offer that effects did not change too much from that time up until Star Wars.  Clever cinematography was used in these antiquated films and technology slowly developed and special effects were developed.  Look how much technology has changed in the world in the ;last 20 years.  We have accomplished more in this time frame than we have through the history of civilization.  Logan's Run and Things to Come both comment on how Human developmentis halted because of war, not advanced.  Perhaps this can be likened as to how special effects were not a prioirty of America from '34-'76 witht the 3 wars the US wasinvloved in at the time. Now that relative peace has come, look what we accomplished.  The effects of Logan's Run, (although I was only 2 at the time) were indeed state of the art at the time, with a few poor shots where I picked up the floor burts on a strip of brown painted wood and also cuaght a glimpse of an exit sign, I was transported into another world.Many comments suggested that the film dates itself during the sex shop scene and Farrah Fawcett, who was a 70's icon.  People naturally relate her to Charlies Angels and the 70's, where is she now?  What do you associate Carrie Fisher with?  I do wish she wasn't part of this film.  Meanwhile, people forget that the world has been destroyed and people have lived in this domed-city environment for centuries, perhaps since the 80's we don't know when the war happened, so since advancement has stopped it is logical to suggest that the people stayed with what they knew, as this also may have been framed by big brother.While people say the acting was poor in this primarily British Cast, I thought that Michael York who I have always enjoyed and Jenny Agguter were phenomenal in their roles.  Understand the Sandmen were born sandmen aand had it programmed into them the beliefs of society, try like hell for renewal  Indeed Michael York was serious in the role, I would like to have a serious cop on my block.  And today a cop is not born a cop, Michael needed to be serious for his role to succeed.  Jenny was fantastic, her inherint goodness and the uncertainty towards the Sandman (York) was well played.  Why she never became a major world-class star and icon I do not know, she is beautiful and a wonderful actress in Logan's Run and her other work.Bos was an excellent transition into the outside world, Peter Ustinov could not have played Old Man any better.  The eccentricities one must have living alone in the world could be seen and heard in his every movement and comment.Together Aggutter and York are the 2 ideal people from this civilization to enter first, the new world.  Reason, Intellegence, Strength and Love (something the people of the city don't possess), are combined in the 2 to make them the perfect Adam and Eve.  At the end of Logan's Run, York and Agutter in their performance truly capture, and are the epitome of the human spirit.Logan's Run is just that, a triumph of the human spirit.  Take another look at the film, ignore the cinematograpy and efects and comparisons to Star Wars, look at the commentary it makes.  Take it for what it was at the time, and take it for what it is today.  It is one of my favorite films ever. "},{"Title":"Old style sci-fi which provokes thought and fun","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many sci-fi films from the 70's have logical holes all over the place such as Westworld (Why build a theme park for super robots when the company could make a lot more money selling them to the military like ED-209 on Robocop?) but they can still provide a lot of food for thought.Logan's Run is about a post apocalyptic underground society which has evolved in a way that was alien to the 1970's movie viewer but in some ways prophetic today. A world where a father doesn't know his child's birth mother? Where children are raised entirely by the state? Where the concept of marriage is unknown? Welcome to The Future!And the plot holes are hilarious. They have a machine where you can get a girl for the night teleported to your room like a pizza but they use monorails. If you have teleporters, why use monorails? And if everyone is being tracked, how does any resistance have a chance whatsoever?In the 70's, shopping malls were seen as The Future even as they're being torn down today while folks shop in mega specialty stores such as Home Depot or buy online. The view of what the world looks like outside was thought provoking then and now. What would a future person stumbling on the ruins of our civilization think? "},{"Title":"campy cheesy look of 70s sci-fi genre","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's 2274 and the people live in a pristine perfect hedonistic city under domes. However a computer runs everybody's lives and at 30, all are terminated in a ritual called Carousel. Sometimes people try to escape and they are called runners. Logan 5 (Michael York) and Francis 7 (Richard Jordan) are Sandmen who track down and kill runners. Jessica 6 (Jenny Agutter) is part of a group which helps runners find sanctuary. The computer commands Logan 5 to infiltrate the group outside the dome as a runner and destroy the sanctuary. They escape to the outside and find an abandoned Washington D.C. where they encounter an old man (Peter Ustinov).It's campy and cheesy spending a lot of money on a silly futuristic look that dominates the 70s sci-fi genre. The first hour is terribly dated from that era. It oscillates between cheesy fun and cheesy embarrassing. The movie certainly doesn't hold back but the logic doesn't always make sense. The movie slows down in the second half as they escape into the 'real' world. It should be accelerating in pace but it doesn't. In the end, it's an interesting genre movie of that era. "},{"Title":"First impressions, 38 years after release","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After almost 40 years, any science fiction film will feel very dated, and Logan's Run is no exception. Having only seen bits and pieces of it on television, I borrowed a DVD from the local library and sat through it and found it a bit more difficult to sit through than I was expecting. The acting is pretty hammy and the story has a lot of holes in it. Dialogue attempts to be futuristic-sounding, which probably would've worked back then, but doesn't work now.A modernized remake has been tossed around Hollywood for a while, which would have to be extensively redone, not just for the visual effects. The film does have its moments, and overall, it is an impressive achievement, but it's a bit of a chore to sit through if you weren't old enough to appreciate it when it first came out. "},{"Title":"Might be a good book","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I wouldn't say I disliked Logan's Run but it reminded me so much of THX 1138 and Brave New World (the book) that I couldn't stop making comparisons between them during the whole movie. Personally I much more admire THX 1138, and it's 5 years older...I found it also a bit... Weird. I had the feeling it tried to make up for its flaws by adding strange scenes including glowing red lights and low-pitched voices.What really disconcerted me were the hasty transitions between the scenes. And maybe the lack of gradual progression in Logan's state of mind. He goes from Runners make me laugh! to I need to save them all! without passing through much apparent thinking. It all goes way too fast I think. Moreover, one point seemed to have been forgotten at the end  Did Logan tell Jessica that he had been told to destroy the sanctuary ?So what I really think is  ...It might be a good book!However, it stars Jenny Agutter, who is not wearing much clothes throughout her ordeal, so I kind of enjoyed it a bit anyway... "},{"Title":"comic book style production","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- Logan's Run, 1976. Welcome to the 23rd century, a perfect world of total pleasure. The only limitation is you can't live beyond 30 years of age. On last-day, senior citizens go through the ritual of 'renewal'. 'Runners' are skeptics who seek to escape 'renewal'. 'Sandmen' are police enforcers fighting against the 'runners' and killing them. Eventually a battle between runners and sandmen lead to the outside world escape beyond the city dome into the real unprotected natural world.*Special Stars- Michael York, Richard Jordan, Jenny Agutter, Farrah Fawcett, Peter Ustinov, Roscoe Lee Brown.*Theme- Ethical lawmen will set things right.*Trivia/location/goofs- Large amounts of major lead role re-casting done before production started. Look for an early film role for Farrah Fawcett in the beauty bar. Filmed around Dallas, TX.*Emotion- A comic book style production with a heavy simplistic moral to this story. Another one of those precautionary tales to warn the viewer of a dangerous future for society if pure pleasure is the only goal of humanity. The film plot reminded me of H. G. Wells, 'Time Machine' and the future pleasure humans, the 'Eloie' not knowing or caring to learn to repair their machines or libraries. A good film for those of us who lived during the time of it's release. "},{"Title":"Need help identifying similar movie.","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Seeing Logan's Run recently reminded me of another movie with similar context that I saw some time ago but now the title of the film escapes me. So for all you movie trivia guys/gals out there put on your thinking cap and help me remember the title of this movie.1. It could have been a movie made for T.V. and it may have only been on t.v. in the U.S. 2. I would say that the movie is at least 15 years old.3. I don't remember any of the actor's in it nor do I remember anyone really famous being in it.Plot It's a futuristic time, could be Earth, could be the U.S. When you are born you are given a certain amount of credits or points for your lifespan. Say you start out with 100 points. You can gain credits by doing good things for people, like a good deed, or you can use your credits for buying bad things like alcoholic drinks. In the movie I seem to remember there being a brother and sister, the brother ended up being a really smart and prosperous guy and the girl ended up ( I think) dying at a really young age because she used all of her credits on things like alcohol.I also remember people being really panicked when they got close to using up all their credits and begging others for more so they didn't die.Sorry this is so vague but it's all I remember. Anyone have an idea of what movie I'm remembering? Thanks "},{"Title":"One of MANY versions of the World in which Logan runs","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close enough to the original novel by George Clayton Johnson and Bill Nolan to loosely qualify as an adaptation, tho the filmmakers changed even the most basic premise of what age qualifies you for the death penalty (the book stipulates that only kids and teenagers are allowed to live).Johnson made his mark writing for the original Twilight Zone, Star Trek, Kung Fu (for which he wrote the pilot), and the original Ocean's 11 story. Nolan, however, is the one who has picked up the Logan ball and run with a sequel - Logan's World - and a just-released comic book series based on his own view of the World in which Logan runs.The original novel, tho slim, remains the best of Logan's lot - the shortlived TV show being the worst - tho I'd recommend seeking the 1990s comic books drawn by Elf artist Barry Blair. Those hew closest to George Clayton Johnson's take on Logan, which to my mind is superior to Nolan's divergent direction, which seems more enamored of the chase than the witty and timeless social observations that so sparked the duo's initial collaboration --- "}{"Title":"The Last Great Science Fiction Film","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was the last great Hollywood science fiction film. It was before Lucas' witless and dull Star Wars turned science fiction films into long commercials for children's action toys. The movie is a modernist version of Plato's allegory of the cave At every turn there are references to Platonic ideas, like children being born without knowing their parents.In 1965, the saying, Don't Trust Anybody Over 30 became popular. The film plays off of that concept, just as the film Wild in the Streets did. It also captures the revolutionary atmosphere of the 1960's. Carousel and Renewal is a thinly disguised satire on the Christian practices and ideas of baptism and rebirth.From 1968 to 1974, Michael York was in some of the biggest hits of that time period Romeo and Juliet, Cabaret, Three Musketeers and Four Musketeers, and Logan's Run. Although, he has worked pretty steadily ever since, he never did anything to match these great films. While he was certainly fine in all these roles, he was overshadowed by the direction and the other actors in all the other movies. this is the one film where he shines for the entire two hours. "},{"Title":"What IS the computer up to??","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've just been watching Logan's Run with m'feller and he made a pertinent comment Does the computer send Logan on the mission to seek and destroy Sanctuary knowing full well that it isn't real? Has the word Sanctuary and the symbol been planted in the society to promote the myth and encourage running? Is the computer's REAL intention to send someone outside for long enough to ascertain if the conditions outside (post apocalypse) have recovered enough to sustain life. If Logan returns, no matter what the conclusion of his search, then the computer will know its time to let people out. In the film, this is the point when the computer malfunctions. Has it been designed to fail when the outside world becomes habitable? The computer malfunctioning results in the society breaking down and people fleeing outside. Do you think this is the whole essence of the story?? "},{"Title":"Fantastic in the true sense of the word","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had an interesting time with this movie, so thought I'd share. I'm a big fan of old sci-fi, something about the look and feel of it really appeals to me. Some of my favourites are The Time Machine (the original), Soylent Green, The Incredible Shrinking Man, The Fly (the original), Omega Man, Battlestar Galactica, Battle Beyond the Stars etc. Anyway, I'd never heard of Logan's Run (I'm under 30 by the way!) and some of my favourites are kinda hard to track down on DVD, so I saw that this was made just before Star Wars and thought i'd give it a go.I had absolutely no expectations, didn't even really know what it was about, and i must admit i was immediately enraptured by that model! Yeah it's fake as anything but hey, it looks damn cool i think (reminds me of toys I used to play with as a kid, maybe it's triggering some weird emotional memory in me hehe). Anyway, I *almost* hit STOP about 5 minutes into the film because the Michael York character really offended me...i don't know why, it was his casual attitude and ditzy-boy hair, the fact he laughed while taunting the first runner we see...etc I just didn't find him appealing at all and I knew the movie went for another 110 minutes...but here's the thing, the STORY kept me watching. I *really* wanted to know what happened next...what Sanctuary was, if anything, and what the h*ll was really happening with that Carrousel thing... Bizarre imagery kept me watching too...and the establishing shots of that model city...fantastic in the true sense of the word.One thing that also had me lunging towards the STOP button a couple of times was that awful music. (Jerry Goldsmith, my man, you were talented but sheesh man what were you on???) I liked the way the score opened up a little when our two heroes ventured outside. A little less robotic, a little more natural-sounding. I stress a little though...it's still pretty bad.Okay, lastly, the thing that kept me enthralled was Jenny Agutter. My god...she is beautiful in this film.I picked it up on a whim in the bargain bin, and I will definitely watch this one again...it transports me back to a time when cartoons seemed as real as me. "},{"Title":"A Fun, Campy Ride","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off, let me start by saying that I first saw this movie back in high school when one of my teachers showed it to us. I'm not really sure why - maybe she was just trying to kill time. In any event, she took great pains to explain the plot to us thoroughly, and had she not done so, I really don't know if I'd have understood what the hell was going on, because this is one confusing and convoluted screenplay. However, that's really my only criticism, because other than that this is a pretty entertaining flick.This movie was made one year before Star Wars, but it might as well have been twenty based on the primitive special effects. It's almost laughable really, but the film is so earnest in its attempts to show a creepy vision of the future that it eventually overcomes one's temptation to bust out laughing.This film really does evoke a troubling vision of the post-apocalyptic future. The outside world has been rendered unlivable through pollution and war, and the people are forced into giant, domed cities where they live out their lives with only hedonistic pleasures in mind. Not a bad life really, except that anyone who reaches 30 must take part in the ritual of renewal, during which they're blasted into infinity, never to return again. Naturally, this is all controlled by a not-so-benign computer system. The more clever elements of the society figure out that renewal is a crock and attempt to escape, becoming runners who are in turn pursued by Sandmen - sorta like the KGB of the future - whose job is to terminate them. There's your plot outline.Now, throw in some cheesy set design, horrible acting, hilarious dialogue, a touch of gratuitous nudity, and you have a recipe for a pretty fun time. Bear in mind that this movie will seem very dated to jaded 21st century eyes, and it's perhaps a tad too long, but it's still a movie that I enjoy very much, and one that I've watched many times. Particularly if you're into Sci-Fi that's a little on the cheesy side, this is a movie for you. "},{"Title":"A truly awesome classic that makes you think","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing Logan's Run way back. I was young then and just loved it as eye candy and the story didn't seep in as much as it does now. Looking back on it the ending is probably the most thought provoking part. SPOILER ALERT!!! Peter Ustinov's character is met by all the young people from inside the city. They have never seen someone old. It holds so much potential that they might learn from him and his experience of living alone with his cats for so long. Respect your elders LISTEN to them. They know what is going on (usually). ANyhow you don't have to get as deep as I do. It's a great classic and great story. Fun to see. Go watch it. Are you still here?? Go watch. ) "},{"Title":"Logan's Run","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" True, Logan's Run is a bit dated in the 21st century even though it is set in the 23rd. But there is a fascination with this movie that only a baby boomer can understand. The fear of turning 30, for example. The Beatles joked about whether they could still rock at 30. And Jenny Agutter in that green outfit! Jenny was in her physical prime, a unique beauty. She and Michael York play well together. Farrah Fawcett is in it. Farrah was becoming world-famous for her hairdo. I like the scene with Box in the caves of ice. The color is beautiful as Jenny and Michael emerge from the domed city to see the real world for the first time. They are amazed by the sun which we so take for granted. Washington, D.C. in ruins is a poignant concept in wake of the Vietnam and Watergate years. Peter Ustinov's cats may have inspired Andrew Lloyd Webber's musical. I bought the novel and read it. The film took liberties. All in all, Logan's Run is a fun movie with generational appeal. It explores our hopes and fears.There has been talk for a long time about a remake of Logan's Run. There was a TV series based on the movie, but it was without soul. Remakes almost always pale beside the originals. The original Logan's Run featured Michael York, Jenny Agutter and a young Farrah Fawcett. This cast will be hard to top. Supposedly, any upcoming remake will draw more from the 1967 novel by William F. Nolan and George Clayton Johnson. This would be a smart move. Some of the 1970s topicalities can be removed. That the story is set in the 23rd century gives ample leeway. It is still all about a distant future that even now is anybody's guess. "},{"Title":"One Movie Buff's Opinion","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is most definitely a movie worth watching, and despite the 70s pre-Star Wars effects, it really has a very good story line and a pretty decently written script that is well acted. Whether you should buy it or not, to some I would say yes and to some I would say no.If you naturally like Sci-Fi, then this would be a must. The effects for the time are cheesy, but for the time they are quite good. This movie won an Oscar for the effects.If you are a fan of negative utopia stories like 1984 or Brave New World, this one goes along beautifully with those.If you simply love movies, buy it.If you are not fitting into those categories, watch it first. "},{"Title":"There is... no... Sanctuary!","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If Susan Sontag were to revise her Notes on Camp for the present day, the only work she'd need to reference is Logan's Run.As a serious science fiction film, Logan's Run fails spectacularly, of course, but that is precisely what makes it so enjoyable.  Everything about the film is ridiculous, and I scarcely know where to begin.  The Academy-Award-winning special effects look like a Lionel train set.  The hilarious music consists mainly of blips, whirrs, and horrible squelchy noises.  The story and script are amusingly awful (Is that what... old people look like?).  And not least of all, Michael York and Jenny Agutter, bless their hearts, play their roles with such earnest, doe-eyed naivete that one cannot help but be charmed.  What's not to love?Obviously, Logan's Run is not in the canon of great cinema.  But to dismiss the film as an overrated B-movie is to rob oneself of the pleasure of high camp.  Watch, enjoy. "},{"Title":"A very underrated Si-Fi classic!!","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have always liked this film since the first time I saw it in the theater. Good storytelling- average special effects (Not bad for 1976).. But the story/performances carry the day... Star Wars is candy for the eyes; this is candy for the mind! Well worth a rent (I have it on DVD).  "},{"Title":"Not great, has its moments","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Trivia about the movie  It's based on a book by William Nolan.  The book does a better job at conveying the brainwashing and the methods used to control the residents, into accepting their confined surroundings and their deaths.Also, the official IMDB summary states that the domed city is near Washington, DC.  That's true, but you don't know that at the beginning.Some of the film was filmed in and around Reunion Arena in Dallas, Texas. Led to a spinoff TV series of the same name, which was pretty bad. "}{"Title":"Viewed as a period piece","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember seeing the previews for this movie when I went to go see Alfred Hitchcock's last movie, Family Plot. I was about twelve and I can tell you, to the non-Star Wars exposed audience it looked pretty impressive. I remember hearing everybody say I gotta see that. If it were released a couple of years later, of course everyone would have laughed at it. But for it's time, the look was a pretty plausible portrayal of the future (will not the actual look of the future (the future) be in large part determined by movies?) This movie really tells us a lot about that mysterious, murky, poorly documented historical void that was the '70s. Nuclear armegeddon seemed alot closer than (I don't know why it shouldn't seem as close now) and our attitude toward it was don't show me all the starvation and disease, show me the real drama what goes on in that segment of humanity that manages to get spared and to protect itself from the fallout. Also, there was much more of a generation gap in those days it was safer to make assumptions about someone's sexual-social-political outlook based upon their age than it is today. Thirdly, we were all a bit spooked by the specter of over population (again, I don't know why we we're relatively relaxed about this today). Remember Soylent Green? Does the world presented in that movie seem more ridiculous with the passage of time? So you had this movie (Logan's Run) that did a pretty good job of plugging into the zeitgeist, and deservedly, it was a moderate hit. It's no classic. To become a classic, a sci-fi need not be right on the money regards the future, but should subtly, perhaps allegorically make some statement on the times in which it's made, the way the original Planet of the Apes did with racism or the way the original Star Trek did with everything in the '60s. LR had no subtlety, it was a hair-and-pyrothecnics fest, but don't tell me they're not making dumber movies today. "},{"Title":"The archetypal 70s sci-fi flick","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Remember all that was great about the 1970s?Well, there's that list complete then.  The mullets, the naff fashion sense, the tacky effects, the over producing -- all present in Logan's Run.  What made Planet of The Apes so revolutionary is often in places what makes this films so stereotypical.It's not all bad, an excellent supporting performance by Peter Ustinov is the highlight, and I suppose it's harmless enough without ever really lighting up as a sci-fi film.  The concept of death at 30 got very tiring, and did seem to be over re-iterated.A TV film for years to come, watch it *every* single bank holiday weekend, as the BBC are bound to show it! "},{"Title":"Amazing movie for open minds","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Logan's Run is a timeless work that presents thought-provoking elements with ease. The utopia shown in the film has a quality of realism to it and is not so impossible. A society run by computer, enforced by Nazi like police squads, healthy citizens who can get plastic surgery on a whim, mandatory euthanasia at 30, sex and pleasure an extreme focal point (and who dress accordingly), marriage almost totally unknown, and more.  It brings to mind aspects of the hedonism practices and philosophies of ancient Rome. Actually, in some ways it stands as a very telling film, a struggle to recover freedom, love, and intimacy. The movie may not be perfect, but the acting is fine and the special effects stand up as well as any other film of the time, even better than some. For people who have preconceived notions of how a utopian society must look, this movie may not be for them. For those familiar with history, including how society is progressing these days, the movie can be a ride worth taking. "},{"Title":"Terrifying vision of the Future","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie is about a hedonistic society that lives under the dome in secrecy.   It is about how machines end up having control of the society. They let people live with pleasure whenever they choose to do but at a certain price!  With technology advancing with the internet and the wiring one has to wonder if the computers can one day overtake people lives in a similar manner.It about how the people became dependent on the machines to point if one they were to have live outside at the end because Logan ends up outmaneuvered them.   Will they be able to adapt to harsh environment?  Could this society be heading in similar direction? "},{"Title":"Some unintentional laughs mar this slightly better-than-average sci-fi tale","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember first seeing Logan's Run on network television in the early 1980s. For obvious reasons (some nudity and violence), some scenes were edited for broadcast and in at least a few scenes, it made the movie more confusing than it needed to be.A few years later, I saw Logan's Run in its original PG-rated form. It was released one year before the blockbuster Star Wars. While I was impressed with the story, despite being awarded a special Oscar, I thought the special effects were out-of-date.Nearly 25 years later, I had a chance to see Logan's Run and for what its worth, I found it to be an interesting, generally entertaining science fiction thriller that was ruined by several unintentionally funny moments.Michael York as Logan, the Sandman who unexpectedly becomes a runner and Jenny Agutter as Jessica, the runner who flees with Logan, tried their best but were ruined by some very bland, laughable dialog. I wanted to believe that they were people who have never been outside their domed paradise but I was not convinced.The special effects still scream Large miniature models! This is despite the fact that the miniatures were 3-4 feet in height.Speaking of models, how about the very small role Farrah Fawcett (then still married to Lee Majors) played as an employee at a laser salon. I believe she just started to play on Charlie's Angels when the film was released. Thank goodness she has done a much better job in other roles on TV.Roscoe Lee Browne was hired to play a very protective, psychotic robot. In some ways it felt like another rip-off from 2001 and perhaps it might have inspired later characters like the computer in Demon Seed or the flop Saturn 3. To say that Browne's role was thankless is an understatement.There were some good things about the movie that kept me interested. The late Richard Jordan did a good job as Logan's friend who becomes Logan's enemy. I think it was because Jordan's character was serious and threatening enough to convince me that he's someone who should not be trusted.The idea that people would not live beyond 30 made for a very ideal sci-fi storyline. I understand that there were some changes from the novel but I found it to be a bit of an improvement and for the plot line provided a little bit of breathing room.As much as I was disappointed with the unconvincing scenes of the underground city, I was very impressed with the later scenes where Logan and Jessica tries to find Sanctuary but finds many cats and their unnamed owner, played with a wink and a smile by Peter Ustinov.If Ustinov's character had that much wonder and intentional humor with the other characters at the beginning of the movie, I might have enjoyed Logan's Run even more.Overall, Logan's Run is an interesting but rough ride. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, if Flawed, SF Adventure...","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Whenever I watch Logan's Run, I feel a touch of angst, much as I do when I see Marooned...both films won Oscars for their special effects, and both films would be overshadowed immediately by the vastly superior FX work of 2001 A Space Odyssey, and Star Wars. In the case of Logan's Run, the nearly 'quaint' miniature work is patently artificial, and combined with the 70s hairdos, and 'mall' environment, gives the film a 'retro' feel; fortunately, the story and performances are so terrific that the film is still very entertaining, and has achieved 'cult' status, today.The premise is intriguing; in the 23rd century, civilization has retreated into a computer-controlled, multi-domed city, sealed off from the outside world. Given an impersonal, if hedonistic paradise to live in, there is only one drawback; residents must sacrifice themselves on their 30th birthday, in a quasi-religious ceremony known as Carousel, where, they believe, they might be 'renewed'. A few attempt to escape death, searching for the legendary 'Sanctuary'; the task of executing these 'runners' falls to the 'Sandmen', an elite force of policemen armed with explosive pistols.It's a great life to be a 'Sandman', which friends Logan 5 and Francis 7 (Michael York and Richard Jordan) enjoy to the self-indulgent hilt...until Logan meets Jessica 6 (Jenny Agutter), a beautiful girl wearing the ankh symbolizing an affiliation to the 'runners', who isn't impressed by Logan's nearly 'rock star' status.Logan is secretly assigned by the city computer to find the elusive 'Sanctuary' of the 'runners', and 'aged' to 30, thus giving him an excuse to join them...and making him a 'Sandman' target. The tale then becomes a 'cat-and-mouse' chase, as Logan recruits Jessica's aid, and the pair search for Sanctuary, relentlessly pursued by Francis. Logan discovers that the few runners not dispatched by the 'Sandmen' are executed and frozen by a rather clunky robot, Box (the voice of Roscoe Lee Browne)...after defeating him (rather easily), Logan and Jessica (followed by Francis) break free to the outside world, a wild, untamed wilderness leading to a nearly deserted Washington, D.C., where they meet their first 'old man' (Peter Ustinov), a hermit living alone with a large array of cats. The couple, their relationship deepening to love, must face Francis, and return to the city to expose the fraud that everyone is living under...Casting is EVERYTHING in a movie like this, and the Logan's Run ensemble is terrific. York, a youthful 34, combines innocence and determination as Logan, and Agutter, 23, is all wide-eyed idealism as Jessica, looking very comfortable being barely dressed through much of the picture. Even better is Jordan, who, at 37, is as convincing a younger man as York, in a far more demanding role. While Farrah Fawcett, 29, in a small role, is more flash than talent, Michael Anderson Jr., 32, is wonderfully menacing as a plastic surgeon. Ustinov, 55, steals the picture, cranky and cantankerous, yet lovable. While one might quibble that a man who could memorize T.S. Elliot should understand the words in the Capitol better, he provides an element of reality and a character audiences can relate to.Jerry Goldsmith's remarkable score is certainly a plus, combining traditional and synthetic music, seamlessly.Logan's Run may not be as flashy or 'cutting edge' as Star Wars, but it is far sexier (with a healthy dose of nudity), more complex, and definitely worth a spot in your film library! "},{"Title":"Great movie - lousy and horrible cinematography","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off, I first saw 'Logan's Run' in 1979 at the age of 3 1/2. This is a movie that has stuck with me ever since then. Here's why - The actors' ability to convey their characters so well, and the chemistry between them. You really believe Michael York and Richard Jordan are Logan and Francis, and that they are best friends. And it's absolutely heartbreaking to see this friendship deteriorate as the movie progresses. And this chemistry is very different from the chemistry that York and Jenny Agutter have. She's great as Jessica; inquisitive and intellectual. Roscoe Lee Browne, is at first comical then positively unnerving as Box, a robot, a true character role for anyone.Although much was changed from the book, this is still a great movie. One addition that wasn't in the book that I've always enjoyed is Carousel, and the extreme spectacle (particularly the costumes) that goes along with it. The sets and costumes were great (I particularly like the Sandmen costumes as they really stand out), the writing was pretty good, as was the score. But the cinematography was so horrible! It's as if whoever the producers had hired had only done television or something. If they had hired a better cinematographer, this would have been a truly amazing movie. "},{"Title":"An odd and OK sci-fi flick","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The story of a dystopian future where all needs are met, and most people have no responsibility whatsoever. The catch, of course, is that you cannot live past age thirty.The special effects are cheesy by today's standards, but that is an impossible measure for a mid-Seventies film. People were actually expected to use their imaginations a bit back then.Michael York did OK but seems to have disappeared since then, which is OK. But the most striking thing was the beauty of Jenny Agutter. She was absolute eye candy in this one. She's been in a lot of films, but I think she never got the recognition (or the starring roles) she deserved.POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD The ending made me sort of wonder what would happen later, after the movie ended. With the utopian/dystopian city/society destroyed, what would happen to the people? They were so pampered, it seems that they would be uniquely unsuited for living off the land. The toughest and smartest among them would be able to live past thirty, but it seems to me that the vast majority of them would be likely to die well before reaching that age.Anyway, this film was still enjoyable, for those who like sci-fi, and is well worth a rental. "},{"Title":"What a Gay Day","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are two ways you can view Logans Run; either as a serious science fiction film,in which case you will be bitterly disappointed,or as a comedy so screamingly camp that it makes Star Wars seem like The Terminator.Set in the 23rd century 300 years after e devastating world war the movie is set inside a closed city near Washington D.C.,where euthanasia is employed so that no one lives beyond 30.Runners try to escape their fate while Sandmen Michael York and pals try to stop them.Made in 1976 the intervening 300 years seem to have altered little; the one black guy in the movie everybody else is white sports a huge Afro sraight from Soul Train! The only computer has a green screen and they still use escalators.Nobody appears to do any work.However the movie has three good points-#1 Jenny Agutter #2Jenny Agutter scantily clad #3 Jenny Agutter nude. It also has probably the silliest robot ever seen anywhere,ever.If you do decide to buy it make sure it is on DVD so that you can freeze Jennies nude scene. "},{"Title":"tacky bad acting, but jenny agutter is cute","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  star wars this is not, the music must have been a preset sound from a yamaha synth circa '75 n- the special effects are very dated and crap saying that as good movie shines thru as has star wars or even films much older. jenny agguter was a big sex symbol of the time (but why a love story??) the premise of the story was one of 70's paranoia and was common during coldwar movies of the time, because if its failings in script/filming/acting and music i am sure it will appeal to those who are anti-success movies, me i will put starwars back in the DVD player - the french have a phrase for this kind of movie -MERD!!!! if you want a more inteligent sci flick then 2001 or thx1138 are far better made.  "}{"Title":"Good Science Fiction","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wasn't around in the 70's to see this movie when it first came out, so I am unswayed by any feelings of nostalgia, and I still say that this is a pretty good movie. Much of it is shamelessly ripped off from Brave New World, and it also borrows from Fahrenheit 451 and Planet of the Apes. However, Logan's Run has enough originality and charm to make up for this.The film is very well cast. My favorite performer is Jenny Agutter, who is extremely cute as Jessica 6. In fact, seeing her half-dressed throughout the entire movie is the best reason for watching Logan's Run. I hear that there's going to be a remake. This new version will hopefully correct many of the original's problems, such as the bad pacing near the end of the movie. However, they probably won't find a better actress to play Jessica 6. You just don't see women that cute in movies any more.The scenes in the domed city are interesting. Then there's a scene in an ice-filled room involving a robot named Box. I thought that this scene was lots of fun, even though it didn't make complete sense to me.Overall, Logan's Run deserves about a 7 out of 10. I don't think that the makers of this film realized its full potential, but on the other hand, it's really not bad at all. "},{"Title":"definitely worth a watch","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie MANY times when I was younger, and recently became obsessed with watching it again. I think the quality and interest of the film declines over its running time--the end being much less interesting than the beginning--but even this time a lot of things about it stayed with me. You should definitely watch it if you're into sci-fi and have never seen it, and it is OBVIOUSLY screaming out for a remake!The below discusses certain issues with the movie, and contains SPOILERS!!>The whole concept is clearly a pale rip-off of Brave New World, especially the whole aspect of a perfect society of promiscuity where no ones gets attached to another person. Listening to the DVD commentary (which is in many ways more interesting than the film) I found that a lot of the ideas they were trying to convey about the society and what was happening with the characters just didn't come through!>I love when Logan shoots ONE shot in the ice cave and suddenly the whole thing is collapsing and exploding around them as though two tons of dynamite had gone off! (I TOTALLY remember the cheesy collapsing ice cave overlays!) And... how is it that you go UP to the top of a mountain and there's a frozen ice world inside there? And if the ice is 5 feet from where the sun shines... uh, wouldn't it melt?>I also love how they're supposed to be in Washington DC, but when they first come into the outside they are SO OBVIOUSLY in southern California! There is NO landscape like that anywhere on the East Coast!>They are also shown walking by a huge waterfall, then a few seconds later they find a lake and say At last, water!>If it's such a paradise outside, why were people herded into and kept in the domed cities anyway?>The very end is another classic of the shoot once/entire city explodes convention. Logans shoots the main computer, and before you know it, the entire city is blowing up. Why? The most that would happen is the power would go or something! >WHAT exactly are all these people supposed to DO once they get outside? What are they going to eat? It's just SO ridiculous.This movie could be a very taut suspense story and has good ideas, it just needs to be reconceived and thought about some more. Why didn't John Woo do this instead of that lame and forgettable Paycheck? But definitely a classic that I have a lot of affection for.--- Check out my website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"Fifteen words to explain the fondness many guys (like me) have for the flick.","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jennie Agutter in a see-through khaftan. Jennie Agutter changing from wet clothes to furs.Yeah, really talented actors like York, Jordan, Ustinov, and Brown are also here but frankly the adoration of Jennie Agutter kind of pushes them aside in our memories.Oh, yeah, some model named Farrah Fawcett-Majors is in here too (I wonder what ever happened to her?). "},{"Title":"Anhk if you love Jenny Agutter","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This review contains plot spoilers, but, since the movie is 25 years old, this should not be too much of a problem.Coming later than, and obviously depending on, movies like Planet of the Apes, Logan's Run bears all the marks of the sci-fi movies of the sixties and seventies.  Here we find a distopian future, that bears more resemblance to Huxley than Orwell, where the citizens all must die at thirty, but enjoy pleasures unbounded before their fiery death in `Carousel.'  If there is any `doublespeak' in the domed city it is that `renewal,' the process by which people are allegedly reborn, is a lie perpetrated to get the masses to accept their early death.  Here we find the target of Logan's Run's satire, aimed not at traditional religion, which is targeted in Planet of the Apes, but rather the psuedo-mysticism that began popping up in the late sixties.Of course, the lie of carousel does not work on everyone, and some dwellers of the domed city decide to make a break for it.  The job of the Sandmen, then, is to hunt down and kill the runners.  Logan 5 (Michael York) is a Sandman and in the first scene of the movie we get to watch him do his job with apparent glee.  York's acting, while not pitch perfect, has the kind of liveliness you see in all the greats (Olivier, Welles, etc.).  He performs admirably through his subsequent realizations.  The high-concept pitch, of course, is that Logan 5, once a Sandman, is now required to locate and destroy Sanctuary by becoming a runner himself. His guide through all this is the strangely attractive, very sexy, Jessica 6 (Jenny Agutter), whose unearthly voice compliments the movie's synthesized soundtrack.  The two meet through some sort of service that matches up people in the mood for sex - which, one assumes, includes nearly all the people in the domed city.  The two do eventually escape, and are followed by Logan's former partner, Francis 7, into the great outdoors.  From here the movie declines in quality, relying on the blossoming love relationship, and the sight of the vine-covered Lincoln Monument, and the death of Francis, to carry the weight of the movie.  Despite its lack of grace, the outdoor journey is genuinely inspiring, as the two discover the possibility of marriage, and the truth about ageing. In the end, Logan and Jessica return to the domed city (along with an old man (Peter Ustinov)) and proclaim the truth that one does not have to die. Michael York's speech here is so wonderfully over the top, that it makes me happy every time I see it.  In the end, Logan and Jessica succeed, and the people in the domed city do go outside, which is a nice change from the disturbing ends most of these sort of movies have.  This movie is definitely not one of the classics, but is has so many interesting moments that it is definitely worth a viewing.  "},{"Title":"Run Logan Run Logan Run Run. See The Decent Sci-Fi Movie Not Overrun With Guns Guns Guns.","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Michael York here is Logan 5. He lives in the year 2274. It's a Utopian future, where all your whims can be enjoyed. The catch here is that once you are thirty, your life is effectively over and you give yourself to the `carousel' where you will - hopefully - be reincarnated. This keeps the population in balance and allows all to prosper. But some people do not believe in the carousel and rebirth. They are `runners' and attempt to flee the city rather than face death. Logan is sent to uncover them.. But approaching thirty himself he begins to question is carousel really correct and what are the important values in life.See there's plenty to like here. There's an intelligent plot with a coherent, planned out setting. There's none of the usual obvious flaws found in science fiction where you go, `But why don't they just.' or - as usual - `That's completely garbage!' The character of Logan is well rounded - at first he isn't some irritating liberal or rebel. The change comes more realistically and slowly. This could be criticised as being slow, but to me it's more refreshing as the story unfolds with more grace. The supporting characters are generally fine, including the requisite scantily-clad love-interest (played by Jenny Agutter), Logan's pal and Old Man (wonderfully portrayed by Peter Ustinov). York himself is a good choice for the titular character, bringing the necessary charisma with an actual ability to act.The movie generally has a nice look. Sure the SFX - which won an Academy Award - would look humorous on a television show nowadays but they're still generally grand. The costume design is good and the sets, although sparse, have that minimalist future feeling down well. This all lends a nice atmosphere to the movie, in keeping with its themes and credit to director Michael Anderson here.It's not a brilliant movie. The plot is interesting but the more sedentary pace might not stand up to repeated viewing. It's certainly worthy of a look and it's a pity that it was overlooked by the overly praised `Star Wars' trilogy which began the following year. Catch it if you can. 6.8/10. "},{"Title":"Run silent run deep.","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERSLogan's run belongs to the old intellectual sci-fi that will come to an end pretty damn quick with the new harmless sci-fi inaugurated by the Star Wars saga.Not that Logan's run' is that much food for thought but its spirit harks back to planet of the apes on the beach or THX1138.The novel from which it's adapted is almost totally betrayed,the film keeping nothing from its second part but the proper nouns(Sleuth Francis playing a role almost diametrically opposite to the one he plays in the movie).Needless to say,the meat is to be found in the first part.The Carousel  scenes are still impressive today;and it's a rather smart metaphorthese promises of to be born again in another body after your execution make us think of all the old religious precepts.It's a totalitarian system,where the dictator is replaced by a computer.And no population problemwhen you're 30,the Carousel is waiting for you. The second part goes astray.The DC discovery has a déjà vu flavor.Indeed,the scenarists wanted to bestow a big surprise on the spectators,à la planet of the apes.But they fell short of their goal,and Peter Ustinov is wasted.Contrary to intellectual sci-fi movies,this one has an optimistic conclusion a full circle actually,back to the roots ,men and women are en route for our good old society,now that Francis,keeper of the dom society,has been killed ....With the pole of the American flag.A whole symbol. "},{"Title":"open to all","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I still love this film.  Thought special effects at time were great.  Recently purchased on DVD and was not disappointed.  Story is somewhat timeless....this theme pops up every few years with a different twist.  Jenny Agutter's ever revealing clothing as movie progresses always fun to watch. Farrah's appearance, although brief is still noteworthy. "},{"Title":"Oddly interesting sci-fi trash","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most of Logan's run plays (and plays and plays and plays) like a cleaned up Flesh Gordon. Watching it, you get the feeling that they cut out the sex scenes and deleted the cheesy soundtrack before releasing it. This is not to say that it is an erotic or even vaguely sexually-charged film at all. Aside from the Peter Ustinov character Old Man, everyone is under thirty years old, fit, good-looking and white. Layer on the gratuitous female nudity and the over acting, and you've got a porn film, no doubt!I wanted to see this because it won an Oscar for Visual Effects in 1976. There are some very good moments for this, but the movie may best serve as the dividing line between what came up to it and what came since in 1977, George Lucas unleashed the Star Wars phenomenon on the world.All in all, it's not a bad movie, just fairly typical fair from the mid-70's in too many ways that goes on a bit too long. Even Peter Ustinov, who starts off with a bang, ends up overstaying his welcome. "},{"Title":"Is it bad or is it art?","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen this several times, and while I would not consider myself a student of sci-fi, I like it well enough to consider this an important film.  While by today's standards the special effects are appallingly bad, for its day, in the context of the 70s, it was quite advanced.If you judge the acting and costumes, etc., by today's standards, you will be sadly disappointed.  Few of the technical elements have aged well, and the script is clunky and dated.  The acting is very--overly--earnest, and waaay too sincere, and you can imagine the cast truly signing on to the project in the belief that they were going to be part of some kind of seminal work about freedom and self-expression.  The script is rather lethargic and the interesting ideas are buried too far down in the first half of the film, and then, in the second half, club you over the head. It is really unfortunate that many of these reviews focus on what has not held up well ,and what is bad about this film, rather than on the interesting ideas it brings up and what it managed to do in its day.Roscoe Lee Browne and his creepy Box always stick with me for weeks after I watch(Fish...Plankton...Sea greens...Protein from the sea...),and Peter Ustinov is wonderful in a role which to me has always been somewhat underwritten.  Unfortunately, I find myself getting bogged down in the details of the film.  Who runs the city?  Who built it?  Why?  How did the society lose its collective historical memory?  How does the computer work?  Where did that Ice World come from?  What is the correlation between the ocean and the city?  It is a really fascinating premise, which makes you wish someone would remake this film with more emphasis on backstory and less on the interminable Valjean/Javert thing between Logan and Francis.Overall, this is a film which really bears watching, particularly if you can find it on video or DVD and not chopped into bits on some cable channel on network TV.  There are lots of fascinating things in it, and while any person under 30 will find it all a bit quaint, it is really deserving of more respect than most of the other people here have given it.  "},{"Title":"Runner!","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With plot devices like dial-a-date, robots with freeze guns, death matches in the Senate and, of course, talking holograms of Michael York's head, Logan's Run isn't just a movie its an experience. While some late 70s movies are just plain bad, Logan's Run makes that great leap from horrible to humerous. Just try to watch this movie without cracking up over any of the terrible, terrible elements that make this movie so great. Don't try to take it seriously. Watch it with the intent of being entertained and I assure you, you won't be disappointed. Whether its Michael York's incredibly large mouth, the set models that look like toy train platforms or the capitol building that has been invaded by cats, there's going to be something that will make you shed disbelief and mock this film. Watch it with a friend and you can both join in the fun!  "}{"Title":"Think about it.","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Who wants to live to old age? Anyone? What alternative have you?  One die at 30 - you have to.  The timer on your wrist goes off; that's it; your time is up; off to the carousel you must go, to be 'renewed'.  But, you are not renewed, you die by laser beam instead; its a con. Sounds familiar does it not?  You can try to 'run', become a runner; but a sandman will probably get you - with a laser - you die anyway. A lucky few may make it 'outside' to 'sanctuary'.  There's an outside?  You never knew? You have been told something very different there is only the city; no other world; no other way of life. How do you know your life is what it seems.  What have you been told?  We are 'sealed' in this universe; in this timeframe. There is no 'outside' - how do you know?  Has anyone tried to 'run'?  Has anybody made it 'outside'. Are there 'sandmen'.  Think about it. "},{"Title":"Uneven but imaginative.","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite some dated elements, the first part of this film is terrific. The pacing is fast, the direction solid and York's performance excellent we get a hero we can identify with. The second part is weaker, with Ustinov's character being mostly an irritation because, as someone else here commented, he is given nothing of interest to say. The ending is also kind of simplistic, for such an imaginative movie. Still, the unbelievably beautiful Jenny Agutter is on-screen most of the time...and the film is good enough. "},{"Title":"The best of the B-movies","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the future cities have evolved into what appear to be giant shopping malls of the most hideous kind.  This is NOT a dystopian future, in the usual sense.  It is more of a degenerate future ... think of the atmosphere captured on film by The Time Machine (1960), or in prose by Arthur C. Clarke in The City and the Stars (okay, you haven't read it - I don't blame you).  It's the kind of society Margaret Mead believed in, where sex is free, no-one does anything much and no-one has any taste.  It's a vision of the future that seems hardly at all dated.  It looks like kitsch now but then, it's ALWAYS looked like kitsch - that was the whole point.  (Futures designed to look hip and trendy, on the other hand, begin to show their age within months.)The basic gimmick is that no-one lives beyond the age of thirty - those who attempt to do so are viewed as free-riders, much as we view people who cheat on their income tax.  There's much to be said for this view.  Indeed, when the hero, a policeman who has killed many thirty-and-a-day-year-olds, decides that HE wants to live beyond his allotted time, we certainly sympathise; but more because we realise that life in this giant shopping mall is shallow and pointless, than because life in general is precious.This doesn't quite explore all of the questions it raises but that's not it's job.  It's fun to watch and more intelligent than it seems at first glance.  Some of the acting is pretty bad, but we at least get decent performances from Peter Ustinov and Jenny Agutter.  I guess the best way to sum it up is to say that, all in all, this was a future worth creating. Even the fashions aren't so bad.  Think of those diaphanous miniskirt gowns that Jenny Agutter wears.  Aah! "},{"Title":"exudes the 70's","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, so this movie was made way before I was born and I really can't say that it exudes a decade I know nothing about, but It was still a really good movie.  I think that we could use more sci fi movies like this, and like Planet of the Apes, movies that seem so darn innocent but still project that ever-important social message.  I mean, Species??? (First 90' Sci-fi that comes to mind except the Phantom Menace which doesn't count, and the Matrix, which I call an exception,)  This movie reminded me so much of the things that that era will be remembered for. The Sexual Revolution, Resisting Authority, etc. Am I the only one who thought this movie was sexy in a campy, silly way? Never would I have thought Michael York could be so cool, but I only know him from Austin Powers.  Of course, he and Jessica HAVE to get into furs to keep warm. Of course, he's a hip, shagadelic swinger who gets to say Come on, let's have sex.  I totally recommend this movie because I'm going to see it again! "},{"Title":"Moody. Slow and moody.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hearing Jenny Agutter being called a sweet old lady in her mid twenties by a little girl is symptomatic of this movie, occupied by almost entirely adolescent kids.As said by so many before me, this is a wonderful plot in a slightly old fashioned wrapping. But that is how all futuristic movies will end as the future gets closer. Old fashioned. That doesn't make any less of a movie. Sure, it has been seen before. But most movies have.What I like most, is the slowly changing mood. From childish joy over increasing anxiety to sheer drama. Not unlike Fahrenheit 451. It is a movie to be seen for it's drama and despair.  "},{"Title":"One of many films about the future where everybody is wearing skivees.","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I reckon this film is funny because back in 1976 the sp fx in this film was considered state of art. And watching it today well it looks like plastic tubes and cardboard boxes. And it was also funny on the portrayal of the future where it thinks people will be dressed in brightly coloured skivees and traveling on escalators.The film is alright though 6/10 "},{"Title":"fairly critical, somewhat harsh","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Logan's Run, though interesting in that 70's way, is quite simply a poor excuse for a sci-fi film.  The plot has absolutely been done before, and in far better form.  Despite the fact that the people were intended to be bland and mindless, one would hope that character development would make me at least want to like them.  By the end I was hoping they would all die in the explosion and push the old off the edge of the cliff.  "},{"Title":"The Book is much, much better!","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a typical cheesy 70's Sci-fi movie. It attempted to be long on visual appeal while low on story line. Logan's Run like the current Bourne series is a film that could've been a masterpiece that rivaled the original Star Wars if it had followed the book. The book is a fast-paced action-adventure which follows Logan through his Last Day. Logan originally intends to run only to break a ring that helps members of the society escape mandatory death by the age 21 thus cementing his legacy. The only way this will work is if no one else knows what he's doing. During his adventure, Logan starts to rethink his blind acceptance of this policy and his role as a Sandman. In the book, Logan travels all over the world, not just in a enclosed Dome City. This would've helped the visual scope of the film making it more epic and less of a typical soundstage melodrama. Hopefully, Hollywood will take another look at the source novel and redo the more in a more faithful adaption. "},{"Title":"Mr. Sandman","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember when this was broadcast on national television for the very first time. It was up against The Hindenberg and I desperately wanted to see both movies but not having a VCR made it problematic. Logan's Run won out partly to the fact that Farrah was in it, pre-crazy Farrah, and Charlie's Angels were at their peak at the time. But I digress. At the time, to a 14 year old, this was a way cool movie. Now, looking at it through adult eyes, I can see the obvious flaws, the skimpy futuristic aluminum foil clothes and Farrah's less than Oscar worthy performance. Once they leave the dome it seems the movie tries to go in too many different directions and ultimately leaves the viewer rather comatose. "},{"Title":"Effects may seem dated, but story is rather fascinating and briskly told.","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Logan's Run is an under-rated and very clever science fiction film which had the misfortune to be released just a few months before the emergence of Star Wars. As a result, the astonishing special effects in Star Wars made Logan's Run appear technologically rather primitive, and the film subsequently became a forgotten piece. It's sad that it happened that way, because Logan's Run has a thought-provoking story, full of imaginative ideas, and features the added bonus of Jenny Agutter in the most unfeasibly short skirt in cinema history.In the future, people live in a huge dome, enjoying a hedonistic and liberated existence until they reach their 30th birthday. At this point in their life, they are sent to a special arena and forced to enter the Carousel - a sort of Russian Roulette-style event with laser guns. Occasionally, people who are scared by the prospect of entering the Carousel attempt to run away from the dome. A crack unit of hunters are employed to track down and kill these aptly-named runners. The hunters are known simply as sandmen. Two of the best, most ruthless sandmen are Logan (Michael York) and Francis (Richard Jordan). However, Logan is fast approaching his 30th birthday and is beginning to worry about his likely death in the Carousel (he has noticed that no-one who enters the Carousel arena ever survives). Logan decides to become a runner. He flees from the dome, accompanied by a young woman named Jessica (Jenny Agutter). Francis is the sandman assigned to pursue and terminate his former colleague, but when the chase leads to the outside world and the discovery of a lost civilisation where people could apparently live to become old and wrinkled, it becomes increasingly obvious that the dome and the concept of Carousel may not be all that it seems.....In the original novel by William F. Nolan, the age of Carousel was 21, but here it has altered to 30 (apparently because no-one in Hollywood was comfortable with actors under 21 performing some of the film's brief but revealing nude scenes). Otherwise, this is a reasonably close adaptation of the story. The film is full of fascinating possibilities about how future society may evolve, wit thoughtful beliefs, values, customs and costumes on display. It is also a brisk tale, expertly scripted by David Zelag Goodman (screen writer of Straw Dogs) and very tidily directed by old-pro Michael Anderson. The action is exciting, but the film doesn't content itself with being just a sci-fi actioner it also attempts to explore the ins and outs of an alternative social structure, and the dangers of the powers-that-be telling us when to live and when to die. A remake is imminent, but other than brushing up the special effects it's hard to see how they'll improve upon the original. "}{"Title":"Pretty crappy","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was amazed, when I watched this movie again after a gap of 10+ years, just how bad it really was. Of course the production values are terrible -- everyone knows that. The acting is wooden. But all of that would be forgiven if it actually provided any real entertainment besides Jenny Agutter in a negligee.Anyone who claims that this was a 70s classic, or, even more astonishingly, a landmark or influential film, apparently wasn't alive in the 70s when it came out. It was a CAMP classic, sure, but in terms of influence, by the time Star Wars came out, Logan's Run might just as well have never existed.In some ways, Logan's Run represents the last gasp of the thoughtful science fiction movie, following in the lineage of movies like 2001, Planet of the Apes, or Silent Running. Planet of the Apes is probably the most direct antecedent, as they're both basically high concept movies (i.e., they can be explained in one sentence). In this case, the concept is Society discriminates against old people instead of young people, a self-consciously clever inversion (again, a la Apes) that is used to show the viewer nothing but the most shopworn clichés (Oh my gosh! They're rebelling against an oppressive, computerized society!!!). Pulpy and titillating as it was, the novel at least made some attempt to get inside Logan's head and show something of normal life in the future world. In the movie, Logan might as well have been portrayed by a block of wood (he practically was).Also, I just have to add, the entire plot device of Carousel (invented for the movie) makes ABSOLUTELY NO SENSE WHATSOEVER. In addition to the point that someone else made (that the filmmakers introduced an unneeded plot device that they were incapable of filming believably), it doesn't even make sense in terms of the story. We're supposed to believe that EVERYONE in the dome believes in the chance for renewal, even though NOBODY has ever renewed, and (it stands to reason) nobody has EVER met anyone over 30 (i.e. someone who renewed) in their lives!That simple example is typical of the quality of writing that went into this awful movie. Enjoy this as the campy classic it is -- in the same spirit that one might enjoy a B-level 50s flying saucer movie -- but please don't try to tell me that it comes anywhere close to representing the high point of 70s sci-fi. "},{"Title":"Time hasn't been kind to this futuristic society.","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" LOGAN'S RUN is by all means, a great concept. The idea of a futuristic Utopian society where life ends at the age of 30, only to be renewed again sounds pretty neat. The story/idea is excellent.Michael York and Jenny Agutter play the leads in perfect straight-to-video fashion (as can only be expected). Richard Jordan as an assassin to take out runners (ie. people who turn 30 and decide to run for their lives) adds a nice blend of evil. Farrah Fawcett turns up in a tiny role as what else, a plastic surgeon's ditzy blonde assistant! The acting is sub-par save for Sir Peter Ustinov, who could fascinate me just by reading from the phone book, adds heart and comic as an old man born and raised in the outside world.Now as for the special effects. Well, maybe back in 1976, audiences might have thought people walking around in togas and leotards with seventies hairstyles could have passed for a society living in the 23rd Century... but these days, it just looks funny. Actually, most of the ideas for special effects in this movie are not just outdated, but they actually look REALLY outdated.The exterior shots of the city look like a 70's architectural display model of a cheesy golf club. Most of the furniture look like it came directly out of a K-Tel infomercial. The interior shots of the Arcade look like something that could be found in any 70's shopping mall, from the twin escalators to the box-container elephant-ear plants. And how about the Carousel? Well, it's supposed to be some sort of an arena where the same extras sit down and do that power thing by pumping their fists in the air, cheering and clapping while a group of people who have just turned 30 get lifted off the ground via pull-strings and float towards a funky-looking chandelier as they explode in a shower of sparks and flames.Spears with glow-sticks on the ends. A talking computer with lettering font long outdated since the late 70's. Fawcett wearing a sequined green Peter Pan outfit. York's face appearing in holographic mirrors shouting dialogue in slow motion! What more could one ask for! It gets even funnier. When York and Agutter encounter Box, an evil robot that looks like a big upright vacuum cleaner with clothes dryer exhaust pipe arms and Christmas tree lights on its body, you won't be able to stop yourself from laughing uncontrollably. My sides were still hurting after watching Box chase the two characters while flailing its arms around in the air brandishing what looks to be a pilot lighter! The only really good scenes were the shots of Washington D.C. covered with creepers and vines. An apocalyptic vision of a world fallen by the stupidity of man (as always).The action scenes were actually alright. Watching two people on the run can always be fun, no matter what the setting. But watching them dodge exploding squibs that look like chintzy fire crackers as they get fired upon by angry Sandmen was pretty funny. The funniest scene was seeing Fawcett getting blown away by a cloud of smoke as a wall gets broken into. And who could forget the hilarious scene in the plastic surgeon's office where the machine goes bonkers causing someone to die from thin red lines of paint.All in all, LOGAN'S RUN is a fun movie to watch. The story is captivating. You don't need to care about the acting - all the producers did was cast a bunch of people with pretty faces and not much acting range. One can always count on Michael York for various occasions of over-acting in scenes that don't require it. But watch for the special effects. They haven't held well over time, which now make them prime and ideal targets for jokes and laughter. And of course, stay for the late Sir Peter Ustinov, who is always a delight to watch in almost anything.My Rating - 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Is it a bird, is it a plane? nope just Farrah Fawcett's hairdresser!","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  C'mon guys  get real?  LOGANS RUN? as likely an inductee in the SciFi hall of fame as Osama bin Laden taking out the United Nations Peace Prize! Pretty much everything that needs to be said about this film HAS been!Gregory Bruce of North Dakota compiled an excellent, factual and pretty much impartial review of the would-be classic!  I concur entirely with his comments!  Stiv-7 of Lethbridge AB Canada, doesn't want to hear any more negative comments about the film's production values. Why not?  they were laughable! So what if the film is 27 years old? - Kubrick was able to come up with state of the art fx, some six years EARLIER!!!! Sorry, gonged-out there Stiv!btodd2001 of Costa Mesa CA nailed it when he commented that LOGANS RUN was bad even in the 70's  It was a joke even in the 70's. Not knocking the concept, not even the acting necessarily, simply the casting of mega-wimp York as a futuristic cop with a cool line in glowing hand implants. Then we have Jenny Agutter...she's never topped her performance in Nicholas Roeg's brilliant WALKABOUT.As for poor old Patrick of Boston, who writes in all seriousness One of the greatest scifi films ever    Huh?????  yeah right!  Is that AFTER we discount 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY, FORBIDDEN PLANET, BLADE RUNNER, ROLLERBALL, THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL, THIS ISLAND EARTH, A CLOCKWORK ORANGE, FAHRENHEIT 451, CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND, PREDATOR, PLANET OF THE APES (The original obviously), TOTAL RECALL, ALIEN, ALIENS, VANILLA SKY, PITCH BLACK and perhaps 200 others? (Just wondering whether or not I should include PLAN NINE FROM OUTER SPACE there?)I mean what can you say for the credibility of a would-be domed civilisation filmed primarily in a Texas Shopping Mall? "},{"Title":"The future looks an awful lot like Studio 54 circa 1976...","Date":"18 September 2011","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like all future-set movies, 'Logan's Run' tells us almost as much about the time in which it was created. In this case, that the world of the 23rd century was going to look pretty much like 1976, only everybody lives in a shopping mall and is always dressed to 'disco'. Everyone has to die or exit the city at the age of 30, so naturally we have 34-year-old Michael York and 39-year-old Richard Jordan hunting down the 'runners'. While we're at it, try 26 year-old Gary Morgan as a 15 year-old, complete with a suspiciously indistinct hairline. The 'domed city' looked like it was made by school kids on a tabletop, complete with conspicuous toy trees. The second half of the movie had the central couple wandering around A) real, grimy-looking factory interiors and B) what looked like a national park for way too long. Peter Ustinov was a bloody old ham. Farrah Fawcett makes a terrible job of an admittedly dim-witted role, but maybe someone sexy who could act would have been a better casting decision. The director was a long way from his 1950s heyday and didn't do his copybook any favors with this plodding, unexciting entry (nor his next one, which was 'Orca'). Yes it was bad, particularly towards the end but try as I might, I can't totally hate 'Logan's Run', perhaps because it has a certain amount of admirable chutzpah (and Jenny Agutter's undressing scene. That's where the extra rating star came from). "},{"Title":"There is noooo sanctuary!","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the 23rd century, the residents of a domed-in, sealed-off world of pleasure are told their lives could be renewed after reaching the age of 30; sandman-cop Michael York, though not yet of age, has his time-clock fast-forwarded and is ordered to escape and investigate the outside world. Wooden science-fiction fantasy from a disappointing book by William F. Nolan and George Clayton Johnson would rate as a camp classic if it weren't so deadly serious. It's so incredibly earnest that one doesn't laugh and enjoy the picture so much as yawn. Still, the goofy dialogue and performances are occasionally colorful, and the primary filming location (a shopping mall in Texas) provides a perfect artificial sheen. Some of the gadgets are endearingly dumb, however the life-clocks are ingenious, as is the New You laboratory. Jerry Goldsmith's score is rousing, and Jenny Agutter is very attractive (if one-note) as York's accomplice/sidekick, yet the film is just too poky and ponderous. As an amusing footnote, the hired extras in the final scene look like hard partyers from some Texas Alpha-Fraternity; one of them even gives the Live long and prosper sign from Star Trek! **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Brave new world, but only for the young","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Logan's Run details a futuristic society that has developed after an atomic war where people live in a large dome which we learn is on the eastern seaboard of the old USA. People look happy and healthy, but none of them are old. Reason being is that those over 30 are killed and in a nice elaborate ceremony called Carousel. That has to be seen to be believed. Naturally there are some that object to being killed and they run. When they do run, the government sends out people like Michael York and Richard Jordan to discourage that.The government errs big time though when they send Michael York out on a mission to pretend he's a runner in order to seek out and destroy some mythical society where escapees have gone called Sanctuary. York makes his run and when he teams up with a real runner in Jenny Agutter he makes it real and Jordan his erstwhile friend goes after the both of them.Some interesting concepts about the value of age and wisdom are dealt with her. Especially when York and Agutter meet up with Peter Ustinov who is the first old person they've ever met. Wait till you see where Ustinov has lived as a hermit in a world that seems to have healed itself from the ravages of atomic war.Jordan has an interesting performance as a true believer in the society that has evolved and there is the first notice of Farrah Fawcett the 70s it girl as one who has reached her allotted time.Logan's Run won an Oscar for Best Visual Effects and was nominated for Oscars in cinematography and art and set direction. It holds up pretty well for the new century. We may well ask the question is this the direction we are heading in. "},{"Title":"30 Is Considered Old?","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based on a novel by William F. Nolan, this Michael Anderson directed film is set in the future year 2274, where inhabitants of a domed city are allowed to pursue their desires until they reach the age of 30, where they are required to undergo Carousel where they are humanely killed in a semi-religious ceremony. Those that rebel are called runners, and policeman called sandmen are sent to terminate them with their guns. One such sandman, Logan(played by Michael York) is sent undercover to the outside to infiltrate a group of runners for termination. He takes his new girlfriend Jessica(Jenny Agutter) with him, and is pursued by his friend Francis(Richard Jordan) who is unaware of the mission. Logan and Jessica find a whole new world on the surface, and discover that carousel is wrong, and should be halted.Potentially interesting look at a dystopian world is unfortunately mishandled in this dreary and uninspired film, that tries for an epic feel, but ends up being silly and unconvincing, despite a good cast. "},{"Title":"Best viewed on a wet Sunday afternoon","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the 2274, the last remaining collection of humans live in a domed utopia ran by a computer, where they live out a hedonistic lifestyle until they reach the age of 30. Their hands are implanted with a light that changes colour as they get older, and when they hit 30, they are forced to take part in the Carrousel, where they are vaporised, believing they are part of a 're-birth' cycle. The majority accept this as part of their natural existence, but a select few, known as Runners, recognise the brutality of population control. To counteract this, there are Sandmen, a sort of police force tasked with tracking and killing any Runners. After killing one such Runner, Sandman Logan 5 (Michael York) finds an ankh pendant on the body, to which the computer recognises as a symbol of Sanctuary, a mythical place seen as the escape by the Runners. The computer tells Logan 5 he must find Sanctuary, and his lifespan is shortened to hasten his quest, so he enlists the help of Jessica 6 (Jenny Agutter), a potential Runner who wears an ankh pendant.With its bold, bright futuristic sets and obligatory shiny jumpsuits, Logan's Run is one of those 1970's ever-so-camp cult sci-fi's that no- one really takes seriously regardless of it's social message. The film itself certainly takes itself seriously, but has dated so badly it is best viewed as a bit of a guilty pleasure. Certainly one of those films to watch on a rainy bank holiday or a Sunday afternoon. It certainly has it's moments - occasionally it slips into a hypnotic and slightly psychedelic wish-wash of flashing red lights and green death-rays, that can't help but grab your attention. Half the time I didn't really know what was happening, certainly a fault on my part, but the film wasn't holding my attention long enough for me to keep up with the plot and narrative twists, despite all the visual splendour on show.Yet the actual plot device that jump-starts Logan's journey is itself confusing. Why does the computer send Logan on this mission simply for finding the ankh pendant, a symbol that is worn in plain sight by many members of the Runners? Why shorten Logan's lifespan, as this will surely give him enough reason to become a Runner himself and escape his unfairly premature demise? Clearly logic isn't given enough attention, but Logan's Run contains enough cornball lines of dialogue, hilarious 1970's haircuts, and rather useless laser guns, to justify it's cult following. It's far too long, but a nice reminder of a time where sci-fi was still primarily rooted in satire, regardless of how successful it is.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Good idea, not so good execution","Date":"26 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really wanted to like 'Logan's Run' as I am a big fan of the sci-fi/horror genre, but this one just left me flat. Others have commented that the special effects are pretty bad (true, but I couldn't care less) The real problem here is the script. It takes a really good idea and does almost nothing with it. To start, there really is no backstory for the main character Logan, who in the future dystopian world the characters inhabit, is charged with tracking down, and exterminating people that refuse to submit to the law of the land, namely that you must be sacrificed at age 30. Like I said, a good idea, in theory, but the actors just don't make me care. Michael York as Logan, is a 'Sandman' a man charged with tracking down those unfortunate souls who decide that maybe they don't want to die at 30. Considering life is one big party for the inhabitants of this world, all pleasure all the time, I can see their point! Unfortunately, we get no backstory on these characters! Why were they chosen for these assignments as executioners? What benefit do they get? They also die at 30 so why would they take the assignment?? Well, Logan meets a runner in the form of a beautiful woman Jenny Agutter, and initially is intent on finding her network of cohorts so he can take them all down, but as time passes, his feelings change, and he decides that he wants to live dammit! The movie plods along and eventually comes to an unsatisfying ending. I really can't recommend this one unfortunately however I will say the music is great. A half synthesizer, half orchestra score that is a highlight. If you're looking for a great sic-fi/end of the world movie, Charlton Heston in 'The Omega Man' is a much better film. "},{"Title":"A Sci-Fi Period Piece","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I saw this movie it reminded me of Fritz Lang's Metropolis in that the sets designed for this had to be fairly large & expensive. As this was before Star Wars, the effects in this one are before computer animation. Over all it is a lot of fun as long as you don't take it too seriously. Keep in mind, there are ragged edges that show, especially now, but when taken as a whole the film is OK, never to be a classic.It reflects the morality of when it was made. The set up the main male characters use when they can just order up any hot looking babe for sex is from the era before HIV & a dream that will never happen, Utopia for sure.Michael York, Farrah, & the cast are solid & at times given some workable script. While this is not a great film, it will be interesting too see the remake in 3D being proposed. Besides the potential of doing these sets really right in 3D with today's computer animation, I suggest that a good writer (please keep Tim Burton's crew from the Planet of The Apes Remake Away) or writing crew rework the script to match the 3D. This would make this remake a potential smash.As I recall, this film on release did little business, but has developed a cult following like some other sci-fi classics from the same era. Sometimes, a film that does no business on release does just that. The eye candy is still here in this original & I wonder if the new one can match the female power. That makes me wish I was a casting director for the remake as I am sure the one who cast the original sure got a look at a lot of great scenery. "}{"Title":"To Brave New World what THX 1138 was to 1984","Date":"30 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ah, 70s science fiction... ridiculous costumes, campy visual effects, social commentary... and an underlying weirdness you just can't ignore. Logan's Run is something like THX 1138, only to Aldous Huxley's Brave New World instead of Orwell's 1984. And in the words of the character Logan himself, It all made sense until Box... In the future, mankind survives in a mall-like bubble of society that entirely subsists off of pleasure and materialism. Everyone is forced to die at the age of 30, basically to prevent the knowledge of suffering from getting into their minds. Those who do not want to die at 30 are runners that get tracked down by sandmen who blast them with what essentially amounts to flare guns. Despite this, the walls are not TOO scorched with spent rounds, and most people go on happily. Unfortunately for the status quo, this world is a lie and not everyone is happy, resulting in one particular sandman, the eponymous Logan 5, to have to become a runner himself.There are some pretty bizarre scenes in the lieu. The whole rite of the carousel is actually quite disturbing if you think about it. An entire quadrant of the city is filled with derelicts and gangmembers, and of course this part is the one called The Cathedral. On the other hand, there's visual candy as well, with superb modeling for the cityscapes and, yes, Jenny Agutter in a miniskirt that only gets more revealing as it slowly falls apart over the course of the movie.Unlike THX 1138, Logan's Run doesn't end upon successful exit of the city; that's only the first half. Afterward the audience is treated to a gorgeous vision of the empty and abandoned Washington D.C. The movie kind of drags at this point, but is made up for mostly by the disturbing visions of American landmarks in various states of decay. When all else fails, science fiction's greatest asset is the ability to displace the audience with what they feel are familiar landscapes--just look at Planet of the Apes or 28 Days Later...This is a very enjoyable movie, nonetheless. People who like the fact that Star Wars is a Campbellian construction of the Hero's Journey should definitely check this movie out--it might as well have been the primary source for George Lucas' later work. And for science fiction fans as a whole, it's a classic example of the form.But MAN, was that robot and the ice cave WEIRD.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the year 2274, after the world has been decimated by a holocaust, a new society is built and resides in a domed city. However, it is forbidden for humans to live beyond 30 and you are given two choices, either to go through a ritual called Carousel with the promise of being renewed, or go on the run and risk being hunted down by an elite police force known as Sandmen. Logan 5 is just such a man, and when he and his partner Francis 7 find and kill a runner, Logan takes an ankh symbol which identifies a person as a runner. When the computers of the city find out that Logan is in possession of the amulet, they order him to go undercover and find Sanctuary, the place where all the runners go to live out the rest of their lives. To ensure this, the computer adds four years to the time crystal on his palm to make it appear that he is on the verge of turning 30. Logan then meets up with Jessica 6, a member of the underground group that helps runners escape to Sanctuary. Logan then begins to run, but in the process realizes that there is much to live for and that he is just entering the prime of his life.Pretty good sci-fi film with good premise, but after a first half, it gets silly and throws laughable stuff at the audience, but regains at the last half.Rated PG for Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Happy 60th, Farrah!","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yesterday was Farrah Fawcett's 60th birthday (and it's good hear that she's cancer-free after a bout with it), so I wanted to review one of her movies, although she isn't the lead role in Logan's Run. This is one of those '70s sci-fi movies that had a tinge of the counterculture in it, what with how Logan (Michael York) seeks to run away from this seemingly ideal society. I mean, let's face it wasn't part of the social movement in the '60s a rejection of middle-class mores?True, the movie does have a slightly hokey '70s feel to itself - the sets, the music - but I find it hard not to like. And the idea of people getting discarded at thirty certainly reflects our young-celebrity-obsessed culture. Worth seeing. Also starring Richard Jordan, Jenny Agutter (looking as hot as ever) and Peter Ustinov. "},{"Title":"Great, no. Interesting, yes!","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" We now take special effects for granted. That's why this film is so interesting, because it was made in the period where special effects were developing rapidly. The special effects in Logan's Run seem pretty woeful now, but apparently at that time were state-of-the-art. It's nice to go back to a simpler time and recall how movie-makers then were thinking and what was at the forefront of people's minds. It's an interesting enough story and the acting is satisfactory, although for me Peter Ustinov steals the show with his portrayal of the doddery old man.If you want to take a journey back in time, if you saw the film as a child and want to relive the experience, and if you like sci-fi and the portrayal of future possibilities from an historical context, the you will probably enjoy the film. It's harmless fun. "},{"Title":"A Candy Colored Clown","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This Sandman doesn't tiptoe in your room every night, He seeks you out and kills if you run from the Carousel and Renewal in the Utopian Future of Logan's Run. A dated Movie with a Capital D. This is High Budget Hollywood nonsense running wild. The makers of this Clunker should have been shot with one of those cheesy Spark-Guns.A hopelessly muddled rambling of Sci-Fi themes of yet another Future that is presented so We can reflect on our blessings and get our Act together. But it all is interwoven in this mishmash of polywash and nothing very clever or clear emerges to give an Ah-Ha Moment.It is easy to forgive this as High-Camp or to laugh at its Haircuts, Special Effects, and Costumes, that all reflect not 200 Years in the Future but right there at the Mall, circa 1976. This is just awful Movie Making with Money passing as Art and Commerce masquerading as cutting edge Social Commentary.This is a shiny, tiny brained Mid-Seventies Studio offering that has no depth, no redeeming qualities, and everything on Screen is embarrassing, not only Today, but was initially seen for what it was when released. Cringe inducing at worst, and an attractive Lemon at best. A prime example of prefabricated Pop Culture without much Merit or Soul. Just another bulging, glitzy, garish Fashion Statement. Disco was about to explode just a Year later. Here is its Cinematic precursor. "},{"Title":"Exceptionally Dated  But An Enjoyable Timewaster","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the Year of the City 2274, humans live in a vast, bubbled metropolis, where computerized servo-mechanisms provide all needs so everyone can pursue endless hedonism. Endless, that is, until Lastday, when anyone who's 30 must submit to Carrousel, a soaring, spinning trip to eternity and supposed rebirth.Michael York plays Logan, a Sandman charged with enforcing the rule, as he tracks down and kills citizens who run from society's lethal demand &#x97; only to end up running himself. Jenny Augutter also star's as the love interest it's one of the better things about the film, Richard Jordan also star's as York's Friend and later nemesis. the 'special effects' will have you laughing out loud as they are really cheesy! but the Matte paintings featured in the middle of the film are well done "},{"Title":"Life clocks are a lie! Carousel is a lie! THERE IS NO RENEWAL!","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the year 2274, Earths citizens live in a contended state. However, to keep the populace balanced, all citizens are sentenced to death upon reaching 30. Naturally not all citizens are thrilled by the idea and take too making a run for it. Enter the Sandmen, chosen specialists trained to hunt escapees down. When Sandman Logan 5 is sent on a mission by his computer superiors to find the place that runners head for, known only as Sanctuary, he finds that his existence and that of everybody else is not as they would believe.Based on the novel written by William F. Nolan, Logan's Run is a fine science-fiction premise not really given particularly great treatment by its makers. Quintessentially a 70s picture, the future vision thrown up by director Michael Anderson looks like, well, the 1970s. A shame because it has bags of guts and the cast, in spite of the creakiness that surrounds them, give it gusto supreme. Michael York and Jenny Agutter are the two main protagonists on the futuristic lam, encountering various obstacles and life changing discoveries, both are likable and engaging as hero and heroine respectively.The premise sees a world where suicide is enforced, nicely given a barmy religious overtone while also showing a mean humanity streak as the other citizens watch for glorious entertainment. Bonkers really, but some religions are just that, but lets not go there eh? There is also the theme of ageism and warnings about not letting technology get too commanding of the human way of life. It's all great source stuff from which to launch a truly inspiring dystopian picture, but Anderson and his back-room team fail to insert a darkness in the material. So basically the film ends up being an all too friendly piece about two sexy stars running around a lot to a 70s groove. Safe and amiable for sure, but this is one that really could do with a modern day remake to bravely realise its shady thematics. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Nice movie set","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was born in 1978 and I though movies before that year came in black and white.. or in very shady colors (unless they were re-made) Anyway, this movie seems as if it was done in the early 90s. The colors are great and the picture is very clear.I quickly get bored watching Turner Classic Movies channel (on Orbit) but this one caught my attention and I must say that it is very attractive to see through all the movie.One bad thing about the movie is their version of a computer which was done by placing what seems to be a large vegetable scale (the one you can find in groceries stores) and adding few more buttons to it. Another thing might be the voice of a woman that is shot to be killed. The scream was not convincing at all.Other than that, the acting is good, the dressing is colorful, and all in all, it's worth looking at. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good.","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I bought this movie as a joke gift for my wife's 30th birthday. We sat down to watch it expecting to get bored and eventually turn it off. The acting was poor and the special effects were primitive, but the story line held our attention. This movie was actually ahead of its time in so many ways. I recommend watching it, but remember that it came out before many of the innovations in movie making we expect today. The movie is actually not bad if you can get past some of the lame fight scenes.Happy 30th Birthday Logan's Run! I'm looking forward to your 'renewal' in 2007. "},{"Title":"To this day, still one of my all-time faves","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I LOVE this movie. I remember the first time I rented it when I was 11 years old, and I had no idea what it was about or what the hell was going on, but the costumes, the special effects and the acting, top-notch. In fact, I loved it so much that I used to let my shirttail hang out of my coat in the winter and pretend I was a Sandman. If that's not a sure sign that you have no friends, I don't know what is. I especially thought it was cool how they made Washington, DC look so dilapidated, and who could forget Sir Peter Ustinov's absolutely brilliant performance as the Old Man? In fact, when I was in Washington about seven years ago, I actually tried picturing how it looked in the movie. FYI, not as easy as you'd think it would be. In short, if you like science-fiction, flashy effects, cats and Michael York's hairstyle (which, BTW, I actually used to have...sort of), this is definitely the movie for you. "}{"Title":"Lastday. Capricorn 15. Year of the City 2274...","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Set in a post apocalyptic world where war, poverty and pestilence are non-existent, civilisation exists inside a great domed city. Menial tasks are completed by computers. All negatives have been eliminated, including the emotional attachment of spouses and families. Life is free. Love is free. Everything is free.Everything, that is, except time. It is finite and limited. From the moment the crystal clear life clock is inserted into a newborn baby's palm, it ticks away inexorably toward Lastday. Lastday, your 30th birthday, when the clock turns black and life is over.The life clocks march through color coordinated phases, from white at birth to final red. When blinking red, Lastday is approaching. On Lastday, those born 30 years before report to Carosel. The rotating Carosel sends its riders high into the waiting lasers, to be blasted out of existence and into Renewal, supposedly reborn into a brand new life. Carosel, far from being viewed as public execution, is embraced as a joyous spiritual journey toward rebirth.This is the world of Logan Five(Michael York), a Sandman, one of the few working humans required by this society. Logan's job is to make sure the system works. The population accepts the rules by which life is lived. If they do not, if they are one of the misfits, if they choose to run... Sandmen hunt down, and terminate runners, assuring that the status quo is maintained.Logan is proud to be a Sandman, and enjoys his job. It's exciting, hunting live prey. Early moments of the film show him summoned from Carosel to chase a runner. With friend Francis Seven(Richard Jordan), he successfully terminates the man. Francis is even more dedicated than Logan, not only accepting the rules of society unquestioningly, but embracing and defending them fiercely.There are drawbacks. Sandmen are apart from society, and have few friends other than Sandmen. Logan connects to the circuit, a tunable transporter beam, where one can dial up a willing sexual partner. He settles on Jessica Six(Jenny Agutter).She refuses him, however. Admittedly curious about the private life of a Sandman, she is repulsed by his job and saddened because a friend was killed on Carosel. Logan questions this assessment, and she offends him by using the same term to describe his profession. (I've never 'killed' anyone in my life! Sandmen 'terminate' runners!). Their debate is cut short by the arrival of Francis with two girls who have no problem being with a Sandman. Jessica leaves and the party begins. Logan's world is, for the most part, perfect. And its all about to change.A number of runners have managed to escape Carosel. As the city depends on strict regulation of consumption and available supply, this is serious. It has been determined that a group of insurgents is operating an underground network assisting runners. A Sandman must infiltrate this network and bring about its destruction.Presumably, Logan is chosen because he retrieved an ankh from a runner's personal effects. The Ankh has become a symbol of runners, those seeking Sanctuary, a haven beyond society's control. His briefing by the disembodied computer voice rocks his world. 1056 runners escaped? Maybe some renewed on Carosel... No one renewed on Carosel? As his repeated question goes unanswered, the foundation on which his life long belief is based begins to crack.Logan questions his credibility. He is, after all, only 26. How would these people believe he was running? The computer initiates a Retrogram. When completed, his life clock is blinking. There is no answer when he asks if, upon completion of his mission, his four years will be returned to him. Told to reveal his mission to no one, he is given the runner's ankh and leaves the briefing, shell shocked.He decides to seek out Jessica Six. Not only for her radical views, he remembers she was wearing an ankh around her neck. She refuses at first, and relays his request to the underground. They send her back as a Judas goat, to lead him to assassination. The plan is interrupted as Logan gets a report of a runner in the old Cathedral section of the city. Jessica begins to believe him when she sees him let the runner go. She agrees in earnest to help him escape and find Sanctuary.What makes Logan's Run such a good film is the story underlying the sci-fi. Micheal York's Logan is a man who suddenly finds his whole life is based on a lie. His awakening is further complicated by his growing feelings of attachment to Jessica. His friendship with Francis is seriously compromised as he becomes the hunted one, and he cannot explain his actions. Beautiful Jenny Agutter's Jessica changes as well, confronted with the realities of life beyond the one she has always known and the beginnings of love for Logan.Their 'run' gives us glimpses into darker aspects of this lighted world The underground members surviving in the bowels of the city, the outcast children, Box(Roscoe Lee Brown) and his uncomfortably Soylent Green-like food supply. Yes, the script could have had a bit more back story. But the costuming was marvelous, the sets fascinating (who cares its a mall?), and there were memorable moments underlined by Jerry Goldsmith's excellent score, especially the sunrise. Peter Ustinov has some of the best moments. (Cats! Caaats!) Logan's Run is classic sci-fi, uncluttered by a barrage of special effects. I understand a remake of the original premise of William F. Nolan's novel, where Lastday came at 21, is in the works. I'm sure it will be replete with dazzling special effects, with nary a golf cart maze car in sight. Be that as it may, I'll take this version. Cheesy though some may find it, the acting is marvelous, the premise is still viable, and the love story is timeless. "},{"Title":"OK, I admit I watch this every few years.","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When this originally came out, I was 14, and I recall enjoying it, with thoughts that the FX were less than stellar. Even THEN. Many posts are willing to excuse the lame sets and models as victims of age. But think about it.....Metropolis came out in the 20s, and it STILL holds up, as do The Wizard of Oz (1939), War of the Worlds (1953) and numerous other sci-fi/fantasy flicks. HOW this film cost $9 MILLION, I do not know. Has anyone seen the Disney World 70s model of what Walt wanted EPCOT to actually be?? (Originally created for a special exhibit, it became a part of the People Mover ride, that later was replaced by the now discarded Rocket Jets, or whatever.) This film's models have the same feeling. IT'S A MODEL, a big model.Every decade's future concepts reflect its current, soon-to-be-outdated thoughts of an advanced society. But, Logan's Run doesn't even TRY to present a civilization advanced beyond, oh, 1980.The shopping mall in Dallas/Fort Worth is a horrible set....THAT didn't cost $9 million, either, to rent. (It was brand new at the time.) The Box plankton set is one of the most elaborate, although its destruction is handled with cheesy fake footage. The breeding tanks were filmed at an existing facility. The fountain stairs are an actual location in Texas.Back to models.........Allen knew how to use them with the destruction of The Towering Inferno. Superman's are much less effective. 2001 is the crown jewel. Pre-CGI, matte painting was almost always the best bet. Its pseudo-realism worked cinematic ally, without creating the miniaturization-effect of model construction.Anyway, sure, see this film. It is worth repeated viewing, but mainly as a microcosm of the mid-70s, NOT as a sci-fi classic. "},{"Title":"Provacative","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Based on the novel by Wm. F. Nolan & George Clayton;  nobody is allowed to live longer than 39 years.  Logan, a police assassin, and his female companion Jessica, are both pursued as fugitives.  They are seeking 'sanctuary' beyond which is a questionable existence.  A memorable exciting film I remember as very provacative.  A british film with Michael York and Peter Ustinov, with Farrah Fawcett.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Flawed but still better than 'Star Wars'!","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It baffles me how many people queue up to ridicule 'Logan's Run' and yet go ga-ga over the idiotic 'Star Wars' made the following year. I'll be the first to admit that 'Logan's Run' is flawed but it's still more intelligent and better acted than George Lucas' overrated Buck Rogers rehash which helped put science fiction movies back at least twenty years. The first half of 'Logan's Run' is excellent. The special effects look dated now sure, but they were pretty cutting edge at the time, and Michael York and Jenny Agutter both give strong performances. I also think Richard Jordan, who had appeared in the extremely underrated Robert Mitchum movie 'The Yakuza' prior to this, is an actor who never got the attention (or roles) he deserved. The sequence with Box (Roscoe Lee Browne) is great fun, but after that I rapidly lose interest. I just don't see the appeal of Peter Ustinov, and as soon as he appears my attention wanders. Maybe if director Michael Anderson had managed to get James Cagney for the role as originally planned, and the T.S. Eliot stuff had been dropped I might have got into it, I don't know.  Anyway, the first half is good enough to carry the movie, and Jenny Agutter is sure nice to look at, so don't dismiss 'Logan's Run'. Along with 'Silent Running' and 'A Boy And His Dog' it's one of the most underrated SF movies of the 1970s. "},{"Title":"It now looks cheesy.","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Great science fiction (Star Wars) has enduring value because it tells something worth knowing, and not obvious until it is told, about the human condition. Not-so-great science fiction, however good it looks when released, tells more about the time in which is made than in the supposed time of its setting.I thought Logan's Run great when it first came out, but recently I found the movie on DVD in a bargain bin. I was terribly disappointed. The movie had dated badly. The crystal city was a composite of a hippie paradise and with the 23rd-century equivalent of gladiator games. Everything was done for people but nobody really did anything -- no real work, and no real love, whether between spouses or between adults and children. Nobody really grew up.If there is any message in Logan's Run it's that genuine adults are necessary. We need the old fogies as repositories of knowledge and culture, people who can remind others that there is more to life than crude hedonism. Maybe if there's no Shakespeare, Mozart, or Degas -- or that one can never bond with grandchildren -- then old age is pure misery, something to be avoided at all costs, such as like being obliterated at age 29 in some carousel of death with the supposed promise of reincarnation as entertainment for people who have never developed empathy for fellow human beings.Acting looks shallow, but what would you expect in a world in which nobody has a genuine emotion because nothing exists to cause anyone to feel anything for anyone else?Update it has since been released on Blu-Ray disc (2011) and is now far more visually satisfying than the DVD. The ethos remains the same, and one can learn something from it. But it is still not great science-fiction. "},{"Title":"Nice Place But I Wouldn't Want to Live There","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Imagine a time when you can live a life of leisure, have all the sex you want and have no worries.  However, there is one catch, you can't live past the age of 30.  This film came out when it was still fashionable to say Don't trust anyone over 30.  It used to be fashionable to say that if once you reach 30 your life is over, but now 30 is the when you reach your prime.  This film helped me to realize that and it also showed that you can't have everything without paying a price for it.   "},{"Title":"Was a vision at one time!","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (spoilers)I should be happy that they live happily ever after. But the ending seems quite rushed. For a movie that was fully steamed straight ahead. And the late Richard Jordan is so young in this movie. Of course Richard died quite young himself. (This isn't a quality movie, but it's very reflective of the time. Mid 1970's. But to say this movie is better than Star Wars is just wrong. Perhaps better than Star Trek the TV show. But Star Wars is an entirely different beast.The plot is too thin, for us to rely on. The only thing that is interesting is the backgrounds. Yes they are um cheap. But it is interesting in the design of everything there. 5/10Quality 5/10 Entertainment 4/10 Replayable 1/10  "},{"Title":"If no one had explained the plot to me, I would be doomed.","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before you begin watching Logan's Run, you must know some important details, or you will be completely confused and start thinking What an awful movie rather than appreciating this movie, because, despite everything, Logan's Run is really good.This movie takes place in a futuristic utopia. The managers of this place does not want this little paradise to get overpopulated, so when you reach the age of 30, you are ritualistically killed. You are told that you will be reborn as a baby. (The only thing is, the managers don't want you to know that they're really just pointlessly slaughtering people).Logan, our hero, is employed to hunt down people who try to escape when their time comes. He, one day, finds out the reality of these killings, and...If you really want to find out what happen next, just watch the movie. I recommend it. Though it is corny at parts (the robot scene is laughable), it is surprisingly watchable for a '70s sci-fi flick. "},{"Title":"1976...what a year!","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This great Sci-Fi film, along with Soylent Green, make up a duo of films in the early in late 70's that really tried to bring attention to mankinds descructiveness towards the environment.Michael York has been one of my favorite actors since seeing that film in '76.  Farah shows her versatility as an actress (kidding of course!)Richard Jordan can always play a good character, (see Hunt for Red October) "},{"Title":"God it's tacky","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This production is a sensory bad dream, full of bad sets, costumes, sfx and acting (save for Peter Ustinov who is always watchable). MGM apparently had a higher budget than George Lucas had to make Star Wars yet this film is gawdawful to look at and to listen to. The budget must have gone mostly to Michael York's bank account coming off his Musketeers success. Filmed in a shopping mall with bad neon trappings and dreadful miniature work, you're already pulled out of this by minute 5. I saw it in 1976 and it looked cheesy then.The story of course is decent sci/fi, and with a better production design, script, and a better director could have been as interesting as Planet of the Apes, Forbidden Planet, Silent Running, THX 1138, or even Zardoz. It's plastic and clunky and more laughable than engrossing. Just wait until Roscoe Lee Browne as the cyborg 'Box' shows up in the ice caves. Your finger will be on the stop button.It's too bad such a potentially thoughtful piece of sci/fi ended up in the hands of such unimaginative film-makers. Hopefully there'll be a better remake at some point, though Minority Report pretty much covered the same territory for all intents and purposes. And it sucked too. "}{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I cannot believe that this one got so low a rating. It is just as good as Planet of the Apes. A sci-fi horror classic like 1984. I don´t see any problem with it. It really has that sureal feal which is so great.The acting is good. Peter Ustinov is good as the old man. The lead female act looks very cute. The discovery of the new world is amazing.It´s really a very well made movie. I hope the remake becomes just as good. The remake of Planet of the Apes seemed completely superflous.Anyway, I must admit I didn´t see the beginning of Logan´s Run - so I am only rating it from what I saw, which is about 2/3 of the movie. Anyway, since that was so well done I cannot believe that the first thired should be so bad. Highly recommended. An excellent story. Makes you want to read the book as well.  "},{"Title":"No home run","Date":"2 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have fond memories as a teenager of the short-lived TV series spin-off from this movie, in fact at the time I wasn't even aware there was a movie before-hand. Although I haven't seen the TV show since then, it left a better impression on me than this rather drawn-out, poorly scripted and acted film.Perhaps the actors in the TV series had more time to get into their roles, but here Michael York's acting fails to greatly differentiate himself from one of the trees in the forest, while Jenny Agutter, fetching enough in a shorty-negligee, seems to be reading her lines from scene to scene and wouldn't you know, she gets another, albeit brief, nude scene (c.f. Walkabout, Equus). That master of accents Peter Ustinov makes a somewhat misplaced appearance at the end as an eccentric pensioner from the over-world, employing an accent which sounds like its mutated from all the others he's ever spoken, while the late Farrah Fawcett-Majors demonstrates too easily why she was plucked a little later for her lead appearance in the fluff that was Charlie's Angels, i.e. act dumb but look pretty.The story could have been interesting, euthanasia and the demographic difficulty of an ageing world population still being in the news today, but once Sandman (i.e. security guard / enforcer) Logan starts out on his run, just ahead of former best buddy and fellow Sandman Francis, now turned pursuer, none of his and Jessica's adventures are really, well, adventurous.Money was definitely spent on the production however as evidenced by the set design in particular, but the story writes itself into a dead end and even cadges its surprise twist from the earlier Planet Of the Apes when we discover that their outside playground is actually the ruins of Washington D.C.I'm afraid too there are too many toe-curlingly embarrassing moments, like York and Agutter's love scenes, York's under-powered duel to the death with Francis and that ending which reminds me of nothing so much as the old Coca Cola I'd Like to Teach The World to Sing advert from yesteryear.I'll still try to hunt down the TV series on DVD one day from E-Bay, but this looks to me like a movie that was actually improved by the transition to the small screen. "},{"Title":"Oh my","Date":"28 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Logan's Run is an excellent science fiction concept. In a city which was sealed generations ago following some unexplained cataclysmic event, everyone willingly goes to their death on reaching their 30th birthday. Well, not quite everyone some become runners, to be hunted down by Sandmen like Logan (Michael York). But then Logan and Jessica (Jenny Agutter) become runners themselves, pursued by Logan's Sandman friend Francis (Richard Jordan) and, in so doing, become the first people to leave the city in living memory.The main problem with Logan's Run is that it is showing its age, and the effects which were once special now aren't. In particular, the miniature cityscapes, so important in establishing the initial ambiance, no longer pass muster - they are singularly unconvincing. Roscoe Lee Brown's outfit for robot Box almost makes you laugh out loud and, worst of all, Peter Ustinov's old man is simply dreadful. Mannered and cutesy and overacting appallingly, he seems to think that repeating Oh my endlessly is an adequate substitute for acting. It isn't.But the story is solid and marches along well enough, York is a sympathetic lead, Jenny Agutter is fetching in a series of skimpy outfits. Plus it is interesting to see Farrah Fawcett pre-Charlie's Angels. "},{"Title":"Detailed, intricate, and meaningful","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I noticed IMDb lacked a synopsis for this film and started writing one. While many movies can be summed up quickly in four or five paragraphs, I started finding it difficult to write a concise summary in less than ten. This film is chock full of everything! From implications about aging, death, and religion; sexuality, love, and hedonism; drug use; online dating; man's relationship with machines, robots, and computers; implications about the future of humanity (what happened to the Earth, anyway?); travel by personal subway car; medicine and plastic surgery; award-winning special effects, especially of the ruined outside; a storyline with conflicts and twists and turns; old friends turned against one another; and even an appearance by Farrah Fawcett!! There is even a subtle message about freedom and American ideals that is lost on many viewers. Some see this movie as dripping with 70's hedonistic liberalism; it in fact promotes monogamous love as a liberating force, and contains a message that is still relevant today.Great soundtrack by the prolific Jerry Goldsmith using (at the time) ground-breaking synthesizers combined with orchestra. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but lacking in fundamental areas","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie is well done, with excellent special effects for the era in which it was presented. The storyline is fast paced helping to keep you engaged through the entire movie. We follow Logan-5, a sandman, who's job is to nab 'runners' trying to escape their fiery demise in the bizarre ritual of 'carosel' upon their 30th birthday. Oh by the way, that's the price for living in paradise, you only get 30 years of it. Our setting takes place in a post-nuclear society in which the remaining humans take refuge in huge dome-like cities, cut off from the rest of the world. Under the control of a single 'master computer' like figure they live their existence, never questioning anything. Fate intervenes for our hero, and he to is forced to run (hence the title). Good start, in my opinion the characters are very two-dimensional. Story line is somewhat confusing and very slow in some parts. A good effort but this movie could have been a lot better. I give it 6/10 "},{"Title":"The Sandman cometh","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's an amusing scene in 'Free Enterprise' when a sci-fi fan turns thirty and dreams he is in 'Logan's Run'. The movie in question came out shortly before 'Star Wars', and was one of the last films of its kind for some time - the dysfunctional futuristic thriller. Based on a novel by William F.Nolan and George Clayton Johnson, it is set in a world where the inhabitants live in a domed city where they have everything they could possibly want - free love and recreational drug taking are the norm - but there is a catch. Each citizen has a crystal embedded in his/her hand which starts blinking by the time they approach the age of thirty. As soon as it turns black, they are subjected to the bizarre ordeal of 'Carousel'. They believe it to be renewal, but in fact it is death.Logan ( Michael York ) is a 'Sandman', a security officer trained to track down and kill 'Runners' - those who try and escape Carousel. He is ordered by the central computer to run in order to find and destroy 'Sanctuary', the mythical refuge sought by all Runners. Accompanied by the beautiful Jessica ( Jenny Agutter ), Logan does as he is told, only to be stalked by fellow Sandman, Francis ( the late Richard Jordan ). The two men, once like brothers, are now sworn enemies... A film of 'Logan's Run' was mooted as far as back as the late '60's ( shortly after the book's publication ) with fantasy maestro George Pal producing from a script by James Bond scribe Richard Maibaum. But the eventual film came from Saul David, producer of 'Our Man Flint' and 'Fantastic Voyage' ( 1966 ). Michael Anderson, later responsible for 'The Martian Chronicles' mini-series, sat in the director's chair. For the first hour or so, David Zelag Goodman's script sticks to the book, right up to the encounter with Box ( Roscoe Lee Browne ), a robot who has been freezing the runners, and tries to do the same with Logan and Jessica. But then the story goes in a different direction. The book took Logan and Jessica to different locations all over the planet, but in the movie they don't stray far from the city before returning, with a cat-obsessed Old Man ( Peter Ustinov ) in tow, resulting in a spectacular ending. York and Agutter are good ( the latter incredibly beautiful in her 23rd century clothes ), while the underrated Jordan steals every scene he is in. 'Logan's Run' has a strong message we would do well to heed in today's youth-dominated society. It basically says that old age is something we should be proud to achieve, not strive to avoid. Worth watching for the dazzling art direction, eye-catching special effects and Jerry Goldsmith's powerful music. Farrah Fawcett-Majors has a small role as receptionist 'Holly'.A short-lived television series ( starring Gregory Harrison and Heather Menzies ) followed, along with a seven-issue Marvel comic. Normally I hate remakes but would love to see this redone as per the book. It may never happen though as today's remakes have more emphasis on flashy action than plot and characterisation. 'Logan's Run' deserves better than to become just another mindless C.G.I. extravaganza. "},{"Title":"In the mind's eye of the beholder.","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" With the Impact of Star Wars as a CBS Review said the first night played on TV in 1977 before the TV Series premier of which this film won an Oscar for special effects for inspiring not only a short lived TV series as it did but 2 novel sequels & even 2 series of comic books the one of which Marvel adapted based on the movie & 1st novel as well as a new story adaptation lasting 2 more issues only to end so very climatically with issue # 7 telling #8's and the return of but that would be telling... but couldn't be told due to cancellation with the popularity of Star Wars to bump it out & the one Malibu adapted from the novel & later the 1st novel sequel of which is Logan's World these back to back adaptations were 6 issues each.But the rights went back to William F. Nolan so that therefore Malibu couldn't even adapt Logan's Search. Another inspiration that this film has is next year's Movie remake.In Star Wars #4 in its own letters column it says according to a reader's review the third of outer space fantasy films to be adapted as a comic after 2001A Space odyssey;Logans Run;& then next Star Wars & then the response given was that the former is not an Outer Space Fantasy film.Yes you may say this film has yes a dazzling 1st Half prelude to Star Wars showing fun & high excitement in the year 2274 as I'll add to what the reviewer,Leonard Maltin had said up to a half before he said canceled out by a dreary second half.Yes Movie going is a very personal experience & I've been sent ever since I had first seen it during the summer of 1976.The TV-series of which you could call a parallel universe story with a twisted plot.Other than these like 1984 Logan's Run is in the mind of which makes it hard to bring to the screen whether on TV or in the Movies the big screen or small short or tall.Thanks to those on the IMDb site of whom agree with CBS-TV's & as well as my Star Wars comparison analogies etc. As you maybe now can tell The influence of my title is in part from the Star War's book's title of which is called Splinter of the mind's eye. Truthfully Stephen Steve G. Baer a.k.a. Ste. "},{"Title":"Not that good","Date":"26 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don't watch it if you're about to turn 30! Seriously, I didn't find this movie very entertaining. The first part, when Logan is a respected Officer (a top rank Sandman) and assumes his hedonist way of living felt contrived. It got better when he joins the refugees (Runners) but not by much. Then, there are all these campy sci-fi elements to consider, which don't fit so well (flashy colors, endless laser firing scene into the extermination arena)... I am sure many will disagree, but this is how I felt about it anyway.I usually don't mind at all dated effects in 70s/80s flicks by the way. As a side note, Peter Ustinov had its moments as the Old Man. The discussions from this moment on succeed in straightening the movie somehow. Even though many years separate them, I was reminded Equilibrium (2002) while watching Logan's Run. You might want to check out the former for a more consistent man-in-authority-joins-the-rebellion type of movie. "},{"Title":"An Overlooked '70s Sci-fi Classic","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is obviously overshadowed by Star Wars, which was released the following year and has undeniably superior special effects, however it is defiantly worth watching as the story doesn't feel dated.Set in a domed city in a future world life appears to be good for the inhabitants, there is of course a catch. Everybody has a crystal implanting in their hand at birth and this changes colour as they age, once they reach thirty they have a choice, they can enter Carousel where they hope to renew, but in fact are killed or they can run in an attempt to live outside the city. It is Logan's job to hunt down and terminate anybody trying to run, a task he and his partner clearly enjoy. After one such kill Logan returns to his apartment and selects a girl he hopes to have sex with, however she regrets offering herself and after conversation she leaves.The next day when being debriefed about the runner Logan is given an unexpected task, he is told to seek out a place called Sanctuary where it is rumoured the runners are heading for. To enable him to do this he is told to keep the Ankh he found on the runner and has his life-clock reset so that instead of having four years left to live only has a very short while. To find out where to go he seeks out Jessica, the girl from the night before, as she was wearing an Ankh around her neck. Initially she is wary about trusting him but when he lets a runner go she realises he is telling the truth about wanting to run; unfortunately this act of kindness is witnessed by Logan's former partner who then becomes his hunter. When they run they go through the workings of the city and eventually find themselves in a frozen room where they meet a strange robot called Box who it turns out has been freezing everybody to run his way as his previous task had been freezing the food sent to him. Once outside Logan and Jessica make their way to a familiar city where they encounter a man older than anybody they have ever seen before.As stated before the special effects have dated somewhat, especially those used for Box and the music wasn't exactly pleasing on the ears. However the acting by Michael York and Jenny Agutter as Logan and Jessica is good and the story is exciting. Any Sci-fi fan who hasn't seen it should give it a go. "},{"Title":"Lacks substance and is very disjointed, obvious and a bit dull","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Safe from the pollution of the broken world outside, humans now live in one enclosed city living lives of pure happiness and joy. Nobody gets old because, at age 30, you enter a ritual for renewal and a new life. Some people decide not to undertake this ritual and decide to try and escape the city. These runners are hunted down by Sandmen &#150; one of whom is Logan 5. When Logan meets Jessica 6, she infuriates him with ideas of if's and but's. However Logan approaches her again when his remaining life is cut short and he is told to become a runner in order to find and destroy the legendary runner's safe haven of Sanctuary. However, on his mission, Logan quickly starts to doubt that anyone has been renewed and crosses over to be a runner for real.When I watched 2005's The Island, I was put in mind of Logan's Run because it was similar enough to be almost called a remake. So after criticising the former for lacking brains amongst other faults, I decided to rewatch the original I you will. Sadly (and my girlfriend will not appreciate my opinion on this) I could as easily say the same about this film because it is rather disappointingly lacking in much in the way of substance. After the original idea is set out, there is basic development but not to any degree and certainly not to the point where characters and plot could be described as thought provoking or interesting.It is a shame because the film has a nice flow to it but here it only manages to be a series of little adventures on the road, some of which are interesting, some of which are silly but most of which feel disconnected from one another. The reason for this is the lack of substance within it &#150; it is evident in the script, the film and the characters themselves. Case in point is just how very simplistic Logan and Jessica are; I never felt they were real people and they just came over as enthusiastic puppies responding to anything put in their way. The direction is reasonably good but it is hard not to react to the dated sets and costumes, not to mention the special effects &#150; unfair criticisms perhaps but some things don't age well.The cast are pretty poor, which is a shame because a lot needed to happen within them to make this more than a basic, forgettable piece of sci-fi. York and Agutter therefore were probably not the people to bring on board. Neither is very good, coming across very wooden and unconvincing &#150; like they are both doing what they were told to do in each scene they shot, but never understood their characters or had their own visions of who they were playing. Support is reasonable from Jordan, Fawcett, Ustinov and others but the lead two are the film &#150; and are it's undoing in some ways.Many people will view this film through tinted sunglasses and I wonder if they should perhaps not watch it again to avoid spoiling these childhood memories. As for me, my return to it after about 20 years found me watching a rather unengaging film that had forward motion but nothing in the way of substance or thought coming out from below. A remake is due and I wonder will it go back and do more of interest with the material or if it will just use technology to beef up the action and the effects? I think I know the answer but Hollywood might prove me wrong &#150; but they didn't manage it with this original. "}{"Title":"Second rate movie.","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of those post-apocalyptic movies that were fashionable in the late 60's and in the early 70's, such as Soylent Green, THX1138 or The planet of the apes. In this occasion filmmaker Michael Anderson takes us to the 40th century, to a world where everyone seems to live peacefully and without much troubles. They have only one inconvenient everyone must be renewed at the age of 30, which means that they have to die. Obviously not everybody do agree with that rule and a group of people will fight against it and will try to escape.Nowadays Logan's run looks so kitsch because of the wardrobe, the special effects, the soundtrack... To tell the truth I don't think this is one of the most remarkable movies of that genre, even though it's so popular, but in my opinion it has nothing to do with Soylent green or Planet of the apes.*My rate 5/10 "},{"Title":"It's kitch, it's 70ies but it'undeniably fun!","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, OK, this got old! The decorum is typically psychedelic-oriented, plastic, neo-modernism. The themes are 'slightly' out-of-date (although if one gives them a good deal of thinking, they are still pretty much of actuality), the dialogs are less than extraordinary BUT this is one of the movie I'd brought with me on a desert island and would look again and again with the same pleasure. I saw it as a kid, then as a teenager, then as an adult and could still keep my eyes fixed on the screen from beginning to the end. Maybe, I'm biased since I'm a SciFi lover and I always had a crush for this period and style (THX1138, 1984, Brazil, Soylent green, etc.) but if you like a bit anticipation stories and want to spend an hour and half relaxing in front of a good ol'movie, then this one's for you. "},{"Title":"Logan's Run...1976","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The premise In 2274, after a great catastrophe, society has withdrawn from outside and enclosed cities in bubbles run by a central computer. The computer determines what is best for the human citizens, and has also decided that humans cannot live past 29 years of age. When they reach 30, they must go to Carousel...with the hope of being renewed. But not all wish to die at the ripe old age of 29, so a few run...What I Liked The story had a lot of potential. Good chemistry between Michael York (Logan 5) and Jenny Agutter (Jessica 6). Richard Jordan (Francis 7) steals the scene every time. Peter Ustinov (the old man) added some weight to the movie.What I Disliked Poorly written script. Poorly developed characters. Awful special effects that looked dated even only a year after the movie was released (remember Star Wars?).Bottom Line It's good campy fun. And I can't wait for a remake. "},{"Title":"a wonderfully bad movie experience","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  LR is not a good movie. But if your reading this comment to help you decide whether you want to see it, then I highly recomend you do. Rent or borrow it on DVD, invite some friends over and laugh your butt off. It doesn't have a good plot. It's kind of a hodge-podge of ideas blended together. The 'laser' guns are some of the worst special effects you'll ever see. So what's good about this movie? 1Jenny Agutter as Jessica. She is hot! Her outfit rules! 2The futuristic city looks like a model, but is really fun to look at. I highly recomend, especially if you can see it for free. "},{"Title":"The raunchiest of the PG-13 rated movies","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie can only be described as an R rated film in PG13 rated clothing.  This film was filled with random sex and nudity to an extent unheard of for the time(and never topped!).  This movie was a grand experiment that made it passed the censors and should forever have a place in the annals of movie history as a harbinger of things as they should have been but weren't.If the trend of Logan's run had continued, we probably would have seen full frontal nudity in G rated films by now.  But, alas, the Reverend Jerry Falwell, et al, had their way and we are now stuck with the ilk of the Lion King.Jenny Agutter had the perfect physiognomy to lead this revolution, with her girlish face and womanly body and this, no doubt, probably led the censors to relax their standards.I only wish the trend that could have been set by Logan's Run would have continued--We needed more films like Logan's Run! "},{"Title":"If you turn off your brain and watch, it's not so bad","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie looks so 1970s and an enjoyable, but occasionally stupid film. I admit that it's kind of dumb, but somehow it still is fun to watch--a definite guilty pleasure.In the 23rd century, people live a hedonistic lifestyle and have few cares. That is until they reach age 30--at which point they are blown apart to the delight of the audience watching and applauding. The way this is done is just one of the dopey elements of the film. The government knows that some rebels have run off to a sanctuary to avoid this death and want to close up this loophole. So, to do it, they make Michael York (a Sandman whose job it is to track down 30-somethings for death) a runner and have him infiltrate the underground. Unfortunately, the runners are actually being processed for future food by a dopey brain-dead robot. When York finds this, he kills off the robot (why hadn't anyone done this before?) and seeks out a new life with Jenny Agutter. They find the dilapidated ruins of Washington, DC as well as an old Peter Ustinov. They are SHOCKED anyone could be that old and still be happy or productive, so they take him back to their domed city to let them know that killing 30-somethings really isn't a good idea.The film features some interesting special effects and I appreciated the hedonistic world, as it was highly reminiscent of the wonderful novel, BRAVE NEW WORLD. Unfortunately, it also has some dopey plot elements and a few really awful performances. The worst was a cameo by Farrah Fawcett, as she just seemed really addle-brained when she delivered her lines. Also, Peter Ustinov as the old man was an odd choice, as his character was pretty senile and annoying and seemed to be evidence for why they SHOULD kill old folks! Despite all this, it is entertaining--especially for kids and sci-fi freaks. "},{"Title":"Run from Logan's Run","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Oh man does this suck! I can't believe that this movie came out a year before Star Wars. It's inferior in so many ways it would be pointless to list them all. Except I will say that the special effects are atrocious. I won't bother going into all of the gory details but I would like to point out two scenes that deserve special attention. The first is the part with the robot in the ice cave. How there is a frozen cave with ice sculptured animals on top of the underground city outside of a futuristic D.C., I don't know. What I do know is that it and the robot who lives there make for one of the dumbest nonsensical scenes in the history of Sci-Fi. Why it was even in there, besides providing an opportunity for the chick to get naked, I don't know. I dare anyone not to laugh at the robot when they see it; I wonder how many takes it took the actors to get through it themselves. The other scene that I especially disliked was the part with the old man. As if the movie wasn't boring enough the makers of this film decided to have a scene where two people ask an old man a bunch of questions he doesn't know the answer to. He mumbles, talks about his cats, and then says I don't know. Wow what a great character! It's just stupid, they could have written in any character but they decided to put in a boring old man. It's movies like this that make people hate sci-fi. Thank god Star Wars came along the following year and revolutionized action/sci-fi movies. I'd hate to be living in a future with Logan's Run as the model for science fiction movies, then I don't think I'D want to live past 30. "},{"Title":"This one didn't age well","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was the coolest movie in the world, in 1976.  Unfortunately, it was the last of its kind ... the last big science fiction epic before George Lucas changed the face of that genre on film.Michael York and Jenny Agutter are good in their roles (I've always though jenny was a hottie anyway <grin>), and the story is interesting, but as somebody else pointed out, it all looks WAY too 1976, in the same way that the Buck Rogers television show from the same era remains a relic of that era, rather than a glimpse of the future.One of the big selling points of this movie when it came out was that Farrah Fawcett-Majors was in it ... she had just become popular at the time the movie was released, and had filmed it when she had still been pretty obscure.  If the movie had been filmed six months later, I don't doubt that she would have been chosen to play Jessica (the female lead).  In fact, though, Farrah just has a bit part; maybe five lines, and she's onscreen for just a few minutes.There's really no reason to see this movie unless (a) you like campy movies, or (b) you saw it when it was originally released and want to see it again for the nostalgia factor.In the original book, people were allowed to live to age 21; in the movie, the age was changed to 30 (presumably to accommodate the stars chosen for the roles).  There is talk now of remaking this movie, and sticking to the book's original age limit.  Could be interesting!But as for this particular cheezfest, it's worth a miss. "},{"Title":"Silly sci-fi","Date":"16 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sci-fi about the future where everybody lives in peace in huge domed cities. However there's one drawback--you are killed at 30 on the carousel to be reborn. There are guards called Sandmen who chase and capture people who try to escape. Logan (Michael York) and hunky buddy Francis (Richard Jordan) are Sandman. Logan meets Jessica 6 (Jenny Agutter) who convinces him that people don't have to die at 30...and they plan to escape. But Francis follows them.The idea for this is interesting, some of the sets are impressive and the Carousel sequence is horrifying...but this doesn't work. It never explains why these people are living under domes and why they have to be rebirthed at 30. Far too many things are left unexplained. Also the special effects (which were state of the art in 1976) look laughable today. They are SO obviously small models. The sequence in the ice kingdom is especially bad. There's also Roscoe Lee Browne in an utterly stupid costume as the robot Box. Seriously--that costume wouldn't pass muster back in a 1940s serial! Then there's Peter Ustinov as the old man in a part that's just plain embarrassing. Agutter (a great actress) gives a rare bad performance here--very wooden and blank.On the plus side--York is VERY good and Jordan is even better even though he's obviously WAY over 30 (he was 39 when he did this); Agutter has a brief nude scene which will please some of the viewing audience; Farrah Fawcett-Majors has a small role; future Olympic gold medalist Mitch Gaylord has an small uncredited role and there's an excellent score by Jerry Goldsmith. But this is just too long and leaves far too many questions unanswered. I give it a 5. "},{"Title":"Something surprised me","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really like Logan's Run--especially Peter Ustinov as the old guy with all the cats. It was on last weekend, and I was thrilled to see it again, but I noticed something this time that I hadn't before (it's not plot-related, so it's not a spoiler). At the very end of the movie, as the dome-ites are thronging around Mr. Ustinov, one of the extras has his hand raised in a Vulcan salute. It cracked me up. "}{"Title":"The Detention of The Coladic Retards","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Cloned persons from Kmart Rats are exterminated at a finite age so their own next clone can take over that clone line's addiction which is registered via the illegal sale of biohazard equipment.When the video library file expires for a Community Of Cyclers Member the coladic birth mutation is put through Logan's Run (1976) and discharged from the video recording with a remaining community life of biohazard repetition.The movie ends with the newly terminated actor meeting The Librarian who witnesses the ex-actor entering The Community Of Finite with each seeming not to notice that they all live in captivity for failing to agree with a natural life's terms.Never murder. "},{"Title":"Why Logan's Run is the best movie ever made...","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've always felt guilty that I hadn't commented on Logan's Run before, since it's been my absolute favorite movie since I was lucky enough to see it in a theater when it first opened in 1976. Why do I love this movie so much and why do I believe that this is the best movie ever made? Those who are quick to point out it's lack of modern-day sophistication with it's somewhat dated special effects (you know, the type who watch a movie to look for mistakes) have really missed the sweeping grandeur and simple beauty in this movie. Few films are as good at the end of the movie as they are at the beginning. Logan's Run is just the opposite. It only gets better as it goes along. By the end of the film, one can be forgiven for feeling like he or she has experienced something so wonderful and compelling that few of us have ever really experienced in our hard-bitten modern day to day lives. The musical score alone is more than worth the price of admission and that's just one wonderful element of this magical film. But let me tell you why this film is so good First, the story is simply superb. The world has experienced something apocalyptic, whether nuclear or environmental is unknown as it has happened so long ago. The survivors (at least those in this part of the world) have built a large domed city to keep them safe from the outside. In the centuries that followed, people have all but forgotten 'outside'. As Logan says, Outside? There's nothing outside. All they know now is within the domed city. It has become a hedonistic place where every whim is at your fingertips, every pleasure is possible, every desire is fulfilled, nothing is forbidden. But, as the poster for the movie put it, ...there's just one catch.Naturally, being a limited space, population could quickly get out of hand. But the problem has been neatly solved in an unusual way. 30 years is all the life anyone gets. When you hit thirty, it becomes 'Lastday' and your only option is to try like hell for 'renewal' in a fiery ritual known as Carousel. It's something that everyone has been taught to believe can renew a persons life, allowing them to be reborn. But it's really a brutal form of population control. Naturally, as in every society, there are those who question the authorities and decide they'd rather live in the here and now. They decide to break the law and RUN. Some of them believe there is a place called Sanctuary where Runners can live in peace. That's where Logan comes in.Logan is a policeman called a Sandman who has always unquestioningly believed and followed the dictates of the city, as has most everyone else (sound familiar?). As a Sandman, Logan's job is to track down and eliminate Runners. And that's exactly what he happily does until one day when he is told that he must find Sanctuary and destroy it. Without giving away too much more, I'll say that things don't go along as he planned and with his new companion, Jessica, they eventually find there way outside the city into a world that's become an overgrown eden of sorts filled with the decaying ruins of deserted, vine covered cities.The world is unlike anything anyone has seen for hundreds of years and while they're at first shocked by the disorder and wild greenery everywhere, eventually they find there a freedom they could never have understood before. In the decaying ruins of the Capital D.C. they find 'Old Man', marvelously played by Peter Ustinov (the acting by all the principals is another reason to watch this movie), and through him they come to realize that they can live together in peace and grow old.Though they want very much to stay, they finally decide to do the right thing. I'll leave it to you to find out what that is. All I can say is, the ending of the movie is the most joyous I've ever experienced. Maybe you'll think so too. "},{"Title":"Piffle","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Probably quite daring for its time - with the idea of genocide at the onset of middle-age - today, it largely resembles a montage of Jerry Anderson out-takes.Set in the future and starring Micheal York as the most implausible assassin ever screened, we find 'Sandmen' - of which York is one - as human terminators in a totalitarian state. Their job is to hunt down anybody who wants to go on living beyond what's due. And there's no messing about; they just blow miscreants away regardless of the damage they cause or the risk posed to other citizens. The indiscriminate hunting is at complete variance with the passivity of society as a whole and the comparative harmlessness of the crime. For me; it just doesn't mesh. It's like a very camp 'Blade Runner'. Micheal York minces daintily through his role with all the credibility of a ballerina attempting to be a lumberjack.Things are dandy for a while until some Great Brain decides to send him undercover and infiltrate a band of fugitive runners. To this end, it advances his effective age until he has no choice but to go on the run himself or be culled.Jenny Agutter, serving as his flesh-furniture (lucky swine), is - in truth - a supporter of this renegade group and reticently agrees to assist him in his cause. They both go on the run.From here on it gets dafter by the minute. They find themselves in all manner of scrapes, including a frozen world where runners are all encased in corridors of ice and some bizarre robot with reality issues - probably brought about by its premature expulsion from drama school - tries to kill them, but buries itself under an avalanche instead.Eventually, the dithering duo escape to an outside world, which is exclusively populated by Peter Ustinov and a load of cats, who appear to subsist together upon nothing more nutritious than old books.The Great Brain thing is shorted-out and the Bump-'em-off-by-thirty regime overthrown. So everyone gets to grow old. And good luck to 'em, I say; it ain't that much fun! I'd readily trade some time for a tumble or two with Ms Innocence. In fact my conscience wouldn't have been too troubled to whisk up her skirts in 'The Railway Children'.There are a few - a very few - interesting set-pieces and sci-fi gadget props. Some of them look as if they've been dusted-off from an old puppet series called 'Space Patrol', but otherwise the whole production is as insipid as it sounds here. Most blokes watch this movie to see Pretty Jenny - every younger brother's incest fantasy - strutting about in a filmy nothing, and hope for an unedited breeze. The ladies? Dunno what they see in it. A young Farrar Fawcett makes her challenge for top candy (no contest) and one or two other B-listers bank an easy paycheque.If you've had a bad cold recently; you may find it more rewarding to pick your nose instead of watching this piffle. Unless of course you're a Jenny Agutter fan. And what bloke isn't? "},{"Title":"life is too short","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" this film is absolute crud.rubbish script,rubbish acting,rubbish set,rubbish special effects.two leads with all the charisma and talent of a dog turd.ustinov,everyones favourite after dinner bore with yet another of his hilarious voices.words fail me when trying to sum up this crap.i would rather undergo root canal surgery than have to endure sitting through this shite again.to think they made a series out of this muck.i shudder to think of the mentality of the people that gave this a 10 rating.still the star wars franchise proves that there are people thick enough to pay money to see cack like this.truly abysmal humourless tripe.does anyone else feel the same or have all your brains been taken out? "},{"Title":"Run, Logan, Run!","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoilers Ahead*Logan 5 sure messed things up. Everybody living in that domed city had it made. Food, shelter, casual sex - the only bad thing, of course, was that you had to go on to the Carousel when you turned 30 and be renewed.Actually, you COULD blame it on Jessica 6. She's the reason Logan went outside the city in the first place. Thru a series of misadventures outside of the city, Logan and Jessica come to believe in some truly stupid things. They decided that that wanted to get married and grow old together, after meeting a crazy old man who lived with a bunch of cats. Possessed by these crazy notions, Logan beats his best friend Francis 7 to death with the American flag(!), and decides to go back to the domed city and tell everyone his warped version of the truth.In the end, driven by his madness, Logan 5 destroys the benevolent computers that run the domed city. As the city explodes, hundreds of thousands of people escape. Who will feed them? They have lived in the protective confines of the city all of their lives. They don't know how to grow food! (The old man even said earlier in the movie that all the fish in the rivers and lakes outside the dome were dead!) Winter is coming - who will clothe and shelter all of these people? All they have to wear are their colorful-but-thin satin togas! (And you know, the world is probably still radioactive outside the dome.)Of course, the movie ends before all of these poor people die of starvation and exposure. As the credits roll, Logan 5 is revered as some sort of hero. I guess you have to end the movie somewhere.But a couple of months after the movie ends, I'm sure the remaining survivors came to blame Logan for destroying their paradise, and Logan was probably forced to run again - from a lynch mob. "},{"Title":"Alternate ending?","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just finished watching the movie for the first time since I was a kid. I could have sworn that the ending had Donald Pleasence (guy who played as Dr. Loomis in Halloween) climbing up a ladder from an underground shaft and making it outside...standing along the wind seeing the sun for the first time! It was a really awesome ending. I know this doesn't make sense because he was not young in the movie. I could have sworn it was Logan's Run and it had Donald Pleasence. I clicked on his name but there is a huge list of movies he was in and I didn't see Logan's Run but it seems very similar. Going nuts thinking about it and didn't see it in the alternate version section. Anyway, I am really glad to see Logan's Run (2005) in the works.  "},{"Title":"Read the book instead","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now I can tell this movie would have been enjoyable during the late 1970's, but seeing this for the first time in 2010 it is just plain silly and stupid. Who knows maybe some aspects of this film might happen in the future, besides the lame futuristic clothes and setting. Especially the clothes and style it looks like something from the 70's not the future. I you have seen this movie at a young age during the 70's or maybe 80's you could probably find this movie to be kinda engaging, but seeing it now everything about it, is just plain silly and lame. Plus I couldn't get myself to like the character Logan or have any sympathy towards that character. I could careless what happens to him, actually I was more rooting for him to be caught. Since his change only comes about after it's his turn killed off and finding out the truth of what is really going on behind the scene. The plot is pretty simple as well, they say everything goes to hell when you turn 40, but in this case it's when you turn 30. Like I said, I could tell how this movie would have intrigued some people during it's time it came out. Now it just seems outdated and dull. Plus the supposed futuristic cities look like some malls put together, and look so much like toys which they are in real life at the same time. The elements in this movie has now been done way better, so maybe that is why I am being a bit harsh. But seeing it now, it really is a campy and dull movie.3.8/10 "},{"Title":"Set phasers to maximum CHEESE!!!","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I loved this movie when I was a kid, being ten at the time I didn't know any better but the film still contains elements that give a certain cool feel to it. The sets, costumes and acting are all very sloppy but that was sort of the norm with these types of films in the 70's. I would love to have seen someone better direct this, it could have been exceptional in the right hands.What's with the guns the sandmen have, could they be more inaccurate and less threatening, only a year later we have Star Wars great light sabers and guns, but these are just pointless, someone had the great idea to create flaming firearms but it just doesn't translate well on film and you can see where the next explosion is going to happen a mile away.The opening is just plain bad, the crappy costumes, 70's haircuts 300 years in the future, the shopping mall-like atmosphere, and for Christ sake who built that Habitrail city, it might be the worst modeling I've ever seen. The very visible wires during carousel is sad film making. But by far the worst scene has to be their venture into cub land, it makes no sense that these kids live there, what do they even eat, it has nothing to do with the plot, and it seemed right out of a bad TV pilot or a Star Trek episode from ten years before.And then there is the most atrocious special effect of all time when the I'm gonna freeze you sucker robot gets blown up and they decide to just overlay fake flying ice cubes, it makes Earthquake look state of the art.Once they get outside, nothing happens, I mean nothing. They meet up with the old guy who can only say I don't know to every question. You would think that a guy alone and living in the Library of Congress would at least have read a book or two, he can memorize cat poems and every cat's name but can't remember HIS name or how old he is or what happened to all of society? Why at the end does the entire city begin to blow up because of a computer malfunction? Is the city built out of propane and dynamite? On the good side there are certain scenes that are well done, when they go to see the computer thing in the beginning I am reminded of Star Wars sets, too bad they could not have this quality throughout.Alas, I fondly remembered this from my youth but it has aged terribly and has to be one of the worst of the era. "},{"Title":"A Film Crying Out For Renewal","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Logan's Run was one of those touchstone moments for 70s teens and pre-teens like me, presenting a society where people are ritually killed at 30 to keep the population steady inside a domed city in the 23rd century. The concept of no life after 30 is what registers with most people who know about this film at all, but those who saw it when it was in theaters, particularly us young and impressionables, never forgot the scene in which we see the process of the city's 30-nothings being ritually exterminated in a ceremony called Carousel.Watching the Carousel sequence today might cheat the effect It comes off as some kind of bug-zapper ballet with a disco ball at the top. But the way these people stripped to form-hugging bodysuits as they floated and cartwheeled to the ceiling, arms upraised to invite the explosions that ripped their bodies apart, was mind-blowing at the time in an almost Saving Private Ryan way. To add to the effect, the ritual is performed in an arena packed with cheering spectators, blood-drunk citizens of this city whose own dates with Carousel are soon approaching. The false belief behind Carousel is the notion that they may be renewed, reborn again inside the domed city to enjoy another 30 years of what amounts to a consequence-free lifestyle.It's a sort of concept that can go in many directions. I figured when I saw the movie they were ragging on the life-after-death notions I was taught every Sunday at church, with Renewal being Heaven and all that. But looking back at it now, you can see the finger more directly points at the materialist trappings of life in the 1970s, with Renewal representing the sort of formless belief in reincarnation espoused by New Age types. The death by 30 ideal fits in perfectly with the youth culture prevalent then and more so now. The city's interior looks like a mall, and in fact was shot in one, the Apparel Mart in Dallas, but that only strengthens the concept. While the dystopian notion of the future represented in Logan's Run is in many ways as dated as those futuristic films made in the 1930s showing dirigibles docking on skyscrapers, in some ways the film is quite prescient People sit at home and dial up sexual interludes with strangers, except in Logan's Run the bodies are real and not in cyberspace.There's a lot else that's right about Logan's Run, like the eerie electronic score by Jerry Goldsmith, the set design, and the costumes. The lead actors, Michael York as an appointed executioner or `Sandman' for those fleeing Carousel named Logan 5 and Jenny Agutter as his queasy companion Jessica 6, are solid and seem at ease in their alien environment. Richard Jordan, really shines as Logan's pal turned adversary Francis 7, a fellow Sandman obviously too much in love with his job.But once Logan and Jessica flee the city, we are treated to regurgitated bits of earlier '70s sci-fi flicks like Planet Of The Apes and Soylent Green. They fight a robot who looks like a silver Coke machine and meet an old man who teaches them life can continue after 30. The pace slows down considerably, with a lot of nature walks and meaningful glances between Logan and Jessica to tell us they are in love. By the time Francis appears to put an end to Logan and Jessica's run, it's too little too late.News is there will soon be a remake of Logan's Run, which is about time. Everything else from the 1970s seems to have been remade, so why not something that really needs it? One can only imagine how today's technological advances, with CGI and the like, will help considerably. The producers would also benefit from rethinking the film's second half. Either keep L&J in the City of Domes this time, or if they must escape it entirely, give them something better in terms of adventure than skinny-dipping and meeting a cat fancier. I also fondly remember the brief TV series that sprang from the movie, with Logan and Jessica fleeing Francis in a hovercar accompanied by an affable android named REM. Getting REM into the remake would be a smooth move.Returning to the original, it's a great concept with some real entertainment value before it begins to fall apart too obviously. It's a fun kitschy ride that could have been a whole lot more. The opening Carousel sequence still packs a punch, but the rest is a case of diminishing returns.Yet I still enjoy this movie, and there's a chance you might, too. It's not great cinema, or even good, but like the decade it sprang from, not entirely disposable despite the shallow glitz around it.  "},{"Title":"I disagree with the release date given","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Everywhere I see the release date for this movie as 1976. Well, I distinctly remember seeing television commercials and trailers for it three years earlier in 1973. Perhaps the 1976 refers to the date the movie was released on either VHS or Beta, rather than in the theaters. I would appreciate a comment either from the owners of this website or from somebody else. I also recall my friends seeing the picture in theatres in 1973. At any rate, prospective viewers should find the work amusing and entertaining. Michael York does a good job of playing a Sandman, the black clad political police of this future society, whose job it is to terminate citizens who do not obediently step onto the Carousel on their 30th birthday. They step on with the promise they may be renewed but termination is certain. "}{"Title":"Classic Sci-Fi flick that only suffers from a very-spoiled audience!","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Remember when class sci-fi flicks were lauded more for their plot than their special effects? Day the Earth Stool Still, Invasion of the Body Snatchers, are two that come to mind. The viewing public is spoiled by CG effects, and anything that is not CG looks dated. The special effects in Logan's Run were very good in their own right. Caroussel, the Love shop, and the Mind probe are examples. What I find very interesting in reading the other reviews is that none mentioned the ELECTRONIC MUSIC!! Music can make or break a movie and the electronic music in Logan's Run is what really gave it its futuristic flavor (even if the Disco costumes did not).The REAL plot of the story is a metaphor for the class warfare that was really happening in America during the late 60's and early 70's, due in large part to Vietnam, the assassinations of Robert Kennedy and Martin Luther King, the Civil Rights movement, among others. Class warfare in the sense of the younger generation being sent off to Vietnam by the older generation. The message was, Do not trust anyone over thirty! And so, what better Utopia for the younger generation than one in which there is none older than 30! Rather than go onto more detail, this movie is a must-see for the messages it delivers. Don't get hung-up on the datedness, or the costumes, or the special effects. See it for the great acting and pulse-pounding action sequences as Logan begins his real run. "},{"Title":"This should have been on MST3000","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was one of the worst movies I've ever seen. It deserves at least three points for being so hilariously bad.I don't care about the special effects. There are plenty of movies that have horrible special effects that would much higher than this. That's because this movie had a horrible plot, terrible acting, and generally made no sense. Well, it all made perfect sense, because everything that happened was spelled out to the viewer (repeatedly), but there were so many holes that every 20 minutes I'd stop and say what the hell? that makes no sense.Watch it with a group of friends while making fun of it, and you'll enjoy this movie. If you have no friends, go watch a better movie. If I had friends, I probably would have rated this movie a 4. "},{"Title":"Fish, plankton, sea-greens, and protein from the sea.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Logan's Run is an ambitious science fiction yarn about a society in which young, healthy, good looking (and inexplicably Caucasian) citizens of a bubble-domed utopia all face mandated euthanasia upon reaching the age of thirty.  Unfortunately, the picture strains to be the successful vessel of thought-provoking ideas to which it desperately aspires, and plays more like a drug-fueled evening at a glossy, giddy roller-disco complete with feathered hair and spandex -- much more 1976 than 2274.  The very earnest Michael York, the Logan of the title, takes things way too seriously, and by the time a T.S. Eliot-quoting Peter Ustinov shows up, the movie has worn out its welcome.  Logan's Run predates Star Wars by only one year, but the latter's advancement in the art of special effects makes the former look like it was clumsily manufactured decades before the George Lucas space saga.    "},{"Title":"Could have been a good movie","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"11 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Contains Spoilers*This movie could have been pretty decent considering the material it was based on. I never read the book myself because reading takes too much time and energy and I'm lazy, but it's easy to see the story could be compelling.The problem is that nothing is ever explored in detail or adequately explained. For instance, the entire point of the movie is that when you turn 30 you're killed off at carousel. Logical reasoning would be that this is done to avoid overpopulation in a domed city. OK, that makes sense if the outside world is uninhabitable as seems to be the suggestion. But that theory is destroyed in the middle of the movie when Logan and the girl leave the dome and wander around outside. OK, so if it is possible to live outside then why have a society in a dome for one thing, and secondly why randomly kill people to avoid overpopulating a dome that isn't necessary? It seems the easy solution would be to have the elite or the chosen live in the dome and maybe kick them out at age 30 to live with the undesireables, but there's no reason to kill them. It's just a random plot device for the sake of building a fake world and a story. Later in the movie an old man is discovered who lives outside and is perfectly healthy for a crazy old dude.. proving that the only real problem with the outside world is that there are no resources. But that could easily be changed by building a Hilton and a Wal-Mart.Maybe in the book nobody can live outside, but once again I didn't read the book and I'm not reviewing that. I'm reviewing the movie, dummy. That's right, I called you dummy.Another problem I have with the movie is that there is no explanation at all as to who runs the domed city. There is a computer with a female voice who guides the group of Sandmen (cops), but there has to be more to it than that. Is this computer just a suped-up version of Windows Vista that gained intelligence? And what authority does it have to run a dome city? It's a freaking computer that (as we find out at the end of the movie) can just be shot with one blast and destroyed. So the obvious question is who programmed the computer and put it in charge? Plus how does this infamous computer keep tabs on what's going down in the city? In this futuristic movie the people don't even have cell phones yet they could build an intelligent supercomputer to run a city? Makes sense.Other things that don't make sense -The runners are sometimes just randomly running circles around the mall area when the police are after them. Seems like they would go outside or actually hide somewhere, but I guess seeing someone get blasted for running is better than seeing someone run to a closet to hide.-The people never know their parents because they are told they're reborn after being killed at age 30. So are people making babies or are the babies just genetically created. There is no explanation if there are people making babies the old fashioned way and it's a cover-up or what. -The random collection of dirties living in the run-down dome area. Are these guys just runners who were too lazy to find sanctuary or what? Obviously the sandmen know they're down there so why not just wipe them out? They don't seem to put up much of a fight so might as well just murder them all.-The robot in the ice area. Are you kidding me with this mess? I know the special effects were bad in the 70's but come on. I've seen trash cans that looked more like robots than this guy. Plus who is he anyway? And why does he freeze runners in ice and store them all naked in a cave? Is the robot just a perv or what?One last problem with the movie was the overall lack of 70's nudity to make the movie watchable and transition the scenes. Yeah there were some 2 second glances, but that ain't cutting the mustard. Seriously, when you've got a skinny dipping scene that doesn't show any nudity then you've got problems. I mean, I don't like nudity or something..Overall I would say either don't watch this movie ever, or read the book. But then again what if the book is no good? You might as well just watch the movie and get it over with and then write a funny review about it. "},{"Title":"Lack of imagination","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Today this pic seems hopelessly dated. Most of the ingredients also appear in other similar movies of the time like Soylent Green or Rollerball for instance. The depicted world of Logan has no credibility to it whatsoever. No attention has been paid to detail, there's no sense of humor, all the futuristic apparatus look like rip-off from Star Trek. Yet, it's all too naive to make you feel touched by a sense of doom. Compare it to George Lucas' THX-1138 and you know what I mean. The dialog is always straightforward, nobody - except maybe the Peter Ustinov-character - ever makes any casual remarks, the approach is so damn serious that at the end it just gets ludicrous. The very best thing about Logan's Run is Jerry Goldsmith's score. Apart from typical sci-fi-synthesizer-doodle he delivers his trademark ominous strings with piano and percussion effects that are sometimes way more dramatic and interesting than the unimaginative scenes they accompany. "},{"Title":"Logan's Run","Date":"24 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" From director Michael Anderson (The New Adventures of Pinocchio), I had heard about this futuristic film, I think I might have even seen a spoof, so I had to at least try it. Set in the 23rd Century, 2274, survivors of a holocaust are now living in a domed city sealed from the outside world. In this society, all men and women live until the age of 30, because they need to control the population rate and resources amount. All these people go into the Carousel, and some are promised to be reborn, but some choose to become Runners to escape death and head for the outside world. Logan (Michael York), a Sandman is one of the many men who kills these runners, and one day he is given an assignment to go up to age 30, pose as a runner, and destroy something called Sanctuary. On the run and being hunted by his partner Francis (Richard Jordan), Logan along with Jessica 6 (Jenny Agutter) go underground to find the resistance group helping the runners, and searching for Sanctuary. They eventually find work their way out of the domed city into an ancient looking and seemingly deserted Washington D.C. Eventually though they do find life with an Old Man (Peter Ustinov), and with proof that they don't need to die at age 30, and they can live outside, they head back to the city to destroy the system. Also starring Roscoe Lee Browne as Box, Farrah Fawcett as Holly, Michael Anderson Jr. as Doc and Gary Morgan as Billy. It may be a little dated by today's standards, and some of the dialogue and effects may be cheesy, but it is a science fiction thriller with some good moments. It won the Oscar for the Special Achievement Award for visual effects, and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Cinematography. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Sum up in Toto","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was Caca in 76 and it's Caca now.The look and feel of this movie is hard to describe, even though I like a good Sci-Fi every now and again.I would have to say that the movie was the 70's decade personified, from the camera work to the dumb haircuts of that time.  For a film supposedly way off into the future, no one who worked on the film thought that people should evolve to create some sort of futuristic society instead of producing a film about as interesting as a group of sheep in a cheap department store.The dialogue was certainly lacking, no true inner thought from the characters was forthcoming.Perhaps the director of this film should have watched The Time Machine and learned something.Definitely a movie with severe financial constraints.It was almost as bad as the Planet Of The Apes TV series. Ugh.2/10 - and that is generous. "},{"Title":"Awful awful awful!!!","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"10 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was outstandingly terrible. The acting was heinous, the editing (and I almost never notice bad editing) was jerky, the plot was idiotic and the tempo was leaden and boring. I hated it from start to finish, and I hated myself for renting it and for putting myself and my girlfriend through it's awfulness. I'm very lucky we're still an item after my making such a violent and unprovoked assault on her sense of good taste.Reading the other reviews here makes me wonder if I was even watching the right movie! Their's sounds reasonably good. Mine was totally inane and dull; even the random and inexplicable scenes of acid porno couldn't rescue this wretched turkey. "},{"Title":"God have mercy!!!!!!!!!","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is the worst movie I have ever seen. This production features the all-time worst actor-performances I have ever seen (except for soap operas). I couldn't finish it. This movie is full of embarrassing clichés mixed with bad acting. Some people may not agree with me but I will just have to say that those people have bad taste. I have seen a lot of good movies and a lot of bad ones but this is TERRIBLE!!!!! Arnold Schwarzenegger movies suck to but they are at least cool. This is just embarrassing and terrible. The pictures of the city are obvious miniatures which makes you wonder if you are in some kids room ore if your watching a movie. And haven't even started on the story. Its a terrible story that makes little sense and that makes my head ache. Micheal York is surprisingly bad, however he is not the worst thing in this production. Jenny Agutter sure has a nice body but she is a terrible actor. The only thing in this production that isn't really terrible is Peter Ustinov who actually gives an even performance (still not that good). So basically Michael Anderson harmed the world of film seriously when making this movie. TERRIBLE!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"It is a racist film.","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How can it not be?It looks more like a Ku Klux Klan's dream of the perfect future. Logan's Run shows us only white people.No Asians. No blacks. No hispanics.Why don't they at least include a colored person?Logan's Run is made in seventies where black and Asian actors will begin to be common in hollywood. "}]