[{"Title":"Intriguing,dreamlike if slow romantic romantic thriller,certainly NOT just a Vertigo rip off","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"38 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Obsession has been somewhat overshadowed by some of director Brian De Palma's other Hitchcock-influenced suspense thrillers like Dressed to Kill and Body Double. This is a shame,because Obsession is one of his very best. It's a very slow moving film,and requires total immersion in it's suffocating atmosphere. And it's certainly NOT simply a rip off of Vertigo.What De Palma does is take the basic idea of Hitchcock's film-a man losing a woman and than encountering her 'double'and than spin a very different story off it. In fact,De Palma's 1984 film Body Double copies a lot more of Vertigo! Some parts of Obsession seem closer to Rebecca,and there are some obvious references scissors from Dial M For Murder,for example. However,Obsession is also entirely it's own film. It has an atmosphere and feel all it's own.Although there are suspenseful bits in the film,and despite a very emphatic but appropriate score by Bernard Herrmann which in it's own way also tells the story,Obsession is a film of restraint,it's characters seeming to move in a dream,making Cliff Robertson's undoubtedly bland portrayal of the hero almost appropriate. There is a slow,balletic grace to the film. De Palma's signature show off moments are often less flashy but amongst his most brilliant,check out the scene with Robertson as he watches the creation of a mausoleum for his dead wife,and see if you notice the beautifully subtle transition to 18 years later. Some of the scenes of the heroine a simply delightful Genevieve Bujoldin Robertson's house are extremely eerie and contain a very slow but effective 360 degree camera spin,while the flashback scenes near the end are very cleverly done-notice the way Bujold's character as an adult is put into the flashbacks when she was actually a child. More than any other De Palma film,this has moments of pure beauty,often when film and score combine one could write a whole review of the score itself. One example is the scene when Robertson enters the church where he first met his wife. Vilmos Zsigmond's gorgeous photography and the quiet organ and string piece of music used create such a strong,almost ghostly atmosphere,and than Robertson sees Bujold,and she turns round in slow motion while the score's often used wordless choir plays. Beautiful. The film's Big Twist is probably guessable,and any potentially questionable you might consider the 'twist' in poor taste elements are not really answered at the end. However,Obsession is a much more compassionate film than Vertigo and indeed most of De Palma's other films,which,while often brilliant pieces of cinema tend to treat it's characters like pawns to move to the next great set piece. Obsession is a very rewarding and satisfying experience it you relax and let it take over you. "},{"Title":"De Palma's best Hitchcock-movie!","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"36 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Obsession is truly the best movie Hitchcock never made.It came out the same year as the great master of suspense made his last movie, the disappointing Family Plot, it has a classy, brilliant soundtrack by the legendary Bernard Herrmann that fits nicely in with the work he did for Hitchcock, it has a wonderful script by Paul Schrader that will keep you guessing till the last frame, and last but not least it's directed by Brian De Palma, who despite being slammed by some (stupid) critics for ripping off Hitchcock should in stead be praised for being able to copy the master better than any other living filmmaker.Hitchcock is my favorite director of all times, and Obsession is so much like one of his films that it's difficult to accept that it was put together by another man. But De Palma doesn't deserve criticism for honoring his idol, he deserves praise for delivering a movie that, had it been made by Hitchcock, would rank among his finest films.That's quite a feat! If you are a fan of De Palma or Hithcock you are almost guaranteed to love Obsession, a highly underrated thriller that left me an even greater fan of Robertson, Bujold, Lithgow, De Palma, Schrader, Herrmann and every one else involved. Sit back, enjoy it and watch out for those wonderful last 20 minutes! "},{"Title":"ONE OF BRIAN DEPALMA'S MOST UNDERRATED FILMS","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"27 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Obsession is one of Brian DePalma's most underrated films. It is a thriller of tremendous power and grace. It is also the recipient of some of the most negative reviews in DePalma's very checkered history.I personally think that Brian DePalma is one of our very best directors. I would even classify him as a great director. His best films are his thrillers, which are inspired by Alfred Hitchcock's work. Most critics think DePalma is nothing more than someone who rips off Hitchcock. But in his defense, he does not rip off Hitch. He is his own artist. He has his own agenda in each and every film he has made.Obsession is often touted as a rehash of Vertigo. But DePalma takes the basic premise and turns it upside down, creating twists and revelations that Hitchcock only dreamed of. The film stars Cliff Robertson, in his usual fine performance as a man whose wife and daughter are kidnapped and killed in a setup gone bad. The film opens in 1959 and then skips ahead to 1975 with Robertson standing at the graves (really nice camerawork in this sequence as time fades away) Robertson is in Italy for business when he sees a young woman who strongly resembles his late wife (since both are played by Genevieve Bujold, this is no coincidence)You can pretty much guess the rest.Or can you? What makes Obsession really stand out is the final 25 minutes in which DePalma and cowriter Paul Schrader (himself a fine director; his credits include Hardcore, Blue Collar, American Gigolo and Mishima)put in so many twists and turns that a second viewing may be necessary to sort out all the details. While most people may dismiss this as a ripoff of Vertigo, remember that at this time Vertigo was currently unavailable period. No TV viewings, no tapes, no theatrical runs, nothing. DePalma may have been trying to make a film to fill the void left behind by that disappearance. But he makes a film that is more satisfying than the Hitchcock film. Vertigo, brilliant as it was, was a real downer. Obsession is shorter at 98 minutes, but it has a delibirate pace that makes it feel longer. In a lesser work, it would be intolerable, but here it is appropriate. The technical credits are solid as a rock. The Panavision photography by Vilmos Zsigmond is outstanding as is the Bernard Herrmann score (his next to last). Robertson and Bujold give strong performances, but it is DePalma regular John Lithgow who is the most memorable. See Obsession two or three times to get the full effect. It takes some effort to get used to, but it's worth it.**** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Dreamlike..","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...or  rather nightmarish,this is probably De Palmas finest achievement.Here his obsession with Alfred Hitchcock is subdued or thoroughly mastered.Of course we cannot help but thinking of Vertigo but De Palma's work is made with taste two good leads -Cliff Robertson,whose eyes seem to reflect fatality,and Genevieve Bujold whose beauty seems to plunge the audience into a dream(the sequence in the church makes her look like a madonna)-.Besides,Bernard Herrman's score is absolutely mind-boggling,enhancing the strangest sequences in an almost religious incantation.The cinematography is up to scratch,and the directing remains sober.The Hitchcock quotations take a back seat to De Palma's talentcompare this work with the grand guignol of Carrie the follow-up,the sensationalism tinged with melodrama of fury (no,it's not a remake of the Fritz Lang classic),the plagiarism of dressed to kill or Body double.One may regret the last pictures in slow motion.But that's minor quibble.This is De Palma's magnum opus,and it will be blow out before he puts out a genuinely personal movie.Do not miss it. "},{"Title":"curious, compelling mystery drama with a surprising ending, masterfully set up","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  We all suffer from those deja vu moments in life when we feel we recognise a place we've never been before or a person we find has an uncanny resemblance to someone we once knew, a loved one, friend or relative. I know of only two film directors who have taken this  phenomenon and weaved it into movies worthy of watching. The pioneer in this case is, Hitchcock, and the film ,Vertigo. But in Brian De Palma's(Fury, Carrie, The Untouchables etc) Obsession, we come up with a truly well crafted, flawless tribute to Hitchcock and Vertigo. I'd have to agree with another reviewer that this movie vastly surpasses Vertigo in many respects. I'm equally surprised that its not that well known or reviewed.The film sets the scene in Louisana state where there is a 10th wedding anniversary going on for Michael and Elizabeth Courtland. Michael played by Cliff Robertson, is a real estate businessman in partner with John Lithgow as Lasalle. Genieve Bujold( Anne of a Thousand Days) plays Courtland's wife, Elizabeth. There is a kidnapping that night in which Courtland's wife and daughter are seized and a ransom demanded for their safe return. The intented rescue goes wrong and both victims are killed in a high speed chase when the car they're occupying collides with an oil tanker, however the bodies are not recovered. Sorry that's as far as I'll tell you about what happens next. Please see the movie, its pure brilliance and the unusual feature about this gem is its connections with Vertigo. For one thing we have the same musical scorer, Bernard Hermann, who gives an excellent off beat musical theme here. Elements common to both films include both Genieve Bujold and Kim Novak(Vertigo) studying a portrait hung on a wall, Bujold in Courtland's house, Novak in an art gallery. We have male pursuers of female interests. Jimmy Stewart observes Novak during her daily excursions around San Fransisco (Vertigo), Robertson follows a woman who resemblances his former wife, around Florence, Italy (Obsession). We have mysteries to be solved in each film. At one point in Obsession, Bujold composes a letter only to crumple it up as it inadequately expresses her feelings. Novak does the exact same thing in Vertigo. Watch the piece with a gold plated pair of scissors that glints at the camera (Obsession), this technique was used very effectively with a knife in De Palma's DRESSED TO KILL movie. And I ask, is that Tom Skerritt I see towards the end of the movie dressed as a security guard who approaches a TWA check-in clerk? It wouldn't surprise me if it was, why? Because as any film fan knows, Skerritt was the captain of the Nostromo in the Sci-fi horror film ALIEN. What's the connection you ask? Well interestingly, One of the other members of that ill fated space crew just happened to be Veronica Cartwright who, God bless her little lungs, lets out some of the best screams in Hitchcock's THE BIRDS!! Apart from these connections what impressed me most about OBSESSION was the story by Paul Schrader, the acting, especially Bujold, who exudes a captivating sensuality  in the film and John Lithgow as the upbeat business partner to Robertson. Robertson's character was difficult to play as he was constantly in a state of what seemed like eternal remorse, difficult to portray that kind of a mood on celluloid. But the most impressive feature by far was the masterful film editing done by Paul Hirsch. With only 6 years experience under his belt he produced such simple and fluid dynamics that lended some memorable moments to this film. One such piece of magic is John Lithgow's face morphing into someone else's in an airport scene and then morphing back again to show the compression of memory and time. Another time compression feature is where Robertson stands on a memorial site to his departed wife and daughter. The camera gives us a slow 360 degree panorama and when we return to Robertson's face we have miraculously advanced 16 years into the future. This is pure artistic work and it reminds me of the 'hands covering the face' scene in Cinema Paradiso, magic. Did you know that when Courtland's wife and daughter are kidnapped , the year is 1959 one year after the release of Vertigo and that a reference to pyschiatrists links both movies. Well there I go again. Better yet rent it on video you will be doubly surprised, I give it a definite 10.  "},{"Title":"**** out of ****","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Underrated masterpiece by De Palma was basically disregarded due comparisons to Vertigo.  Sure, the basic premise is the same, but De Palma takes it in a totally different direction.  Technically, this is among his best works, with the beautiful camerawork complimenting a haunting, disturbing story. The story takes it's time, and while the slow pace may bother some viewers, patient viewers will realize that it works to draw them in.  By the time it is over, it feels like you have just come out of a trance. "},{"Title":"Cleverly contrived plot with a stunning Herrmann score...","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brian dePalma really accomplished quite a feat by paying homage to Hitchcock with a strong variation on VERTIGO's theme--a man who loses the woman he loves sees her reincarnated in another woman and then loses her too.He takes this premise and does some fancy camera-work that swirls around the lovers with an intensity only matched by the whirling colors of Bernard Herrmann's magical score. He sets up the tale by having a convincing kidnapping take place in which his wife and daughter are taken by the criminals and has him mourning their loss until he encounters another woman in Italy, years later, who strongly resembles his presumably dead wife.The rest of the plot must remain undisclosed for spoiler purposes, but I'm sure there are those who will at least have a suspicion as to the real purpose of all the foregoing events.CLIFF ROBERTSON has the difficult chore of appearing downtrodden and depressed most of the time, so GENEVIEVE BUJOLD has the task of brightening up the tale with her unconventional good looks and upbeat manner. JOHN LITHGOW makes his screen debut as Robertson's close friend and business acquaintance.If it's a stylish dePalma movie you're in the mood for, this one will fill the bill nicely. And that Bernard Herrmann score alone makes watching the movie completely worthwhile. It's dazzling. "},{"Title":"Obsession","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" No previews of this movie should be read if there is any chance that it gives away the plot of the movie. The ending is quite unbelievable and heart-stopping. You think all through this movie that you know what is going on--but you won't. I know people who saw this movie and still did not know what actually happened. I was fortunate enough to see this movie in a theater in 1976. There was hardly anyone else in the theater. In one week I saw the movie five times and would have seen it more but the theater ended the showing of it. In my city it was not shown at any other theater. The reason Obsession did not do well in ticket sales was that the title made people think of demon possession movies(which many were tired of at that time). It was not marketed correctly. The movie opens in 1959 as a rich business man in New Orleans, Courtland,(Cliff Robertson) is married to a wonderful wife and has a daughter who is about five years old. The wife and daughter are kidnapped and held for ransom. Courtland, thinking that he is doing the safest thing that he can do, contacts the police. The police find the kidnappers and the wife and daughter. The kidnappers escape with the hostages in a car and the police chase them. The kidnapper's car slams into a fuel truck on a bridge and all is lost. Courtland blames himself for the tragedy. Courtland spends the next sixteen years buried in guilt and remorse. Psychotherapy does not do much good. In 1975, Court(as he is known as) is finally persuaded to take a vacation in Italy where his firm conducts business. His partner(John Lithgow, who does a great job speaking Italian with a New Orleans drawl)goes with him. Court goes to a huge,beautiful, cathedral where he makes a heart-rendering, earth-shaking, discovery. All through the movie, care must be taken to carefully observe the paintings, whether they are in the cathedral or in a house. They all have meaning. There are art students in the cathedral who are restoring paintings that have been damaged during a flood(A second chance for the works of art). One of the students,a young woman, bears an uncanny resemblance to Court's dead wife. Court returns later with his business partner who is shocked by the resemblance of the woman. The musical score during these scenes are hauntingly beautiful and tell the story of a man who has awakened from a nightmare of self-reproach. Court meets the student, Sandra(Geniveve Bujold,one of the most beautiful actresses in the world) and takes her to lunch. Lunch turns into dinner and a relationship develops. Court falls madly in love with her. He is alive for the first time since 1959. Court returns with her to New Orleans and announces that he is going to marry her. His friends try to talk him out of this whirlwind romance and give himself time to think about it. Court dismisses their advice and decides to marry Sandra the next day without his friends. Sandra reluctantly agrees. The next morning, Court finds that Sandra has been kidnapped. The ransom note is a copy of the 1959 ransom note. This nearly drives Court info insanity and he decides that this time he will do the ransom right--but will he succeed? The rest of the movie is a frenzy. The last two minutes of the movie should not be viewed by anyone with a heart condition. It is that intense. I cannot explain further because the movie is not only a love story and thriller, but also a mystery. Brian DePalma was a genius for directing this movie. There are several scenes in this movie where the camera rotates around a character, painting a picture of an unsteady state of mind. You can see the same cinematography and effect in the 2005 movie, Flightplan, with Jodie Foster. Both movies have the same portrayal of one who is desperately cares for a loved one and is dealing with intense guilt from the past. Both movies end in an airport with the main characters doing exactly the same thing, which I cannot reveal without ruining the ending of the movies. You must find a copy of Obsession and view it because it is like no other movie--even though some have compared it to Hitchcock's movie, Vertigo. "},{"Title":"Déjà vu and Déjà vu.","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Obsession is directed by Brian De Palma and written by Paul Schrader. It stars Cliff Robertson, Genevieve Bujold and John Lithgow. Music is by Bernard Herrmann and cinematography by Vismos Zsigmond.You either love him or hate him, it seems. Brian De Palma that is. He's an amazing stylist who made some piercingly great thrillers in the tradition of Maestro Hitchcock, or he's a knock off artist using style to hide his inadequacies as a story teller? One thing for sure, for a good portion of the 70s and 80s his films would not be ignored, for better or worse depending on your own proclivities of course.Obsession, as has been noted numerous times, is De Palma's homage to Hitchcock's masterpiece, Vertigo. It's not a straight out copy as some reviewers have somehow managed to convince themselves, but narrative drive is similar. Robertson in grief for a passed on wife (Bujold) and daughter meets a doppelganger (also Bujold) of his dead wife 16 years down the line and becomes obsessed with her. As the new woman reciprocates the attraction, the relationship becomes wrought and borderline unhealthy, reaching a crescendo when muddy waters are stirred and revelations force the can to open and worms to spill everywhere.When remembering that for a long time Vertigo was out of circulation in the 70s, Obsession was sure as hell a good second option for anyone hankering for a superbly stylish thriller boiling over with psychological smarts. Even if you buy into the style over substance argument, what style there is here though. Roving camera work, up tilts, haze surrounds, canted frames, pan arounds, dream shimmers and personalised focus. Add in the splendid use of New Orleans and Tuscany locations and Herrmann's sensually dangerous score (lifted in part and re-worked from Vertigo) and it has style to burn. While the big reveals at pic's culmination are in turn intriguing and daring; even if the original ending planned would have really put the cat among the pigeons and made for a more potent piece ripe for heated discussion.Lead cast are on fine form, Robertson plays it superbly as a wistful and damaged wastrel, guilt and obsession seeping from every pore. Bujold is just darling, a telling twin performance that actually doesn't demand to be noticed until late in the play. While Lithgow stomps around the edges of the frame like some shyster lawyer whose tie is on too tight. Ultimately Obsession is a film crafted in the mode of Hitchcock, but not in anyway disgracefully so. This is no illegitimate relation to Vertigo, it's more like a reliable brother-in-law. Pulpy, Trashy but also Classy. Great. 8/10 "},{"Title":"best of the early depalma","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...and so I started depalma's Obsession and noticed the screenplay by Paul Schrader and did a double take and saw the score by Bernard Hermann and thought to myself Taxi Driver?? This is the fifth film i've seen in a cycle started with Wedding Party of early depalma works. It is I believe with this film that depalma finally seems to settle into a consistent film making style... I mean it's really difficult to figure out a directors vision when he jumps between making significant socio-political films like Hi Mom to cheezy schlock like Phantom of the Paradise. Anyways, whether it be Hermann's bi-polar score (see. Taxi Driver) or Paul Hirch's magnificent editing, depalma finally makes a film worthy of a second viewing. If Sisters and Phantom of the Paradise showed depalma's clever camera play with split screen editing, Obsession shows depalma's delicate use of filtering to enhance a feeling of dreaminess and actually stay with a single theme till the end. Finally it's interesting to note the final sequence of the film and it's similarity to what in my opinion is his greatest triumph Carlito's Way. Check this one out... "}{"Title":"A rip-off of Vertigo, and yet more illogic from De Palma.","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of De Palma's more respected Hitchcock rip-off endeavors. Utterly predictable and supremely idiotic in its conclusion. From the very start it was obvious that Lithgow was involved in the kidnapping. But this doesn't make any sense if he was in on it then surely he would have warned the kidnappers that Robertson called the police and they would have left the cottage on time. And what's with that whole police chase/cottage business? The police surrounds the cottage, a car with Robertson's family goes aflame and into the river - and yet his daughter lives?! How?? The police had that cottage surrounded, so how the hell could the man and the girl stay in it unnoticed?? What's even worse a flashback of Bujold's shows that it was her mother - the original Bujold, if you like - who stayed in the cottage. So if anything, it should be Robertson's wife who is alive and well, not their daughter. What about the French police inspector in New Orleans?! What's that all about? All of this is too dumb and there are no excuses for this kind of blatantly mongoloid scripting.So much for the illogicalities. Now for the far-fatchedness. Lithgow takes Bujold, Jr. to Italy where he keeps her there for 16 years in what has to be one of the most intricate, complex, far-fetched, ridiculous and longest conspiracy plots in the history of both fiction, non-fiction, semi-fiction, and the entire history of the universe. The CIA, KGB and FBI all combined couldn't pull off this sort of conspiracy plot in practice, in the world of international espionage where the stakes are incomparably higher, yet Lithgow, who is merely extorting money and land-ownership rights (minor stuff, by comparison), is the mastermind behind an operation that would require that he be both God and therefore soothsayer in order to plan and carry out this kind of mind-numbingly silly charade that made my hair stand on my hand and even around my penis. (It's rare that both the penis and the brain, total opposites, got upset by the illogic of this dumbfest.) Then there is that ridiculous scene in which Lithgow confesses his crimes to Robertson why??? Why would he do that?? He plans this thing for years and it works out, and then he tells Robertson he's been had! Then they proceed to wrestle, followed by a stabbing, and yet more nonsense follows. And more. And more.So much for the illogic and the far-fetched aspects. Now for the coincidences. What a coincidence that Bujold Jr. should realize that Lithgow is the baddie after 16 years just as she has double-crossed her daddy. And what a coincidence that Bujold Jr. is a replica, a virtual clone of her mother - a very convenient plot-device used without a second of hesitation by the kind of idiots of the Schrader and De Palma caliber.The movie rips off Vertigo shamelessly (an anyway overrated film), and has small elements of Rebecca as well. De Palma was never known for originality; he is merely a devoted fan whose sole goal in his artistic life is to copy those he admires or - rather - worships. Even the music is obviously Hitchcockian, written by Herrmann - who did the music for some of Hitch's movies. This movie falls neatly in line with the absolute worst of De Palma's thrillers Sisters, Body Double, and Dressed To Kill. Can anyone make dumber thrillers than De Palma? "},{"Title":"One of De Palma's Lows","Date":"10 July 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As a fan, big fan, of the majority of De Palma's work, I was looking forward to seeing this. I'd never seen it before , somehow it had slipped past me. Now, having watched it, I can only say that maybe I had a kind of 6th sense when I was younger that warned me away from it. Sadly, that sense seems to be fading. This tale of triple obsession (yes, triple) should've been a huge turkey. Difficult to believe it ever broke even, never mind made a profit, as I see it has from this website, though I reckon it must've taken a while. Visually it's interesting, the only real strong point from De Palma that I'd note, though given the Italian locations especially it's still surprising he doesn't do more with the visuals. The performances he gets are barely satisfactory and rarely convincing, not helped by a ridiculously bewigged and mustachioed John Lithgow. Cliff Robertson, a fine actor, is suitable for the romantic side of the story but never at any time convinces as someone tortured by guilt for some 15/16 years.That may not have been entirely his fault since the Paul Schrader script gives him, and everyone else, so little to work with. Full of anomalies and plot holes, while the viewer will likely have every plot twist worked out in the first 25 minutes, the script itself doesn't seem to know where it's going for the first hour with it's snail's pace development and reliance on atmospheric score to keep the audience warm.I've seen this called a psychological thriller but what thrills it has, and there aren't many and they aren't that thrilling , mostly come in the first and last ten minutes. Having sat through most of the movie waiting for something to happen, when it does, it only highlights the worst shortcomings of script and direction with unbelievable character u-turns, revelations, coincidences and just plain stupidity, such as Robertson going to the airport to book a flight , finding out there's one about to leave at that moment and just running for it without getting a ticket. The script actually makes a comic moment of it just to emphasise how stupid it is. (Even stupider than the 1959 New Orleans police as represented here also.) The film ends, more or less, with a priceless look of bewilderment on Robertson's face as, even with all the previous revelations, he finally starts to understand what has happened to him. He can't do tortured guilt, but by goodness he can do bewilderment. Funnily enough that exact look was visible on the faces of quite a few others in the cinema as the lights went up, though most likely for other reasons, that they'd sat through it all, that it had ever got made in the first place, that this stylish piece of trash could come from De Palma, etc.. "},{"Title":"Stunning and mesmerizing with solid acting performances","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have yet to see a film that Cliff Robertson , John Lithgow and/or Genevieve Bujold do not shine. And this is yet another example. Stellar actors. From start to finish this extraordinary film takes the audience on a mesmerizing journey. I vividly remember seeing this film with a family member in the 1980's , just the ending of the film, and without a doubt this would have to be one of the most moving scenes I've ever encountered. I dare anyone to watch this film and not be moved at the finale. Many modern movies have over-the-top special effects and minimal acting , where the audience is left deflated since they weren't able to connect with the characters. Here we have minimal special effects and stellar acting all around , as well as high quality musical composer Bernard Herrman.A lot of Brian da Palma's other films are overly laden with violence and gratuitous scenes, and yet somehow this film, Obsession, is an example of how you can make a highly engaging film that mesmerizes an audience WITHOUT any explicit material. I highly recommend this film as de Palma's best. "},{"Title":"Amazing/Suspenseful/Oustanding/Under-Rated","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have waited for years to see this movie offered for home viewing. When I saw it in the 70's I was so amazed at the story and most of all the music. I found the soundtrack album in a store in NYC and played the death out of it. The story really keeps you on the edge of your seat, and the twists and turns keep you dazed and confused, but totally interested. John Lithgow is really excellent in this early role of his career. Geneviève Bujold is wonderful and should have gotten some award, Golden Globe or Oscar, she is that excellent in this film, and will leave you breathless. I am so thrilled that it is now available in DVD and plan to buy several as Christmas gifts for the many friends that I have raved too all these years. This movie is better then most Hitchcock films, and twice as haunting!! "},{"Title":"De Palma's own dizzy spells","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" And so in 1976 did Brian De Palma his own Vertigo make, pulling all the stops in the process, including hiring Herrmann to outdo his own 1958 score - which the latter did, and very resourcefully so, recycling all the heavy chromatics and chord progressions of the earlier movie, borrowing from 'Marnie' and 'Cape Fear' here and there, adding a Debussy/Holst-like choir and organ for effect, and coming up with a loud, indulgent and heavy score which nevertheless lifts the movie immeasurably (in parts literally saving it from disaster). Elsewhere, in an interesting bit of casting, Cliff Robertson's mid-seventies candy floss hairdo is too close to Liberace for comfort as he seriously underplays his sombre tragedy-ridden leading character - yet he curiously manages to look like someone who would indeed sleep with their own daughter. Bujold is always reliable to do well and her unusual face is what we tend to remember long after the film is over. In one of the best scenes, Lithgow relishes his chance to be sick, mean and twisted at the airport as Bujold is wrestled into the plane - long before he lets the blood flow freely as the psycho killer in Blow Out - although spoiling the effect somewhat with his conspicuous southern drawl (come to think of it, why wasn't he cast instead of Caine in 'Dressed To Kill'? We'd have had a better film).De Palma is on his knees in front of Hitchcock in this consistent, almost fetishist exercise in film idolatry, and was to continue his submission to Hitch occasionally throughout his career to varying degrees of success. In that sense, Obsession fares pretty well, doing certainly better than Body Double or Raising Cain but not cutting it as sharply as Carrie or Blow Out do. Uneven but with good moments at best, namby-pamby and redundant at worst - make your own mind up. A good film to watch in winter when you're slightly under the weather, you'll be just in the right mood for the film's distinctive, feverish, dense atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Messy and Chaotic Screenplay","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In 1959, in New Orleans, the businessman Michael Mike Courtland (Cliff Robertson) celebrates the tenth wedding anniversary with his beloved wife Elizabeth (Geneviève Bujold) with a party in his manor. Late night, Elizabeth and their daughter Amy are abducted and the kidnappers leave a note asking the ransom of US$ 500,000.00. However Mike calls the police but the rescue operation is a mess. When the criminals are pursued, there is a car crash and it explodes. Mike blames himself for the death of Elizabeth and Amy and builds a memorial in the location of the accident.In 1975, Mike travels with his partner Robert Lasalle (John Lithgow) to Florence in a business trip and when he goes to the church where he first met Elizabeth, he sees the worker Sandra Portinari (Geneviève Bujold) that is working in the restoration of a painting of Madonna and is a dead ringer of Elizabeth. Mike becomes obsessed in Sandra and dates her. When Mike travels back to NOLA, he brings Sandra planning to marry her. However, Sandra is also kidnapped and Mike finds a ransom note identical to the one he received when Elizabeth was abducted. Now Mike believes that destiny has given a second chance to him and he does not want to blow it. Obsession is an average thriller by Brian De Palma with a messy and chaotic screenplay. The greatest problem is the lead actor Cliff Robertson that keeps a wooden face with the same expression and never convinces. The plot is also silly and weak since Bob has waited fifteen years to lure Mike and take his real state. The incestuous romance between Mike and Sandra is also lame since she could be a good catholic girl, but she certainly has had intimacies with her father in the name of revenge. Last but not the least, this is the first feature of John Lithgow, who has always been doomed to be the villain. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Trágica Obsessão (Tragic Obsession) "},{"Title":"Typically stylish work by De Palma.","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Director Brian De Palma and screenwriter Paul Schrader pay tribute to Hitchcock's Vertigo with this slow, dreamy, romantic thriller, a fine and involving film with some great acting. Cliff Robertson plays Michael Courtland, a New Orleans businessman whose wife and daughter are kidnapped and held for ransom. The attempt to rescue them goes horribly bad and Michael's life is shattered. 17 years later, he and business partner Robert Lasalle (John Lithgow) are in Rome on business when Michael catches notice of Sandra (Genevieve Bujold), an art historian who is the spitting image of his wife, and he falls in love with her. Now, the twists coming at around the 80 minute mark make this all worth it. De Palma's theme of obsession has recurred in his work and in this case it's a romantic obsession as Michael is determined to right the wrong he feels he made and not lose the woman he loves for a second time. The pacing is deliberate but the atmosphere is excellent, with some great location shooting. And the music score by Bernard Herrmann is one of his absolute best, setting the mood for each and every scene. The acting is top notch; Bujold's classic beauty is well utilized in her multiple roles, and she's extremely appealing to boot. Lithgow is solid as always in his supporting role, while Robertson comes off as a little reserved, although it would be hard to watch this and not feel some sympathy for the guy. The story is entertaining and De Palma and company make this an appropriately somber affair, with not much in the way of humour, and handle the material with a fair amount of subtlety and dignity. It's very well shot in Panavision by the great Vilmos Zsigmond, and it just draws you right in, right from its unnerving first act to its final scene. It's a fine effort from all concerned. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"No fear of heights","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's impossible to talk about this for very long without dealing with the elephant in the room. Yes, De Palma, as several other talented directors, is a fan of Hitchcock(and this lives up to his style well, without being a copy), and yes, aspects of this do bear a striking resemblance to Vertigo. Neither of the plots hold up to close scrutiny yet are compelling and keep you wanting to find out more, the reveals are gripping and the focus is on the emotion. The well-done, mysterious scores are done by the same composer, if it's a tad bombastic here. Both starring ladies are attractive; Bujold's performance is stunning, Novak is the greater beauty. Stewart surprised in an unexpected role, Robertson(who I've barely seen in anything else) is bland without being boring. The theme of obsession is important in them. With all of that said, this is different, and ought not to be regarded as a mere remake(one was not, and is not, necessary). Alfred chose to be angry; I think it would have been fitting for him to be proud. As far as tributes to him and his work go, this is among the best. Florence is haunting in this. The build-up of mood and atmosphere, leading to the inevitable and remarkable climax, is gradual but it pays off. Let this absorb you. It possesses a dream-like quality that stays with you. What there is of suspense and tension is effective, and this keeps you engaged. The acting is good for the most part. Lithgow's convincing accent and his unflattering moustache balance each other out. This is well-edited and the cinematography is nicely done. The FX are decent(there aren't enough for this to be a bother; this is subtle and doesn't try too hard). This is one of the seven pictures by Brian I've watched, the others being Carrie, The Untouchables, Scarface, Snake Eyes, Mission Impossible and Black Dahlia. There is disturbing content in this, and not everyone will be comfortable with it. The DVD comes with interesting trivia(note that it spoils the movie), a trailer for this and a bunch of others, and a 36 second photo gallery. I recommend this to any fan of either skillful film-maker. 7/10 "},{"Title":"For Bernard Herrmann Enthusiasts Only","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I revisited Obsession recently because I've always been a fan of the late, great Bernard Herrmann. In the late 1970's, I bought the Obsession soundtrack on LP because, as one critic so aptly wrote, Herrmann's score would make even blank film compelling. As for what happens on the celluloid, it's obvious that this movie was a lower-budgeted rush job (example mid-70's automobiles in scenes of 1959 New Orleans). It's also quite a feat to make Florence look so drab and gray, while the middle third of the film bogs down tremendously. And the excessive use of filters by Vilmos Zsigmond makes the film look less ethereal than out-of-focus.In my opinion, the only other positive for the film is Genevieve Bujold's performance. It stands in marked contrast to the one given by Cliff Robertson, who is leaden throughout and provides no shades or nuances of a conflicted man. And a young John Lithgow fares no better, with his outrageously syrupy Southern accent.Five stars out of ten. For Benny and Genevieve. "},{"Title":"One of De Palmas worst...","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This had one of the baddest plots ever and you could see it coming from miles of. At a certain point about 40 minutes in you all ready know what the conclusion will be because it all obvious points to that. There is simply no set up for anything else so the story basically unfolds without any surprises and a very predictable ending.The characters make illogical decisions and there is a real lack of chemistry between them and some explanations are ludicrous like the nine year old girl that seems to forget her former life because its convenient to the script.Movie has a lot of these examples and most of the time just drags one for that shocking moment at the end which it does not deliver because you all ready know that.A later movie from De Palma raising Cain which has some of the same subject matter is a far better movie than this both visually and plot wise so your better of watching that.This was compared to Hitchcock but while his movies will stand the test of time this one from De Palma shows he still had a lot to learn about story telling.He got it eventually but he can write this one of as a fail. "}{"Title":"Obsession-NounA compulsive and often unreasonable idea or emotion.","Date":"14 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Around six weeks before a brilliant independent video store shut its doors for the last time in its twenty plus year history,I stumbled upon a DVD with a very muddy cover.Looking at the back of the case,I noticed that Brian De Palma was listed as the director.With my friend having been raving (at the time) about a De Palma film called Scarface,I felt that this was a film that was defiantly worth a try.During my viewing of the film,I ended up being left with very mixed feeling about the DVD of the film.For the film it self,I got a strong sense that it would be a movie that would really click for me on a second viewing,whist the DVD sadly damaged my enjoyment of the film badly,due to the picture looking like it had been covered in mud,and the soundtrack almost sounding as if it was coming from half a mile away..With having this year become a fan of an Italian film genre called Giallo,I went searching round on Amazon UK to see what titles a DVD/Blu- Ray company called Arrow was planning to bring out.As I was getting closer to the end of the list,I was surprised to see an upcoming Blu-Ray of Obsession that Arrow were about to bring out.Reading the details of the Blu-Ray,I was thrilled to see that Arrow had packed the disc with a huge number of great sounding extras,which included the original screenplay of the film!.With my interest in revisiting the film being given a huge boost,I felt that it was the perfect time for me to become obsessed with Obsession..1959 Shotly after having a huge party to celebrate his ten year wedding anniversary to Elizabeth Courtland,and for achieving his ultimate professional goal of being the co owner of a huge New Orleans real estate firm,Michael Courtland suddenly experience's the deepest level of fear that he has ever had,when his wife and their young daughter (Amy Courtland) are kidnapped.Michael is told by the kidnappers that the only chance he has of ever seeing his wife and daughter alive,is to pay them a huge ransom.To Courtland's initial shock,the main police expert in kidnapping strongly advises Michael not to pay the cash,but,to instead let them do a fake ransom payment, (this is due to the the offices thinking that if the kidnappers see that they can hold one person to ransom,then there is a strong chance that they will do the same crime again.)Whilst the first part of the fake payment plan goes perfectly to plan,the second half of the plan sadly ends in deep tragedy,with the kidnappers,Michaels wife, and their daughter all being killed during a failed attempted get away drive of the kidnappers from the cops.As Michael starts to feel his heart sink,he is given news which he could have never predictedthat due to how powerful the car explosion was,it seems that the bodies of his wife and daughter have been burned alive,with no sign of any remains...1973Whilst Michael Couitland's co-owned real estate business expands to a national level at lightning speed,the memories of his wife and daughter still deeply haunt him,with Courtland buying a huge piece of land,just to place a private shrine for his family.With his co-owner Robert Lasalle fearing that Michael is losing any focus on the company,Robert decides to drag Michael to come along for a quick business trip,which he hopes will help Courland to regain some focus on the business.Whilst looking round their holiday/business destination of Florence,Italy,Courtland notices that the church he and Elizabeth got married in is being renovated.As he looks round the stunning church,Michael suddenly gets a shiver running down his spine,when he runs a church renovator called Sandra Portinari,who looks exactly like his wife! After having ran off from the church,with a fear that he is either seeing a ghost or going insane,Courtland bravely returns to the church,and discovers that Sandra is actually a real person. With the reflection of his dead wife constantly on Portinari,Michael becomes obsessed with getting together with Sandra as fast as possible,so he is at last able to re-experience the feelings that he had with Elizabeth.Unknowingly,Courtland never suspect for a moment that the recurring memories of his wife are being internally set off by someone on purpose..When deciding if I should pick up the Blu-ray,the main thing that got me very interested in the set,was that the original screenplay by Paul Taxi Driver Schrader (titled Deja Vu) was going to be published in a huge booklet with the disc.Reading Scrader's screenplay,it is eye-opening to see that whilst he is most known for his hard-nosed scripts set in an underbelly universe,here Schrader goes on an flight of fantasy,which actually makes it much more unsettling than it would be set in reality.Sadly,due to how out there Scrader's script went,the studio and director Brian De Palma decided that huge sections of the script needed to be cut (something which still angers Scrader,due to him feeling that it was his masterpiece.)Thankfully,what remains of the brilliant screenplay,and the new additions to the story by De Palma help to create a film whose dream-logic always feels that it might be about to tip into a nightmarish world.For his excellent directing,De Palma (almost) uses all of his camera moves to hint at parts of the story which become much more noticeable on repeat viewing,with the opening of Michael's anniversary party,being something that can at first be seen as De Palma trying to show Courtland as a family man,which on a second viewing,actually seems to be giving a subtle suggestion to something deeply disturbing.Although there is a strong whiff of Hitchcock's Vertigo,the amazing cast (with a stunning Genevive Bujold ,who massively helps to pull the huge twist ending off smoothly )and crew get the film to rise well above being any copycat,with Courtland's increasing obsession to regain a part of his long lost self,giving the film a mesmerising haunting-dream mood. "},{"Title":"Mysterious story, competent performances and sense of style","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A rich businessman (Clift Robertson) meets an enigmatic young girl ( Genevieve Bujold) in Florencia . She is the dead ringer image of his late spouse who was murdered by kidnappers during a car accident at a backfired rescue . It leads to a mesmerizing cycle of traps and lies.A classic in suspense from De Palma , pitching us right into the action from the beginning and baffling most of us to the ending. There is much for De Palma buffs to savour in this thrilling and atmospheric handling of a complex story with deliberately old-fashioned treatment . Robertson is assured as ever as the obsessed millionaire battling against his obsessions and Bujold in a difficult double role as the girls who looks exactly like the wife, she strangely adds depth to her acting. There are tense key images that that are brilliantly staged. This romantic flick is plenty of mystery, intrigue, and suspenseful. Adding special characteristics techniques as ominous camera movements .Brian De Palma's homage to Hitchcock and the amusement turn out to be inquire what scenes taken from suspense Master. For that reason takes parts especially from ¨Vertigo¨. All this said, the mechanics of suspense are worked quite well and may frighten the easily scared quite badly, but De Palma has made a habit of dwelling on their more sordid side-shoots. The film displays a great and haunting musical score by Bernard Herrmann, Hitchock's favorite composer and imitating his former hits. Furthermore appropriate cinematography by cameraman Vilmos Zsigmond, though is urgent a necessary remastering because of the colors are faded. The picture is brilliantly directed by Brian De Palma. This one along with ¨ Sisters,Dresssed to Kill, Blow out¨ are outwardly another ode to Hitchcock, but the Master might well shift uneasily in his grave at the long-drawn-out tension, the flash scenes and the shock effects with the accent on gas-provoking , but on most occasion is thrilling. Rating  Above average but gets some riveting basic ideas and fascinating images. "},{"Title":"Possession obsession","Date":"27 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" An early, eerie, unsettling film from Brian De Palma, here just about getting his stylistic skills down-pat before his commercial breakthrough with Carrie. I remember seeing this film not long after it was first released and it staying in my mind for a long time afterwards - this most recent viewing will have the same effect even if time does show up some of its deficiencies.The film nods to Hitchcock's masterpiece Vertigo in many ways - Like James Stewart's Scotty Ferguson, Cliff Robertson here portrays a man so devastated by loss of a loved one that he goes to extremes to replace her with a living breathing substitute, expected to subsume her individuality and identity to his will. There are other Hitchcock motifs on board, like the utilisation of a prominent portrait of Robertson's wife and daughter, the insertion of an old church as a key location and of course, most obviously, Hitch's composer-in-residence Bernard Herrman's sweeping, almost suffocating orchestral score which seems to overlay nearly every scene. The famous Grace Kelly scissors scene from Dial M For Murder also gets a look-in when Robertson dispatches in self-defence his treacherous business partner-cum-friend John Lithgow.De Palma's work here is highly stylised, with the whole possessing a dream-like quality, with smooth tracking shots the norm, culminating in the final revolving shots of Robertson and his reunited daughter at the conclusion as Herrman's music swells ever louder. The plotting is very complicated however and at times hard to swallow. The inference of Robertson's unwitting incestuous attraction to his grown-up daughter by the end is down-played but still disturbs plus it seems unlikely that bad guy Lithgow would go to such extremes to wrest control of the company away from long-time partner Robertson, especially over such a long period of time. But hey, I'm pretty sure that the plot to Vertigo has more than a few loose ends and unbelievable devices and while De Palma's film can't claim to be the cinematic great that Vertigo was, we have to remember the difference in the experience, knowledge and okay, skill of the two directors at the respective helms. Maybe De Palma very often was the Oasis to the Beatles if I can bring in a musical analogy but that shouldn't deny De Palma his due. At the very least he made near Hitchcock-class thrillers well into the 80's when the Master had long passed onThe acting is solid by all the players, especially Robertson in the key role as the grieving, driven widower unable to move on with his life until he has atoned for his earlier error in judgement. Perhaps John Lithgow is just a little too much cartoonish as the Southern gentleman baddie - he could almost be the template for JR Ewing from Dallas, even down to the clothes.This particular film was made only a few years after another haunting thriller of death loss and memory set in Italy, Nic Roeg's superior Don't Look Now with both films, like the best (or worst) of dreams, staying with you long after you've woken up. "},{"Title":"This movie belongs to Bernard Herrmann","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cliff Robertson does an excellent job as the main character in this thriller, but in truth, the character in OBSESSION comes from Bernard Herrman's fine score.The producers didn't want Herrmann, who was considered passé (as well as being a pain to work with). But De Palma wanted him, in order to add the right touch to this obvious Hitchcock tribute. And he didn't disappoint.In composer Lyn Murray's autobiography, there's an anecdote about another composer making fun of this score, because the main motif sounds like the opening of Jeepers Creepers. But there is so much more to the score than that one theme. This is actually one of Herrmann's most nuanced scores, with many moods and a lush, full orchestra. Watch how many scenes are almost completely dependent on the music for emotional impact.The film is a fine early teaming of De Palma and Schrader, who went on to even bigger and better films. It is a memorable movie, with wonderful locations in the US and Italy, and a solid cast, even though John Lithgow has one of the worst movie mustaches ever seen on screen. But Bernie Herrmann steals the show. Unfortunately, he died before he could enjoy the TWO Oscar nominations he received the year he went to that big sound stage in the sky. "},{"Title":"A Forgotten Gem from DePalma","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Obsession(1976) ****/****Obsession is a prime thriller from the 70's that more than effectively captures the Hitchcock style. Not surprizingly, the director of the film was Brian I Want to Be Hitchcock De Palma. Although some of his attempts at Hitchcock can be argued to be unsuccessful, this one certianly wasn't. The title Obsession is a minor problem because many people, including myself, figured it to possibly be a soft core porn flick. I can't tell you what the title refers to without giving some of the movie away, but it is the opposite of a sex flick. The film begins in 1959 New Orleans, where we see wealthy buisnessman Michael Courtland(Cliff Robertson) and his wife, Elizabeth, at a party. Longtime friend and right hand man Robert Lasalle(John Lithgow) is proposing a toast to Michael. Later that evening, Mike and Elizabeth go home and proceed to start a romantic evening when suddenly Elizabeth hears screams and discvers her daughter has a gun to her head. Soon, another kidnapper holds a gun to Elizabeth's head and the two are kidnapped. The kidnappers leave a note for Michael, telling him to bring 500,000 dollars to save his wife and daughter. Mike proceeds to bring a suitcase, but instead of money, it's filled with a transmitter and thousands of sheets of paper. The kidnappers take the wife and daughter in a chase with police that tragically ends with the car running over a gas tank and exploding, killing the wife and daughter. The film flashes foreward to present day, when Mike and Bob travel to Italy. Mike encounters the church that he and his wife first met in. Suddenly, he meets a woman named Sandra(Genevive Bujold) who looks just like his wife. I will disclose no more from that point on because the second half of the film contains several brilliant twists and turns(even tho I somehow guesses the big one) Occasionally, the story seems to finally run out of steam and start to get messy but to DePalma's credit, he holds it all together and never lets it get messy. There's no question that De Palma imitated several of the camrera styles, settings, and music that made Hitchcok a legend. However, several things can be identified with some of De Palma's later films. A spinning camera shot towards the end of the film closely resembles his legendary prom shot of Carrie(1976). Also, the hiding of a gun during one scene was similary used in De Palma's greatest film, Carlito's Way(1993) The movie was solid all around. Bernard Hermann's score was one of the powering forces of the film.(Hermann also scored Vertigo, which is the Hitchcock film most people compare this too) The acting, while not great, seemed to fit the roles well. Robertson captured the classic widower in terror and Lithgow scored as well. Somehow, most movie stores have abandoned carrying this film, which is a shame because it's one of De Palma's best(Many critics would disagree but I found it much better than his other 1976 film, Carrie.) Obsession does exactly what it strives to do give a seventies Hitchcok piece. It's not one of the best thriller's ever, but it's one of the better made. Obsession gives a reminder of when thrillers could be good without miles of shootouts and explosions.Rated PG for adult themes, some violence, and mild language 1 hr 40 min. A Columbia Pictures release. "},{"Title":"Handsome, but not really a mature work, nor an emotionally satisfying one","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cliff Robertson is the wrong actor to play a man mourning the death of his wife, obsessed over a new woman who strikingly resembles her. James Stewart pulled it off in Vertigo, and believably conveyed a range of emotions of a man being pulled into an emotional quagmire kicking and fighting. Robertson is alert, but that's about all you can say for him. Director Brian De Palma swirls his camera around him and Genevieve Bujold, but gets nothing visceral going, no emotional involvement. The plot is fairly transparent, the cinematography and color processing are poor, and the supporting cast fails to add much to the low-keyed melodrama. De Palma wanted his own flair and showiness to be the star attraction here, but his languid, surreal mood seems merely plodding, and his obvious regard to the style of Hitchcock isn't made appealing to us. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Boring at first, predictable twist, touching ending","Date":"12 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The problem with so many of de Palma's thrillers is that they take so long in the set up. The pay offs are generally worth the wait, but you have to trudge through some tedium to get there.Obsession isn't helped by a one note performance from the main actor, but at least John Lithgow is fantastic as always in bad guy mode.The plot is about a guy who failed to save his wife and daughter in the '50s when they were kidnapped and held at ransom. He paid the kidnappers off with fake money and had the police arrest them, leading to his family's death.In '75, the same man meets a woman who reminds him of his wife and falls in love. These scenes are boring. We know that probably nothing we see is going to be as it appears, but de Palma doesn't give us much to work with. You know not to take any of it seriously, and there's little in the way of scintillating evidence, so it's just boring waiting for the real movie to begin.The plot twist, when it comes, is also a bit predictable. It was the ending, however, that I liked. That was genuinely touching. "},{"Title":"More than a Hitchcock rip-off","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Director Brian De Palma gets a lot of flack for his Hitchcockian films in some corners. While folks will usually come to the defense of Dressed to Kill or Body Double, few talk about Obsession (1978), and when it is discussed, it's usually dismissed as a rip-off of Hitchcock's masterpiece, Vertigo. Being an ardent fan of Vertigo, I came to this film out of morbid curiosity, expecting a more explicit, less atmospheric rendition of the Hitchcock picture. Imagine my surprise when I ended up enjoying it a great deal. I would call it a fascinating variation on Vertigo's themes rather than a plain rip-off.Though the plot and situations are different, Obsession and Vertigo share a common core story a middle-aged man loses the woman he loves and tries to recreate her through a lookalike, not realizing there is a deeper conspiracy at play. Like Vertigo, Obsession has an otherworldly atmosphere and a slow pace, though its muted colors and New Orleans/Roman settings differentiate it from the vivid San Francisco landscape of the earlier movie. The plot itself is deeply melodramatic, even more so than Vertigo, but the acting and music are what sell it. Cliff Robertson is fantastic as the world-weary and melancholic lead. Even better is Genevieve Bujold in the double part of the deceased wife and her Italian counterpart, weaving an intricate web of contrasting emotions and depth with her face and body language alone. Bernard Hermann provides the operatic score, all eerie organs and swooning strings, and also providing another Hitchcock link, since he did the music for Vertigo. Of course, the scores are different Vertigo has a repetitive, ghostly soundtrack, while Obsession is a little more bombastic.I would not say that Obsession is superior to Vertigo, which has more interesting cinematography and a slightly more plausible story (only slightly), but it is a minor, overlooked gem. "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing Movie","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This has always been an interesting movie in that for one, I had once lived in New Orleans a big portion of my life, and so it made me a bit homesick watching it right after my leaving this city in 1975. The Garden District home portrayed is exactly how beautiful they really are. It looked as though they had filmed the office scenes in the International Trade Mart building. The biggest thing I liked about the movie, besides it being full of suspense and action, was the dreamlike mood the background chorus music created throughout. This made it very unusual compared to other movies at the time. It kept you mesmerized - as if you were falling in love too. It was one of the first films I ever saw where the camera circled the characters so dramatically in the scenes of the dinner dance, and at the very ending. I thought the actors and actresses were all very good in it. "},{"Title":"De Palma's under-appreciated homage to Vertigo","Date":"12 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Overshadowed by De Palma's own cult-classic CARRIE (1976) in the same year, OBSESSION ostensibly is De Palma's homage to Hitchcock's VERTIGO (1958) about a man, who is obsessed with a woman who is (presumably) dead, is given a second chance from her doppelgänger with a sinister scheme lurking behind. Although De Palma's execution lacks the professional attentiveness to the details, e.g. the obtrusive anachronism of the opening scenes supposed happening in the 1950s, thanks to Schrader's uncanny screenplay; the atmospheric craftsmanship of D.P. Vilmos Zsigmond (1930-2016), the master-hand who has just left us in the 1st January; and Bernard Herrmann's (the original composer of VERTIGO) Oscar-nominated solemn score, which is grandiosely awe-inspiring right from the ominous opening credits, OBSESSION is undeservedly being categorised as a shoddy pastiche, and deserves a better recognition for its own sake.Even in the fantastic cinema realm, the encounter with a woman who looks very much alike his dead wife, 16 years after her unfortunate death, at the exact locale, is too much a stretch to pull it off as a pure coincidence, but American real estate businessman Michael Courtland (Robertson) believes firmly. The story starts in the late 1950s, on the night of their 10th wedding anniversary, Michael's wife Elizabeth (Bujold) and their daughter Amy (Blackman) are kidnapped, and choosing to follow the police department's advice, Michael uses blank notes instead of real money as the ransom, the plan backfires with all the kidnappers and hostages dead due to a dead collision and explosion. 16 years has passed, Michael has to live through the consequences and has been deeply mired in self-accusation and remorse, during a business trip to Florence with his business partner Robert (Lithgow), miraculously he meets a young Italian girl Sandra Portinari (Bujold) who looks exactly like Elizabeth, and is doing some preliminary work to the restoration of a fresco of Madonna and Child in the church where he and Elizabeth met for the first time. Their very first conversation is about art restoration, and betrays Michael's preference of refurbishing the beautiful facade to digging up the truth beneath. Mutual attractions kindle, Michael's backstory is frankly accepted by Sandra, and a speedy marriage is under the way. Michael is believed to given a second chance from Elizabeth, to redeem the haunting guilt, until Sandra is kidnapped by the same fashion, this time, can he right the wrong or is there some bigger scheme involved?There is a simple and plausible explanation of the resemblance between Elizabeth and Sandra, but one wonders whether the story will advance into an incestuous scandal (considering American audience's priggish taste), and it turns out De Palma and Schrader are actually carrying this take- no-prisoners approach until the finale, where De Palma's suspenseful style reaches its trance-like apex, all is drawn to a split-second decision whether it will end as a gut-punching shocker or a less disturbing but also less convincing reconciliation. Even though it opts for the safer option in the eleventh hour, the film is still an effective thriller to say the least, leaving audience to wait for the axe to fall until the very end.Performance-wise, Oscar-winning actor Cliff Robertson's turn as a guilt-ridden husband hopelessly having recourse to a second chance to do the right thing is too broad and sometimes even a bit wooden apart from the glistening light in his eyes when he meets Sandra, surely is less compelling than his co-star Bujold, whose baby-face brings out a great effect in the key moments with De Palma's sleight-of-hand where the truth is replayed from her troubled mind, and one important factor that we can buy this tall-tale is her deceitful callowness; whereas Lithgow, offers his best annoying mannerism in spite of showing almost no ageing during a 16-year gap apart from a convenient moustache. On a whole, OBSESSION is singularly enjoyable, not as excellent as VERTIGO, but not a forgettable dud either. "}{"Title":"De Palma takes on Hitchcock again.","Date":"18 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brian De Palma is not one of my favorite directors. At least not in a long shot. But, his films are very good, if not, great or good. Frequently, most of his movies are focus on some of the concepts that were conceived from the films of Alfred Hitchcock. In the film Obsession, De Palma takes on Hitchcock once again after making his third feature film, Sisters, which was released three years ago.In 1959, Michael Courtland, (Cliff Robertson), an wealthy New Orleans businessman, is celebrating his 10th wedding anniversary with his beautiful wife, Elizabeth, (Genevieve Bujold). But, as the night ends, his life is about to turn upside down. Kidnappers have took his wife and his daughter, Amy. The kidnappers demanded Michael to pay the ransom. He does come up with the money. But, the kidnapping ends in tragedy when his wife and daughter are killed in a car explosion.Fast forward to 1975. Courtland and his business partner, (John Lithgow), travel to Florence to look at a job. Courtland is still grieving about the loss of his dead wife and daughter. At Florence, he visits the same church that he and Elizabeth got married. Inside the church, he finds out that the person working inside the church is his dead wife! But, how did she survived the explosion in 1959?A lot of critics complained that Obsession is a complete rip off of Alfred Hitchcock's masterpiece, Vertigo. But, there's a catch. Rip offs are done in a poor taste to be failure. Obsession is not a rip off of Hitchcock's Vertigo. But certainly, Brian De Palma does know how to shoot a well made mystery thriller. This is a man who loves movie-making. And like his other movies such as Dressed to Kill and Blow Out, he knows how to shoot certain scenes that build suspense or create tension between characters. Characters that we are interested in watching.The movie isn't a great one, but it is worth seeing if you are a fan of De Palma or fans of Hitchcockian thrillers. Cliff Robertson does a good job of playing the grief stricken Michael as well as a man infatuated by his wife. There even several good scenes where Michael seems to follow his wife around Florence. What makes those scenes work and maybe the entire movie work is that the music score by Bernard Herrmann is very appropriate to empathizes the sorrow and mystery of Michael's obsession. He is a man of certainty and will follow his mind and especially his heart by solving this complicated mystery that ends in a unexpected manner. I won't reveal to you how it all ends. See it for yourself.Another person who should receive credit and someone who I really think stole the movie from Robertson and Lithgow is Genevieve Bujold. I really like her in this movie as Robertson's wife. She is not like any other movie actress I saw. Her character is played as a smart and intelligent woman who uses her wit and her charm to move the movie's story along. She also have a way of bringing the movie to life and propelling us into this mystery. This is a good stylish thriller that does have some double crosses and twists. De Palma uses his style of filmmaking to make the movie works on a technical level. On a storytelling level, it does have little plot holes. But, De Palma is able to deliver a strong thriller that does works so beautifully and mysteriously. ★★★ 3 stars. "},{"Title":"An Uneven Foray Into An Auteur's Inner Obsessions","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brian De Palma doesn't believe in realism he believes in cinema, in the sweeping gestures of yesteryear film noir. His Dressed to Kill was a chromium shaded exercise in thriller style fixated on its look and feel; Body Double characterized itself with long-tracking shots and grimy excursions into the underground metropolises of entertainment. In Obsession, it is made clear that De Palma isn't playing it cool this time around; he's taken with the slow-motion breathiness of Rebecca and Vertigo, concentrated less on spreading a silvery sheen and more focused on winsome melodrama. Obsession is not as successful as De Palma's other style-over-substance pictures (most released in the 1970s); being slippery and sleazy is his strong suit, and the film is more prone to melting its surroundings with sweaty psychosexual entanglements. Not a problem -- Obsession is far from a failure -- but its forays into the absurd have a more lurid effect than a stylistically sexy one. The film begins in 1959 at the anniversary party of Michael (Cliff Robertson) and Elizabeth (Geneviève Bujold) Courtland. They've been married for a decade, and still intact is their devotion to one another. But the harmonious symphony that surrounds them suddenly turns ominous when it is discovered that the butler is carrying a gun in his pocket. Later that night, Elizabeth, along with their daughter, are kidnapped, ransom money demanded the next day. A rescue mission follows, but it is too late the kidnappers botch the plan, resulting in the death of Elizabeth and the child. Obsession then jumps to 1976. Michael is still not over the tragedy, mourning eternally. He lives in 1959, a concerned friend notes. Then, on a business trip to Italy, his life takes a turn for the better (and the completely insane). While visiting the church that he first met his wife, he sees a woman painting for a restoration project. But it isn't just some woman it is his wife, or at least her double. Of course, he becomes obsessed, obsessed with turning her into his late wife, that is. He takes her back to America in hopes to get married, but just as things seem too good to be true, De Palma and his screenwriter, Paul Schrader, rip our throats out with a number of batty plot twists. Ludicrous as it is, I enjoyed Obsession. Sure, it comes on to you like a Vertigo-loving film historian, but its madness is created by a logical, daring auteur better than his material. De Palma matches the over-the-top aura with deceptively over-the-top camera-work, distinguishing art from human drama through pulsating close-ups, strained slow motion sequences, and darkened, menacing angles. Without De Palma's aesthetically bizarre eye, perhaps Obsession would merely be ludicrous melodrama instead of stylish ludicrous melodrama. Even then, the style isn't quite overbearing enough for us to ignore the unbelievable story. The conflict asks for no questions to be answered, to leave things enigmatic as to make the romance all the more operatic and fantastical. But its eventual (and disturbing) decision to end in a way that can be explained is more disappointing than one would expect. Obsession is the kind of film that begs to be left alone in an unanswerable universe a la Lynch. If only it would do the smart thing and retain its intrigue until we can hardly bear it. "},{"Title":"Obsession brings abundance of inconsistencies and arguably elaborated thematic of incest","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" At the turn of the seventies and eighties of the 20th century De Palma had a fertile period of making thriller/horror genre films; during which period he directed some 10 of these. Thriller drama Obsession is among them. Although the film did not succeed in reaching a cult status such as Blow out, Dressed To Kill, Carrie, Sisters... it features a lot of interesting characteristics present in all De Palma's films from that period; continuous uninterrupted shots, 360 degree rotation camera, unusual angles of view that emphasize psychedelic atmosphere (Dutch angle), a subtle way of revealing details... Besides the director's recognizable signature, the film abounds in a series of clumsy solutions and archaisms and this is the reason why it fell into shadows and oblivion giving way to more accomplished films of that period. Today's anonymity of the film does not, however, mean that at the time of its release it did not arouse considerable interest among the public and yield profits.His attitude of admiration towards and references to Hitchcock are much accentuated. This work could be described in a summary as a hybrid between Rebecca and Vertigo. The story is about a wealthy businessman, Michael Courtland (Cliff Robertson) whose wife and daughter were killed during a kidnapping attempt. The fact that he did not follow kidnappers' instructions, but those given by the police causes him to feel deeply guilty. From that tragic event on the time stopped for him. He spends his years in mourning his family until the day he meets a young woman Sandra (Geneviève Bujold) strikingly resembling his dead wife. He becomes obsessed with her. He enters quickly into relationship with her and wants to marry her. But we later discover that she is his daughter driven by the desire for revenge. She is acting in conspiracy with Michael's partner Robert (John Lithgow) who actually planned the first kidnapping, spared little Sandra, brought her up and made her hate her father. His motive is anger towards his partner whom he blames for business inefficiency and wish to take possession of his fortune. Michael kills Robert and realizes with his daughter how they were manipulated and forgive each other.A premise as such contains some inconsistencies and arguably elaborated thematic of incest. An excellent acting could have given more strength to the film, but the opposite is what has happened - poor and unconvincing performance finished it completely. Cliff Robertson was an unlucky choice for the protagonist. He's lacking the necessary intensity and his gestures are packed with mannerisms. He gives impression of a wooden doll that expresses to experience strong emotions by starting to stare and blink. Romantic scenes are presented without any passion or obsession. It is interesting that there are no signs of aging, although the story covers 20 years. His co-protagonist, Geneviève Bujold showed greater acting capabilities, however she gave an uneven performance. She brought her character as an unfortunate person, not showing an obsessive need for revenge &#x96; that was supposed to be her main driving force and characteristic. Incest based approach applied through the whole film &#x96; in an unusually easy and romantic way. The question stays hanging in the air- What kind of a woman would accept to inflict vengeance upon her father through an incestuous relationship? And how is that possible that this dark, ill side of her character is not a theme treated in this film? John Lithgow (Michael's business partner) as far as he's concerned hasn't much to offer to this work, except for the evidence from the very beginning that he is the main villain. Through that the tension and culmination of final conflict are lost for the film.The attempt to accentuate dramatic moments through long shots resulted in extremely boring sequences. As the acting is shallow, continuous shot just gave more emphasis to it. Neither the music was of great help, although made by one of top-level composers, Bernard Herrmann (Battle of Neretva, Psycho, Taxi Driver). The main theme is well elaborated &#x96; accentuates tension, however, playful symphonic scores in certain parts entirely ruin the course of film's plot. It is interesting, as well, to note that the first third of the film happens in the last decade of the 50s, nevertheless many style characteristics (footwear, hair styles, fashion...) belong unequivocally to the 70s. The film abounds in such inconsistencies which make it look antiquated and naive. This mediocre thriller seems to call for remake which would be able to explore the theme more deeply, put more emphasis on macabre ambiance, illnesses of obsessive impulses and incest of main characters. Such a story does not tolerate superficiality and glamorization, so eagerly adopted by De Palma for no reason. "},{"Title":"The plot thickens!","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ***MAJOR SPOILERS*** With both his wife Elizabeth and 9 year old daughter Amy, Genevieve Bujold & Wanda Blackman, kidnapped and held for a $500,00.00 ransom a frantic Michael Courtland, Cliff Robertson, will do anything in his power to get them released even give into their kidnappers demands. Told instead by Police Inspector Brie, Stanley J. Reyes, to let his New Orleans police rescue them Michael allows a homing device put into the briefcase with the $500,00.00 of his real-estate development firms money to track them down. The plan goes terribly wrong with the kidnappers finding the device-which wasn't hidden at all but right in front of them when they opened the briefcase-and in being chased by the police they end up crashing into an gasoline delivery truck killing themselves together with Elizabeth & Amy.It's now 16 years later-1975-and Michael still hasn't gotten over his wife and daughters deaths and has been under psychiatric care all that time. What Michael had also done is erect a massive monument to his wife and daughter that prevented any real-estate being developed into luxury condos on the Pontchartrain Estates outside the city of New Orleans that he and his good friend and business partner Robert Lasalla, John Lithgow, own. Going on a leisurely business trip to Florance Italy Lasalle talks the reclusive Michael into tagging along with him for some R&R, rest and recreation, that he so desperately needs.As things turned out Michael's trip to Florence was anything but uneventful for him. It was there at a local 13th century cathedral, where in fact he met Elizabeth after the war, that he spotted young Sandra Portinari, also played by Miss. Bujold, who's the spiting image of his long deceased wife Elizabeth! With his mind already seriously damaged over Elizeabth death the sight of her look-alike twin Sandra made it short circuit! Like a man totally obsessed the glassed eyed and zombie-like Michael went after Sandra who's young enough to be his own daughter not leaving her along for a moment to the point where his friend Lassale almost wanted to have him committed before he ends up doing something that can land him behind bars.This crazed obsession finally has a very confused and at the same time impressed, in Michael having the hots for her, Sandra give in to him and accept his proposal of marriage to her! Now back home in New Orleans and with the big wedding-with some 200 invited gusts-just days away Sandra is kidnapped and held hostage for the same amount of randsom-$500,000.00-that Michael's wife and daughter were some 16 years ago!**SPOILERS*** By now it should have become very apparent to Michael that somethings not quite kosher, besides the shrimp gumbo and pork ribs he's been eating, in what's been going on since he first met Sandra back in Florance Italy. Right down to her being kidnapped under the very same conditions that his both wife and daughter were back in the spring o 1959! Thinking that this is his second chance for him to redeem himself in saving his dead wife and daughter Michael again gets his friend Lasalle to give him- from their Pontchartrain Estates investments-a half million dollars to get his fiancée Sandra freed. As things turned the results are the same as before in getting the ransom money to the kidnappers which they never got, or did they?, but the ending in what eventually happens to Sandra is a whole lot different!Very predictable surprise ending that Michael should have easily figured, like almost everyone else watching did, out but didn't until the last fleeing seconds of the movie. This could be explained in that Michael was so traumatized and confused over the events that lead up to it that he ceased to use his God-given brain properly but gave into his obsession instead! Not just about Sandra in being the reincarnation of his late wife Elizabeth but what he later suspected she was planning for him all this time even before he met her in Florance!***MAJOR SPOILER*** The films perfect ending not only brought Michael and Sandra together but ironically prevented their marriage from both happening and being consummated! If in fact that happened Michael as fragile and emotionally unstable as he was before would have ended up going straight off the deep end! WIth him ending up either being put away for life in a local loony bin or putting a gun to his head and blowing his brains out! "},{"Title":"preposterous and magnetic, beautiful and overwrought, a deliberately flamboyant thriller.  who made this?","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I wonder what I would have thought, or wonder what someone else would think, if Vertigo was totally out of the mind while watching Obsession. Brian De Palma and his collaborator/partner-in-movie-crime, Paul Schrader, take from Vertigo so blatantly that Hitchcock himself cried foul of ripping off his concept. It's not without some argument that one could see this comparison, especially as the concept behind the movie, like Vertigo, is that of a man absorbed in the mirror-image of his long-lost love in a new woman, and how this relationship to try again as it were has some tragic consequences. But each man, Hitchcock and De Palma, had their reasons to make the movie and each can remain at least somewhat separate on their own terms. Vertigo is a masterpiece, and, frankly, Obsession is not. But it's a fascinating picture for what it achieves in its wild, predictably unpredictable manner of narrative, and 'style'.I put 'style' in quote marks due to it being an obvious point. What would any critic have to describe Brian De Palma's films if not calling them 'stylish', which is a euphemism for over the top direction based on another, i.e. Hitchcock, with lots of camera movement and flamboyant emotions with the acting and soundtrack? But in this story this 'style' is warranted more than ever. It's perhaps even more melodramatic than Hitchcock's cerebral romantic-death thriller, as it's about a botched kidnapping of a land developer's wife and little girl. He (a sometimes stiff sometimes very emotional Robertson) sees the car with his wife and daughter go up in flames, but sixteen years later when in Rome he comes across a woman in a church that looks like his late Elizabeth, despite it, of course, being not since it's sixteen years later and she's Italian.He brings her home to become his wife, but it becomes more than that as we see in dream scenes of the fuzzy sort (fuzzy I mean in the camera, like waves) that this is about a second chance for Michael. But, as it of course is in these thrillers of the mad mind and heart from De Palma, things are not at all what they seem (and, after all, it has John Lithgow as Michael's business partner... hope that's not in and of itself a spoiler). De Palma and Schrader handle these story details and the characters with an attention to how precisely dramatic, tragic and heightened the sense of reality is. A lot of this movie, even when it seems to be perfectly simple and straightforward, like when Sandra is looking through the contents of the locked room in the house, is in a hyper-realistic quality, which later pays off when the double-crosses are revealed and it turns hyper-melodramatic, too.It's a go-for-broke approach to this story, ultimately, and you either go for it you don't really, and this despite (or in spite of perhaps) whatever you think of its connection to Vertigo or Hitchcock in general. I went for it, recognizing that some of the acting by Robertson and Bujold wasn't always convincing (Bujold is quite beautiful, but truly effective only in the last reels), and how ridiculous it all seems in retrospect- a common trait in these De Palma thrillers (i.e. Dressed to Kill, Sisters, Raising Cain). But another asset, a crucial one, the one that keeps me thinking about the movie, is Bernard Herrmann. This is the most obvious reference point to Hitchcock's 'grammar', if you will, and it was his second to last score - the one that really is Herrmann-esque is taking aside Taxi Driver - showing his own admiration for De Palma's approach. There wouldn't be such a good movie in Obsession if not for Herrmann, whose high strings and melodic chorus provide much needed- or a perfectly sizable too much factor- in the scenes and movements. Especially that last shot, pirouetting around Robertson and Bujold, is amplified wonderfully by the music. It's as much his film, if perhaps not more-so, than the director or writer's. "},{"Title":"Brian DePalma","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The first time that I saw this movie was in 1976 when it first came out in the theaters. I had no idea what was playing--I went on a night when the tickets were cheaper. Back then it was a bargain. There were three choices. I picked one and went in. I had no idea what the movie was about. Later I found that a lot of people thought that it was a demon possession movie and at that time, many people were tired of that genre. I think that the title turned a lot of people off. It could have been called second chance. The plot starts about 1957(look for all the '57 Chevys(two tone). A well-to-do business man(Cliff Robertson plays Micheal Courtland) in New Orleans is enjoying the good life. He is deeply in love with his wife and daughter(about 5 years old). The cinematography is great here and throughout the film. The businessman(Cliff Robertson)is having a party. He dances with his wife. The young daughter comes downstairs from her room and Courtland picks her up and dances with her. The camera revolves around the two as if the whole world revolves around them. This effect is used at the important points in the movie. Soon after, Courtland finds that his wife and daughter are kidnapped. He receives the ransom note of words from newspaper clippings pasted together. He is heart broken. He contacts the police--he thinks that is the best thing to do. The police locate the kidnapper's location and a chase ensues. As they are chasing the kidnappers and the victims, a explosive accident happens on a bridge. All is lost. Courtland nearly goes mad. The pain of the accident is horrid enough to almost kill him. The guilt that he feels for not just doing what the kidnappers say is unbearable. He never seems to get over it. He is in psychotherapy until 1975. In 1975, Courtland is convinced to take a vacation to Italy where his firm does quite a bit of business. He has buried himself in his work all these years because of his terrible loss and guilt. He goes to Italy. John Lithgow does an amazing job as Courtland's business partner(how many actors can speak Italian with a New Orleans drawl?) He goes to the very place where he had met his wife years before. Courtland walks into a cathedral and sees the rehabilitation being done on the flood damaged cathedral and art work.(A new beginning?) He meets one of the art students working there. She is almost a clone of his wife. At this point the music score and scenery will make your heart skip several beats. The art student is very reluctant, but goes to lunch with the older American man. There are more lunches-then dinners. A whirlwind romance begins---and quickly turns into an engagement. Courtland feels alive again for the first time since 1957. The beautiful Genivieve Bujold plays the art student, Sandra Potinari. The couple goes back to (pre Katina)New Orleans and set a date for a wedding. All of Courtland's friends and acquaintances are amazed at the likeness of Sandra to Courtland's late wife. They are also concerned that Courtland has flipped his wig over this woman and is rushing things too much. It does seem that way when Courtland decides to show his friends that he can do as he pleases. He decides to marry Sandra the very next day and just leave his friends out of it. He seems to be headed for a mental breakdown. The music score will tell you that. The very next day Courtland finds that Sandra has been kidnapped--just as before. The ransom note is simply a copy of the first one. Courtland just about dies on the spot--should he go to the police this time? I cannot tell you much more. There are so many twists and turns in this movie that I could not put it in words, anyway. John Lithgow is great. The musical score is the special effects of the film. Obsession is at once a suspenseful mystery and a haunting love story at the same time. You must watch every minute of this movie. You must especially pay attention to the dialog between Courtland and Sandra when they meet in the cathedral. DO NOT watch the last two minutes of the movie if you have any kind of cardiovascular problem. The marketing of this movie did this movie a terrible disservice. It was difficult to advertise the plot to this movie without ruining the unfolding of it. It was always disgusting through the years, that when the TV networks played this movie, it was always at Halloween. Obsession was not a scary freak show, but many people got that idea that it was. The last part of it could stop your heart, but not because of scary things in the dark. The suspense of the last few minutes might kill you, but only because of the suspense and the fact that you are trying to figure out what is going on on the screen. You will never quite know what is going on in this movie until it is over. Out of ten stars, it deserves twenty. "},{"Title":"curiously compelling mystery drama with a surprising ending , masterfully set up","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  We all suffer from those deja vu moments in life when we feel we recognise a place we've never been before or a person we find has an uncanny resemblance to someone we once knew, a loved one, friend or relative. I know of only two film directors who have taken this phenomenon and weaved it into movies worthy of watching. The pioneer in this case is, Hitchcock, and the film ,Vertigo. But in Brian De Palma's(Fury, Carrie, The Untouchables etc) Obsession, we come up with a truly well crafted, flawless tribute to Hitchcock and Vertigo. I'd have to agree with another reviewer that this movie vastly surpasses Vertigo in many respects. I'm equally surprised that its not that well known or reviewed.The film sets the scene in Louisana state where there is a 10th wedding anniversary going on for Michael andElizabeth Courtland. Michael played by Cliff Robertson, is a real estate businessman in partner with John Lithgow as Lasalle. Genieve Bujold( Anne of a Thousand Days) plays Courtland's wife, Elizabeth. There is a kidnapping that night in which Courtland's wife and daughter are seized and a ransom demanded for their safe return. The intented rescue goes wrong and both victims are killed in a high speed chase when the car they're occupying collides with an oil tanker, however the bodies are notrecovered. Sorry that's as far as I'll tell you about what happens next. Please see the movie, its pure brilliance and the unusual feature about this gem is its connections with Vertigo. For one thing we have the same musical scorer, Bernard Hermann, who gives an excellent off beat musical theme here. Elements common to both films include both Genieve Bujold and Kim Novak(Vertigo) studying a portrait hung on a wall, Bujold in Courtland's house, Novak in an art gallery. We have male pursuers of female interests. Jimmy Stewart observes Novak during her daily excursions around San Fransisco (Vertigo), Robertson follows a woman who resemblances his former wife, around Florence, Italy (Obsession). We have mysteries to be solved in each film. At one point in Obsession, Bujold composes a letter only to crumple it up as it inadequately expresses her feelings. Novak does the exact same thing in Vertigo. Watch the piece with a gold plated pair of scissors that glints at the camera (Obsession), this technique was used very effectively with a knife in De Palma's DRESSED TO KILL movie. And I ask, is that Tom Skerritt I see towards the end of the movie dressed as a security guard who approaches a TWA check-in clerk? It wouldn't surprise me if it was, why? Because as any film fan knows, Skerritt was the captain of the Nostromo in the Sci-fi horror film ALIEN. What's the connection you ask? Well interestingly, One of the other members of that ill fated space crew just happened to be Veronica Cartwright who, God bless her little lungs, lets out some of the best screams inHitchcock's THE BIRDS!! Apart from these connections what impressed me most about OBSESSION was the story by Paul Schrader, the acting, especially Bujold, who exudes a captivating sensuality  in the film and John Lithgow as the upbeat business partner to Robertson. Robertson's character was difficult to play as he was constantly in a state of what seemed like eternal remorse, difficult to portray that kind of a mood on celluloid. But the most impressive feature by far was the masterful film editing done by Paul Hirsch. With only 6 years experience under his belt he produced such simple and fluid dynamics that lended some memorable moments to this film. One such piece of magic is John Lithgow's facemorphing into someone else's in an airport scene and then morphing back again to show the compression of memory and time. Another time compression feature is where Robertson stands on a memorial site to his departed wife and daughter. The camera gives us a slow 360 degree panorama and when we return to Robertson's face we have miraculously advanced 16 years into the future. This is pure artistic work and it reminds me ofthe 'hands covering the face' scene in Cinema Paradiso, magic. Did you know that when Courtland's wife and daughter arekidnapped , the year is 1959 one year after the release ofVertigo and that a reference to pyschiatrists links both movies. Well there I go again. Better yet rent it on video you will bedoubly surprised, I give it a definite 10.  "},{"Title":"The first 10 minutes are sensational .....","Date":"9 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The first 10 minutes of this movie is an exercise in pure style. DE PALMA uses BERNARD HERMANN's stunning background score to great effect. The rest of the film never really measures up to the first 10 minutes.The story (by PAUL SCHRADER and DE PALMA) is preposterous. But frankly, who cares? The film is wonderful to look and HERMANN's score is a pleasure to listen to. I wonder if the makers of OLD BOY were inspired by this film.Geneviève Bujold is not in the same league as some of the stunning Hitchcockian heroines. Cliff Robertson grows on you as the film progresses. I guess he was perfect for the role of the Southern patriarch. John Lithgow looked sinister. He is never boring.(8/10) "},{"Title":"A nice little thriller if you can forgive it's many implausibilities","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brian De Palma has never denied that his main influence is the work of Alfred Hitchcock, yet, his early movies especially, have often been unfairly dismissed as rip-off's. This, of course, is simply not true, and I argue that De Palma allow his films to flourish with his own sense of style and intrigue, while closely following themes that the great master observed himself. Of all his more Hitchcockian productions, Obsession is one his least remembered when compared to the likes of Dressed to Kill (1980) or Body Double (1984). It's certainly one of De Palma's more ludicrous and often outright barmy films, but there is much to enjoy here in a guilty sort of way.In 1959, wealthy real estate developer Michael Courtland (Cliff Robertson) receives a ransom note demanding $500,000 in cash for the return of his wife and daughter. The police are notified, and following a botched arrest, his wife and daughter are killed in a getaway car. Fifteen years later, Michael, who seems to exist in a state of reserved grief, arrives in Florence with his friend and business colleague Robert Lasalle (John Lithgow) to tie up a land deal. While visiting the church he met his wife years before, he meets a young painter named Sandra (Genevieve Bujold) who is the exact doppelgänger of his dead wife.For all its frequently ridiculous and quite predictable twists and turns and overwrought melodrama, Obsession succeeds thanks to some stylish direction from De Palma and Bernard Herrmann's lavish, Oscar-nominated score. You can see the ending a mile away, but it does include a nice twist that borders on the repulsive, and with Robertson's subdued performance and Lithgow's reliable charismatic sidekick, the film never becomes quite as silly as it really should be. The main influence here is obviously Vertigo (1958), but retains none of the psychological mystery of Hitchcock's masterpiece, taking a more direct thriller route instead. Don't expect any plausibility (even the most absent-minded viewer could pick apart the plot), but if you can put this aside - or even welcome it - Obsession is a memorable little thriller that is surely due a small revival.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Le Grand Fromage","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Start with Vertigo, Alfred Hitchcock's 1958 masterpiece in which a man becomes obsessed with the image of a woman to such an extent that he remakes a woman to resemble this idealised image.Flash-forward to Brian De Palma's Obsession (1976), a film in which the director reveals himself to so obsessed with Hitchcock that he moulds his own film - literally his Obsession - into the image of Hitchcock's Vertigo.Not only that, but the lead character of this new film is himself so obsessed with the image of his lost wife that he remakes a strange woman to resemble his wife's image. The problem is, the woman he remakes is his daughter, his infatuation is incestuous and she's busy restoring or remaking a fresco in a church. End result? An obsessive remake of a film about remakes and obsessions which is itself about the destructive obsession of remaking. In other words, its an allegory for not only the postmodern predicament, but De Palma's own brand of cinema, which stages revivalism as a form of necrophilia, indecency, voyeurism or incest. The plot Cliff Robertson plays Michael Courtland, a man paralysed by melancholia. Courtland, we learn, lost his wife and daughter during a bungled kidnapping and ransom situation many years ago. Rather than pay the kidnappers money, Courtland filled a suitcase with blank pieces of paper, an act of deception which led to the deaths of his wife and daughter. And that is the awful, crippling weight Courtland now bears he chose the money over his family. Over the real image. Money thus become abhorrent to Courtland, and he begins to increasingly associate his wealth with the loss of his wife and child. This becomes the first risk of the film because he dared not risk losing something valuable, Courtland has lost the ability to find value in anything.Years later, however, Courtland sees a double of his dead wife. She's not only a perfect image but an impossible image, as she looks not as she would be now, but exactly as she looked then. Furthermore, this strange doppelganger is working on &#x96; naturally - the restoration of a local church. It is here where she faces a dilemma beneath one of the church's frescoes seems to be another painting. It could be a great lost masterpiece or it could be nothing. This is the second risk of the film should she risk destroying the fresco for the sake of what might only be a stain?Of course this dilemma, this risk, is doubled in both Courtland and the doppelganger should he investigate and dig deeper at the risk of destroying this young woman, or worse, destroying his image of her? And should she dig deeper into Courtland, at the risk of losing a potential lover?The film's ending, suffused with a dream-like haze (indeed, everything and everyone in the film seems dead, ghostly, like resurrected images), initially seems to be a happy ending, a moment of resolution, but look closer and it is a vaporous, disturbing, distinctly creepy thing; father and daughter, subject and object, lover and incestuous image, spinning around and around, gripping each other's hands&#x85;One must remember that De Palma directed both Phantom of the Paradise and Get To Know Your Rabbit before Obsession. Paradise was about a devilish record producer who constantly resurrects nostalgia bands and an artist who, in aligning himself with a parasitic devil, sells his soul in order to make easy cash. So if Obsession is about resurrecting images from the past, Phantom's preoccupied with a resurrecting of past sounds. And of course Get To Know Your Rabbit is about a man who quits this soul-deadening cycle to become an artist. How does he do this? He becomes a magician (a career choice which leads to him being exiled and ostracised by friends, co-workers and family) and trains under none other than Orson Welles, a director kicked out of Hollywood for refusing to sell his soul (or more correctly, repeatedly forced to sell his soul) and for being too original. Problem is, as soon as the film's hero becomes a successful magician, the devils come knocking again, quite literally consuming and turning the magician's humble art into an insidious version of corporate hell.The character arcs of every film De Palma made during this period therefore reflects his own career trajectory. Fired from Get To Know Your Rabbit, with his early satirical/counterculture films making little money and with his career almost over with, De Palma was pushed, like Welles, into making thrillers to keep working. These thrillers are typically dismissed as works of pastiche (they are), but there's always a critical mind, a satirist, operating just underneath. In this regard, something like Black Dahlia, dismissed as noir homage, should really be viewed through the lens of De Palma's more political films (Redacted etc), or even the more playful Phantom of Paradise; one's about the rot of the music industry, the other about the rot of the image factory. Incidentally, the majority of Obsession's incestuous subplot was edited out (or cleverly masked using edits and fades) due to protests made by Bernard Herrmann and the film's producers. The result is the film's confused approach to the father and daughter romance at its core. Their incestuous relationship is not only barely acknowledged, but shamefully covered up.8/10 &#x96; A lushly shot, macabre comedy. Worth one viewing. "}{"Title":"no Hitchcock...all De Palma","Date":"6 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I can honestly say I was looking forward to watching this one but unfortunately, I had 95% of this one figured out within the first 20 minutes. Only area where i had trouble was who the girl actually was.I can see where some would say this has Hitchcock tones or is similar to the way Hitchcock did his stuff but to me it's all De Palma's style. A lot of his films are like this one. IMO, if you want a great example of his really good thrillers, try Blow Out or Body Double. Especially Blow Out, which is far better than this one. This one is well done but very easily figured out. I wasn't too surprised by the end but that doesn't mean it wasn't worth the 90 minutes it took to watch. Now I've seen it and can move one with my life LOL "},{"Title":"De Palma's disappointing answer to Vertigo","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" OBSESSION, Brian de Palma's answer to Hitchcock's VERTIGO, is the most disappointing film I've seen from the director yet. Despite his steadfast direction and some not-bad performances from the central actors, this is a huge letdown of a film, purely due to the film-flam nature of the storyline. The truth is that it just doesn't hold together under close scrutiny. The whole plot hinges on a conspiracy of sorts which is so ridiculous, so unbelievable, that it could only appear in a movie.The story opens with ageing Hollywood heartthrob Cliff Robertson losing his wife and daughter during a kidnapping attempt. So far, so good. Unfortunately, the story then cuts to twenty years later and loses any of the focus or interest it had previously generated. It becomes a cheesy, '70s-era romance that goes nowhere, taking an age to build to that aforementioned ridiculous climax that asks the audience to swallow a wholly unbelievable plot. It's impossible.Robertson is passable as the lead actor, but he never lights up the screen in the way a Stewart, Grant or Peck would have done. He's definitely second-rate material. Genevieve Bujold, as the subject of his affection, is better, but not as good as Margot Kidder in de Palma's previous SISTERS. John Lithgow is a disappointment in the acting stakes, especially given his performance in the much better BLOW OUT. All in all, this is the most disappointing de Palma film I've watched yet, at least up until his work in the mid-'90s. "},{"Title":"Sort of works, sort of doesn't","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I say TO-MAE-TOE , You say TO-MAH-TOE. I say Vertigo, You say Obsession. This early work of Brian de Palma freely takes plot material from Hitchcock's masterpiece. Indeed, Obsession strikes me as a more blatant Hitchcock steal, than the latter de Palma films also accused of being rip-offs (Dressed to Kill, Body Double, Raising Cane) The best and safest way to approach Obsession is to treat it not so much as a rip-off, but rather as a retelling. I suppose that would be the best way to treat all de Palma thrillers, come to think of it.Brian De Palma, and co-writer Paul Shrader have chosen to take this story away from San Franscisco (Vertigo) and into Venice where de Palma can integrate long sweeping takes of renaissance churches with religious art, and work his camera through a labyrinth of four hundred year old, narrow streets/alleys.Despite being derivative, Obsession entertains....for a while. Three errors come to mind, which hurt the movie. a) Cliff Robertson is no James Stewart, His performance as a distraught millionaire following a Venetian girl who resembles his dead wife, is stiff and unconvincing. b) the film is surrounded by a score that is over composed, too assertive and draws more attention to itself than it should. c) the climactic finale is chaotic and dumb. Despite a few good de Palma shots, Obsession comes with a disappointing pay off.I'm not sure who best to recommend Obsession to. I would certainly not suggest it for those who worship Hitchcock. It's watchable, but De Palma has done better, as has the thriller genre. "},{"Title":"One of Brian De Palma's most underrated thrillers.","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have defended Brian De Palma against accusations of just being a Hitchcock copyist before, so I won't bother again. Suffice to say that De Palma has only made a handful of Hitchcock homages in his long career, and has proved himself capable of making many other kinds of movies, from the zany rock musical 'The Phantom Of The Paradise' to the outrageous crime saga 'Scarface'. But there's no denying 'Obsession' is one of De Palma's blatantly Hitchcock influenced films. I don't like it as much as his 'Sisters', his first, and for me his best attempt in this style, but I still think it's a fascinating movie, and well directed. 'Obsession' is obviously inspired by 'Vertigo'. De Palma makes no secret about it and even hired Bernard Herrmann to contribute an extremely 'Vertigo'-like score. (Herrmann incidentally not only preferred his own work here, but thought 'Obsession' was the better movie! Something I don't agree with). Now 'Vertigo' is Hitchcock's best in my opinion, a complex, multi-layered masterpiece that it would be impossible to better. If you are comparing the two movies then 'Obsession' cannot compete, but if you take it for what it is, I think it's a very good film. De Palma only really takes one basic concept from Hitchcock's film anyway and goes in a different direction with it, though stylistically there are plenty of other Hitchcockian shots and sequences throughout. Cliff Robertson ('Charly'), a most underrated actor, is excellent, some would argue better than the material. Genevieve Bujold ('Dead Ringers') is also very good in a difficult role which she pulls off convincingly. I was less impressed by John Lithgow (who De Palma would later showcase in the silly 'Raising Cain') who was a bit cliched, but still enjoyable. The script for 'Obsession' written by Paul Schrader from an idea conceived by him and De Palma. Schrader of course wrote 'Taxi Driver', and many people may not know that De Palma was at one point slated to direct that movie. Of De Palma's three major tributes to Hitchcock I would rate them in order 1. 'Sisters'. 2. 'Dressed To Kill'. 3. 'Obsession'. All three are excellent thrillers and worth watching, though only demonstrate one aspect of Brian De Palma's undoubted talent. "},{"Title":"What a surprise, De Palma does Hitchcock","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In yet another homage to Hitch, De Palma takes Vertigo and gives it a twist. Then another. And one more. Frankly, I think it's better than Vertigo (please don't shoot me all you Vertigo fans), which tends to plod and even get boring (and I tend to love Hitch). Bernard Herrmann (who also did Vertigo) does the musical honors with big cathedral organ and choir and a theme that after its introduction, never settles its tonal center again until the end. Vilmos Zsigmond shoots everything through a dreamy, cool blue gauze, lending the mood even odder. And blood? Maybe three drops in the hole thing, so De Palma put all his powers into romantic effect instead of bombast. The end may leave you wondering, did they or didn't they, but how many films leave you with anything today, let alone thinking about the movie long after you've seen it. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"One of the most entertaining films of all time","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Seldom will you see a movie as enthralling as OBSESSION.  Beautifully filmed in New Orleans and Italy (Florence and San Gimignano), and superbly scored by Bernard Herrmann, this most cleverly-scripted film invites comparison with the very best of Hitchcock.  It's so magnificently, outrageously entertaining it continues to give pleasure long after it's over.  And make you want to see it again and again.  "},{"Title":"One of the most twisted stories I've seen","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was lucky to see this knowing nothing about the plot. This is one of those movies you really are better off not reading too much about it.I've seen a few films I liked from De Palma and I acknowledge his status, but he's far from my favorite director. There are a few of his films that I've started watching and maybe fallen asleep or something and never really returned to them. I think I've started this one for at least three times, never making it past first 10 minutes, but this time I made myself sit thru it.I am into slow paced movies, I really am, but this movie just drags even tho it's not even very long. The first 20 minutes are a bit more eventful, but after the kidnapping I just kept thinking why make the intro so long, when it didn't seem that relevant to the plot. Or so I thought, it actually was pretty relevant after all. The movie only really picks up in the last 10-15 minutes when things start to unfold and this is when you realize it's one sick and twisted story.The finale saves quite a lot, you'll be on your toes for the last few minutes, the very ending is one of the best scenes I've seen in a while. Too bad it doesn't completely save the movie when you totally loose interest (or never even get draw into it). It was very close I didn't stop watching it at some point, and I don't stop watching a movie easily. I figure one reason for the movie being so boring is that the lead actor Cliff Robertson is amazingly distant in this role, I was never interested in his character. Lithgow and Bujold are much better here, but I kept thinking how someone like Donald Sutherland would've done with the lead.Sutherland comparison coming from Don't Look Now, I kept thinking how these two movies were very similar in a way. Don't Look Now was much more intriguing and gripping and the actors more interesting. The movies are of course quite different plot wise, but they do have a lot in common like Italian locations, themes and the overall style.Still, I'm kind of glad I had the patience to sit thru this. The ending is something you really should see if you are into movies at all. I wouldn't recommend this to a casual movie watcher, but it's a must see for a movie geek of any kind. It's got a great Hitchcockian Hermann score and Vilmos Zsigmond's cinematography has some great shots, although the version I watched had a very bad picture quality, I don't know if this was a bad transfer to begin with, or maybe the dreamy images didn't like digital TV bitrates. "},{"Title":"Not De Palma's best but it shows his qualities.","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Brian De Palma today isn't the Brian De Palma he used to be. Early on in his career he made some truly brilliant- and also often very underrated and under-appreciated movies. Obsession is one of his earlier movies, made before his big breakthrough with the movie Carrie. Although this movie certainly isn't among his best it's still an above average genre movie, due to De Palma's direction quality.It's obvious that the biggest influence in De Palma's work is Hitchcock. Some people call him a Hitchcock rip-off but his movies are often simply too good and classy for that. Nothing wrong with someone carrying on Hitchcock's work in a more modern day and age of film-making. De Palma's movies are often very old fashioned in their style and way of storytelling. Whenever a movie attempts to be old fashioned, like movies from the '40's, it often ends up being a complete failure. De Palma however often succeeds in this, as is the case- though to some less extend, with this movie.This is far from a perfect genre movie and those who are familiar with these type of movies can see the twists coming from miles away. It's a very little surprising movie that however still has plenty of qualities that uplift it.The main thing that keeps this movie down is really its story. It's rather slow (because it's done in an old fashioned style) and it's made even slower by its main character that looks depressed all of the time. It's hard to really care for him when he's walking around so moody all of the time. Hard to say if this is Cliff Robertson's fault, or the script or directing. Probably all three are too blame for it.It nevertheless remains a very pleasant movie to watch, due to its style. It's a real good looking movie, that with Vilmos Zsigmond also has a nice director of photography involved. It was the first collaboration between him and Brian De Palma, out of 4 movies they did together so far. The fine musical score is from Alfred Hitchcock's steady composer Bernard Herrmann, which really helps to set the right mood for this movie as well. He died shortly afterward. He was supposed to become Brian De Palma's new main composer but it unfortunately wasn't to be.The movie has some real typical trademark Brian De Palma moments in them. Sequences that make the movie great and memorable, even when the rest of the movie just isn't that great or interesting to watch. The ending is also typical De Palma-like, even though it isn't the best or most satisfying ending imaginable for the movie.It was also great to see a still fairly young John Litgow in this movie. It was one of his first movie roles and he did a great job within this movie, especially with his accent. He later also appeared in other De Palma movies, though ironically never his best known ones.A good early De Palma movie, that already shows his talent and trademark style, that made me a fan of his work, even his lesser movies.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Severe Disappointment","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie based on the main user review on this site. I loved Carlito's Way, but haven't seen any of De Palma's other works, and was willing to give him the benefit of the doubt concerning his tendency to filch Hitchcock. Now, I have seen Vertigo, and consider it to be the Suspense Master's Finest Work, but I don't have any problem with the similar plotlines. My problems with Obsession stem from the issues one finds in any bad movie lame acting, a lousy script, slow pacing that does a disservice to the story, and a major plot twist which, instead of impressing you with its clever dynamics, only leaves a bad taste in your mouth. While I can't claim to have predicted the big surprise, i noticed plenty of indicators along the way, which i hoped were inaccurate, but when the revelation finally arrived, it confirmed my suspicions and left me sorely disappointed. John Lithgow was painfully obvious in his performance, Cliff Robertson was as interesting as a piece of granite, and Genevieve Bujold, while giving a fine performance, loses all credibility once you realize her motivations. I will try to give De Palma another chance with Dressed to Kill, and hope it won't be as big a letdown as this was.         "},{"Title":"Depalma makes a instant classic. Schrader script not bad....SPOILERS","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great film and a wonderful thriller. An american plans to marry a beautiful european woman, but, on their wedding night she and her young daughter are abducted and disappear never to be seen again in a botched abduction/ransom scheme. The mystery is unsolved. Then about 20 years later, this same man meets a EXACT lookalike for his deceased wife...exact in every detail. Then, just like before, she too ends up missing in the exact same circumstances as his former wife. I don't want to give away too much of the plot/ending but, suffice to say it will blow you away. CLIFF ROBERTSON gives one of the best performances of his career playing a man who slips from happiness and joy to fear, paranoia, and sadness only to find joy again....and have it yanked away from him and revisit the paranoia/fear thing. This is a high concept thinking person's movie that is reminiscent of VERTIGO and other Hitchcock works. Paul Schrader, the writer of TAXI DRIVER, delivers a good story in the script. He makes the implausible, seem believable. The whole deja vu' feel of this film is incredible. ALSO, look for JOHN LITHGOW in a very early role. This is one of BRIAN DEPALMA's best movies. "}{"Title":"A fascinating failure","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one of DP's Hitchcock rips, in this case referencing Vertigo Cliff Robertson's wife Genevieve Bujold gets kidnapped and killed, and 15 years later he meets her doppelganger in Italy and tries to start over. The main and fascinating divergence here is that the romance-myth-obsessive is portrayed as a victim of, quite vulgarly, Capitalism, whose agent is Robertson's business partner John Lithgow. There's quite an intriguing exploration of the homoerotic implications of business relationships in that team, and by the third act the variations on the theme have become fascinating and compelling - and exhilaratingly perverse, not to give anything away. Nonetheless, I think this movie fails on balance, most especially due to an utterly and hopelessly illogical setup in the kidnap sequence, and a total copout ending that looks like studio interference but is actually De Palma messing with the script by Paul Schrader. Also, and this may sound like sour grapes, but by blaming capitalism for everything, the movie lets Robertson off the hook and barely explores the gender-role themes that are inherent in the material (I blame this on Schrader, who is too utterly immersed in maleness to look at it from the outside). The meta-queer Lithgow gets stabbed to death with scissors, of course. And ultimately, the movie has to bear the weight of comparison with my favourite movie of all time bar none, and it can't possibly hold up. "},{"Title":"One word  obsession","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I myself have always been literally obsessed with this film. I must have watched it near 100 times. I love the music, the way it is filmed, the way the contrived plot is unravelled, the fact that it spans several years and last but not least THE outstanding beauty of Geneviève Bujold, my favourite actress !! "},{"Title":"Far fetched thriller.","Date":"31 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Obsession starts in New Orleans in 1959 as businessman Michael Courtland (Cliff Robertson) & his wife Elizabeth (Geneviève Bujold) celebrate their wedding anniversary, after all the guests have gone home Elizabeth & their young daughter Amy are kidnapped & a ransom note is left. Michael calls the police but the kidnappers get away & in a pursuit crashes & explodes killing everyone inside, devastated Michael blames himself for calling the police. Fifteen years later while on holiday in Italy Michael decides to visit the Church where he first met Elizabeth & is startled to see a young artist named Sandra Portinari (Geneviève Bujold) who is the spitting image of Elizabeth, he becomes obsessed with Sandra & becomes convinced she is Elizabeth. After a brief romance Michael proposes & she agrees, traveling back to New Orleans & marrying Sandra is also kidnapped & a ransom note is left just like fifteen years ago...Directed by Brian De Palma he & screenwriter Paul Schrader apparently decided to make the film after watching Alfred Hitchcock's classic Vertigo (1958), originally titled Déjà Vu this is a rather far fetched thriller that is watchable as long as you don't think about the plot too hard. Split up into three sections the script tries to be clever but the twist's don't quite add up, Obsession starts off as a straight kidnap thriller & then turns into a fantasy romance & finishes with various twist's that are alright but a silly & never come across as well thought out. The main plot by the villain to get their hands on Michael's share of the business is rather complicated & relies on a lot of coincidence & things they could never predict to happen perfectly (Michael's reaction to Sandra in particular), wouldn't it have been easier to just kill him? Why admit everything to Michael? Why give him the briefcase full of money back? That sort of ruins a very complex plan that probably took a lot of time & effort to execute, doesn't it? At just over 90 minutes Obsession has a slow going middle third as Michael & Sandra fall in love & marry & the final twist isn't really worth waiting for to be honest. The character's are a bit dumb too, the cops who mess up the original kidnapping & Michael who must be really gullible to fall for Sandra particularly the way she just instantly falls for him too. Also, the final twist led me to consider the possibility of incest here, surely Michael & Sandra would have had sex during their swift romance? Think about it.Well made as you would expect from De Palma the soft focus watercolour photography is quite nice although that last shot where the camera spins round for what seems like an eternity made me feel a bit dizzy. No violence or nudity to speak of Obsession is tame as far as 70's thrillers go. The locations are nice enough & it's polished but not particularly memorable.With a supposed budget of about $1,400,000 this was filmed in New Orleans & in Florence in Italy. The acting is alright, John Lithgow has a very silly accent throughout while Robertson is workmanlike, Bujold is OK & looks quite nice in a dual role that's basically the same person.Obsession is meant to be a twist filled thriller, the slow middle section doesn't help neither do some poorly thought out twist's, decision making & motivations. Could have been worse but it could have been better, both De Palma & Schrader have done much better things than Obsession. "},{"Title":"Underrated suspense thriller","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Underrated suspense thriller from Brain De Palma; intentionally based on Alfred Hitchcock's Vertigo (1958). This story is about a wealthy New Orleans businessman who loses his wife and daughter to a disastrous kidnap-rescue plan.Many years later; the guy still struck with misery from the lost meets a lady similar looking to his wife on a business trip abroad. And guess what? He gets obsessed! While it's obvious it doesn't outdo Hitchcock's masterpiece it does feature Herrmann's last score before he died - Which in the scene where the tomb of the ill-fated wife and daughter is shown being built; contains direct sample quote from his Vertigo (1958) score. (Those familiar with Herrmann's Vertigo (1958) score will recognize it; so listen carefully for it) Really one for the film-students as the casual movie fans will just see this as a blatant rip off to Hitchcock's Vertigo (1958); that's if casual fans are/were even interested in Vertigo (1958) in the first place! Not the kind of movie that can entertain you in an instant; it may require lots of patience and repeat viewing before you get to appreciate this piece of work.7/10 -------------------- NOT BAD "},{"Title":"Very, very nice Hitch homage","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Just how many Hitchcock can you roll into one?I like this movie alot, _as a huge hitchcok fan_.  I can't remember I see a better tribute/homage movie.  There are a few good Tarantino rip off, (Amores Perros, Go, PT Anderson etc.) but I like this better.We have Vertigo to start the film and a couple of Pyscho and Rebecca scene in to middle.  There is also a nice Marnie touch -only a real hitchcock fan can pack so much reference in a movie.  This is a new quality I didn't see from Brain One take De Palma.I love it that the title is better description of the film maker's emotional attatchment to the Master of Suspense than the story itself.Now, for the people who claim it's even close to vertigo **************SPOILER AHEAD********* You guys totally miss it, Vertigo first and fore most is a best damn love story.  And second it's the greatest psychological thriller ever made. It's not mean to be a OMG Why didn't I think of that detective trick work.In obsession there's no a very good trick work to begin with.  There's no suspense in the middle of the story.  The real secret has been guessed by the audiance and flirted in the film and quickly denied alone the way. (I guessed it in the first lunch) The wall to wall vertigo music in middle of the film is the only thing that keep me in the concentration.  Of course it's vertigo music, it's composed by _Hitch's musician,_ Bernard Herrmann! Duh!  There's also some psycho score revival, love it.*there's no reason why the third rock guy (John Lithgow) should give him the money latter on.* And calling the person you just sleeped with daddy is just creepy. Incestuious exoticism has always been suggested by alot of hitch films (birds)  It's a great device for decoy and a real killer when it's floating in the outer broundry of your conscious.  Now that Brain De Palma has actually spilled it out and don't have the ball to follow up is just lame. Not to mention the lame happy ending.-tino "},{"Title":"De Palma's Obsession","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brian De Palma has made a name for himself doing tributes to the great Alfred Hitchcock, and although this tribute is generally well liked amongst films fans; it's not one of the better ones. What makes films like 'Dressed to Kill' and 'Sisters' great is that although De Palma has borrowed (heavily!) from the master, he's always managed to take and yet create something fresh and inventive with it. Look at Dressed to Kill, for example; the Psycho influences were more than obvious, but the film is so fresh and inventive that you would be forgiven for thinking that De Palma had made something on his own. Here, however, he's just took one of Vertigo's main plot details, and made a film out of it. The result is merely a film that is a rip off of Vertigo and not much else. The plot follows the story of Michael Courtland; a man whose wife and child are killed during a botched kidnap rescue attempt. I don't really need to tell you what comes next if you've seen Vertigo, but I will anyway; sixteen years later, he meets a woman that looks exactly like his wife and begins to develop an obsession with her. Who'd have thought it, eh?The film is set in Italy, which gives it a very euro-horror feel, not too dissimilar to the masterpiece; Don't Look Now. The atmosphere is actually one of the best things about the film, which is fairly sad in a movie that should be mostly story driven. Cliff Robertson takes the lead role, and plays it without much charisma. Of course, the character isn't very charismatic himself, but the performance is largely boring and I think that De Palma could have done a better job with the casting there. Starring alongside Robertson is Geneviève Bujold, and she isn't any better them him. Hers is another lackluster performance. The plotting of the film is another thing that isn't so good, especially when you consider that De Palma had a masterpiece of storytelling for his blueprint (that's Vertigo, if you're not keeping up). Too much time is spent on the more boring things - such as an overly long romantic sequence, when De Palma would have been better off shortening it and spending more time building towards the twist. The twist itself is predictable when you've seen Vertigo, much like the rest of the film, but it would come as something of a surprise if you haven't.Overall, Obsession lacks freshness and only adds weight to the claim that De Palma is a pretentious plagiariser. However, there are some things to be liked about the film but a lot of them are lost if you have, like almost everyone else, seen Vertigo. And if you haven't seen Vertigo, you shouldn't see this as it will undoubtedly tarnish your first viewing of the aforementioned masterpiece. Obsession is decent enough entertainment to be enjoyed, but if you want to see De Palma do Hitchcock; see Dressed to Kill, Sisters or the delirious campy Body Double and leave this to the die-hard De Palma fans. "},{"Title":"Poor.","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was not a great movie.  I thought it slow and hardly mysterious.  Just because you play some haunting music during a scene doesn't make it a haunting scene.  It is a boring scene with haunting music.  The story was odd and given the way it turned out, really weird.  Could you consider it a happy ending?  I think it was a final realization that what you thought was going on was really going on and you felt creepy for watching it.  Whoever wrote this has some real issues to get through.  I also didn't like the characters, a rich white guy living in the south with black servants.  It was an anachronism.  It was overall a most unenjoyable movie.  If you must watch it don't read any reviews that reveal the story.  What little worth this movie has is in the ending. "},{"Title":"The Child","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.dePalma is almost always worth watching, simply because of the novelty of the quirky, engaging way he places us. The camera is highly choreographed, and the `mood' of the camera movement is tied to the mood and folds of the story. Hitchcock developed this notion, and when dePalma uses it, he doesn't necessarily us any of the specific movements or plot devices. Usually his plot setups are much more cerebral than Hitchcock's except in the cases of `Vertigo' and `Rear Window,' the two of his films most self-consciously about themselves.In this case, Brian and Paul liked the linkage so much they did adopt it. The Vertigo linkage was simple some of the characters create a `movie' for Jimmy Stewart, and then he creates his own `movie.' The struggle is among Stewart, the conspirators in the film, and Hitchcock (and us) each of whom struggle for the camera. Each of whom temporarily gain control of the `eye' and create the history we see.dePalma goes one better. Instead of relating simple romantic sex to the act of creating a film, he added the element of a child with (as we slowly discover) our eye having been incestuous all along. Father-daughter, lover-loved, kidnapped-ransomed, `developed,' `memorialized,' therapy, multileveled paintings. All pretty clever. It works so far as the general viewing public because of the extraordinary mother/child folding that Bujold pulls off.But, if you are interested in film, it also works because of the way the camera is controlled. Unfortunately, in a story worthy of Orson Welles, the studio forced some heavyhanded changes one of the folds is turned into a clear dream sequence (so there really was no father/daughter sex), and a whole final act was abandoned, where the folding was explicitly revealed.Oh well. This is minor dePalma. Check out `Snake Eyes.'Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"or... The Lindbergh Baby has Vertigo.","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw the last 2/3ds of this in the early 80s on TV one night. I was captivated. When the end came I was impressed and stunned. For the last three decades I have wondered if my impressions were wrong because since then, I've grown up, learned much about DePalma's betters, and unfortunately seen at least nine or ten horrid pieces of inept, clumsy, derivative DePalma crap. Now through the miracle of DVD technology, after three decades, I'm able to re-visit this. And... it's a painfully stupid, clumsy, artless film. The standard DePalma film travesty.DePalma never minds sacrificing internal logic, taste or common sense in favor of his shallow, out-of-place, ripped-off technique. It took about half an hour to reject this movie. Here's the first 30 minutes of stupidity in a nut-shell * Gauze over the longest, episodic flashback ever filmed * There's a flashback before the current story even starts * Endless waltz with wife in place of dialog or character development * Takes less than one minute to reach a Hitchcock rip-off * Theme waltz becomes a nuisance after 5 minutes * John Lithgow's accent is ridiculous * Minute-long waltz with daughter so unsubtle that it telegraphs entire premise & twist of the movie * Regional 'flavor' supplied in place of character * Best friend as villain revealed at 8 minute mark removing all tension * Lithgow miscast as a villain; he's about as threatening as a banana * Lithgow or his character is a closet case, causing distraction * Ransom delivered from tacky 1970s tourist paddlewheeler * Tourists will pay to take a paddlewheeler ride ten feet from the shore * Crappy spooky wind sound effect playing under windless cemetery * Resemblance of church to tomb, supposed to surprise viewers, but DePalma couldn't resist putting it under the credits.A movie can overcome any five small annoyances, but in just under half an hour DePalma has accumulated so many crimes against film construction and human intelligence (with assistance form Paul Schrader!) that Obsession was clearly not going to recover. Is he up to the challenge of reversing the incestuous plot and unturn my stomach? Of course not. Script schmipt... there are Hitchcock movies that DePalma needs to rip off. As I've noted before he seems to watch classic thrillers by talented directors, then think I'd like to make the crappy version of this!This isn't the worst DePalma movie. Nothing could suck more than the start-to-finish idiocy of 'Sisters.' But it can share the 2nd worst DePalma movie slot with everything else he's made*.(*except somehow, miraculously... Carrie) "}]