[{"Title":"Raise the flags of all nations!","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"28 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  I probably shouldn't like this film, but sweet damn, I do. Very much.By way of synopsis this is the story of the inaugural non-stop atomic bus service from New York to Denver. Cyclops, an articulated twin deck bus (with a swimming pool and a bowling alley on board of course), is beset by various unlikely perils en route.This venerable spoof predates Airplane! by four years, and is at least its equal in cheesy quality. This film is cheese, and it's matured for 28 years. With no word of a lie, it is THE cheesiest film I have ever seen, and I've witnessed some fine acts of cheese.And there are some pretty bad moments to be sure, the sort of moments where you cringe so violently that ligaments tear, but there's comedy of fine calibre in this too both by way of deadpan throwaway lines, and the overall situation (sublimely funny).The grandfather of a genre (and I'd argue, an exemplar), The Big Bus deserves far more recognition than it presently receives. A fine spoof with no high ideas of itself, which doesn't need to stoop low... by virtue of starting low. Perhaps that's my favourite thing about this film it was written, acted, and produced without shame. And for that, it's the best quality low quality you'll ever see. "},{"Title":"The best spoof disaster movie in the world!","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"24 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  It's sad, but I've seen this film over 100 times! Favourite scenes The fight in the bus garage Watch it, he's got a broken milk carton! The bar, where the pianist sings Six Months To Live to the terminally ill passenger! The Bi-Centennial dinner scene, where Dan denies eating 180 passengers, but admits to eating a foot Eat one lousy foot and they call you a cannibal! The cliff-hanger ending I know it looked like I fell, but it was all part of my plan! All in all brilliant.  "},{"Title":"A spoof B.A. (Before Airplane!)....","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  The sight gags are all there, there's silliness to spare and there's not a ZAZ (Zucker, Abrahams, Zucker - the creators of Airplane!) member in sight.Yep, The Big Bus was the predecessor to the long and luxuriant line of disaster spoofs you see lining the video shelves today.  And to tell the truth, as a groundbreaker in this field, this movie is pretty funny.Bologna is a down-and-out bus driver who is given one shot at redemption by being picked to man the Cyclops, the biggest single bus ever created, driving it coast to coast.  His old girlfriend (Channing) is a kind of bus stewardess on board and an old driving buddy (Beck) is also by his side.  But so are a load of passengers as diverse as your average Airport or Poseidon Adventure movie, not to mention an inept terrorist (Margolin) trying to sabotage the bus at every turn while whining to his brother, Why did YOU get the iron lung?.It's that kind of movie.You'll have a lot of fun picking out every star you can imagine from the '70s here, as well as discovering the jibes at every major convention of disaster movies, even the digs at the huge Cyclops bus itself (The coyote is on backwards.  Never mind, you'll see.)  Definitely a funny and fun movie.  Get on this Bus.Ten stars for being one of the first on this bandwagon, as well as for some big laughs.  And if you have a co-pilot for a huge bus, make sure he stays conscious. "},{"Title":"Original and hilarious spoof of disaster films.","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  The Big Bus was released in 1976, four years before the landmark disaster flick-spoof, Airplane!.  Why The Big Bus was not as popular a film is a mystery, because it is every bit as funny as Airplane!.  The dialogue is witty, the sight gags are hilarious and plentiful, and the acting is just dead-pan enough to make it all work.  Joseph Bologna and Stockard Channing head up an all-star cast heading from New York to Denver on a nuclear-powered bus, which is supposed to make the trip with no stops, but of course, disasters ensue.  The bus is a luxury vehicle, complete with a piano bar, swimming pool, bowling alley and dining room.  If you haven't seen The Big Bus check it out.  It will make you laugh out loud. "},{"Title":"A disaster-movie spoof before Airplane! and just as funny!","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This film is a disaster movie spoof that pre-dates Airplane! It's about a giant nuclear-powered bus complete with a bowling alley and pool. Very very funny, okay, not as funny as Airplane!, but better than Airplane 2. The scene in the milk bar where two bus drivers fight with broken milk cartons is great, lots of goofy characters, great cast. Ruth Gordon! Stockard Channing! Richard Mulligan! Lots of 70's fun! "},{"Title":"Glorious Nonsense!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This film was a great way to spend an hour and a half winding up the day. I went to bed with a smile on my face!It is not quite a it's so bad it's good  type of film but it came close.Don't take it seriously, let them off with a few flat jokes, and you'll have a giggle! "},{"Title":"It would really be something to be a passenger on the bus.","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Obviously, with all the disaster films of the early '70s, someone had to make a spoof. And they did just that with The Big Bus. It portrays the world's first nuclear-powered bus driving nonstop from New York to Denver. Naturally, the oil industry is worried that this novelty will ruin their business, and they seek to destroy it. That's the main plot, but the movie is mostly an excuse to have a bunch of silly things happen, as the more famous disaster spoof (Airplane!) would do four years later.Another aspect is of course the cast. Joseph Bologna and Stockard Channing get top billing as driver Dan Torrance and inventor Kitty Baxter, but there's even more. John Beck plays narcoleptic co-driver Shoulders O'Brien; Harold Gould plays Kitty's father who gets injured in an explosion; Jose Ferrer plays the diabolical Ironman, who seeks to blow up the bus; Ned Beatty plays Shorty Scotty, guiding the bus along its journey; Rene Auberjonois plays an awkward priest; Ruth Gordon plays an old woman; Sally Kellerman and Richard Mulligan play a couple who may or may not be getting a divorce; Lynn Redgrave plays a woman who has nothing to do but come onto men; and Larry Hagman plays the parking lot doctor.Like I said, the whole thing was meant to be goofy, and it does not disappoint. Whether it's Shoulders falling asleep at inconvenient times, a truck full of hicks crashing into the bus and getting stuck, or some of the one-liners, the whole thing is a laugh riot.By the way, although Richard Mulligan and Larry Hagman didn't share any scenes in this movie, this was the second time that they co-starred Richard Mulligan once guest-starred on I Dream of Jeannie. This was also the second time that Ruth Gordon co-starred with an I Dream of Jeannie cast member Emmaline Henry (who played Amanda Bellows on IDOJ) appeared in Rosemary's Baby.Well... "},{"Title":"Every Bad Gag, Done Well...","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Saw this when first released, and it was a howler...but only to a genuine movie and TV fan.In addition to the various disaster films of the 1970s, it also harkens back to some classic WWII films, the smarmy romances of the 60s and 70s, and not a small number of tidbits from television.Our circle of friends who saw it together are all film nuts, and we spent days picking the film apart and identifying all of the references and parodies, and still find ones we missed whenever we catch it again.It's not a spectacular film...hell, it's not even that great of a comedy if you don't get the parody references...but it _is_ one of those films that hangs together into a working product.If you aren't a film buff, then simply sit down on the couch with your favorite nosh, and empty your mind to accept the totality...And don't cut yourself on the broken milk carton.  "},{"Title":"Earthtones, earthquakes, bombs and bimbo's","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  The Big Bus is the kind of film that will make you giggle and grimace, frequently during a viewing.   Almost of a kitchen-sink humor, you'll giggle out loud at the parodies of the great 70's disaster flicks.This is a film with wonderful cameos featuring b-grade stars who evidently hadn't anything better to do that day, then show up at the studio and act out some schtick.   It's campy, rompy, and fun.  As I recall, the film's tagline was You'll die laughing!   Well it is a disaster spoof...Pay particular attention for a classic line in which elderly runaway from home Ruth Gordon tells Renee Auberjenoius (as a doubting priest) how happy she was that god put her in the seat next to a priest.  Father Kudos responds, If it was god that put you here, why didn't he give you a fancy window seat like mine?!   I, Kudos, a doubter luxeriate in a window seat, while you, aging with age, get older yet in that disgrace of an aisle seat!! Where is your god now old woman?!   Ruth Gordon responds, Jesus, I'm sorry I asked!Check this gem out - There are far worse ways to die, than to die laughing while watching The Big Bus!  "},{"Title":"It's not Airplane! but it tries and has plenty of funny moments","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Technology has brought us many wonderful things &#150; but at what risks?  One such advancement is the creation of a nuclear bus that runs direct from New York to Denver.  However the sinister Oil Lobby are out to stop the bus from succeeding (wouldn't they!). When the driver is injured washed up driver Dan Torrance is brought in despite his history with the inventor's daughter.  Can they survive the dangerous maiden journey?Disaster spoofs were big business around this time &#150; mainly because the genre had been done to death and it was a very easy target to lampoon.  However not all worked because they weren't funny.  Airplane will always be the best but this little jewel is still pretty funny.  It doesn't feel as funny as Airplane simply because it's taken the action and put it in a spoof location rather than spoofing a normal location.  However it still allows plenty of laughs and manages to be really funny.Bologna is a good lead, but Beck steals a lot of it with his role as shoulders.  It's funny seeing Stockard Channing drowning in soft drinks and the rest of the cats is filled out with some names &#150; Hagman, Kellerman, Beatty etc.Overall it may not have the fame of Airplane, and many of the jokes just aren't fresh 20 years on but it's still worth a look if you like spoofs. "}{"Title":"Conspiracy Theory","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  I just rented The Big Bus on DVD and was surprised at how well it held up after twenty years (I saw it on network tv as a little kid and have wanted to see it again ever since).  Stockard Channing is the standout -- she doesn't do anywhere near enough straight-up comedy work anymore -- but there's lots of material for the rest of the cast as well.It's well-established that you can't mention The Big Bus without mentioning Airplane!, et al. in the next breath.  The jokes aren't quite as thick on the ground here as in Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker's work but otherwise the style is eerily similar.  Is it possible that they did uncredited work here?  Or is it pure coincidence that one of the TV trucks covering the unveiling of the bus early in the film is prominently labeled with the call letters W-Z-A-Z...?  "},{"Title":"Passengers beware!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This movie is so absurdly funny, it passes all expectations. I saw it in a crowded theater and everyone was laughing so hard it was impossible to keep from joining in the fun. The thought of a bus with a bowling alley and a swimming pool is so imaginative and points out the lengths the writer ( a cohen) and the director will go for jokes.  If you are depressed pick up this flick on video and laugh yourself to health.  "},{"Title":"Raise the flags of all nations!","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  What a film! In 90 minutes you get more gags than in all the Police Academy movies rolled into one. Which isn't hard! But seriously, you must see this movie. The Big Bus is the granddaddy of disaster spoofs, coming out 4 years before Airplane and boasting a storyline so insane, the writers should be locked up. The premise of a nuclear powered bus travelling non-stop from New York to Denver is inspired. The cast, led by a great Joseph Bologna, are having a ball and there are just jokes in every frame. See this film and laugh yourself silly! "},{"Title":"Non-stop laughter in the aisle!","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  Is this the ancestor of all Naked Airplane-type spoof-a-second pictures? If so, why isn't it better known? Because this is one of the great screen satires. And it refuses to beat you over the head for laughs. Movie buffs will groove and regroove on the references to serious disaster flicks, but civilians won't be needing your narration to have great fun. Serious-looking Joe Bologna is the perfect choice for the lead role, which he masterfully underplays. The whole cast is superb. Composer David Shire keeps the score dramatic, too. (Why wasn't his terrific soundtrack ever released?)  I don't think The Big Bus was a box-office success at first release, though there was an initial publicity splash. (Four years later, Airplane same premise, if more surreal becomes the definitive put-on flick. Go figure.) Why not just turn off the monitor right now and go rent The Big Bus? I predict you'll become a regular passenger aboard the Coyote Cyclops, nonstop between New York and Denver.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful fluff and a well-deserved spoof","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" The Big Bus seems to be getting better as it ages what was once par-for-the-course screwball comedy is morphing into grand, high camp.Camp with real style, too. An amazing cast of big actors pull out all the stops; mugging for the camera and delivering the most insane lines in earnest deadpan. I remember the mania for disaster movies that occurred when I was a kid and The Big Bus hits the nail on the head aping all the great moments of an overblown genre. Plus you have to see the bus to really appreciate the absurdity. I recommend seeing this film just for the fun of seeing a colossal double-decker, articulated passenger bus that has a swimming pool, a bowling alley, a formal dining room, and a piano bar complete with a brilliant schmaltzy singer. A little lower-key than the 'Airplane' movies...but well worth it simply to see the A-List cast having fun. A Note the dinner scene can never be accurately described, it must be seen to be believed. "},{"Title":"so incredibly stupid,...but I mean that in a GOOD way!","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" This is a stupid film. I admit it. The acting is very broad, the script is dopey as can be and every element of the film says DUMB but it all works because the film never takes itself seriously and makes no pretense. Yes, it is meant to be stupid! I mean, just think about the plot--an air or sea disaster movie that instead occurs on a bus! And, this is no ordinary bus, but seems about 25,000 square feet (minimum) inside--complete with a huge lounge, seating for a huge number of passengers and even a bowling alley!! Plus, you add other plot ideas like a co-driver named Shoulders because he keeps driving over the shoulders of the road, a bomb planted aboard and the bus is actually NUCLEAR-POWERED!!! This movie is pure escapist fun. If you want something deep or really enjoy the films or Fellini or Truffaut and hate anything else, then this movie is not for you. If you like pure dopiness and could use a laugh, then this film is exactly what you need. "},{"Title":"A very funny pre-Airplane' disaster movie parody","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" The 70's disaster movies were pretty ridiculous by design, what with their paint-by-the-numbers formula stories, credibility-defying plot contrivances, laughably cardboard characters, embarrassing acting by slumming celebrity thesps, and overwrought attempts at tension. So, this delectably deadpan pre-Airplane parody of the genre needn't try too hard to be funny. In fact both director James Frawley and especially screenwriters Fred Freeman and Lawrence J. Cohen make the wise move of merely exaggerating the absurdity and preposterousness inherent in all disaster movies just a little bit, presenting an appropriately ludicrous catalog of asinine stock situations and broadly drawn caricatures in an admirably dry, mock-serious manner. The story itself is wonderfully dumb The historic first drive of a deluxe, ultra-large 75-ton, 32-wheel nuclear-powered bus from New York to Denver experiences numerous unexpected hitches, starting with shaky, disreputable driver Joseph Bologna (a man who stands accused of cannibalism due to a past disastrous run), worsened by Bologna's jittery narcoleptic co-driver John Beck, and fatally clinched by a bomb planted in the bus' rear by oil company saboteurs Jose Ferror and Stuart Margolin.The terrific all-star 70's name cast attack their goofy roles with rabid glee Stockard Channing as bus designer (and Bologna's former old flame) Kitty, Rene Auberjonois as a faithless priest, the invaluable Ruth Gordon as one of her always amusing and on-target nutty, vulgar old bats, Sally Kellerman and Richard Mulligan as a bickering unhappy married couple, Ned Beatty as the grumpy project director, Howard Hesseman as Beatty's browbeaten assistant, Lynn Redgrave as a horny, pompous, vampy rich lady, Larry Hagman as a jerk doctor, Richard B. Schull as a bitter dying man, Bob Dishy as an equally angry discredited veterinarian, Harold Gould as a stuffy professor, Vic Tayback as a belligerent barroom bully, and, in a hilariously smarmy performance, Murphy Dunne as obnoxiously zealous dorkus cocktail lounge singer/pianist Tommy Joyce. David Shire's wittily ripe, lush, and hyper-incessant score, all busy strings, skittering wah-wah guitars, and urgently blurting horns, is the delicious icing on an already tasty and enjoyably silly fool's birthday cake -- it's every bit as tacky and overdone as your basic straightforward disaster movie score. A manic, madcap delight. "},{"Title":"Dumb fun!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  How marvelous that this has just come out on DVD! This movie has been  a fave since I was but a lad. It predates Airplane by about 4 years, and is about 4 times funnier, but inexplicably bombed at the box office. Guess it was ahead of its time.The funniest bit is the lounge piano player with his Six months to live and Doggy doctor improvisations, and how he welcomes new patrons into the bar with Hey, welcome to the Oriental Lounge! accompanied by a little piano twinkle.So it isn't Citizen Kane ... but the laughs are bigger! "},{"Title":"Sure, everyone think's it's a snap driving a bus...it's no snap...","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Is a society that laughs so hard at its own fads humble, narcissistic, or both? This forgotten spoof, four years before Airplane!, appeared after years of Airport and Irwin Allen films, just as disaster movies were being replaced by the Spielberg shockers that started with Jaws and led to Jurassic Park (X-treme Discovery Channel, but that's another story). Cylops, a nuclear-powered, double-decker, articulated luxury bus (an impressive set of props & sets) finishes development despite sabotage attacks that cripple the specially trained drivers. Venerable driver Dan Torrance (Bologna) is hired as a replacement even though he's in disgrace after a disastrous run in which he was accused of eating his passengers while stranded! The bus's designer, Kitty (Channing) is his former love whom he dumped after cheating on her repeatedly. The film is a mostly unsubtle jab at all-star disaster movies in which subplots are resolved by the characters being forced to find common ground to survive the burning building, burning airship, overturned liner, earthquake, et. al. Scruffy engineer Scotty (Beatty) and a fugitive housewife (Gordon) are openly based on George Kennedy's & Helen Hayes' characters in Airport, respectively. There are also a failed priest (Auberjonois, spoofing his MASH role), an oversexed, vengeful fashion maven (Redgrave), a spoiled, bickering couple celebrating their divorce (Mulligan & Kellerman) and a vet disgraced for experimenting with lapine birth control (Dishy). Shull, as a terminally ill man, parodies Lionel Barrymore in Grand Hotel, reminding us of how uncomfortably similar that old classic is to The Towering Inferno. The bus's nemesis is a powerful family (Ferrer & Margolin) who create disasters to destroy technical innovation & are apparently responsible for most disasters, real or fictional, filmed since the 1950s, including the Titanic. The script is wildly erratic, ranging from comic genius to contrived stupidity. The latter include the opening press conference & the encounter with the pickup truck. But the former include most of the scenes involving the bus, including the one in which Dan deals with a bomb, which was redone dramatically in Speed nearly 20 years later. Cyclops has a bowling alley, swimming pool & dining room, all hilariously reduced to dollhouse-size, as well as self-changing tires, an Automatic Washing Mechanism (AWM) and soda-pumping & luggage-ejection features. Despite its contrivances, the story holds together amazingly & even provides real suspense up to the very end. Bologna is a bit hammy as the troubled Bus Captain, but Channing is brilliant, both believable & funny, as the nuclear scientist/love interest. The scene in which she drives while sitting on the lap of unconscious co-driver Shoulders (Beck) is almost enough in itself to make the whole film worthwhile. But Murphy Dunne nearly steals the show as the most offensive lounge piano player ever (Thank yooou!). Despite the in-your-face satire, look for some very subtle comic touches like the jab at TV news & the pictures in Iron Man's hall. "},{"Title":"It would have been a lot better if it had been made by Mel Brooks","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" The popularity of the disaster movie in the early seventies meant that it was only a matter of time before someone attempted to parody the genre. Probably the funniest disaster movie parody is The Cassandra Crossing, but that was intended to be a serious film and only counts as a parody because it was so badly made. The best-known deliberate disaster movie spoof is Airplane from 1980, but four years earlier there was The Big Bus. The opening voice-over makes it clear what the film's targets are, as there are obvious implied references to The Poseidon Adventure, Earthquake, The Towering Inferno and The Hindenburg.The plot concerns the maiden journey (from New York to Denver) of the world's first nuclear powered bus and the attempts that are made to sabotage it on behalf of the oil industry. Straight disaster movies are often based around the concept of a motley collection of people, brought together by chance, who are forced to work together by the threatened disaster. The Big Bus seizes hold of this concept and takes it to the limit. The passengers include a priest who has lost his faith (his arguments in favour of atheism include the claim that a just God would have given the devout old lady next to him a window seat rather than an aisle seat), an about-to-be-divorced couple who bicker constantly when they are not trying to seduce one another, and a man who has only six months to live and constantly reminds everyone of the fact.The crew are just as eccentric as the passengers; Dan the driver (who is also the ex-boyfriend of the bus's female designer) is a suspected cannibal, although he defends himself by claiming that he only ever ate a single foot. (You eat one lousy foot and they call you a cannibal. What a world!) The co-driver (named Shoulders because of an unfortunate tendency to drive on the shoulders of the road) also has an even more unfortunate tendency to fall asleep at the wrong moment, including while driving. There is also a scantily-dressed stewardess named (satirising the American fondness for double-barrelled Christian names) Mary-Jane-Beth-Sue and an appallingly tactless and tasteless piano player.Some of the humour in The Big Bus comes from sending up the conventions of the genre, such as exaggeratedly portentous music or the scene (probably inspired by The Poseidon Adventure) where Dan has to rescue his ex-girlfriend Stockard Channing from drowning in soft drinks. Its targets, however, range wider than the confines of the disaster genre. The faithless priest Father Kudos, for example, is an obvious reference to Father Karras in The Exorcist, and the use of the opening theme from Richard Strauss's Also Sprach Zarathustra may echo its earlier use in Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey. The scene where the bus is left seesawing on the edge of a cliff is taken from the ending to The Italian Job. Indeed, the film's range of targets is not confined to the cinema. The constant mentions of cannibalism seem to be a reference to Piers Paul Read's book Alive!, about a plane crash in the Andes, which was a bestseller in the seventies but which was not made into a film until 1993.Perhaps it was this scattergun approach, firing off its satirical bullets in all directions, which meant that I did not find the film particularly funny. It might have worked better if it had concentrated on sending up the disaster genre and had not tried to cram in so many extra targets. When you are aiming at so many targets, you need to hit them all, and too many of the bullets are either duds or fly harmlessly wide. For every funny joke there are several unfunny ones. As I watched this film, I couldn't help thinking that it would had been a lot better if Mel Brooks, the master of the parody, had been the director. 4/10 "}{"Title":"Not bad at all....","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Somebody wrote that it tried to be like Airplane!. First of all, this movie came out a few years before Airplane. There are some really funny parts in this movie, and it was definitely before it's time. The only writer/director making movies similar to this was Mel Brooks. The movie was definitely a rent-able if you're in to parodies (Airplane, Hot Shots, and even Student Bodies). I can't believe I've never seen this movie before because I'm a fan of that genre... The character Shoulders is comically clever... I loved when he broke the milk carton on the bar and how he passes out behind the wheel. The lead character, Dan something, does a good job as well. Now when you see it, remember, it was before most of the parodies you've seen... Stockard Channing does a good job too... I like her improvisation on certain scenes(backstroking in the soda). By watching the scenes and camera angles, you can see this movie helped pave the way for the classic Airplane. "},{"Title":"Why isn't this film re-run on TV in the U.K. more often?","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  This film blew me away as a child as young as seven, before I had even heard the word parody. This silly, absurd, brilliant comedy is played out by a far-fetched cast of freaks and weirdos, whose foibles and desperate short-comings become more and more amusing every time you watch the film. The script is about as ridiculously colourful as the characters and events, so that I can still remember the whole of Sybil's rant which begins OK, so I am the daughter of poison gas, even though I have not seen the film in the last ten years. So please, someone show this film again on British terrestrial TV. I, at least, will be watching! "},{"Title":"Give this one a look!","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  OK, why, given all of the positive feedback for this movie, doesn't this classic parody score higher? I don't know. I give it a solid 8. As long as you go into the movie with your brain on hold, you'll be thoroughly entertained. The writing, direction, acting and F/X's are all first rate FOR THIS TYPE OF MOVIE. If you can, buy this movie. You'll want to see it again and again.  "},{"Title":"The Ultimate In Cheezzy Sets Pridictable Jokes and Lame Dialogue!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  That said The BIG BUS is just interesting enough to make you never want to turn it off once you start watching it.  The BIG BUS is insidicous in its nature.  The BIG BUS lures you into its silly mindless plot.  The BIG BUS is not about serious movie making or production values or, deeper meanings. It almost seems someone had a few weeks to kill in Hollywood and a bit of unexposed film laying about and, a few favors to call in from industry friends and, the BIG BUS was the result of that otherwise shared idle time. For a film that aspired to so little its odd they hit the mark.  To say this film is chewing gum for the eyes would suggest it had hidden in it some posh deep seeded ideal which it doesn't.  The BIG BUS far from being chewing gum for the eyes is more like cotton candy for the eyes.  Like Cotton Candy the Big BUS is just sticky and messy enough to get you caught up in it but the whole time your brain is finding new and heitherfore unexplored depths to the meaning of the words stuck in neutral gear.  You should watch the BIG BUS for the same reason you eat Cotton Candy.  The BIG BUS is the movie you want to see when you just want to spend time focusing your energy on the active art of enjoying an experience that too soon melts in your mind becoming nothing but a nagging memory in its all too sweet but crowded hour! "},{"Title":"Hop Onboard THE BIG BUS--An Atomic Satire","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Often compared to AIRPLANE!, that celebrated ultra-zany spoof that had people doubling (and even tripling) over in the aisles with laughter, the 1976 film THE BIG BUS, though it shares similarities with that film of four years later, is not so much a spoof of the disaster film genre that was so much the rage of the Seventies as it is a satire of both the genre's conventions and several real-life catastrophes of the past. As such, because it relies on sardonic one-liners and a few non-gross-out sight gags, THE BIG BUS is, admittedly, not the non-stop barrel of laughs that AIRPLANE! would be. In the end, however, it still has a lot to recommend.The film's humor derives from the sheer absurdity of its plot a nuclear-powered bus the length of half a football field making a non-stop run from New York to Denver, all the while being the target of a pair of saboteurs from Big Oil (Jose Ferrer; Stuart Margolin), and at the mercy of a pair of drivers with past issues, one (Joseph Bologna) a foot-eater, the other (John Beck) a narcoleptic. Then, of course, you have that cast of passengers Richard B. Shull as a man who's got Six Months To Live (and maybe less, if that nutty cocktail pianist uproariously played by Murphy Dunne has his way); Rene Auberjonois as a priest who's lost his faith; Sally Kellerman and Richard Mulligan as the ultimate bickering couple; and Stockard Channing as the daughter of the bus's inventor (Harold Gould) who gets her old flame Bologna to drive the bus after Gould and the two original drivers are killed. Add to that a number of underhanded sight gags (Flags Of All Nations; breaking wind at 90; the climactic soda pop caper), and you have a rather crazy and successful film on your hands, under the guiding hands of journeyman director James Frawley (KID BLUE; THE MUPPET MOVIE).The performances of all concerned, including Bologna, Beck, and Channing, do a lot in making THE BIG BUS the kind of sardonic comedy that it is. Lynn Redgrave's performance as an overbearing movie star is also quite hilarious in its own way. There is, though, one point where the film is more reverential than anything else as the bus is being pulled out of its hangar (barely clearing the door, by the way), there is on the soundtrack the unmistakable opening movement of Richard Strauss' Also Sprach Zarathustra (this, and the slow passage of the bus in front of the camera)--a clear homage to director Stanley Kubrick's 1968 sci-fi masterpiece 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY.It's a bit of a disappointment to think that a film like this that earns its laughs in so underhanded a fashion should only have been a moderate success when it was originally released in June 1976. And Paramount Pictures sure didn't do the film any favors in the way it handled its release. But now, THE BIG BUS can be seen for the unique kind of cinematic satire that it is, and it can be appreciated just a bit more than before for its different way of eliciting laughs. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies EVER","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I have seen this film over and over since I was a kid. I love this movie. i can watch it start to finish any time. The acting is great and the lines never get old. I grew up on this movie and it is by far one of my all time top 5 movies. I encourage anyone who has never seen it to watch. Maybe I love it because I liked it as a kid and therefor I loved it as an adult. But, I have watched it very recently and still find it a great movie. Will always be one of my favorite movies of all time. I think anyone who watches this movie with an open mind will enjoy it and it will become one of their favorite as well. My sis and I grew up on this movie and we still, 17 years after the first time we watched it we still quote lines to each other. We never give cheers to each other without the all time up yours comment from the bicentennial dinner. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite spoof movies of all time","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I made the mistake of discussing this movie with my dent's's assistant under the influence of nitrous..she's never seen it..I suspect on my next visit she'll have a copy for my viewing enjoyment while I'm having my teeth pulled for dentures. She loves these movies (as do I)..I was turned on to the Big Bus by a radio talk show host many years ago and have loved it ever since. One of my 10 favorite movies. A former colleague and I (one of the few people i know who saw the film) and I used to love sharing quotes from the movie.Jim "},{"Title":"forget if it's funny, look what they did!","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  the film has funny parts, the film has lame parts.  i loved it as a kidand think it's okay 20 years later.  but there's something mostpeople seem to be over-looking...there are no miniatures in thismovie...THEY ACTUALLY MADE A FULL SIZE BUS!  obviously the interiors are all sets, but there actually was a full sizeBig Bus driving on the streets in front of a camera for all thosedriving shots!  where is that thing now?  I want to see it!screw digital!  build the thing and use it!  now that's film making! "},{"Title":"Rocketing Down the Road","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I'm canceling my next bus trip. What with this goofy gang, who knows where I'd end up. As expected, gags fly faster than Kleenex in a windstorm. Frankly, I'm glad the girls' panties save the day, otherwise our highway rocket would take a dive into Lake Oblivion. All in all, I think I liked the disaster spoof better forty years ago, but then the material was a lot fresher, what with all those phony disaster movies. Still, there's plenty to laugh at, including an array of passengers from an out-patient clinic, a driver who can't stay awake, and a lounge singer on permanent leave from reality. So if you don't like this gag, another will follow faster than your next breath. The first part's best while the absurdities are still fresh. But it's darn hard to keep the nuttiness rolling even on a rocket-driven asylum. Kudoes to special effects or however they did the teetering bus that looks real as heck. I'd also like to have been on the set where I'll bet the ad-libs were funnier than even the script. Sure, the results are less memorable than those of the spoof classic Airplane! (1980). But there's enough orchestrated goofiness to make the ride worthwhile.(Meanwhile, can't help noticing the bus company's gag name is Coyote. Surely that's a dig at Greyhound, which is understandable since the adviser on the movie was Trailways, Greyhound's chief competitor.) "},{"Title":"Anticipating Speed meeting Flying High","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Not well known, The Big Bus is one of the earliest film parodies, sending up the disaster genre that was popular at the time. The amiable Bologna stars as the driver selected to steer a super bus, conceived on nuclear turbines, John Beck his nervous co-driver (nicknamed Shoulders because that's where he tends to drive), and a galaxy of TV stars who soon discover that terrorists have plans to turn the bus into a missile.Maybe considered a pre-cursor of sorts to Speed, there's a few minor giggles, some corny one-liners (there's drinks for those who want them, and nothing for those who don't) and an amusing on-board piano entertainer (Murphy Dunne) who improvises his songs based on the circumstances of the guests (welcome to the Oriental lounge, six months to live, I've got six months to live). Among the distinguished cast is Larry Hagman as a clueless doctor, Ruth Gordon playing an unsympathetic, bitter old duck, and Richard Mulligan and Sally Kellerman as a dysfunctional couple drinking to excess and bickering throughout the maiden journey much to the bemusement of their fellow guests.Unlikely to leave you in stitches, it's a reasonable warm up to more animated parodies like Flying High and The Naked Gun which have subsequently raised the bar in the sub-genre. "}{"Title":"Star vehicle","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" A disaster movie spoof that covers all the bases and goes off on inspired tangents of its own, with some immortal dialogue and gloriously silly sight gags. I can only echo what other reviewers have said should be better known, should have a much higher rating here, released four years before 'Airplane' and is equally hilarious. As for quoting lines, other people have already bagged 'Where is your God now, old woman?' (which I keep wanting to use in real life conversation) and 'You eat one foot and they call you a cannibal' and the milk carton line, so I won't do that either.I note with interest the suggestion from another reviewer that the Zuckers may actually have had an uncredited involvement. It's unlikely, and a bit insulting to the actual writers. But really, it's so good it wouldn't surprise me to find the Pythons, Woody Allen and the Marx Brothers had helped out too. Tremendously funny. "},{"Title":"Great laughs, also test-driven by a popular car magazine","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Saw this movie when it was new, couldn't stop laughing at the parodies on the other current disaster movies, as well as at the visual and audible puns contained. I gave it a 7 score, because the laughs turn into groans, and you can't take anything seen or heard seriously. The whole flick is sort of one giant bad (and that's good) pun!!! EitherCar and Driver, or Road and Track, at the time, did a test drive feature on the bus - biggest problem was that it couldn't get under the access bridge over the track, so couldn't do full laps. Yes, this was in an April issue. I suppose a little more web-searching will turn up the identity of the magazine and probably a source for a copy of it! "},{"Title":"The Big Bus did it first, but not best.","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Four years before the successful take off of Zucker and Abraham's smash hit spoof Airplane! (1980), director James Frawley's The Big Bus explored remarkably similar territory, lampooning the popular disaster genre in a crazy scatter-shot style. The film's titular vehicle is the world's first nuclear powered bus, a giant, luxury, 32-wheeled metallic titan called Cyclops embarking on its maiden journey travelling non-stop from New York to Denver; unfortunately for the passengers and crew, a crazed oil magnate is out to discredit the bus by putting it permanently out of service by any means necessary.Like Airplane, the absurd goof-ball gags come thick and fast, but The Big Bus's batting average isn't quite as high, a lot of the humour falling rather flat. The film's best bits are its more subtle, throw-away humorous moments, although I imagine that a lot of these might easily be missed on the first viewing. As the film thunders towards its conclusion, the bus loses its brakes and picks up speed, careening round perilous mountain roads; when the bus eventually grinds to a halt (over the edge of a precipice) so do the film's laughs, the remainder of the action being dull and predictable. "},{"Title":"THE BIG BUS (James Frawley, 1976) **1/2","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Preceding the far more popular AIRPLANE! (1980) in its spoof of blockbuster disaster movies by four years, this is a patchy but reasonably amusing ride in its own right The titular nuclear-powered vehicle was designed by Stockard Channing, constructed by her father Harold Gould (who, in his turn, is cared for by reluctant doctor Larry Hagman), driven by disgraced 'cannibal' Joseph Bologna, steered from the controls center by Ned Beatty and sought for destruction by Ironman Jose' Ferrer! As befits its pedigree, the passengers are an equally colorful, starry lot an on-again/off-again couple (Richard Mulligan and Sally Kellerman), a dotty old lady (Ruth Gordon), a bitchy nymphomaniac of a celebrity (Lynn Redgrave), a doubting priest (Rene Auberjonois), etc. The film loses steam in the latter half because its biggest laughs occur before the actual journey starts, in particular during a bar-room brawl at a drivers' hang-out where Bologna is picked on by everybody except for one called Shoulders (John Beck) who, after earning a co-driver's seat on The Big Bus, soon reveals the meaning behind his nickname &#150; he's narcoleptic! "},{"Title":"* * out of 4","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" The Big Bus is set aboard a nonstop, nuclear-powered luxury bus commandeered by Joseph Bologna. Naturally, Bologna is a tortured hero with a deep dark secret (he keeps insisting he didn't eat all those passengers on his last disastrous drive). Stockard Channing and Harold Gould play the designers of the big bus, and of course they have a few skeletons in their closet. In fact, there isn't a passenger on the all-star manifest that isn't hiding something. The supporting cast features contributions by René Auberjonois (parodying his M*A*S*H role), Ned Beatty, José Ferrer, Ruth Gordon (doing a devastating send-up of Airport's Helen Hayes), Sally Kellerman, Richard Mulligan, and many others; Murphy Dunne contributes a memorable bit as a smarmy cocktail pianist. Unfortunately, The Big Bus was dumped onto the summer 1976 release schedule without fanfare by Paramount, and it sank without a trace.This is a pretty entertaining 70's flick. Not that bad by Paramount, but people can either avoid it or use caution with it.Rated PG for Profanity. "},{"Title":"In the tradition of Airplane!, Get Crazy, & Bachelor Party....","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" If you enjoyed (loved) those cult-favorite comedy classic from the early 80's, Airplane!, Get Crazy! and Bachelor Party then you're in for a treat. The Big Bus(also known internationally as Cyclops, The World's Largest Bus) is a mid-70's comedy spoof. A bit similar to Zucker/Abrahms comedy Airplane!, but perhaps not as funny. I remember watching this film as a kid (approx. 8 or 9) and could never forget the scene where they show a swimming pool enclosed in a dome on top of the bus, and the classic scene where a kitchen alley is filled cupboards high with soda pop.REZuleta "},{"Title":"Cannot  recommend  .......................","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" Seeing the interesting cast of mostly character actors, I was expecting more laughs from The Big Bus. Even though it tries hard, nine out of ten jokes misfire, and are just plain silly or stupid. Another problem is the same joke is worked to death, for example the Diablo Pass incident, or the doctor caring for his patient in the parking lot. Other jokes simply go on for far too long and become tedious. The nuclear bus visuals are impressive, but overall the characters seem more like they are doing stand up comedy, than playing in a movie. A very frantic finish is the best part of the film, but even that cannot save The Big Bus. - MERK "},{"Title":"In the era of 'disaster flicks,' one was man made...","Date":"2 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I actually saw The Big Bus as a kid in a theatre, because I LOVE Stockard Channing, and I got my mom to take me (she put up with a LOT of stuff from me - Thanks mom!).As a 7 year old, I loved it - I wasn't interested in, nor rally was looking for plot 'holes,' or, anything else, other than just silly fun, and, I do remember - all these years later - I did enjoy myself.My mom... well, I never asked, then,but, when I recently asked her, she was vague, so, I'm gonna say I don't think she liked it.In the mid 70's, we had Earthquake (in 'Sensurround' - a theater-wide effect in which every time the earthquake started to rumble, the 'Sensurround' system (a legit sound amplification, which very simplistically speaking, were bass-heavy, and those frequencies REALLY did a number on those in the theatre at the time. It was VERY wild.We had The Towering Inferno- about a very tall building on fire, and The Poseidon Adventure, as wells some others.Then, about a year or two after these big films, came The Big Bus.As I noted in several other reviews, they noticed the similarities between this film and those of the Zuckers & Abrahams, i.e., Airplane!, Naked Gun, and (my favourite of this genre) Top Secret, as well as others.I don't know if the Zuckers or Abrahams had seen The Big Bus, and said they can 'do it better,' or not, but, one can definitely see The Big Bus as an influence on those later films.I can't recommend The Big Bus, to anyone who is looking for a 'quality' film. But, if you are one of those die-hard fanatics, like myself, who are fans of any of the (large) cast, which contains many well known character performers, like Ms Channing, and really don't care about 'plot holes' ('big enough to drive the 'Big Bus' though,' LOL!), then sit back and enjoy.It is NOT 'side-achingly' funny, but, it is 'chortle' funny.I give it a '6,' because I DO like kitsch such as thisAs an addendum, for those who remember this era, NBC was in LAST place of the 'Big Three' TV networks, and they hired (former) 'wunderkind,' Fred Silverman away from ABC.Whilst not a direct descendant of this genre, the Big &#x85;'egg' Silverman laid at NBC was a TV series, which was at the time THE most EXPENSIVE (on a per-episode basis) titled 'SuperTrain.'It was not (intentionally) either a comedy, nor a disaster, but, in the annals of TV, it is both.In the entertainment world, one is supposed to describe their projects in one 'grab ya' sentence,' and the descriptive sentence of Super Train was 'Love Bot on a Train.With SuperTrain, the 'circle' was complete, and it wouldn't be until the Zuckers and Abrahams got together and made 'fun' disasters the 'right' way. "},{"Title":"Ah the memories","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" OK 10/10 because I grew up with this movie. I also went through a phase where I was totally obsessed with the Big Bus itself. I turned my bed into one using sheets and other things. I also drew lots of pictures of it but at the time my drawings were so much better then the one in the movie..well so I thought. I still laugh the movie even now. I would love to hear from anyone that knows what happened to the actual shell / props of the bus. I have a feeling like most things, they have been scrapped, bummer! I own a copy on VHS that we taped from the TV years ago. It's totally 80's because it has all the old commercials on it (Australian ones mind you). Funny stuff! "},{"Title":"The bus gave a moving performance (a joke as bad as any in this film).","Date":"8 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" The saying goes, dying is easy, comedy is hard. You ain't kiddin'. About 30 minutes into The Big Bus I was wishing for death. A spoof of disaster films that was made when disaster films were still popular, The Big Bus is one of those films that keep your interest because you keep searching the actor's faces to see if they betray any trace of the desperation that must come from trying to make the most of terrible material. When a film is as boring as this, you have a lot of time for random thoughts I watched a puffy-looking Stockard Channing (resembling 70's era Elizabeth Taylor) and wondered how she managed the magic act of salvaging her career after this; Sally Kellerman performs as if she's in a funnier film than the one I'm watching; I wonder why all of Lynn Redgrave's scenes fall so flat; I speculate over what sort of nepotism or deal with the devil resulted in the casting of the hammy and thuddingly unfunny Stuart Margolin; I think about the studio contract system and the feckless charm of John Beck; I try to count how many films in which Ruth Gordon did the same foul-mouthed granny bit ... anything to keep me from paying attention to how ugly this film looks (It was so flatly lit, I thought it was a Universal film) and how badly I wanted it to end. Comedy is so subjective and personal, I totally understand that some people may find it hilarious. I'm just in the camp that didn't laugh even once. View at your own risk - it may become your favorite film, or, like me, you may want to scratch your eyes out at the 30 minute point. "}{"Title":"A Funny Story about this Movie","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" There's a funny story about this movie. My dad said he remembered liking it and showed it to me. I was eager to see it, since he raved on it. During the movie, I laughed a little bit, maybe once or twice, but that's it. I didn't want to make him sad, so I pretended to laugh. When it was done, my dad and I didn't talk. For a while, we turned the movie off in silence. After about two minutes, my dad says Wow, I..uhh...don't remember it being that bad. Sorry.. I was glad that he hated it too. We hated it together. It was not a funny movie at all. Actually, towards the end, he asked me if I wanted to turn it off, since it was so bad, but I said no. I didn't know that was what he meant, though. Look, don't see this. PLEASE! Just don't. Save an hour and a half of your life. Please. "},{"Title":"From what I remember...","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  It's been a while since I've seen this movie, so my memory is a little hazy. I do remember it overall being enjoyable. But the one thing that sticks in my mind heavily is that the ending seems unfinished "},{"Title":"Not as funny as it thinks it is","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  A great many quality actors must have had tax bills to pay.  The endless stream of single-entendres deliberately avoids irony.  A few bitchy comments by bored wives, the vicar who doesn't believe and the driver who ate 110 people don't make comic lines worth a half hour TV show.  To see the talents of Ruth Gordon etc wasted on this drivel (Gordon gets the only funny line- so she must be ad-libbing) is embarrassing.  Its one of those films where everybody shouts in the belief that you can make a situation hysterically funny by simply behaving hysterically! I tried it on a nine-year old- he left by the end of reel two! "},{"Title":"my friend loves buses!","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":"  My friend loves buses for some odd reason, and told me that this movie was a great crackup about a huge bus. I judged the cover before i saw it, and still stand by what i thought. The movie i guess was supposed to be a spoof of airplane, which i havent seen yet, but the mode of transportation being funny still remains the same. there were some lame points that couldve been changed or modified to make it better.  the old woman was hysterical, she had funny one liners and didnt really have as much as a chance as the other main characters. im sorry to those who like stockard channing, but after i saw grease, all i can picture her as is a 50's bad girl that would smoke after school.  her performance i thought was awful, and should have focused more on someone else. i dont know who, perhaps the old woman, who was the only funny one to me. the rest of the crew didnt blend well together. the old woman was the best part of the movie, and along with the non-blendable cast that did have combined laughs that may have lasted about 10-20 minutes of funnies. That affected my rating, because when i watch a funny movie, i would like to laugh so hard i cry and cant breathe at all. when a movie can do that for me, i watch it again and again because i love comedies.  this movie only had me at a long lasting chuckle.  (B- C+) "},{"Title":"Sidesplittingly unfunny","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" After about 20 minutes I could see where this was headed and it became one of the few films I just couldn't watch completely. Oh, I left it on just to see if anyone would say something funny while I thumbed through an almanac. Needless to say it didn't happen. I really wanted to like this movie too which makes it a shame. All the actors including one of my favorites, Ruth Gordon just couldn't do anything with an unbelievably not-funny script. I even tried to like it in the same way I did Airplane, which had what I call stupid-humor. This was just stupid. Even some interesting action ideas were made as to have me turn my head away after a couple minutes. Avoids a 1 because of Gordon, the piano player and one nice stunt sequence on the mountain. "},{"Title":"Complete crap....except for the bus scenes on the road","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" I remember seeing this film way back in 1977 when it was on cable, or was it 1976? I'm sure this film didn't take long to get to cable. Being very much into cars (especially older cars), and basically any kind of vehicular mayhem and madness in films, I dug the hell of of The Big Bus back in the day. So almost 30 years later, I rent it on DVD.And I must ask, how did this garbage ever get to DVD? Especially with all the great stuff not in DVD yet. WOW, is this film BAD. Not even good 70's badness. It's just BAD.The bus is packed with tons of 70's Z-list faces including some that you'll remember but don't care a hoot about. The story is garbage - the direction and acting worse. Stockard Channing looks OK.The non-existent plot is really just an excuse to film the huge bus cruising down the street. There's even an excuse for the bus to cruise through foam, which doesn't look nearly as cool as you'd think it would.But really, the Big Bus itelf is the star of the show, and it does command your attention whenever it is on screen. It's a great-looking vehicle, and it's actually real, not computer-generated crap! So every so often during the insipid plot, the film will show a scene of the bus cruising along the highway, and those actual shots are pretty good.SPOILER! The thing I remember most as a kid about The Big Bus is the big scene where the bus tilts over a cliff. This in itself is an amazing piece of film work - the bus is actually dangling, with nary anything in sight that is hlding it there (of course it's there, just hidden off-camera very well). Then the stars go from the hanging bus into the back of the pickup truck sticking out of the side of the bus, and it's for real! NO COMPUTER GENERATED GARBAGE!! Even in such a crappy movie, there are redeeming features simply for the fact that elbow grease made the film.Even better - how does the bus, that weighs many, many tons - level out to back off the edge of the cliff? By releasing some luggage! I remember the whole bus off the cliff thing from an old episode of Night Gallery I believe, but it is done very well here.The film would have been much more fun with a better plot, as if crooks stole the bus and it got involved in some chases, so we can see the bus smash through stuff, including roadblocks. Maybe in the invitable remake, we'll see a computer-generated Big Bus smash through everything CGI. *YAWN*.Listen. This movie sucks. But if you like watching interesting vehicles, are a bus fan (there are many), and like viewing some great camera shots of that big 'ol bus off that cliff, definitely rent this and FF to the bus scenes.Again - how did this slop beat so many movies to DVD? Did this actually sell ten copies on DVD? "},{"Title":"Contrary to this other guy's review...","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action","Review":" This just might be one of the worst movies made. A million movies, particularly in the 70s, predating the Zucker brothers (airplane etc), used this kind of humor. The Zucker brothers were the first to do it well. Prior to them, it's garbage and horribly, horribly unfunny.Not even campy enough to be a cult classic. You will just groan and wonder when it's over.(and IMDb will not accept this review unless I make it longer, as if there was anything more to say about the film. It's just bad, okay? Like really really really bad. I feel like I'm writing an essay for school that has to be 500 words. I only stopped on this big bus page because I was showing my friend here that this movie I was describing does actually exist. hard as it is to believe they made a movie this stupid, they really did. The 70s had a lot of really bad comedies like this, that weren't even very funny then, and when you add how dated it is now, it's just horribly tedious. I read this other guy's review about how amazingly funny this movie is, Airplane-quality and all that, and found his review funnier than anything in The Big Bus. decided to write a brief review as a warning that if you're looking for a campy 70s comedy, there are films in this line of sludge that are better, such as Car Wash. Some films aren't even amusing in a camp sense when they've lost all the rest of their appeal... this is one of them. Okay IMDb, care to take this review yet?) "}]