[{"Title":"A prime example of the way highly styled entertainment should be&#133;","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"50 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Schlesinger made a great action-suspense film and married it to the artistry of unique talents&#133; Hoffman was, by then, a dynamic, young and incredibly versatile film actor with three Academy Award nominations already under his belt for The Graduate, Midnight Cowboy, and Lenny. But the key to Marathon Man was the chemistry between its stars&#133; Perhaps one of the most gut-wrenching and most memorable scenes in the film comes when Hoffman is captured and tortured by Olivier who plays the role of a mean and vicious and sadistic Nazi war criminal, Christian Szell&#133; Olivier's performance resulted in a 1976 Academy Award nomination as Best Supporting Actor&#133; In 1945, Szell ran the experimental camp at Auschwitz where they called him the White Angel&#133; He was a dentist and could provide escape for any Jew who was willing to pay the price&#133; He started out with gold, naturally, but very quickly worked his way up to diamonds&#133; As Szell saw the end early, he sneaked his brother into America with the diamonds&#133; And they were right here, in New York, in a safe deposit-box until Szell's brother got killed in a head-on collision with an oil truck&#133; Uniquely built, and with a marvelous, rugged face, Roy Scheider, well known for his strong performances in The French Connection, Klute, and Jaws, came on board as Hoffman's mysterious businessman brother, getting the rare chance to play a character that's both hero and villain&#133; Doc is a fascinating guy because he chooses to work out his problems in a much different way than Dustin's character does&#133; He was very touched and very moved by his father's death, but he abandoned all his hopes for whatever he intended to do and he became a spy, a killer, a very jaded personality&#133; In doing something truly suspenseful, Schlesinger accomplished a film that's largely about fear and it's about pain and the infliction of pain because of fear&#133; The thrilling sensation of great expectations came on the 47th Street in the diamond district in New York, where Schlesinger gets the best of it&#133; "},{"Title":"One of the best thrillers ever made","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"75 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Marathon Man starts off rather slowly, and for the first hour at least, it feels as if you're watching a human drama rather than a thriller. However, unlike a lot of thrillers; Marathon Man uses this time to create characters and establish the situation, which ultimately pays off later on in the film when the movie really gets going. When the film does step on the gas, it is as thrilling as any thriller you will ever see; Dustin Hoffman is subjected to all sorts of things, most notably an excruciating torture sequence. This scene is powerful and painful on it's own, but it is made more so by the fact that we have already gotten to know the character and therefore we feel sympathy for him, as well as cringing at the images we see on screen. That scene alone is enough to propel the movie in the realms of greatness, as it is simply one of the most powerful that cinema has ever given us; but this movie is a hell of a lot more than just a torture sequence.The plot revolves around a car crash that takes place in downtown New York. One of the men in this crash is the brother of the infamous Nazi war criminal, Szell, who has some diamonds hidden in a safety deposit box. From then on, many members of a US defence organisation, known as The Division, begin turning up dead and soon after, Thomas Levy, a college student, obsessive runner and the brother of one of The Division's members, becomes embroiled in the plot. It is easy to see the parallels between the plot movie and World War 2, from the withered ex-Nazi (indicative of the state of the actual regime), to his enemies being American; the movie has world war 2 written all over it. The film is excellently directed throughout by John Schlesinger. Schlesinger, probably best known for Midnight Cowboy does a fantastic job of keeping the audience on the edge of their seat for the duration of the movie. A constant foreboding feel is created, and you're never truly sure of what will happen. This is exactly what you want in a thriller, as nobody likes it when they can predict what will happen next.Dustin Hoffman takes the lead role of Thomas Levy. Dustin Hoffman is a fantastic actor, and he certainly gets to flex his acting muscles here, in a film which sees him go through all manner of unpleasant scenes and also hold up lots of relationships with various characters, as well as drawing sympathy from the audience to accent his situation. Roy Scheider (of Jaws fame) stars opposite Dustin Hoffman in the movie. Scheider doesn't get a great deal of screentime in the film, but he still manages to do good things with the time he does have. The third lead role, that of the Nazi war criminal, is taken by Lawrence Olivier, who is also a fantastic actor and gives a great performance in this film. He gives his character just the right atmosphere, and we can tell just by looking at the man that he is cold and uncaring, and also past it; which is the crux of his character.The film ends with a spectacular sequence, which sees the movie and the two centrals characters come to a satisfying conclusion. The characters are the central theme in this movie, and had the movie have ended differently it could have unravelled everything that it had created, but the movie's end is absolutely perfect and does the entire movie justice. A brilliant piece of cinema. "},{"Title":"Yeeks!","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"57 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Quite apart from the infamous torture scene, which I found extremely difficult to watch without howling in horror (actually that's a lie, I DID howl) this film is FULL of nervous tension that occasionally boils over - the way it's been done is masterful. The bouncing-ball scene in the darkened building should be utterly prosaic, but it really isn't - the way it's choreographed and shot brings such an air of menace and trepidation you'll be biting your nails off. There's much of a similar vein in 'Marathon Man', and although the storyline is sometimes almost buried through the relentless suffocating tension, it's extremely watchable (with a cushion to hide behind at certain points) and one of the greatest non-Hitchcock thrillers I've ever seen. Don't hesitate! "},{"Title":"Please Pass The Novocaine","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"64 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have always found this to be a very entertaining, involving, taut suspense movie with some very dramatic scenes. I've seen in three times and liked it better each time, particularly since it's been available on DVD which enhanced the sound from mono to stereo, and the 1.851 widescreen enhancing the cinematography. I didn't find the infamous (this was quite a buzz when the film came out) dentist scene to be as terrifying as it was made up to be and the references to the McCarthy hearings are a bit annoying and typical of Hollywood director John Scheslinger. It's also a typical modern-day film in which the U.S government's police agencies are corrupt (oh, puhleeze, filmmakers - think of something new).However, despite those negatives, the film is fascinating with no dry spots despite its two-hour length. There is a nice variety of action scenes and very interesting characters. Marthe Keller never looked better. Too bad she didn't make more movies in the U.S. Dustin Hoffman, as he did so well in the '70s, keeps your attention and Laurence Olivier is absolutely riveting. This is a terrific thriller, start to finish. "},{"Title":"Best thriller ever?","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"44 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Suspense filled, is the only adequate description I can think of. The direction is bleak and taut, the movie's music theme is like a growing menace and the acting of the leads is peerless. The film's most famous scene, the dentist chair interrogation has become part of pop culture, and deservedly so. This, along with many other scenes, including the enemies breaking into the bathroom, are a masterful example of how to create almost unbearable tension on film.  "},{"Title":"Overrated And Unbelievable","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadThe movie has great acting in it. A great set of lead actors; Scheider, Olivier and Hoffman. You would think it couldn't miss; the TV stations played it to death when I was growing up. As you age, the film shrinks in stature. It starts very slowly with the whole Babe's father being a victim of the Red Scare of the 50s which was much more contemporaneous in the 70s than today. It dates the film and makes it quite slow to modern audiences. The movie has plot holes you could drive a truck through. Doc, as professional as he is depicted, allowing Szell that close to him, come on? Then, after being gutted like a fish, he hikes miles to Babe's apartment, another, give me a break, I do not think so. The touted dental torture scene is quite silly; please, dentists can inflict such a small amount of pain compared to a doctor, it comes across as ham bone and overdone. Olivier does well at the kindly chatter as he prepares to torture Babe, the part is well done, but the actual amount of pain is silly and over the top. I know people that have root canals done without any pain medicine. The escape of Babe with the long chase is so silly and ridiculous. Nobody owns a car? Nobody can get ahead of him on an overpass and shoot him when he gets there? It is a requisite to fulfill the title but please, re-title your movie if the cost of this title is a stupid, phony chase that never would have happened. Yes, Devane would have pursued him on foot for miles. Then Schlesinger weakens the Babe character by having a local gang of toughs humiliate him; later, Babe takes out several guys in the abandoned house like he is Dirty Harry. See what I mean? Really bad writing overcomes even great acting and makes the movie completely ridiculous. Marthe Keller stinks up this movie like she did Black Sunday. She was cast for her ease in doffing her duds but sorry, first she cannot act, second her accent is so thick nobody can tell what she is saying. When I saw this movie, people were laughing at her, the accent makes her sound like Donald Duck. Daniel comes out dwanol What? She wrecks every scene she is in, she in unintelligible most of the time. The director has gone to such pains to delineate Babe as an intellectual devoid of any physical or emotional strength that the ending with Szell is silly. Like Szell would do anything Babe told him to. He would have taken that gun away from him in two seconds. Do we remember who Szell is and what he has seen and done? This is the Achilles heel of the film; the complete phoniness of the narrative. Characters make huge lapses like Doc getting that close to Szell or Babe turning into Dirty Harry at the house. Great acting can overcome a lot of flaws but this is beyond the realm of suspension of disbelief. The movie has not aged well. It was held up in the 80s as a great masterpiece of suspense. I can barely give it a six. It is severely overrated with mush mouth Keller wrecking her scenes. "},{"Title":"Schlock Flick Masquerading as a Prestige Picture","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"31 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The high ratings for Marathon Man are no doubt focused on the substantial talent assembled to pull it off, and they succeed as long as one dispenses with every expectation of logic or common sense. Schlesinger builds substantial suspense, and there are plenty of satisfying scenes, but the plotting and story points are ridiculous beyond measure. This might not be a problem if it were any other type of picture, but the progressive unfolding of an initial puzzle to a somewhat sensible (or at least rational) set of revelations is one of the hallmarks of the government intelligence thriller. The story here, however, is so thin that virtually nothing happens for the entire first half of the picture, and the second half is really nothing more than one long chase sequence. The biggest problem is that the central objective of the action is precipitated by a murder that, if contemplated for more than about twenty seconds, reveals itself to make absolutely no sense whatsoever. And the illogical story points are not just structural. There are numerous details throughout that are obviously (and, to my mind, condescendingly) designed as mere conveniences for the the action, regardless of how inane or inexplicable they may be. The veneer of star power and sophisticated production values did not--for this viewer, at any rate--successfully obfuscate the movie's considerable flaws. "},{"Title":"A Triumph of Atmosphere and Suspense","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"23 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I first saw MARATHON MAN in its initial theatrical release when I was 13 years old, and the years haven't diminished its power for me. Sure, the plot gets a little more convoluted than it absolutely has to be, but in a way it's because William Goldman's screen adaptation of his brilliant novel takes into account the all-too-human character flaws of his heroes and villains, and the mistakes people make when they're fearful and paranoid. While the performances are uniformly fine (with Roy Scheider deserving a place in The Suave Hall of Fame for his portrayal of Doc Levy, a.k.a. government agent Scylla. If he hadn't been so charismatic and engaging, his murder in mid-film wouldn't have such impact, and the movie would suffer for it), I think the special secret ingredient that gives MARATHON MAN its punch is the atmosphere. The naturalistic, sometimes washed-out color palette almost lends the film a black-and-white film noir look. Almost every person in the film is angry, cynical, emotionally wounded, and/or generally negative in some way. And what really struck me was that on screen, it seems like chaos and disaster are exploding all over the world. Look at the riots and bombings taking place in France in early scenes with Doc and Janeway (nicely subtle homosexual subtext there, by the way). Also, if you listen carefully to newscasts in the background, you'll notice there's nothing but bad news murders, suicides, all kinds of violence all over (including the chicken game between the old Jew and Szell's brother as the film begins). MARATHON MAN isn't a happy film -- even when our hero wins, he's already lost so much his victory seems hollow indeed -- but it never fails to grab and haunt me each time I watch it. If you love the film, you'll want to own the DVD not only for the superb letterboxed print, but also for the terrific extras, including both new and vintage making-of documentaries with Hoffman, Scheider, Keller, Goldman, producer Robert Evans and other major MM players, as well as rare rehearsal footage and the original theatrical trailer. "},{"Title":"Solid (and Depressing) Thriller","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"22 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" 1970s movies are so cynical, aren't they? Dark, depressing, and often grainy-looking and washed out. Marathon Man fits that description. It's good, of course - very good - but it's not exactly a good time. Know what I mean?William Goldman, one of Hollywood's few celebrity screenwriters, wrote both the original novel and the script for this film version. I find him a bit overrated, but here he does a good job of elevating hack-level thriller material into a sort of art form. The beginning of the film is particularly well-written and intriguing, since it's full of creepy and cryptic events that are not immediately explained. But, alas, I find the ultimate explanation of these events to be rather prosaic and disappointing.So, I think the movie's strengths lie in the acting and directing, more so than the story. Olivier and Scheider give particularly great performances, and Marthe Keller comes across as appropriately sweet and sexy (her big secret, though, should be really easy for anyone to guess!) I'm a little less enamored of Dustin Hoffman, whose character is inexplicably nicknamed Babe. He's just way too old to be a typical graduate student (almost forty years old, to be precise), and he simply doesn't have much charisma to me. Usually I like normal-looking, non-glamorous actors, but somehow Hoffman doesn't float my boat.Still, it's hard not to sympathize with the poor guy while he's being pursued, beaten, tortured etc. The dental horror scene is still quite effective, though it's rather short; I was more impressed by the subsequent chase through the dark streets of NYC. (The city, by the way, looks like a hellish, crime-infested, debris-strewn pit in this movie - like it does in most 1970s productions!)In the end, Marathon Man isn't quite another French Connection, but it's got more than enough suspense to crush a lot of the dross that infests theaters today. It's worth watching just for the terrifying scene when the bad guys start tearing Hoffman's door off its hinges - it's good stuff. "},{"Title":"Plot holes","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" There are so many things to like about this movie, but what has always bothered me is the Szell character linked up with the Division, not to mention Karl and Erhard. Why doesn't Szell just go to the bank with his loyal subjects, get the diamonds and split? Why doesn't Janeway just off Szell, Karl and Erhard and get all the diamonds for himself (providing he gets the key, of course)? Or why don't Scylla and Janeway team up. Obviously the Division isn't all that if an old Nazi dentist and his henchmen can get rid of its prime operative. Roy Scheider's Scylla/Doc is, hands down, the best character in this story. He's supposedly a super-spy type, yet he transports the diamonds from New York to Paris for Szell. I have trouble accepting the premise and, therefore, the bit. Definitely worth watching, but certainly no Boys from Brazil (which has its own issues, mind you). "}{"Title":"No, you can keep them. You can keep as many as you can swallow.  - Babe (Dustin Hoffman)","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"23 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Schlesinger's 1976 classic about a graduate student in New York City who becomes the center of a mean old ex-Nazi war criminal dentist and the government's objective to throw him over. Dustin Hoffman provides us with an excellent performance as the 'Marathon Man'. He was almost forty when he played the role and with his acting skills he makes us believe he is actually a graduate student. Roy Scheider is perfect as Hoffman's crafty and slick older brother who works for the C.I.A. Scheider really does a lot with his role making him perhaps even the coolest character in the movie. Veteran Shakespearan actor Laurence Olivier gives an incredible performance as the evil ex-Nazi that rightfully earned him a Academy Award Nomination for Best Supporting Actor. John Schlesinger provides incendiary direction, and the screenplay is consistently engrossing and full of twists. If you are looking for one hell of a suspense flick with a lot of action you should definitely check out 'Marathon Man' at your local videostore. 'Marathon Man' should have earned Oscar nominations for -- Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor in a Leading Role - Dustin Hoffman, Best Actor in a Supporting Role - Laurence Olivier, Best Actor in a Supporting Role - Roy Scheider, Best Original Screenplay, Best Cinematography and Best Film Editing. Watch out for the creepy 'dentist' scene. Grade B+ "},{"Title":"The Emperor has no clothes.","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"60 out of 114 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, I like Dustin Hoffman.  I like Roy Scheider, and Lawrence Olivier was a great actor.  Fine.  The dentist scene is visceral and creepy and quite memorable.  Fine.  People I respect have said many positive things about William Goldman.  OK.Having said that, this movie rates HIGH on the Unintentional Comedy Scale. The plot is unthinkably, profoundly inane and laughable and nonsensical. I.N.A.N.E.  Let me get this right, and I am quoting other commenters here, `a Columbia graduate student (Hoffman) unwittingly thrust into a game of deadly international intrigue when his brother (Scheider) is killed by a Nazi fugitive (Olivier) looking to smuggle a stash of diamonds he had left over from World War II after escaping justice' (virek213) and `Dustin Hoffman plays a marathon runner whose CIA brother is killed by an evil former nazi played by Laurence Olivier.' (Adam Morrison).  You're kidding, right?  Take out the words `Olivier' and `Hoffman' and we have the makings of a plot that doesn't even pass the laugh test.Ask yourself, why is Hoffman's character involved?  Because, ala Dr. Evil, Olivier stabs Scheider BUT DOESN'T KILL HIM.  He just leaves.  I mean, just slit the guy's throat.  Come on.  Even Scott Evil knows this.  Just get a gun and shoot the dude.  Oh, wait, I forgot, we have to leave him there, NOT QUITE DEAD, so that we can spend an enormous amount of complicated energy panicking about whether the guy we easily could have killed happened to say anything to anyone before he died.  Brilliant.  I mean, did any of you people think of this when you wrote your reviews?  I am not making this up - there are POSITIVE reviews for this farce here.Think this one through.  I am an evil Nazi dentist.  I decide to send a woman, a spy, to America, to seduce the brother of an American spy that I work with, so that I can. oh Jesus, I don't know. maybe if later and we're in a fantastical scenario where I need to kill the brother/find the brother, then she can - surprise - turn on him, since she will be the person he relies on, HE WILL BE COMPLETELY FOILED, and I will have succeeded!  As part of this clever strategy, I send my goons (one of whom comically limps - where was the `BWAHAHAHAHA!'?, one of whom is Al Neri, on loan from Michael Corleone) to beat them up!  Why?  Who knows?  Best not to ask!I keep my diamonds in a bank in New York City.  As the William Devane character says, `and now he's Olivier going to expose himself to incredible risk!' to come get the diamonds.  Smart.  Good plan.  NYC. Good place to keep all my valuables, so if I ever need 'em, it will be INCREDIBLY RISKY to get 'em.  But only risky because my brother, who had the key all along and could have just walked in there and gotten the diamonds at any time, ever, has just died because he could not overcome his evil irresistible impulse and ran into (I am not making this up) a gas truck, which exploded.As for the scene at the house. I am just at a loss.  I don't even know where to start.  There are 5 people at the house, and 0 out of 5 of them behave with any logic.  If you think from each of their standpoints what they are doing, and really try to puzzle it out, it's just nonsensical.  I think the writers just decided, OK, everybody needs to be dead at the end of this scene, except for Hoffman.  Then they tried to work backward and figure out how this whole shootout would actually play out, logically.  Then they said, screw it, and went to lunch.It's important, when you want to keep a low profile in an area where you could be recognized, and also you're an evil Nazi with a past, to bark at Jewish people in a screamy sort of ordering tone, so that you keep yourself disguised and don't jog any memories.  And how many seconds before the woman who recognizes the Nazi gets run over by the car was it obvious that this clichéd movie convention was about to happen?  For me, it was only about 8 seconds.The closing scene is just laugh out loud funny.  I mean, could it have been more awkward?  Did that all take place so that our hero is not gunning someone down and is therefore morally able to claim the high ground?  Nazi has to die, but hero can't just kill him.  Isn't self-defense a little more standard of a movie convention that they could have gone with?  He just trips on the steps and falls?  Please.  How lame is that?  As lame as this whole moronic movie.  "},{"Title":"Not Very Good at All","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I've seen this at least four times over a ten year span, and I have yet to see anything good in it other than the famous dental torture scene. There's some violence in it that was probably shocking at the time (I found out about it from a book called Ultra Violent Movies) and it surely gets some Ooohs and Ahhhs from the Holocaust crowd, but as a thriller I rate it very low. It's ugly, unconvincing, and I found the characters flat and undeveloped (except for Hoffman, who I find dull and sometimes annoying in this picture). Olivier elevates the movie a bit with a chilling performance, but the rest have little to work with. It's a B-movie with A actors. "},{"Title":"Ghosts of the Holocaust on New York City streets...","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Dustin Hoffman looks in great shape playing a Columbia graduate student, still haunted by his father's suicide (and perhaps in training for the New York marathon), who gets mixed up by proxy in his nefarious older brother's activities; seems his sibling has been working secretly as a courier in stolen gems, and has run afoul of Szell, a.k.a. The White Angel, the most notorious Nazi war-criminal still alive. Director John Schlesinger exercises a gleefully nasty side here, staging some dental torture scenes that are just about impossible to watch, yet not all of the pieces in William Goldman's adaptation of his own bestseller fit accordingly; Schlesinger just presses ahead so that the story gaps won't be so noticeable. There's much zig-zagging across the continents at the beginning, with red herrings, street bombs, and character intricacies just swept under the carpet. We learn so little about Hoffman's brother (played by an equally fit Roy Scheider) that, by the film's climax, we still don't know whose side he was he on--or why his cohorts lost trust in him. Marthe Keller's German mystery beauty is another character muddle, a pretense of writer Goldman who was really out to stack this deck against Hoffman's runner. Laurence Olivier's knife-wielding Nazi beast is perplexing as well, alternating a steely coldness with an aged confusion (why, for instance, is he staking out jewelry stores just for today's market values--isn't the diamond trade this man's forte?). The film could have eased up a bit on the torture scenes (which aren't really suspenseful as much as they excruciating) and been a bit more clear-headed about the chess game taking place. It leaves a bushel of questions behind, though it is a handsome piece of work, well-cast and with an intrinsically satisfying finale. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Safe to say, this is one of the best thrillers of all time...","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"31 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Have you ever gone to a dentist before? Of course you have. (Unless you're British!) And that's why the torture scene in Marathon Man is arguably the most famous of all mainstream torture scenes. Even the infamous ear segment in Reservoir Dogs fails to relate to people around the world the same way as this does. Not everyone has had his or her ear chopped off.Anyone who has gone to a dentist before can relate to the fear and excruciating pain that Babe (Dustin Hoffman) experiences when he is asked, Is it safe? and has no idea what his interrogator is talking about, then finds himself being given a root canal without any Novocain.The interrogator is Szell (Laurence Olivier), a dreaded German murderer who carried out awful deeds during World War II and offered Jews a free ticket out--for a hefty price.Szell's question (Is it safe?) exists because he needs to know whether or not it is safe to withdraw diamonds he stole from Jews during World War II from a safety deposit box. As the film opens, Szell's brother dies in a car crash, which sets up this entire aspect of the plot, since his brother had the key to the vault.Babe's brother, Doc (Roy Scheider, JAWS), comes to visit him in New York City, but turns up at his apartment with stab wounds. Babe soon finds out that Doc was part of a secret Division (CIA black-ops stuff) that was on Svell's trail. Believing that Doc may have spilled the beans to Babe, Svell kidnaps the college graduate and this is where the famous torture scene starts. Is it safe? Is it safe? Is...it...safe...?I don't know what you're talking about!Marathon Man is often considered a classic of the thriller genre, and it certainly is. It has its flaws, and sometimes it seems a bit average from a technical viewpoint, but it set the stage for many gritty, coarse thrillers that would follow in later years. It is still arguably one of the greatest of them all.The title comes from the fact that Hoffman's character, Babe, is a marathon jogger. He runs every single day, and so when he finally manages to escape from Szell's grasp, you can imagine what a hard time they have chasing after him. In retrospect, the title takes on two different (and ironic) indications.The well-known story about Olivier's advice to Hoffman on the set of the film has been referenced many times (even by Steve Martin in Saturday Night Live), so it almost seems pointless to divulge into it. Basically, in the words of Steve Martin, Hoffman came to the set one day looking absolutely wretched, and Sir Larry said, 'Dusty, you look absolutely wretched!', and it turns out that he had been awake for twenty-four hours, because at this point in the movie, his character had been, so Larry replied, 'Oh, Dusty, why don't you just try acting?', and the American retorted, 'Act on this, you British fag,' and Larry replied, 'I asked for a meal, not a snack!'So perhaps Steve Martin made up the end of that story, but the beginning is true. Dustin was a true method actor, and by the end of the film, it's clearly evident that Dustin is indeed quite tired, both mentally and physically. I doubt whether acting could unleash the same sort of deadness that shines through in Babe had Hoffman simply tried acting.Another arguable fact is that this is Laurence Olivier's most famous role. It's certainly his most villainous. It's a career highlight; in a role that many critics called Olivier's finest hour, and I think should certainly be remembered as his most devilish. Is it safe? Is it safe? Every time it's spoken it sends a shiver down my spine.Two very important films of Dustin Hoffman's career came out in 1976 All the President's Men and, of course, Marathon Man. They are both universally regarded as some of his best work, and it's not a surprising fact, really, since it's true that they really *are* some of his best work. (Quite incidentally, the renowned William Goldman wrote both screenplays, and the latter of the two titles was based on his own novel.)Thrillers of such striking power and ferocity are rarely made nowadays in Hollywood. Marathon Man is cold, hard, gritty and dirty, and one of the best of the genre. It's a modern-day masterpiece, perhaps barely short of greatness, but a masterpiece nonetheless. You may never want to go to the dentist again.It's safe to say that Marathon Man is a terrific movie.4.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Nerve-wracking thriller with plenty of holes","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Marathon Man(1976**1/2). I have now seen this for the 4th or 5th time (that dental torture scene doesn't become any easier to sit through on repeat viewings).  I've always been fascinated by the tantalizing elusiveness of the plot, and by Schlesinger's ambiguous red herrings which keep the viewer on edge throughout.  Some of the latter include Roy Scheider's strange conversation in his hotel room with someone named Janie.  (We assume it's a woman he's talking to until later when it turns out to be William Devane's Janeway character.)  Or the bomb blast in the baby carriage, or the volley ball which bounces into a scene at a particularly ominous moment.  Olivier probably takes the top acting honors (he's brilliant in the scene in which Szell has to eat one of his diamonds), but Hoffman certainly works himself up into effective emotional lathers throughout.  Cinematographer Conrad Hall's use of the Manhattan locations is highly atmospheric.  But I'm no closer to understanding such strange occurrences as the mugging in the park, Janeway's motivation for becoming one of Szell's minions, or why all the couriers have to be killed after the death of Szell's brother.  Also, it seems unbelievable that the Division would go to so much trouble to protect and enrich a fiend like Szell in exchange for a few scraps of information on former Nazis who are surely much less evil than he is.  If this outlaw agency is not the FBI or the CIA, what is it and who funds it?  Szell perhaps? "},{"Title":"A movie about brotherly love and senility","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is the most uneven movie I know. A sprawling, utterly unconvincing storyline is counterbalanced by a terrific cast, good fotography and various really unforgettable scenes. The cast contains an already fairly aged student who is a compulsive jogger and the son of a history professor who committed suicide during the Anti Communist witch hunt in the USA. Then there is the student's older brother, a tough business man somebody wants to kill for some reason (and finally does). Added to this are a fairly aged German woman who is also a student and with whom the younger brother falls in love, some crooks and/or government agents and a big time Nazi criminal who after having spent decades in hiding in the jungle comes to New York to claim his fortune. All these characters and various past political events are thrown into one big tumbler and mixed into a strange brew. It rather confuses than helps if you have some knowledge about the afore mentioned historical events.Marathon Man is a film completely dominated by men - the only woman, the German student, is not given the chance to make any impression (they could have used a prop contraption for that role). One of the main themes is the relationship between the two very different brothers, played by Dustin Hoffman and Roy Scheider. In that relationship it had enough stuff to make a movie on it alone. In my opinion Scheider was in this movie even better than Hoffman he portrays an immensely lonely man who tries to hide his insecurities behind the hard shell of the tough guy. I can't help thinking that this character (and this actor) should have played the leading part in the movie. An immense sadness seems to engulf him, and his stumbling mortally wounded into his brother's apartment, still within his hard shell but with an expression of utter despair on his face is one of the strongest images of the movie.MINOR SPOILERS AHEADWatch for the best scene between the brothers The older invites the younger and his girlfriend to dinner in a posh restaurant. He slyly checks out the girlfriend and reveals she is a fraud and does not tell the truth about her background. At first you think it has something to do with his just being a suspicious guy because of his job, but then he talks in all earnestness about foreign girls snatching away innocent American boys for selfish motives and you get it he is simply jealous of the girl! He fears she is taking his brother away from him. I detected in this scene a strong and unpleasant homosexual undercurrent.Another important factor in this film seems to be the effects of old age on certain human characters. Right at the beginning there is a duel between two stubborn old guys who hasten the finish of THEIR marathon (they draw even). The activities of the Nazi criminal, masterfully, gleefully played by Lord Laurence Olivier, seem mainly to be motivated by manias and obsessions that are - I tell you from experience - typical for the elderly. As other comments have observed, it does often not make sense what the man does, but considering the circumstances it's perfectly understandable and credible. Yes, you think, this is a way an old Nazi criminal would act when he senses he is going gaga and over the edge. Like other old people he clings fearfully to every thing he owns and does not trust anybody. The very good final scene in the reservoir sums that up very nicely. "},{"Title":"Needlessly ambiguous thriller; but it holds your attention","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Roger Ebert complained of plot holes in his review of this thriller, but I wasn't aware of any holes the movie is so vague about its plot that it's impossible to tell whether it's making a mistake, avoiding an outright mistake by being equivocal, or if we the viewers are just being inattentive.Dustin Hoffman plays a graduate student haunted by the suicide of his father, who was falsely accused of something or other. His brother (Roy Scheider) is part of some shadowy government agency he's a spy of some kind and lots of people want to kill him, but I have no idea why. Laurence Olivier plays a Nazi war criminal, who in a famous scene, tortures Hoffman with a dental drill. I have a pretty good idea why he does this, but then again, who knows? Maybe I'll have to read the William Goldman book this film is based on, and report back to you.This is a hard film to review because you can't admire it exactly you're too busy trying to figure out what's going on. I expected to be satisfied at the end, but either I wasn't paying attention or the film is too clever to let us in on its secrets. I didn't notice the photography, editing, music and so forth&#x97;which is good, I guess. That means I was involved in the story. I did notice that Hoffman and Olivier are excellent; but the outstanding performance is not the leading man's or the legendary actor's, but Roy Scheider's. His character dearly loves his brother; has turned cynical after his father's death; and is preternaturally composed in dangerous situations. We almost wish the movie were about him.I'm sounding contemptuous. But the movie held my attention until the end (when it let me down), was reasonably exciting and had many memorable scenes. I liked how the movie bothers to make plausible Hoffman's near-incredible escape on the freeway by firmly establishing that he's capable of doing it the very title makes it clear. Compare this to the hyperbolic action scenes in countless other thrillers, like Die Hard. Okay, the film is needlessly ambiguous. But I've seen so many stupid, implausible, uninvolving thrillers that I'd feel churlish giving this one a bad review. So here's a good one. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm sure film students will take me to task but I was amazed by this film. It wasn't so much boring as annoying from the acting to the the music. The movie rambled on and on toward a predictable ending.Supposedly the story took place in New York City but it was different from the city in which I live. In the New York City of Marathon Man there are three cars on the FDR Drive at night. In that NYC there is no one on the sidewalks at night. I originally thought the movie was made in 1970 and thus it may have been ahead of it's time. Instead I learned that it was made in 1976 and thus it wasn't as groundbreaking as I had hoped. "},{"Title":"not everything from the 70`s is good","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe this movie was 20 years ago, a good one. But from our present viewpoint it is awful. Very good actors with a story that is anything but not logical. An old Nazi hiding in South America, made a fortune on the golden teeth of jews in a KZ (besides all the tragedy, this is actually comical, because you can see how much the people in the 70´s knew about the holocaust. A fleeing dentist, that´s it?????) This man invested his money in diamonds, that he cannot sell without problems, because the jews control the business. And the whole movie is about the paranoia of this Nazi. Of course with some more sidestories that are also unnecessary, like the father, that shot himself, because he couldn`t stand the McCarthy commission. The same story made today would be a flop, so why the people are giving good notes.........?? A 4, not more!!!! "}{"Title":"A very confusing and disjointed movie.","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"20 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The movie Marathon Man starts out with a car accident where Christian Szell's, Laurence Olivier, brother Klaus, Ben Dova, is killed. The word comes back to Szell in Paraguay, or is it Brazil, that Szell's fortune in diamonds is in danger, why? For some reason Szell and his henchmen take off for NYC after being for some 30 years in hiding from the international courts for war crimes. Why does Szell blow his cover and expose himself to jail or worse? We really don't seem to know. All I could gather from the plot is that Szell wanted to know, as he kept saying over and over in the movie, Is it safe? Safe from what? There are diamonds in a safe-deposit box in a curtain midtown bank and Szell had the key to it so what was he so worried about since his brother Klaus had no trouble at all going in and out of the bank with the diamonds, as we've seen in the beginning of the movie which Klaus must have been doing for years. Szell walking all over the streets of NYC without a care in the world why would't he be safe when he goes in and out in just this one bank with his henchmen, one who has a limp, there protecting him? Klaus when he was alive also could have sent them, the diamonds, registered mail back to Szell in South America if he was so worried about them being lost or stolen. Why now was Szell who seemed to have no fear or trouble at all in murdering a number of people, one on a crowed midtown street in broad daylight, so paranoid about? It turns out that Szell is somehow connected with this super-secretive US government agency who's protecting him from the law for services rendered. So why can't they take care of Szell's problems, whatever they are! They've been doing it since the end of WWII and it seems that the diamonds is what that agency is paying Szell for his services. Later in the movie Szell goes to, of all places, the midtown diamond district on West 47th St to see what diamonds are selling on the open market! Why on earth does Szell have to go to the diamond district in midtown Manhattan to get an evaluation of how much diamonds are worth? Wasn't Szell informed enough, being involved with diamonds for years, to know this for himself? and why does he go to the diamond district in midtown Manhattan to get an evaluation where it seems that everybody there is a survivor from the concentration camp that Szell brutally ran during WWII and where he'd be immediately recognized! On top of all that crazy Szell acts toward those people there as if he was still running a concentration camp and that they were still his prisoners? The movie is so confusing with a convoluted love story between Babe, Dustin Hoffman, and the mysterious Columbia Collage student Helga, Marthe Keller, added in that almost half way through the film. I think that the director, John Schlesinger, had to put in a scene in where William Devane who plays Jeneway, also a member of this super-secretive government agency, who like Simon Okland in the movie Psycho after he saved Babe from Szell's henchmen starts talking into the camera. Jeneway looks as if he were addressing the movie audience as he tells Babe everything about Szell and his brother Doc,Roy Scheider, who also works for the agency, who also works with Szell. There's also the diamonds that Szell has hidden in a bank safe deposit box in a mid-town Manhattan bank and the Nazis and the super-secretive agency and and blab blab blab in order so that those of us, still awake and watching, can get just some idea of what the heck is going on in the movie! Just who the hell is this guy Jenaway anyway and who's he working for in the first place? Szell? the CIA? the KBG? the Brooklyn Dodgers? Well anyway getting back to more important things in Marathon Man. One of my favorite and most exciting moments in the film is when Babe escapes from Szell clutches and tooth drilling equipment and is being chased all over NYC by Szell's boys. Beaten bloodied dirty after being brutally tortured and without having slept for what seemed like days and only dressed in pajama bottoms Babe flags down a cab by the Brooklyn Bridge getting away from Szell's gang. Babe then goes all the way uptown to his apartment in Washington Heights a good ten miles or so. You would think that the cabbie would know enough not to pick up someone looking like an escapee from a mental institution, for that's just what Babe looked like. Not only can he be dangerous but just looking at his style of dress it's obvious that he doesn't have any money to pay for the long and expensive taxi ride. Not only does the cabbie pick Babe up but instead of driving Babe to the nearest hospital or police station to get help, due to the condition that he's in, he drives all the way up-town with Babe half-naked and out cold in the back seat. The cab driver is then surprised when he reaches his destination that Babe doesn't have any cash to pay for the fare? It must have been the cab drivers first day on the job. Yet for some strange reason it turned out that the Szell gang who had Babe in their grip and were torturing him forgot to take an expensive watch that Babe was wearing! Babe pays the car fare by giving the cabbie the watch instead of cash, it turned out to be the cabbies lucky day. "},{"Title":"Good production got haunted with extraordinarily bad story!","Date":"27 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" There was serious problems with the screenplay although the chain of events made it tolerable to some degree. First we never properly got introduced to the hero of the movie, yes we knew it should have been Babe (Dustin Huffman) from the list of actors not from the movie. We do not know who Babe's brother and his colleague were really working for. After death of Babe's brother, Janeway made his way into his apartment like he was a man of authority or something. Later on we see he is one of the bad guys. Again we get doubts as he shoot them, and again he becomes a bad guy by trying to kill Babe. This sort of upside down in character is worthy of a 2 bit TV show where they have to do these things to make the show going. Another big hole in the plot was Elsa. The way Elsa and Babe met in library and Babe steal her book to get to her lately, that could not be a plot and even if it was, no one could predict the outcome. The way they met suggests that the writer (William Goldman) did not know the end of the story when he wrote the novel and play. Well, that's how most stories and novels are written but when you get to a point that you have to put a character in another use than that originally intended, you go back and cover the trace. So I would say William Goldman was either stupid or lazy. The way their relationship started could not end up with Elsa being Szell's agent, no way. She could be a Russian spy, serial killer, cannibal, she could be anything but she could not be Szell's agent. This type of goof one may see mostly on TV shows and soap operas where they start production without knowing the end so when they have to put a character in another use, there is no way for them to cover the incoherent tracks. Back to the story. It was 10 minutes past half of the movie when I asked myself Where is this story is going on? What should I expect from this movie? the hero has yet to be introduced as a hero and yet has a goal. Almost 70 minutes, some engaging scenes but no direction to the story and it was there where the movie entered into a really boring and pointless phase. They abducted Babe because they taught he knew? What? we never knew except that Szell was asking Is it safe? Apparently it was. He had the key, all he needed to do was to go to the bank and get the diamonds and that's what he did at the end of movie while nothing had been changed since last night that they killed Babbe's brother and abducted him, The whole abduction and interrogating was pointless and irrelevant, put there to introduce Babe as the hero of the movie with a goal to Stop Szell who we still didn't know what he was up to. Long story short, the story was so bad that I can not think of any fix. One had to write the story from the very beginning to make things right. On the other hand, the atmosphere of the movie was cool, specially the scene where Szell was trying to get the price of diamonds in Manhattan and got recognized by some Holocaust victims were brilliant but not enough to save the movie. I would say it is watchable, not quite waist of of time, the production was very good but everything got haunted with extraordinarily bad story. "},{"Title":"Unimpressive pseudo thriller","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" In addition to being so slow to shift gear, Marathon Man's plot is, right from the start, completely convoluted and the more the movie goes, the more this characteristic emphasizes, the more you figure out this story goes nowhere.The narration is divided into two story lines that are quite hard to connect, that fit together too badly to surprise and captivate the viewer.The gloomy atmosphere and the excellent opening running scene around Jackie Onassis reservoir are the only things that stand out in this unimpressive, long, boring pseudo thriller, which title, Marathon Man, is by the way in total contradiction with the actual story told. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable if not amazing spy thriller...","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Marathon Man (1976)A high stakes international cloak and dagger film along the lines of Three Days of the Condor released the year before. Here the ordinary citizen dragged into an unbelievable intrigue all around him is played by Dustin Hoffman, who also is training for a marathon. Hence the title.The plot has some twists we have come to almost expect in movies of this kind, to the point that we would miss them if they weren't here--the good guy who is actually a bad guy, the girl with loyalties unknown and suspicious (though the lead male doesn't suspect a thing at first), and like the Condor movie as well as the more recent Bourne movies, our hero is alone against all these odds. The problem, which is part of the joy of the film, is simply who do you trust?No one. The bad guy you might not realize at first is played by Laurence Olivier, in another of his rabbit out of a hat great performances. When Olivier and Hoffman finally cross paths, and wits, it's like the meeting of two eras of Hollywood. The setting for the final showdown is pretty amazing in its own right. The music is really atmospheric and a little different, and All this said, the movie actually doesn't quite carry its velocity beyond the likely. It's fun and engaging without being gripping or dazzling or moving. Why? I think it's partly the writing, which is routine (both the plot and the dialog), and the direction, which is, well, routine. John Schlesinger is a very good director, and he has one gem in his crown, for sure, Midnight Cowboy. But the effect here is closer to his later The Falcon and the Snowman, where some great performances seem to get lost a little, just through lack of focus and pacing. And writing. A better movie with more aura is Klute, shot in the same kinds of New York neighborhoods five years earlier. "},{"Title":"Well Done","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I must admit that, albeit my being impartial at all time, New York City in the 70's is my weak spot from a photography standpoint and that's the second main reason why I was very pleased by this motion picture.Dustin Hoffman is known by his fans as an excellent improviser on the movie set, a comment Schlesinger also made, and that makes him a standout compared to other big screen artists. That's what I loved the most about Marathon Man.Hoffman is in his 40's in this movie however his young features and demeanor fit perfectly within the Columbia University PhD student profile, especially the one of a young man coming from a family of historians (I guess it was inevitable to pair up such a character with the movie plot). It was amazing seeing how such a cruel and intricate part of last century's history creeps up on Hoffman's role through his brother's sinister ties with some government agency and a Nazi on the run from South America to New York in the attempt to recuperate a fortune in diamonds. Somewhat predictable was instead Lawrence Olivier's (Szell) true identity discovery by a jeweler on West 47th Street, being that you certainly won't find Italians or Spaniards in that specific area..Roy Scheider (The late Roy Scheider I have to say), as in many other roles he covered, was extremely thorough in his acting, with his very charming and stern looks as usual. He truly fit the international intrigue profile in his movie and I honestly have to say that no one else could have been a better choice for his part.Wiliam Devane and Marther Keller were the icing on this bitter-sweet cake (I'll leave it up to the connoisseurs to understand what I mean by bitter-sweet) which melts perfectly under an even more bitter-sweet sunset seen from the New York City reservoir fences. "},{"Title":"Very well made thriller, great acting.","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" For me, watching Marathon Man was a bit of an odd experience. I had already read the book before watching the movie (which is rare for me) and hence, even though I thought it was a very effectively made thriller, it didn't exactly have me on the edge of my seat. I felt like it was very good adaptation of the book (though I don't read many books) - after all, the screenplay was written by William Goldman, the author of the book - but as a thriller it didn't grab me. That's not to say it wasn't engaging or entertaining, just not, well, thrilling.Anyway, what I can say about the movie is that the performances are excellent, the storyline is involving, the direction is effective and the music does its job. Dustin Hoffman's character is easy to relate to and of course his performance is great as usual. Laurence Olivier's character appears to be concealing a much darker, even evil side which makes him all the ominous. Meanwhile Roy Scheider is very likable and cool as Doc and like Levy (Hoffman), we tend to look up to him, to aspire to his confidence. William Devane's insidious smile makes his part quite memorable as well.Ultimately, I think Marathon Man is primarily intended to entertain its audience and it certainly achieves that. It's over 2 hours long but it feels much shorter because of the often frantic pace; it's never boring. If I had one complaint, it would be that it didn't explore Hoffman's character a bit more deeply (in particular his guilt concerning his father's death), that it wasn't more emotionally powerful. Nevertheless, I didn't think the movie doesn't gave the impression of missing anything. Rather, it appeared to be working within a comfortable range, and as it is, it's great escapist entertainment. "},{"Title":"It  Wasn't  Safe !","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Marathon Man is an excellent thriller in a sort of Hitchcockian style about ordinary guys that by chance get involved in complex, dangerous and extreme circumstances that will turn them into non ordinary guys (Cary Grant in North by Northwst and James Stewart in The Man Who Knew Too Much being perfect examples).The ordinary guy here is Dustin Hoffman whose older brother (Roy Scheider) is mixed up with a fugitive Nazi war criminal (Lawrence Olivier) who is decided to recover a stolen fortune in diamonds. Director John Schlesinger does a fine job aided by a good script and sustains a good rhythm full with increasing tension and intrigue as the film runs. A couple of surprises involving the main characters are also a plus. The torture sequence at the dentist's chair is memorable in its simplicity and effectiveness.Dustin Hoffman is excellent as usual but also as usual the villain character is more interesting and if you have Lawrence Olivier playing it he'll steal the show. Olivier's performance is outstanding as the escaped Nazi obsessed with diamonds (the scene at the bank when he finally gets the stones is just perfect acting). There are also good works by Roy Scheider in a less demanding role, Marthe Keller as the girl who gets involved with Hoffman and William Devane.Don't miss this one if you enjoy thrillers; this is a real good one. "},{"Title":"Good Action/Thriller","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" There's nothing much original in the plot, and there isn't much in the way of character development, but this is a first-rate thriller with some excellent performances and fine direction.Schlesinger has put the film together in such a way that there isn't a dull moment. Even though some of the moments themselves might not make a heck of a lot of sense. Olivier's Szell has been living off his diamonds for years but has no idea what they are worth in today's market? But so what? The need to find that information takes Olivier to New York's diamond market where the stores and streets are full of Jews and two of them recognize Olivier for the monster he is. The scene involves an old lady being hit by a car, a throat slashing, and a hair-breadth escape by Olivier, not to mention a couple of amusing scenes in the shops themselves. The script has taken Olivier on an unnecessary and dangerous trip, and Schlesinger has made the absolute most out of the scene.This happens repeatedly. A bomb is hidden inside a doll. Just before it blows up and kills a number of people, the clock inside the doll stops its loud ticking and the doll slowly opens its eyes. Why? I mean, what has the time bomb got to do with the eyeballs? Again, no matter. The incident adds to the tension and that's its point.Then there is the famous torture scene, in which Dustin Hoffman is trapped in a chair and his teeth are finagled with by Olivier, who is playing a Nazi dentist. Hmm. That's quite a cavity you have there. You should take better care of your teeth. And the whining buzz of the unseen drill when Olivier tests it. Man, if you dislike visits to the dentist, you'll find this scene excruciating. Schlesinger even has one of the Nazi thugs turn away. The scene didn't bother me that much because I am never afraid of the dentist unless I am in his office but I can still sympathize.The directorial manipulation doesn't always work out the way we expect perhaps. Dustin Hoffman is shown running multiple times, with occasional quick inserts of Olympic runners like Jesse Owens. And when he takes off down deserted streets pursued on foot by a couple of shoe-clad heavies we half expect him to fly like Mercury, yet he's barely able to outlast William Devane.Dustin Hoffman's performance is more than just good. When he's experiencing fear or anguish he can really make us feel it. And Olivier is superb, with his shining pate and go-anywhere accent. He even gives the sadistic Nazi some dignity. When Hoffman has him at gunpoint and is forcing him to eat his own diamonds, Olivier balks after managing to swallow one or two and says firmly, No more. You'll have to shoot me. There are a couple of loose ends in the script. We hear more than once that Hoffman is unwilling to face facts. It sounds like a set up for some tragic flaw that will get him in trouble later. But it doesn't. He seems to face all the facts as he becomes aware of them.And there is a good deal of attention paid to the father of Hoffman and Roy Scheider. Evidently the guy was caught up in the McCarthy witch hunt and killed himself for some reason. Hoffman may be writing his master's thesis on the incident -- it's not entirely clear. But it doesn't matter anyway because it has nothing to do with the plot.I have to mention the location shooting and the photography because both are so well done. The isolated abandoned farmhouse towards the end, sitting atop a hill that is bare except for a few leafless wintry trees and the sad remnants of last summer's sunflowers, it all evokes Poe's misty mid-region of Weir.I've kind of picked on this movie for its weaknesses but I don't want to give the impression that it's a failure because it is definitely not. It does precisely the job it sets out to do. "},{"Title":"Plodding","Date":"11 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Needlessly complicated, dark, and over-produced thriller is confusing from the start and the convoluted plot requires lots of talky exposition that brings the movie to a halt. Marathon Man is glossy trash that substitutes queasiness for genuine suspense and is mostly famous for its scenes of dental torture carried out by a splashy Olivier who is the best and only memorable thing about this over-rated film. Hoffman is too mature for his role making his character's naiveté unpersuasive, and Marthe Keller is hard on the eyes and the ears; she was so much more effective in a similar role in Black Sunday. Despite a few tense scenes and a couple of well done set pieces, Marathon Man is poorly paced and structured and ultimately rather pointless. "},{"Title":"Schlesinger delivers in life after 'Cowboy'","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Thirty years after its original release, 'Marathon Man' is still a full-fledged icon of the political thriller genre, helped largely by its strong human element and the clear artistic vision of John Schlesinger. The film would probably have drawn more Academy Award nominations had it not premiered in 1976, when the cinema world was overstocked with titles like 'Rocky,' 'Network,' 'All The President's Men,' and 'Taxi Driver.' As it turned out, just Laurence Olivier was nominated for his supporting role as the dreaded Christian Szell; but 'Marathon Man' distinguished itself from most espionage films of the late 1970s and boasts a major following today.John Schlesinger, best known for his Oscar-winning direction of 'Midnight Cowboy,' showed great versatility during the 70s by piecing together Nathaniel West's novel 'The Day of the Locust,' 'Marathon Man,' and 'Yanks.' Political intrigue is another topic in which Schlesinger looks right at home, as 'Marathon Man' boasts strong characters, intense situations, and high craftsmanship. While not a perfect film, 'Marathon Man' is forceful enough to stay in one's mind and has earned its place on the world movie timeline.Dustin Hoffman leads Marathon Man's superb cast as Thomas Levy, a Columbia graduate student whose father committed suicide while on thin political ice during the McCarthy era. Still haunted by his father's death, Thomas (known as 'Babe' amongst friends) devotes himself to researching this past and looks to overcome boundaries as a Central Park marathon runner. He is eventually pulled into a web of deceit when his older brother Henry (Roy Scheider) is murdered by Christian Szell (Olivier), a former Nazi dentist who escaped from the Second World War to Uruguay. Henry was employed by 'The Division,' an ultra-secret U.S. bureau operating farther underground than the CIA. 'The Division' had previous dealings with Szell in which information on Nazi fugitives was traded for his amnesty. It is when Szell visits New York to reclaim family diamonds and a European woman named Elsa Opel (Marthe Keller) enters Babe's life that he must overcome a hatred of violence to defend his race.'Marathon Man' is a film steeped in torture and outraged audiences with its 'dental' scene thirty years ago. William Goldman's screenplay (from his own novel) puts an interesting bend on espionage, stressing character development rather than plot. Combined with John Schlesinger's direction, 'Marathon Man' gives us loads more than the average, wafer-thin characters we normally expect from a political thriller. Hoffman is once again excellent in his lead role, perhaps empathizing strongly with the Jewish character he plays. Laurence Olivier is flawless as the tight-lipped, homicidal Szell who will stop at nothing to inherit his diamonds and cash. Roy Scheider and William Devane (as Commander Peter Janeway) are suitably rugged, while Marthe Keller gives an impressive performance despite knowing little to no English before the film's production.Unfortunately, a character-driven story is bound to have clichés and plot gaps, which hurts this film to a significant degree. The scenario of Jewish characters fighting Nazis has been used numerous times before, as well as the femme fatale being in love with the man she's targeting. Marathon Man's storyline is also kicked along by conveniences such as a woman who just happens to realize that Szell is walking through the New York City jewelry district and a water plant engineer who apparently never calls the police after finding Thomas with Szell at gunpoint (!). Indeed, the plot of 'Marathon Man' leaves something to be desired, but the film is redeemed by its excellent acting.The technical work of 'Marathon Man' is also flawless, with vivid cinematography by Conrad Hall ('In Cold Blood,' 'Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid') and editing by Schlesinger favorite Jim Clark. The score by Michael Small contains electronics, which gives this film an icy edge. 'Marathon Man' uses striking locations in New York, Paris, and Los Angeles, all filmed in Schlesinger's engaging but unobtrusive style. The high degree of professionalism by cast and crew is more than worth the price of admission.'Marathon Man' is available on DVD from Paramount Pictures. It is offered in widescreen with a choice of English 5.1 surround audio or the restored mono track; French 'dubbing' and English subtitles are also provided. The recent Paramount disc has superb visuals with few artifacts and no grain. Mono, however, seems a better audio choice, as the enhanced 5.1 surround places too much emphasis on backdrop and muffles dialogue. Paramount has supplied interesting extras with a 'making of' segment from the time of its release, a short cast and crew interview program, the theatrical trailer, and rehearsal footage. While somewhat flawed, 'Marathon Man' is nevertheless a guidepost of 1970s film history and a must-watch for espionage fans.*** out of 4 "}{"Title":"A classic thriller...but in 2006, it drags.","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Basically, I love this movie and was delighted to rent it from Netflix recently.But my, how the cinema has changed in 30 years. William Goldman's screenplay is fine, the cinematography is excellent, the direction great, the acting wonderful. Still -- it could have easily been trimmed by at least 20 minutes. Everything up to the point where Babe is kidnapped and brought to meet Szell is atmosphere and suggestion. The awkward library scene with Marthe Keller is one in which I found myself making the speed it up already hand gesture at the screen. That and similar scenes dragged to the point of annoyance. Had I not been watching with someone who had never seen the picture before, I would have been using the fast-forward button. I now believe that the backstory of Babe's father as a victim of Senator McCarthy and House Un-American Activities Committee was superfluous and largely irrelevant to the audience, either now or then. And lastly, the entire convoluted story (especially as set in Paris) of Szell, the diamonds, and the questionable loyalties of the covert-ops crew is so muddled as to be little more than what Alfred Hitchcock called The Maguffin - the supposed secret that serves only to keep the audience on the edge of its seats.Enough for the criticism. What I did like were  the scenes where Babe is in training for the marathon...how he keeps the image of Jesse Owens in his head for inspiration. This serves him well when he has to literally run for his life. Like 1997's THE EDGE, you have an unlikely hero. A peace-loving individualist who finally gets to the point of having to fight, and proves his own strength. I love the portrait of a scrappy New York City that is steadily fading away, especially after 9/11. I enjoyed the plot device wherein Babe enlists the aid of his punkish Puerto Rican neighbors and finally earns their respect.Two other sequences stand out and stand the test of time In the Diamond District where Szell is recognized by two former camp survivors, and of course, the final confrontation inside the pumping station, where Szell tries to call upon the evil within himself and is ultimately defeated by it. (I don't think that's a spoiler!...) Yes, it's a great movie...needs a bit of trimming, but worth a viewing, for sure. "},{"Title":"A movie made great and unforgettable by its moments.","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Marathon Man is among the most well known thrillers from the '70's and it's also definitely among the finest of its period. A period of many fine and classic genre movies, of which this movie knows to skillful distinct itself, with some classic moments.Let's face it, Marathon Man shall not be remembered for its story or any such thing. In that regard Marathon Man is nothing more than an average simple genre movie. It really are some of the moments in the movie that makes this such a great, classic and unforgettable one.Of course the dentist scene is the best known one out of this movie but in my opinion basically every sequence in this movie with Laurence Olivier in it is a classic one in my opinion. Such as also the sequence when he gets recognized on the streets of New York by some ex prisoners of a camp he operated in. But nevertheless, yes, it's definitely the dentist scene, that made many people afraid of dentists in real life, that forms the highlight of the movie. The sequences also perfectly embodies how the entire movie is; atmospheric, mysterious, slow, tense and gritty. The sequence is so great because you don't understand what is going on or what the person wants. It makes the torture techniques seem even more cruel and painful to watch.Not just its moments but also the actors definitely uplift the movie. The movie has Laurence Olivier in his most villainous roles. It's a character that is genuinely scary and he is obviously based on Nazi doctor Josef Mengele. It's typically a role in which less is more. The character doesn't speak much or moves subtly around but his facial expressions always say more than enough and really all credit for this has to go to Laurence Olivier for that. But it doesn't make you forget that there are more great actors in this movie such as of course Dustin Hoffman in the main lead and Roy Scheider, one of the biggest stars of the '70's. It's also one of Hoffman's best known roles and for a good reason. His method actor works out great in the movie and for its story, character and overall atmosphere. What I like about the character is that he really isn't an hero but just an average guy and even a bit of loser that by change gets mixed up into this big dangerous situation. The movie shows us that it could happen to basically everyone of us. It also makes us easy for yourself to identify with the main character of the movie, which in return adds all the more to the suspense and realism of the movie.The entire movie is build up in a consistent speed and style. The movie does never accelerate, which also helps to give the movie its realistic and gritty look and atmosphere. Despite not being anything special when it comes down to its technical things, it nevertheless is a movie that is skilfully made with the right tools and persons for this type of movie.Yet another essential '70's viewing.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Good but could have been better","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Good suspence movie with very good cinematography,directing,cast and acting performances.Could have been a classic if it had better screenplay and editing.The gun pointing confrontations were not realistic enough to satisfy what the flow of this movie demands.Also,the visual aspect of the film is badly damaged by the very unattractive look of Hoffman due to the dental torture he recieved.Very annoying sight.There are also other annoying sequences in this movie that just does not help it,like the very unlikely waste of Jewels in the finale.Only for fans of cloak and dagger action/suspence movies and big fans of the lead actors........  "},{"Title":"So-so schlock in serious seventies dress","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Director John Schlesinger uses every trick in the book to save 'Marathon Man,' but while he succeeds at bringing a certain gritty elegance, so typical of the decade, to the film, he can't quite conceal (the overrated) William Goldman's contrived and fantastical script. The film may look like classic seventies 'neo-noir,' but it's still just a silly, coincidence-based comic strip, plunking Dustin Hoffman's Joe Nobody down into his brother's Bondworld of 'Spy vs. Spy' chases and lost Nazi loot. To be fair, Schlesinger also manages the many suspense set pieces extremely well (although the infamous 'Is it safe?' scene might surprise some by how *un*-explicit it is).As for the acting, it's a classic mixed bag. Laurence Olivier comes off best, his Szell being of course authentically sinister, but also believably elderly, even frail. (The moment when he tells Roy Scheider that he's too old and too smart to fight him captures his character beautifully.) Dustin Hoffman works physically in the part &#150; he's certainly plausible as a marathon runner &#150; but the character is so poorly defined by Goldman's screenplay that the actor is forced into bombastic hamminess as the film moves along. Roy Scheider is a good actor, but he's badly miscast as the stereotypically witty and worldly secret agent, and Marthe Keller is such a mush-mouth that it's no surprise she didn't go on to any significant English-language success.In the end, 'Marathon Man' is certainly worth a watch for hardcore fans of thrillers; more casual viewers won't be missing much. 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Drivel","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Nonsensical drivel. Larry Olivier's performance is notable only for his melodramatic death. It's definitely true that Hoffman has improved as an actor. The plot is convoluted and nonsensical - only a buffoon would find it remotely intelligent. As with so many movies it relies on rather clichéd devices to ensure success a car chase, bare breasts and guns. Oooh!The music is interesting - some bizarre electro-acoustic music, usually ruined by the acoustic element. Some of the cinematography is interesting with some creative shots that show some artistic bent. I agree with much of the comment that remarked a b-movie with a actors - it certainly appears to be somewhat reliant on the star-studded cast. Sadly most cinema fans are suckers for that. "},{"Title":"Diamonds are a Nazi's best friend","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Two generations of acting styles come together in Marathon Man. Dustin Hoffman plays a most reluctant hero a young pacifist graduate student at Columbia University who is a distance runner. He gets way over his head with an arch Nazi war criminal Laurence Olivier who did not drag out his patented Mittel-Europa accent. Instead he spoke a most precise English for the role, just like a foreigner having to learn the tongue.His brother Roy Scheider is supposed to be in the oil business. Their father was a victim of the McCarthy Era blacklist who killed himself. Scheider actually works for a branch of the CIA, no doubt as Hoffman says the father would disapprove. I'm wondering how he got clearance.A whole bunch of people from that section are dying and when Scheider dies Hoffman goes into action not knowing who to trust. But he's lucky, very lucky.Olivier who has been living in South America in seclusion is forced to come to America to get his fortune in diamonds in a safety deposit vault. He's forced to do this after his brother is killed in a traffic accident right at the beginning of the film. Olivier's Dr. Szell is as terrifying a villain as his Richard III. It's what got him an Oscar nomination his only one in the Supporting Actor category.Marathon Man has a lot of holes in the story, but the acting between Hoffman and Olivier is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Bring Some Novocaine","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" A sweaty, grimy, nervous thriller from John Schlesinger that belongs to that long list of films that came out in the 1970s about urban paranoia (All the President's Men, Taxi Driver, The Conversation, just to name a few).Dustin Hoffman plays a regular Joe who gets caught up in some nasty business thanks to his brother, an undercover agent played by Roy Scheider. This business involves a Nazi war criminal in hiding (the Oscar-nominated Laurence Olivier) and some diamonds he wants to get his hands on. To be honest, the plot was a bit of a muddle to me, since the film spends its first hour or so introducing random plot strands without explaining how they relate to one another. We know they will eventually connect, but be prepared for some frustration until that begins to happen, and maybe even some after.Marathon Man is probably most known for the famous scene where Olivier's Nazi interrogates Hoffman with the single question Is it safe? while torturing him with dental instruments. As a confirmed dentaphobe, this scene had me squirming, though it's practically PG rated compared to most things you can see today on the Sci-Fi channel. Olivier received his ninth acting Oscar nomination for his performance, but really I think he could have showed up on the set and sneezed and still have been recognized by the Academy. The standout performance for me was given by Scheider, an under-appreciated actor who could play sleazy criminals, everyday good guys and suave ladies men with equal aplomb.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"More Of A Sprint","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This one has an abundance of Star Power. It isn't disappointing but slightly overrated. The Movie manages to be absorbing enough although the Plot is disjointed at times and seems to be somewhat overwritten. It has enough visceral vibes through its Cast and their jarring predicaments pierced with Suspense and Violence, but all of it is layered with some undeveloped Sub-Plots.It moves along at more of a sprint than a long distance run and the Film is better for it, because when it lingers things can be a bit frustrating. More complexity does not a better Thriller make and in this one it becomes tedious. The Scenes that work on the nerves are the best, but as a cohesive wrap-up it disappoints.The Movie had a resonant response when released and many still find it an exercise in gripping Cinema. But it has shown its age and some of the more uninteresting parts are more glaring Today. Certainly worth a watch as an effective piece of Fiction, but the Story is a bit weighty if not slightly confusing. "},{"Title":"Classic thriller","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Marathon man is a classic thriller from the 70's. It's along with the Midnight cowboy the best movie of John Schlesinger. Some people complain that it's unnecessary ambitious , but personally I've never had problem with that. I could live without the anti McCarthy bit , but I guess I should get used to that since it's a Hollywood movie .Some of the elements here are rather cheesy . The car accident is something that feels like from an 80's comedy. Also the doll and hidden blade. It belongs more to comic book movie , not serious thriller. Thankfully the really good scenes erase that bad impression. The famous Is it safe ? scene is one of the best scenes in movie history . Believe me &#x96; you'll be afraid to go to dentist. I also like the fight in hotel and the ending.Both Dustin Hoffmann and Roy Scheider give great performances. Laurence Oliver is awesome as the villain. I think that the movie could be either a little shorter or a little faster. It would be even better movie.Anyway , it's a great movie. It's a story about fear and pain. I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Chalk up another great script from William Goldman.","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Marathon Man is a taut thriller steeped in paranoia, and it's one of those movies that tends to linger in the brain long after you've seen it. Great performances from Dustin Hoffman, Roy Scheider, William Devane and Laurence Olivier. Scheider maintains a cool cageyness as an undercover agent, and Olivier, well . . . that guy's a malevolent bastard. The bathroom tub scene was a particular nail-biter, and the dental sequence was especially novel. Hearing the phrase, Is it safe now actually means something, and I'm willing to bet that every time I hear it henceforth, it'll evoke that ominous scene. It belongs with the other powerful one-liners in cinema history. Marathon Man is well-written, suspenseful, and you don't see the twists coming. Great movie.8/10 "}{"Title":"Exquisite piece of cinema","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lately i came to read and to know more about William Goldman. Thus i got lucky to see this film.First of all it's a wonderful storytelling. There isn't a single thing that is a surplus in this movie. Everything that you see, every scene and every dialog serve the story. Every word has its own meaning and challenges the audience to think and to figure it all by themselves. Second of all, this movie impresses with their characters and their very well written, dialogues. As i wrote above, nothing is surplus in this movie and i simply couldn't wait to see what's gonna happen next. Even i got paranoid during the movie. It's a wonderful thriller and in my opinion leaves a message that you shouldn't trust anyone and you should keep asking yourself questions all the time, about anything and anybody you meet. That's why it's called, Marathon man, i think. What i liked the most about the movie is that the end is so perfect that, any other ending would have ruined the movie. Dustin Hoffman, Laurence Olivier, Roy Scheider are wonderful in this movie. But the crew behind the camera is even more impressive. Conrad Hall as a director of photography and Robert Evans as a producer. It is a wonderful teamwork. It's a typical 70s movie, most of all because of the way it is photographed and the way that it's filmed. I give this piece of art 9/10. "},{"Title":"Just Watch It For Laurence Olivier","Date":"12 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Marathon Man is not a very good movie. The seventies, which were cinema's greatest age of thrillers, produced many movies that could teach this hodgepodge mess of a movie a thing or two about pacing, editing and storytelling. I don't even know where to begin with this absurd story.Dustin Hoffman, around 39 when he starred in the movie, implausibly plays Babe Levy, a college student. Throughout the movie the awkward age of the actor sticks like a sore thumb. But the character himself is bizarre. He's running for the marathon, although that seems to have nothing to do with the plot per se (the one moment when he uses his training to escape a bad guy, his pursuer, clearly in worse physical shape than him, nearly catches him). Levy is traumatized by the suicide of his father, a historian who fell in disgrace because of McCarthy's communist witch hunts. It's an interesting background, but it seems to belong in another character and another movie. And his brother, Doc (played by Roy Scheider), is a secret agent working for a governmental organization that somehow keeps track of Nazi criminals.The action starts when the brother of a notorious Nazi fugitive, Dr. Szell, dies in an accident in New York. Szell's brother, another Nazi, was stupid enough to go around shouting racist slurs at a Jew in a Jewish neighbourhood, attracting his ire and causing a moronic car accident. I don't presume to be able to get inside the head of Nazi fugitives, but I have serious difficulty believing one would be attracting so much attention on himself in the middle of New York, especially after he just retrieved a tin can full of diamonds to be delivered to his brother in Uruguay. Marathon Man is the proverbial thriller where you have to leave your brain at the door to enjoy it, proud precursor of Michael Bay. It pains me to write this of the director of Midnight Cowboy and the screenwriter of All The President's Men, but that's the hard truth.So Szell travels to New York to retrieve the rest of his diamonds, and this is where the story gets really confusing. Doc's agency apparently works with Szell, who gives them information on other Nazis in return for being left alone. What is never made clear is what is Doc's role in all this, what are the feelings of his parter, Janeway, over his murder since he's obviously a participant in it, or why Szell uses a student called Elsa to watch over Babe. It's not so much that the movie is confused, rather it's confused, it doesn't understand itself, it rushes into each scene instead of lingering over a single dialogue that explains anything.In the end, Marathon Man is just a collection of exciting scenes barely glued together by the ghost of a plot. We have exciting scenes galore Babe trapped inside his bathroom as thugs try to break into it; a woman chasing Szell as she recognises him from Auschwitz; the infamous torture scene with dentist instruments; and more, lots more. It's just a pity that none segues rationally into the next. This is pure escapism, but so was The Day of the Jackal and The Parallax View, and they're infinitely better written and edited. It's really disturbing to imagine that this movie was written by William Goldman, who the same year rightfully won the Oscar for All The President's Men. It seems he only has enough talent for one intelligent script per year.Dustin Hoffman was far from amazing in this, certainly not as great as in All The President's Men or Lenny (1974). Roy Scheider, William Davane and Marthe Keller give efficient performances. The only shining moment acting-wise is Laurence Olivier, who gives one of his most chilling performances as Dr. Szell, the Nazi dentist. Olivier gave many great performances in his final decade, and this role is up there with his work in Sleuth and The Boys from Brazil. Everything I heard about him in this movie is absolutely true, and he remains the best reason to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"A good film. A classic of the 70s","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Seven years after his masterpiece Midnight Cowboy, the British director of Sunday, Bloody Sunday, John Schlesinger, makes this wonderful film, based on the eponymous book but with a different ending, the American writer William Goldman a year before writing his most celebrated work The Princess Bride.With a brilliant photography Conrad Hall admired photography author of masterpieces such as Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid GR Hill or the more recent Road to Perdition by Sam Mendes, and effective soundtrack by Michael Small (The Parallax View Pakula), Schlessinger planes made an entertaining suspense thriller in the style of Franklin J. Schaffner in his famous The Boys From Brazil. Schlessinger with a similar theme, and also sharing the sublime presence at scene of one of the greatest actors, Lawrence Olivier, with a great performance, this time of evil, who was nominated for an Oscar for this film, best actor, finally winning the Golden Globe in the same category.Both the novel and the film, are known for their torture sequence (perhaps inspired Tarantino also here at the time of filming their own in Reservoir Dogs), where the famous White Angel Dr. Christian Szell (Olivier) torturing his victim Thomas Levy (D. Hoffman) with one of the most ruthless methods of the time without anaesthesia dentist at Auschwitz, where he was responsible for the camp ... In fact, the film opens the day of Yom Kippur and all of it is a tribute to the victims of the Holocaust with a touch optimistic in such a disaster, as happened with his celebrated Midnight Cowboy ...The film runs through increasingly stressed paths, where each new step the viewer feel more and more anxiety and confusion until finally the mystery falls apart ... Again, there are heroes, femmes fatales and evil men, directly imported from the Nazi regime ... and suggestive image that Thomas Babe Levy (Dustin Hoffman), training to run the marathon in the city along the paths of Central Park, while his image is interspersed with black and white frames of his idol Ethiopian marathon athlete, Abebe Bikila ... "},{"Title":"Dark & Gripping!","Date":"8 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Based on the novel of the same name by William Goldman, 'Marathon Man' directed by John Schlesinger, is a Dark & Gripping film, that definitely deserves to be hailed as a classic of it's time. The film is Sharply Directed, Neatly Written, Intensely Photographed & Bombastically Performed by it's Actors.I truly believe that, The 1970's was one heck of a decade for filmmakers & film-buffs. Just look at the films that came out in the 1970's, and I am not only including American Cinema, but in fact, Cinema across the Globe. I, let me inform you didn't exist in the 1970's, but the joy I have watching a 1970's film, seems priceless.'Marathon Man' is a yet another knock-out from the 1970's. It's dark film, that comes in-tact with it's infamous torture scene, that is sure to be ignored by the faint-hearted to this date. The power of 'Marathon Man', is also it's Gripping narrative, that keeps you hooked on your seat. The film never shies away from it's motives and that's it's biggest achievement! 'Marathon Man' tells the story of A graduate history student, who unwittingly is caught in the middle of an international conspiracy involving stolen diamonds, an exiled Nazi war criminal, and a rogue government agent.William Goldman's Screenplay is neat & makes some really twisted characters. John Schlesinger's Direction is Sharp. Photography is intense. Editing is perfect. Art Design is fine.Performance-Wise Dustin Hoffman is in terrific form, once again. The Iconic Actor sinks his teeth into the part, and brings it out with flying colors. Sir Laurence Olivier leaves you Spell-Bound. He plays the twisted/sadistic villain with unimaginable ease. Watch him deliver the infamous line, 'Is it Safe'. It's terrifyingly effective! Roy Scheider is very impressive. Marthe Keller leaves a mark. Others lend perfect support.On the whole, 'Marathon Man' is a Must See. It's Dark, It's Gripping, It's Twisted & at the very same time, It's Edgy. Two Thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Giving Dentistry a bad name since 1976","Date":"15 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" In some ways, this sophisticated thriller is convoluted and ambiguous with a plot of so tightly woven threads, it's often difficult to distinguish friend from foe. Despite these observations, the audience is still treated to a highly engaging and suspenseful tale where graduate student (Hoffman, youthful looking despite being a feather off forty) is inexplicably implicated in a diamond-smuggling ring after his brother (Scheider, as a shady spy) is killed by ex-Nazi (Olivier) attempting to traffic a cache of diamonds obtained during WWII. While Scheider, Keller and Devane's identities and motives are mysterious, Olivier on the other hand is coldly ambivalent. The scene in which he repays Scheider's petulance is brutal and harrowing.Keller plays a femme fatale in her prelude to a number of similar roles (e.g. Black Sunday) for which she became typecast, while the versatile Devane is equally good as a fast-talking CIA double agent. Or is he? (that's not a rhetorical question). The film's centrepiece is the oral torture scene, and though widely anticipated by virtue of its reputation, it's not as suspenseful as one might expect. Nevermind, there are several others to enjoy (Scheider's fight scene with an Eastern-looking assassin, Olivier disposing of a Jewish relic who reveals his former Nazi identity just to name a couple).The tone throughout is quite chilling, like an urban horror film with Hoffman in his everyday man character reacting to the chaos as one would expect - taking flight, hence the title. This was back when Hoffman made forceful movies (Straw Dogs, Papillon etc), and it's a shame he chose to neglect those roles in his subsequent career to date, because he manages to do what so few other actors accomplished in similar circumstances - that is, to not be rendered invisible by the great Olivier. Taut, at times frantic, sometimes confusing but always compelling viewing. "},{"Title":"Fascinating and chilling in equal measure, the film is an exercise of pure threat told from the perspective of someone caught up in the firing line.","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Amidst the the early morning glare of the rising sun and whatever few others are up at this time, a young man jogs along the beaten track in an attempt to keep in shape. This, as he spots a fellow jogger and begins a fairly innocent 'chase', although the individual manages to outrun our young man to some pretty ominous music. The entire exchange is eventually inter-cut in a bizarre manner with some found footage of a marathon runner completely disconnected to the events we're witnessing. Marathon Man begins with this rather simplistic sequence of a young man jogging and very slowly turns what is an everyday activity, or an unspectacular image, into something that is quite sinister. It pitches the tone of the film perfectly, establishing an everyday guy and placing him in a sinister chase situation which it is discovered is so easily to get involved in, while systematically foreshadowing the eerie turns the narrative will take to do with having to run for one's life.Marathon Man is like that; there's something very effective behind its ability to inject terror into a relatively routine situation. That very primal sense of 'running for one's life', whatever the situation, is tapped into perfectly by director John Schlesinger, who paints a bleak and uncomplimentary picture of New York City and of the scummy, lying and double-dealing lowlifes whom inhabit it. Amongst all of this is the character of Thomas Levy (Hoffman), nicknamed 'Babe', a student of history who is attempting to follow in his now deceased father's footsteps by engaging academically in the same field. Babe will later end up following in the same footsteps as his another family member; his brother Henry (Scheider), but for all the wrong reasons. Even Henry is referred to by his nickname for a lot of the film, that being 'Doc', thus repeating the process of use of an alias and tapping into that highly consistent theme of suspicion and what one's true identity is. In a film in which a lot of people act as if they're one thing in order to garner an advantage, this use of improper name and alias to act as an alter-ego is interesting.But Marathon Man provides us with a ray of light in the form of Babe, a down to Earth and accessible lead with whom we are able to relate in his innocence and copious levels of naivety to his situation when espionage and betrayal catches up with him. In what might appear to be a complex and rather deep story revolving around said narrative characteristics of espionage, smuggling and spies; it is ironic that mere fate brings certain people to New York for certain reasons. This, when a stark disagreement between two elderly men about something that relates to times and events far deeper than mere road rage.If Babe is a figure cut from a stone that shy but eager in his personality and traits, then Laurence Oliver's Christian Szell, a doctor well informed in the art of dentistry, represents the polar-opposite as this elderly and frail man, but someone who has made a life out of other people's sheer misery; a man that has seemingly existed to inflict pain and suffering wherever he's gone. When we first encounter him, he is a lonesome figure in a heavily fortified and secluded place of dwelling in the middle of a South American jungle. Several newspapers are scattered around, some in English; some in Spanish and some in German which establishes a sense of expertise in language, although the items that stand out are the uncanny skulls which line the shelves, most of which contain odd shaped teeth which catch our eye. The sequence informs us of a man whom requires security and isolation as well as someone whom is most probably trilingual. In one swooping camera shot, we are left to read into as much as we can about this one individual, while a lesser film of the thriller ilk would have seen a bunch of people gather in a room; brought Szell's face up on a screen and laid out everything for the uninformed characters and audience alike.Babe's involvement in what it is he ends up neck deep in is ultimately instigated by the unsightly sequence in which the death of somebody we do not see coming occurs in his arms. The battered and bloodied body of a blade attack victim acting as the first truly pieces of shocking imagery Babe has seen, the blood from the body staining his plain, bright white vest that he wears thus staining him, and therefore linking him to the world the departing life was connected to. The film is a tight, gripping piece; a film that clashes a world of smuggling, deceit and murder with the quieter, more routine world of a young man who's nervous around girls and just attempting to make-good out of some pretty harsh living conditions.It progresses to encompass a series of quite extraordinary sequences, the one of which everyone remembers more fondly than others being the torture sequence involving a dentist's drill, a sadomasochistic game of fear; terror; power play; ambiguous questions; honest but disbelieved answers and sheer pain. One other passage of play sees the lead running down a street in the early hours of the morning, whatever light there is being provided by way of the street lamps, as what we perceive to be a wailing, screeching musical score encompassing this, only for it to turn out to be an approaching ambulance which hurtles past, catching us all off guard. Marathon Man is a taut thriller, drawing its audience in and gripping them with a number of basic conventions, raging from the use of a mere MacGuffin to instilling a very visceral, very effective sense of fear by way of ambiguous character intentions and pure threat. If ever there was an essential thriller to see, it may well be Marathon Man. "},{"Title":"All Elements Work Well On Their Own Enthusiastically Visionary Terms.","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Director John Schlesinger took the opportunity to deviate from the genres in which he'd been working to hone his first thriller, augmenting themes in William Goldman's story of social awareness, life objectives, how we perceive others and situations out of control. Honestly though, I don't quite believe Goldman, for whom writing seems to be more of a circumstance than a line of work, was particularly married to those themes, though they do peak our interest here and there; essentially, he wanted to write a thriller. Schlesinger wants to add to what he's been given.What Schlesinger has frankly and discreetly determined is to forget about the open questions and focus on a succession of scenes that hold us so fixedly while we're watching them, that undecided issues don't enter our thoughts. There's the thrilling car crash in the opening sequence, which mounts cardinally from an quid pro quo of taunts. Roy Scheider fights an assassin in a hotel room with perplexed across-the-street neighbors looking on. There's the legendary scene in which Sir Laurence Olivier, a former Nazi death camp dentist, tortures Dustin Hoffman by drilling holes in his teeth. There's my favorite a walk through the New York diamond district in which Olivier is recognized by his ex-prey. There's a pursuit along a seemingly abandoned highway interchange. Together, Schlesinger and Goldman have induced these scenes with the ability to make the whole movie. Everything else feels like time biding till its next big bang to flaunt.Then there are the performances, mainly that by Olivier, who cleanses the dedicated Hoffman's eagerness-charged presence of anything but the necessary reactions of a comparative rookie in awe of a veteran of pragmatic drama. Roy Scheider, though his convention with Olivier's stoic yet mercurial villain is earlier and more certain than those with Hoffman later on, does not enter into comparison. He is, as always, his own beast, one whose physicality, somber countenance and subdued volatility comply with any and everything the dramatic action throws at him. Nonetheless, the cast seems more influenced by the opinions of their dutifully poised senior than those of their wisely foolish director.All of the elements of Marathon Man work well on their own enthusiastically visionary terms. They do not automatically add up to a plot that can bear scrutiny. Goldman's story does not follow an imperative logic, and Schlesinger understands. As angst-driven escapist entertainment, as a frantic action-thriller, the movie works with unrelenting ability. "},{"Title":"NY Locations are conveying meaning as do the stellar acting ensemble","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie in its original theatrical run and am still impressed some 32 years later with the director's choices and the grit these consummate actors undertook and executed in such vivid manner. I was terrified with the scene I had forgotten when the Babe character is trying to fall asleep in the bathtub and it makes the sense of being cornered by the burglars so visceral. Kudos to the screenwriter and director who have made other classics! I hadn't put it together until watching the DVD featurette-movie's impact by its 25th anniversary that Dustin Hoffman was during the film so late in his 30s, age-wise. He is an American treasure and Laurence Olivier truly was an actor for the entire century! Watch this film for certain film locations and the New York City (places and people) of the mid-1970s will jump out at you as well. I know that other films have achieved some of the tricks of this movie better but I still rank it uttermost from the vivid ways it works on the audience member who is willing to suspend disbelief about the ways that regular people could combat evil personified. "},{"Title":"Yes, it's safe","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Marathon Man is a thriller/spy story where tension builds up like in very few other films, and it is guaranteed to leave you emotionally exhausted at the end. The pacing of the film is intentionally slow, yet surprises are at every turn and the plot is complicated enough to leave you scratching your head in more than one occasion. Like quite a few movies from the Seventies, Marathon Man is bleak and unglamorous yet strangely fascinating in its portrayal of underground mysteries of an apparently normal world.It is, however, the performances that really make this movie. Dustin Hoffman had already made a big name for himself by giving intense performances in completely different films like Midnight Cowboy and especially The Graduate, and he is perfectly convincing as 'Babe' , the student whose life is turned upside down as he unwillingly crashes into a dark world of undercover affairs and greed. It is particularly striking that at this time Hoffman was already 38 years old, yet he looks so youthful he is completely convincing as a man in his middle twenties.The picture, however, belongs to Laurence Olivier. Olivier, one of the most acclaimed stage actors of all time, might have starred in a few mediocre pictures late in his career, but watching him in Marathon Man will blast away any doubt about his real acting capabilities; Olivier's portrayal of former Nazi Christian Szell is absolutely extraordinary as he plays with subtlety one of the most abhorrent characters ever seen onscreen. Probably some of you heard about the infamous scene where Szell uses dental instruments with dispassionate ease as means of torture, but make no mistake Oliver's portrayal never comes off as over-the-top or exaggerated, and it's the smaller nuances that really show Szell as a chillingly repulsive character.The movie starts with a car accident in New York City resulting in the death of two old men. One of these men, we will find out, is the brother of the infamous Christian Szell, a sadistic Nazi criminal who disappeared after WWII. Szell was able to escape to South America and live there hidden from international justice, but with the death of his brother he is now the only person with the key to a fortune in stolen diamonds deposited in a safe box in the Big Apple.Meanwhile, Babe's brother 'Doc' (Roy Scheider), who works for a mysterious government agency yet to Babe's knowledge is simply a successful businessman, barely escapes an assassination attempt in Paris. Soon Doc finds out from another agent that Szell's brother was killed in an accident; when he receives a letter in which Babe narrates that two men had mugged him near Central Park, he flies to New York to pay a visit to his brother.I'll stop here with the plot because I believe that you need to know as little as possible in advance to really enjoy the film. It is sufficient to say that Babe will discover things he never suspected, and he will be caught up in a dangerous game where his life will be threatened in a series of heart-pounding moments.The supporting actors are uniformly good, from Roy Scheider as Babe's brother Doc, to Marthe Keller as Babe's love interest, to William Devane as Doc's co-worker. What puts this film down a little bit is the fact that the plot gets a bit muddled at times; in particular, there is a couple of scenes where the motivations behind some of the characters' actions and decisions are pretty much imperscrutable. It is possible that this was a deliberate choice of the filmmakers after all, we are dealing with some of the most untrustworthy people on Earth. However, those scenes can be distracting, as while the movie is moving on the viewer is left elaborating on the reasons of what just happened.Visually, the film is every bit as Seventies-looking as Taxi Driver , and the fact that New York City had such a particular feel to it during that time will only make things more enjoyable. This is certainly not the polished, fake look of modern blockbusters, but rather a dirty urban maze where dark secrets could be at every corner. To complete the movie's old-but-fascinating feel, there are also multiple references at the McCarthy era.Overall, Marathon Man certainly gets my recommendation. Only one thing just don't watch it the same day you have to go to the dentist.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"The nearly perfect thriller!","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" MARATHON MAN is a nearly perfect thriller. Dustin Hoffman (though nearly 40) convincingly portrays a Columbia University graduate student who crosses paths with an infamous fugitive Nazi (who may or may not have had dealings with his spy brother). Laurence Olivier is brilliant as the sinister Nazi forced to leave his South American hiding place & come to New York to retrieve his stolen cache of diamonds. MARATHON MAN is one of those movies where NOBODY is what they seem (except of course the hero)and the double-crosses come so fast it's hard to keep track of who's a good guy and who's a bad guy. Hoffman's performance matches Olivier and the now famous is it safe? dentist scene is a real nail biter. The supporting cast is first rate Roy Scheider, William Devane, Marthe Keller, and the great character actor Marc Lawrence as one of Olivier's silent goons. The stylish direction is by John Schlesinger. "}{"Title":"Meeting of the titans.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Olivier vs. Hoffman, that's what this film comes down to, and I'm afraid Olivier triumphs- but just barely. You know the plot, you know what happens, you know the is it safe? line- it's basically old guard acting vs. the new guys, and it's as good as Ali vs. Foreman. Hoffman is great, as is Scheider and everyone else in the cast, but the film clearly belongs to Olivier. Imagine if they remade this film now- would it be Hoffman vs. The Cast of Friends? Sad to contemplate the state of the art, but in the 70's it was vital and this film was and is one of the best.         "},{"Title":"Is It Safe?","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This 1976 thriller is a very chilling character study of a Columbia graduate student (Hoffman) unwittingly thrust into a game of deadly international intrigue when his brother (Scheider) is killed by a Nazi fugitive (Olivier) looking to smuggle a stash of diamonds he had left over from World War II after escaping justice.Olivier, who had been a practicing dentist in Auschwitz, seems to believe that if Scheider knew anything, he would have to have passed that same information on to Hoffman.  Hoffman, however, doesn't know anything; but this doesn't stop him from doing impromptu dental work on the innocent student (a Jew, no less!) and asking about his diamond stash, Is It Safe?  Like the buggery scene in DELIVERANCE, the dental torture scene in MARATHON MAN, even now, may be well-nigh impossible to watch, not only because of its sadism, but also because the performances of Hoffman and Olivier (the latter only possibly the best actor that ever LIVED!) are so off-the-chart superb.Excellently directed by John Schlesinger (MIDNIGHT COWBOY) and scripted by William Goldman from his own novel, MARATHON MAN is also blessed with moments of Hitchcock-style black humor, including the argument between an irate Jew and Olivier's brother in Manhattan traffic that turns out to be pivotal in the proceedings.  Still a classic. "},{"Title":"Among the Best Action/Suspense Movies Ever","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  My alternate title for this one is Nebbish vs. the Nazis.  I've seen it 4 times and it's as scary each time.  You can put aside all his 40's and 50's Shakespeare stuff--Laurence Olivier has never been better than in this movie.  His portrayal of the monstrously cold-blooded Dr. Szell is truly blood curdling--in every scene he's in he's absolutely mesmerizing. (A welcome treat after his pitiful performance in Bunny Lake is Missing.) Dustin Hoffman is the perfect foil as the naive and 'nebbishy' graduate student who inadvertantly gets embroiled in it all.  He's as good in this as he's ever been.  These two together in this film is acting at its very best. Solid supports from Roy Scheider  and William Devane fill this out nicely. Notice that virtually no special effects were needed--They just don't make action thrilers like they used to. "},{"Title":"A double-fugue","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The scenario of this film has the structure of a complex counter-point, more precisely that of a double-fugue (fugue from Latin fuga=pursuit!)Indeed, in the first part of the movie, we see two independent stories developing in parallel1- A Nazi named Szell (Laurence Olivier), nicknamed Der weisse Engel=the white angel, hiding in South-America after having committed numerous war crimes as SS-führer of a concentration camp, is forced to quit his refuge and to go in USA in order to recover his fortune in diamonds, which originates from the plundering of Jews. His brother, who manages the fortune in USA, plays, so as to say, Olivier's counter-subject.2- The young jewish student (Dustin Hoffman),  is the marathon man, a persistent man who bends but doesn't break, leads his life as he wants, despite the mockeries of his neighbors. His brother (Roy Sheider), a secret agent involved with Szell's business, plays the corresponding Hoffman's counter-subject.In the second part, we see the two themes of the fugue mixing together, Olivier's and Hoffman's worlds interacting; and finally, comes the rousing climax, the concluding stretto.Of course, the only scenario, as good as it be, cannot ensure the success of the movie. It requires an corresponding quality of actor's prestation. Sure that Hoffman and Olivier did the job! "},{"Title":"Atmospheric and exciting.","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Though loose ends abound in this sensational thriller, it is simply too well acted and directed for this to really matter. Marathon Man never really tells us exactly what is going on. Probably because our main character could not possibly understand everything he is being put through. In a matter of a few days, we see Dustin Hoffman transform from a mousy graduate student, to a hardened, resourceful, and even dangerous man. All of it over a bank deposit box full of diamonds.As in Straw Dogs, we see Dustin Hoffman pushed to the limit. This time he has a fugitive Nazi, his henchmen, and a shadowy US government agency breathing down his neck. The Nazi (Olivier) has come out of hiding to claim a cache of diamonds stolen from the Jews at Auschwitz. He fears that the government agency, who also knows about the diamonds, is trying to steal them from him. Roy Scheider, who plays Hoffman's brother, literally gets a little too close to the situation and is disposed of by the old Nazi. He stumbles back to Hoffman's apartment before he dies. But did he tell Hoffman anything about the diamonds before he died? That's a question that the Nazi, with the use of some nasty dental equipment, would like an answer to.The second hour of the film sees Hoffman being chased around and tortured for information he simply cannot provide. For all he knew, his brother was in the oil business. He knows nothing of this terrible old man drilling holes into his teeth and repeatedly asking, is it safe?. Through his resistance to pain, his endurance as a runner, and his hardening resolve, Hoffman is able to turn the tables on his captives and escape. One escape after another only seems to draw him into greater danger, however.Hoffman is truly outstanding as Thomas Levy. The true method actor, Hoffman can project any emotion needed times ten. Larry Olivier, as he liked to be called, is cold, evil, but also weakening in his old age. His paranoia is wonderfully on display as he walks through a Jewish neighborhood and seemingly every eye is on him. Through his ears, we can also hear the people making deals and arguing about prices, which would re-enforce many negative stereotypes this character would certainly have about Jews.Roy Scheider isn't in too much of the film, and that's a shame. He is such a likable actor! William Devane is wonderfully sleazy as the leader of the shadowy government agency that only seems to make things worse at every turn for our hero. Marthe Keller's role seems a little tacked-on, but she does pretty well with it.The photography of New York City is harsh and dingy. Perfect for the tone of the scenes set there. The pacing is exceptional, and the conclusion somewhat surprising. Definitely satisfactory.You'll never look at a trip to the dentist's office the same way again! 9 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"A movie that will leave you asking Is it safe?","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Before I go much further, I will not spoil this one for you. this is a real rare one, A Man's film, that your Lady will like as much as you, but probably for different reasons, in the same scenes! If you liked conspiracy movies in the past, none that you have seen before will stack up to this one. If I had to write a tag line to get Regan Babies to see this film it would beNazis, big brother, a White Guy Living in Harlem & Spys.Dustin Hoffman, Laurence Olivier, Roy Scheider are a remarkable combination of leading men that is seldom ever seen. Olivier is so terrifying in his role. One can truly see how he is one of the finest actors to have blessed the the screen. The character he portrays is so alive, so disturbing and so believable that you will never be able to look at your dentist again.Scheider also gives a excellent portrayal in this one. In a way he portrays an American james bond only, no gadgets to hide bad acting (sorry Connery, not you old man), and there is no need to hide the acting this time. In my opinion, his best work other then the French Connection.Finally Dustin Hoffman. Wow never thought I could see this man being in suspense/dram/mystery/action film. Thats right action, not Rambo or or terminator levels of action, but its there. Of his lesser noted films, this is his best. Hoffman brings out such detail in his characters life in this role, all of the pain, joy, anger and madness is incredible imparted to you in this one. "},{"Title":"Slightly over-rated thriller with a superb villain.","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" What distinguishes this self-described 'thriller' from others of its ilk is the overarching presence of one of the great villains of modern cinema the (fictional) 'White Angel' of Auschwitz, Christian Szell. As created by novelist/screenwriter William Goldman and embodied by the legendary Lord Laurence Olivier, he's the personification of forceful intellect subsumed by evil; a memorable addition to the iconography of horror with his bland old-man visage, the cold blue eyes slightly magnified by spectacles, peering down at Dustin Hoffman and softly repeating his trademark query, Is it safe? The nightmare of his dental instruments subsequently being put to torturous use is almost secondary. Olivier was in the twilight of a brilliant stage career interrupted by rare forays into more ordinary film roles. Although his frail health at the time rendered him virtually uninsurable, producer Robert Evans and director John Schlesinger persevered in securing his participation, and the old trouper rewarded the filmmakers -- and filmgoers -- spectacularly.Other aspects of the production are more routine, if well-done. Hoffman is surprisingly convincing as a Columbia grad student, though he was pushing 40 at the time. Scheider participates in a well-staged martial arts fight that benefits from some brilliant cutting between two completely disparate points of view. William Devane is smarmily perfect as a government operative with suspect motives. Conrad Hall and Michael Small contribute suitably shadowy photography and edgy music, respectively. And Marthe Keller seems happy to bare her breasts in this, her first American film.Leaving aside unlikely plot jumps, Goldman's scenario conveys an atmosphere of paranoid dread, and the film's action, when it occurs, is swift, brutal and adrenaline-pumping like the best of thrillers. But it's Olivier's performance that will stay in your memory and haunt all of your dental visits to come. "},{"Title":"Hoffman and Olivier at their peak...","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Certain scenes in MARATHON MAN have the kind of suspense you find in the best Hitchcock films--but the plot heavy twists and turns make this an uneven exercise in the edge of your seat kind of thriller. Olivier makes a memorable ex-Nazi, his steely eyes intent on torture if he must in order to get information from Hoffman about some hidden diamonds. The dental scene is almost excruciating to watch.This is heavy stuff, never relieved by much humor--but so well acted by Dustin Hoffman, Laurence Olivier, William Devane, Roy Scheider and Marthe Keller that it will have you shuddering from the intensity of some of the scenes. Given all of this agonizing suspense, the ending comes as a bit of a letdown.Summing up well crafted thriller that could have used a tighter, less complicated script and would have been even more effective if photographed in 1940s style of B&W to give it more of a film noir feeling. To put it simply, color is wasted on the sleazy atmosphere and settings of this claustrophobic suspenser. "},{"Title":"A MAJOR DISAPPOINTMENT","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Where did it all go wrong? You have a top director, one of our best screenwriter's (adapting his own novel) and a cast headed by Dustin Hoffman, Laurence Olivier, Roy Scheider, and William Devane.I think the big problem with Marathon Man is that the plot is much too complicated. To try to describe it all here would take much too long. Suffice to say Hoffman becomes tangled in a web of murder and deception because of the life his brother (Scheider) now leads.Don't get me wrong. There are some terrific moments in the film. Hoffman's interrogation scene in the dentist's chair is unforgettable (and likely to help you steer clear of dentists). Running on the interstate at night from the villain's. And when Hoffman is taking a bath and realizes he's not alone in his apartment. Three fine set pieces that makes you scream for more. But when it is all over, with a terribly unsatisfying conclusion, you will be left to wonder why the few parts are so much greater than the whole.The best performance in the film belongs to (not surprisingly) Olivier. His nazi dentist is a quietly cold and evil man. Just watch him as he inflicts terrible pain on Hoffman and simply continues his speech as if nothing happened. A great performance in a so so film. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" An exciting and often intense thriller with good use of point of view camera-work, it is also well acted by Hoffman and there are some interesting sound effects at hand. It is surprisingly quite effective overall, and I say surprisingly because there are a number of detractors. The first problem comes from the film spending the first 45 minutes juggling three different lines of story. This causes breaks in intensity and interest levels as it switches between the different story lines. After 45 minutes two of them eventually come together, but it is almost halfway through the film when all the fragments of storyline are finally put together. The second half of the film has another problem with much excessive violence. While the story does require an amount of violence, the film seems to use violence as a spectacle, and some of the scenes are rather repulsive. It makes some sense for all the action to be a representation of the emotions of the characters, but it is just overdone here. The film has a few other minor detractors such as a lack of depth into McCarthyism, Nazism and other issues that it brings up. Some story elements feel abandoned quite awkwardly too. Even with all these things against it, the film comes through quite well, with many intriguing sequences and interesting parts nonetheless. The quality of the acting is quite good, and the dark vision of the material suits it well. It is a good film, even if one with concentration on the thrills above all else. "}{"Title":"Effective moments of suspense","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Patience and attention are required when watching Marathon Man. The plot builds up like a puzzle, slowly but steadily, and is a bit hard to follow at places.In compensation for the pretty messy plot, Marathon Man offers many exceptionally effective moments of suspense, a thing which many films fail to deliver. The performances are superb (Hoffman and Olivier haven't been praised without a reason), but the ending leaves something to be desired. "},{"Title":"Nazi war criminal and his henchmen attack innocent man","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was taken from one of Bill Goldman's finest books. It isn't nearly as good as the novel, but still manages to come off well. The brother of a secret agent, who was supposedly murdered by a group of ex-Nazi's, is terrorized for reasons he has no understanding of. The action is non-stop and the bad guys are very bad. A shame the sequel wasn't put on film also, as it carried the story on to new areas and contained one very big surprise relating to the original story. "},{"Title":"Excellent Cinematography","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Just watch this film,last nite,on Tv ,after years of unaware... I was stunned by the story,the acting of Dustin Hoffman and the excellent cinematography by Conrad Hall...expecially on the night scenes,never see so depth of field...not so easly with traditional cinematography and zero artifacts like digital effects... It remember me Thief shoot by Don Thorin on 1980,and I can say that I relize only now what we have lost on terms of knowledge and know/how when mr.Hall passed away... May be this movie also an example of cinematography for the future younger generation...   "},{"Title":"Is it Safe?","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The best line in this classic film.  What a cast Will, Larry, Dust & Roy with a strong story.  This is Hofman's best acting performances, and one I believe he can not out do.  The story is about a young college student, who's brother gets him involved indirectly with a Nazi war criminal.  I will not ruin this story for you, but the line Is it safe will for ever be imprinted in your mind after you see the film.  Suspense, horror, and tension makes this film.  Hoffmen is also knowing as creepie in this film. What else can one ask for. "},{"Title":"Open Wide And Say ARRRRGH!!!","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Scripted by William Goldman, 'Marathon Man' is undeniable classic of cinema, Dustin Hoffman, plays Babe Levy, a keen graduate student and the 'Marathon Man' of the title, unwittingly becomes involved In a deadly game of international intrigue, involving the legendary Laurence Olivier, who famously plays an Nazi Fugitve, (Szell) who after years of hiding returns to the 'land of plenty'(New York) With his deadly tool's of his dentistry trade to collect his massive cache of diamonds no doubt plundered from the suffering Jews he slaughtered, in the death camps,Hoffman and Olivier, two acting legends,face off each other in the Nail biting climax, Roy Scheider, plays Hoffman's older yet none the wiser, brother who is also mysteriously connected with Szells affairs, The film which feature's the now classic scene in which Levy is mercifully tortured by Szell(Ex dentist) still holds up today,Also starring in this golden classic is Willaim Devane, who plays Janeway, who works in the 'Division' the alluring European beauty Martha Keller,plays Hoffmans love interest, The Godfather's Richard Bright,(RIP) And Diamond's Are Forever/Man With the Golden Gun, Marc Lawrence, Have appearance's as Szells goon, "},{"Title":"Lost Race","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" There are few things sadder than seeing a movie you once liked and falling away from it. Perhaps you outgrew the emotional strings it pulled. Maybe you learned how things worked in film and now you know what they are doing and decide you actually don't like it.Possibly, the world has moved and left the thing stranded on some lonely hillock of irrelevance. For me it may be all three.This truly was celebrated when it was new. Great actors &#151; we were told &#151; in a clash of intensity never seen before. Violence and pain as well.Watching this now, it seems unsuccessful in all dimensions, all but one Schlesinger vision. This man really was adept at presenting things to us. Three scenes stand out in this regard.One is the famous chase scene near the Brooklyn Bridge. Another is the Bertolucciesque meeting and stabbing at the red stairs fountain. And finally and best for me &#151; the last scene in the waterworks set. That's sheer pleasure for me every time I see it, and the obnoxious manner of the two actors doesn't bother me either. Its obvious that the scene and particularly the dialog was written by someone other than the clipper Goldsmith. Its all so satisfying, that set.A scene that should have been great but wasn't was when our Nazi blackmailing death dentist visits the Jewish-dominated gem district to inexplicably ascertain the prices of his thousands of diamonds. Its a completely offensive setup in how artificial is the excuse to present this irony. Lost Race He is at risk of being recognized, and he is. Its a remarkable scene even while it doesn't work because it is a real, complex street scene when such were rare. But it just doesn't work. We are only left with the realization that it was a clever idea and ambitiously filmed.Here's what doesn't work. The violence. The world here is presented as falling apart. New York is nothing but piles of garbage and people quick to explode. Paris is run by mobs. The contrast with the smooth Germanic order we'd have if things had gone the other way is implicit. But Parisians ARE quick to form mobs and get violent over the most petty grievances.Even the violence of the dental torture is pale compared to the televised videos of beheaded captives that are on the same screens we see this on. It just has no effect today, where when new it registered.Ditto with seeing the breasts of our love interest. Once it had cinematic power, those few scenes where were are shown that these two really are in love. Open to each other entirely, it seems.And again with the Nazi card. It used to convey real evil. Now everyone is called a Nazi, more than one even by our current president. And he by his foes. Ho hum.But the real thing that makes me send this to the trash is the acting styles of the two main guys. I never liked Olivier and consider his Hamlet (the filmed one) an abomination, a vulgar parody. His approach is one where am assumed bearing and confidence is supposed to carry the day. Never did. Perhaps on stage where there's a different bargain over the intimacy.And Hoffman. Mechanical. Sure, I know he has a technique to be real and he works at it, very hard we are told over and over. He works really, really hard, see? But his intensities are all at where an artificial man would have highs. He has none of the silent reality that conveys. In film we can see that, see that it isn't there. Never was.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"An engrossing and often very frightening thriller","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Based on the 1974 novel of the same name by William Goldman who adapted it for the screen, this is an engrossing and often very frightening thriller. The labyrinthine plot holds together surprisingly well, even if they were a few moments here and there where I found it slightly difficult to suspend my disbelief. While the writing is certainly strong, I don't think that it is of the same very high standard that Goldman set for himself in other films. John Schlesinger's direction is generally very good when it comes to maintaining a high level of tension but there are some rather silly and over the top bits which I found difficult to take seriously.The film stars Dustin Hoffman in an excellent performance as Thomas Babington Babe Levy, a history PhD student at Columbia University. Babe is a very damaged soul whose dissertation concerns tyranny in American political life. Not so coincidentally, his father H.P. Levy was a renowned historian who was hounded out of academia because of allegations that he was a Communist during the McCarthy era. The terrible stress that he was under led him to start drinking heavily and ultimately to commit suicide. In large part because Babe was the one who found his father's body 20 years earlier, he has never truly come to terms with what happened. As such, his dissertation runs the risk of being a personal crusade against McCarthyism as opposed to a detached contribution to the field of 20th Century American history. Babe is training himself to run in a marathon, hence the film's title, and I took this as being representative of the fact that he is trying to run away from his real life by dwelling on the past and not in the way that an historian should. Babe has quite a chip on his shoulder and, in spite of the fact that he is a good, decent man, he seems as if he is not always the easiest person in the world to get along with. However, I think that his experiences in the film help him to grow as a person.Although he probably only appears on screen for a quarter of the running time at most, Laurence Olivier nevertheless steals the show with his wonderful performance as the infamous Nazi doctor Christian Szell, who was reported dead in May 1945 but has been in hiding in Uruguay for more than three decades. A thinly veiled version of Josef Mengele, Szell is a dentist who was responsible for removing gold from the prisoners' teeth in Auschwitz as well as for subjecting them to various other forms of torture. Due to his all- white hair, he received the nickname of der weiße Engel, meaning the white angel (of death, presumably). During the war, he instituted a scheme in which he promised to help wealthy Jews escape from Auschwitz in exchange for their diamonds. Since then, he has been able to live in luxury by selling the diamonds, which are kept in a safe deposit box in New York. He has one of the keys whereas his brother Klaus has the other. However, Klaus - played by Hindenburg disaster survivor Ben Dova - is killed in a road rage incident in Manhattan. This means that Szell must take the major risk of travelling to New York himself in order to continue living in the manner to which he has become accustomed. In the extraordinarily effective Is it safe? scene, Szell tortures Babe by using a dental probe on his cavity in an attempt to find out whether it is safe for him to retrieve the diamonds. Olivier casts a terrifying shadow as Szell, never making the mistake of overplaying the role. In fact, the reason that he is so frightening is that he remains outwardly calm for much of the film, particularly during the torture scenes. He and Hoffman make an unlikely duo but they work extremely well together. Olivier received his only nomination for the Best Supporting Actor Oscar but lost to Jason Robards for his decidedly mediocre, boring performance as Ben Bradlee in All the President's Men, another film starring Hoffman and written by Goldman. I had a few problems with the character of Henry Doc Levy, Babe's older brother who is one of the many couriers responsible for transporting the diamonds to Szell. Although he plays the role of an oil executive, Doc is in actuality an agent for the Division, an organisation which handles the matters that the CIA does not want to get involved in. The Division collaborates with Szell in his diamond scheme in exchange for information on other and probably less important Nazi fugitives. Roy Scheider is a very good actor and he has always had a likable screen presence but that's part of the problem, really. Doc should be a much darker or at least morally ambiguous character than he is but he comes across as a comparatively nice guy in spite of his involvement with an infamous Nazi, an approach which I did not think worked very well. In contrast, his superior Peter Janeway, played very well by William Devane, is very slimy and I would have preferred if the same was true of Doc. It is not often that I accuse a film of being too subtle but this is definitely the exception. Marthe Keller is quite strong as Elsa Opal, Babe's seemingly Swiss new girlfriend who is not entirely honest with him. Marc Lawrence and Richard Bright barely say a word but they are extremely intimidating as Szell's henchmen Karl and Erhardt. The film also features strong appearances in small roles from the great character actor Fritz Weaver as Professor Biesenthal and Jacques Marin as LeClerc.Overall, this is an extremely effective thriller but it could have been an even better one with slightly stronger writing and direction. "},{"Title":"Truly Bad","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" My problem with the film focuses on the plot, which is not remotely believable (as examined at great length in other negative reviews) and on Dustin Hoffman's performance, which is the most mannered and phony of his career. I like Hoffman in several films. I like him when he's being directed by someone strong, who can stand up to his ridiculously inflated ego, slap it down, and help the actor get at something true (Sidney Pollack comes to mind). Here, however, Hoffman is allowed to run amuck and reveal all the gas-bag I-AM-a-leading-man-because-I-work-so-hard fault lines in his work that would become so obvious in his later years. (I don't know what happened to John Schlesinger in 1976 in terms of standing-up-to-Hoffman but it was pretty bad, whatever it was. In 1969, Schlesinger was up to the task of clamping down on Hoffman's worst instincts. Where did his strength go?) The only good reason to watch Marathon Man is to see Olivier try to make something of a nothing character - he does OK and of course since he's Olivier he's always worth watching. The dental scene is not remotely as bad as it's cracked up to be. "},{"Title":"Not for the squeamish!!","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Marathon Man is a film that divides folks into two groups--those who think it's a neat film about a vicious Nazi living in the modern world and those who think it's so graphic and so violent that they'd rather never watch it in the first place. I learned this when I tried watching it with my wife...as after a while she just left the room because she couldn't stand the dental scene near the end. I know many folks who felt the same way as my lovely wife...and many who liked the film. My advice is NOT to watch it if you have a phobia about dentists or don't want to see some blood! It's certainly NOT an easy film to watch.The story is about a vicious Dr. Mengele-like Nazi who leaves his secure hiding place in South America to come to America in search of stolen diamonds. Along the way, there's some weird plot involving the US government and Dustin Hoffman. It's all a bit confusing but never dull--especially when an old Jewish survivor spots Szell on the streets!The film is complex and fascinating. The end you'll either love or hate...but it never is dull. "},{"Title":"Two great actors make a complicated story worth sticking with","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" A compelling, if slightly overly complex story, polished and professional direction by John Schlesinger, and a pair of brilliant lead performances combine to make the 1976 film Marathon Man an absolute must-see.The film stars Dustin Hoffman as Babe, a highly intelligent graduate student who finds himself embroiled in the middle of an international conspiracy involving a cache of diamonds and a former Nazi war criminal named Szell (Laurence Olivier).William Goldman's screenplay, based on his own novel, is a bit on the complex side, but the complexity can almost be forgiven because the story unfolds so slowly. We are initially confused as we watch Babe begin a new graduate course and then watch a public argument on a busy street between two men screaming at each other in German which climaxes with one of their vehicles exploding. We are confused as we watch Babe's brother, Doc (Roy Scheider), fend off a murder attempt in a hotel room before showing up on Babe's doorstep. But we then realize that Doc has put Babe in danger by coming to visit him and has gotten Babe involved in a very dangerous international conspiracy where Babe is put in serious danger only because he's related to Doc.Schlesinger has crafted a story that develops slowly, but keeps us interested until we realize exactly what's going on and how much undeserved danger Babe is in. The film is most famous for a torture scene which involves Szell's former occupation as a dentist, but this film provides other nightmarish elements as well, including an absolutely terrifying scene where Babe's apartment is broken into and he is almost drowned in his own bathtub.This was one of the most underrated and compelling films of 1976 with a solid performance by Hoffman and an Oscar-nominated turn from Olivier that should make the hair on the back of your neck stand-up. A winner "}{"Title":"The 1970s version of North by Northwest.","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Thomas Babe Levy (Dustin Hoffman) is a history student in New York, New York, United States. Babe's brother Henry Doc Levy (Roy Scheider) is a member of the division, a top secret US Government unit of elite spies investigating diamond smuggler and ex-Nazi war criminal Dr. Christian Szell (Laurence Olivier). When Szell comes to the US, Doc follows suit and everything eventually ends up on Babe's doorstep. The film stars off slowly introducing us to all that's going on, which really works. Olivier is chilling as Szell. The scene where Szell tortures Babe is one of the most famous scenes in film history. The movie is a solid thriller that never let's up. Go check it out. "},{"Title":"not sure if it makes sense but I like it a lot","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" In NYC, an old Nazi gets into an argument with an elderly Jew. They race through the streets and die in fiery car crashes. The Nazi is the brother of infamous war criminal Dr. Christian Szell (Laurence Olivier). The brother was a part of an international courier ring transporting stolen diamonds from Jews in WWII sending the proceeds back to Szell. Henry 'Doc' Levy (Roy Scheider) is a US secret agent for the Division. His brother Babe (Dustin Hoffman) is a history Ph.D. candidate. Their father committed suicide after the McCarthy communist hearing ruined his life. Babe falls for foreign student Elsa (Marthe Keller).I honestly don't know if this movie makes sense. I don't know why they're moving diamonds around. Couldn't they sell them anywhere? I'm not sure what Roy Scheider is doing. The reason that the movie works is its disjointed confused method of storytelling early on. It fits this murky world of secrets. It's a compelling jigsaw puzzle. The three characters are played by some of the greats of their time. This is a John Schlesinger film. It has a Hitchcockian feel. It's got great paranoia. "},{"Title":"Who's the baddie?","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Really enjoyed this WhyDonnit!Never really find out who the baddies are but let us just call them They! Good bit of history thrown in and managed to keep up a level of suspense from credit to credit. At a time in the 70's when all the world was in a hangover from the 60's it takes a what was then still raw look at Nazism and the rewards it brings. Although the main protagonist fails to enjoy his rewards it does ask the question of how many got away. Not particularly outstanding performances but a fantastic( if not flawed) script and direction pull this away from the mediocre. Not a classic but unforgettable!!Would like to see the directors commentary to learn more. Off I go to buy the DVD!!! "},{"Title":"A decent slow burning thriller","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Marathon Man is an entertaining thriller, but it isn't the fastest moving of films. The opening 10 minutes of the film are great fun (which is odd because the rest of the film takes on a very serious tone). Once we've got past the rather energetic start, the film takes a much slower and much more serious tone. The key word with this film is that it is 'slow' rather than 'boring'. Every scene in the film moves the story along nicely and there are a few exciting set-pieces thrown in from time to time to keep things fresh and exciting.The film is also strong in many other areas; I particularly liked the Score and found it to be moody and menacing and helped to crank up the tension when necessary. The cast are mainly good but this film really belongs to Hoffman and Olivier with Olivier clearly being the standout performer here.As mentioned the story is slow and it will require patience from the viewer, but as I've mentioned the last 30 minutes or so and the climatic showdown do provide a reasonable amount of excitement. This film could actually use the same mission statement that Guinness uses Good things come to those who wait. It really is very good once it gets going and just requires a bit of patience.The only minor criticism I have is that I felt that the film (at just over 2 hours) was a touch long given the plot involved. Other than that aside from a rather slow pace there's very little else to criticise. It's a film that I would recommend and it's also a film that I'd watch again as I suspect that it's one of those films that you'd get more out of it following a second viewing. "},{"Title":"Safe Bet For An Interesting Thriller","Date":"28 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" What made Marathon Man a good movie were the excellent performances from the actors especially Dustin Hoffman, Roy Scheider, and Laurence Oliver. While some of the others were less than impressive, the acting overall was definitely above average. The only problems I saw with the movie were in the plot. The movie was based off of the book of the same name written by William Goldman (author of the more familiar The Princess Bride) who as it turns out also wrote the screenplay for the film. In the end you still kind of feel like you are in the dark. It is a conspiracy political thriller so it is supposed to be mysterious, but I feel like you never get the full story. It was almost as if our main character Babe (Dustin Hoffman) was also content in the end with not knowing the truth. The involvement of some of the characters and their intentions is never quite made clear. Otherwise it kept you on edge, had good visuals, and excellent acting. I'd rate it a 7.5 but since it must be a whole number, I'll round it up to 8 because I love the use of the sport of running in the film. "},{"Title":"Mystery action thriller not for the queasy","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Marathon Man is a good action, mystery and crime-thriller with a splendid cast. It also has a fictitious connection to Nazi Germany and the heinous medical experiments at concentration camps. All the cast are very good n their roles. Dustin Hoffman earns the grade, if for no other reason, all the running he did for this film. William Devane is the perfect cool and smiling secret service type that one can never trust. Roy Scheider is very good as the incognito operative who loves his younger brother (Hoffman). The years of his skulduggery work have taken their toll and he shows signs of his uncertainty and worry. But, the piece de resistance performance is this film is by Laurence Olivier as Christian Szell. His manners, his eyes, his cold stare and his mocking attitude exude the character he plays. Hard-boiled, no conscience, no feelings, no love for anyone. Cold and calculating, period. That's why a line he utters stands out so much. When Hoffman's Babe takes him at gunpoint into the waterworks tower, he throws a handful of diamonds at him &#x96; many fall into the water. This is madness. Mad, he says. It's madness to him for Babe to throw millions of dollars of diamonds away. But what he, Szell did to people in Nazi concentration camps wasn't madness. The drama of this man's warped mind is captured in a fantastic shot. Babe tells him he can have all the diamonds he can swallow. Szell puts one in his mouth and the camera pans to a close-up as his lips part to show the diamond clenched between his teeth and Szell looking with a steely-eyed glare of defiance. Wow! Horrible! But great acting by Sir Laurence. Marthe Keller was fine in her role, but she was part of the only really weak part of the film. That was her pick up and liaison with Babe. Neither of them carried that out believably. Perhaps a script change was needed. It just didn't seem very likely &#x96; way before we discover the set up. Still, this is an entertaining action thriller. Those with queasy stomachs may want to avoid it &#x96; or get up and go in the next room during the dental torture scenes. "},{"Title":"Like one of those 1,000 piece jigsaw puzzles","Date":"27 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Well, okay since this movie was available to watch for free on my Kindle through the Xfinity app, I thought, why not.To me though, the movie is extremely complicated even if it does have one of the best Dustin Hoffman performances ever in it. There is a mood created throughout with lots of darkness, unusual angles and quick cuts, which puts also gives it a nightmarish, film noir quality. This is the type of movie that probably gets studied and analyzed in college cinema classes.Maybe it's because of my limited experience with this type of movie (romantic comedies and horror being my favorite genres) which causes my confusion. For a long time I've heard people describe the famous torture sequences in detail and say things like ...he (Dustin Hoffman's Babe character) crosses the mob. Nuh-uh. From my perspective he doesn't know WTF is going on. He thought his older brother Doc (Roy Scheider) was in the oil business when he was a shady international profiteer instead. So what makes the torture scenes especially harrowing is that poor Babe has no earthly idea why he's being treated like that. Is it safe? WTF???? The version I watched came off of a cable feed and the dental scenes may have been cut but they were still horrifying. And the last 30 mins make the most sense of the whole movie. At least it becomes a little clearer why Lawrence Olivier's menacing Szell character goes to such extreme lengths to find out whether it is safe or not.Believe it or not, it has a satisfying, if not exactly happy ending. "},{"Title":"The cast is excellent.","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Marathon Man is good, solid entertainment, a gripping thriller that goes far on its star power, sense of intrigue, haunting subtext, and genuinely riveting chases. It's of course notorious for the instantly memorable Is it safe? torture sequence, but fortunately there is more to it than that. What helps is that its main character is a basically innocent type who, because of the actions of others, ends up in a situation where he's way over his head. The film likewise benefits from a truly commanding villain. Scripted by William Goldman from his novel, the plot is twisty and keeps one watching.Dustin Hoffman stars as Babe Levy, a graduate student doing a thesis on tyranny throughout history. He's plunged into the world of international intrigue when his brother Doc (Roy Scheider) dies in his arms, and the people with whom Doc was doing business start terrorizing Babe. The main culprit is a former Nazi war criminal, Christian Szell (Laurence Olivier), who has come out of hiding after many years.Hoffman *is* believable every step of the way, and it's not too hard to root for him and be concerned for his welfare. Scheider is thoroughly engaging in his time on screen. Olivier is a wonderful bad guy. Marthe Keller is fine as the fellow student whom Babe encounters only for him to later learn that their meeting wasn't by chance. William Devane is perfect as Scheiders' cunning colleague. And the superb character actors Fritz Weaver, Richard Bright, and Marc Lawrence round out the main cast.Director John Schlesinger keeps the action taut, and is aided by a talented crew including cinematographer Conrad Hall. Michael Small contributes a great score. The aforementioned torture scene with Hoffman and mad dentist Olivier may be the one that stays with most people after the film is over, but the later parts when Babe is very much running for his life do keep one glued to the screen. Only the conclusion fails to be very satisfying.But, all in all, this is very absorbing and fun to watch.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"This one didn't hit home for me","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" In the last few years I have become an avid fan of classic film. One of the biggest reasons behind this is when I started watching all these films that are generally considered classics, nearly every single one of them are nothing short of brilliant. There is almost always a reason why these films are timeless classics. I've been keeping Marathon Man on the back burner for awhile but I was pretty excited to see it. I love Dustin Hoffman and I was looking forward to seeing this. I have to admit that it sort of let me down. The movie, in my opinion, is okay at best. I know it was a big hit in 1976 and even had a lot of controversy around it because of the violence and content but I didn't feel like it held up very well years later. There is a lot of talent in the film but I felt like the characters and story were a little disjointed. It didn't flow very well and I found it hard to follow because nothing really stood out or came together very easily. I was amazed to find out how well respected this movie is and how much of it is considered iconic though I have never heard of the characters or the lines considered thus. To me the writing felt sloppy and it just misses the effectiveness that should have been there from a thriller like this.Dustin Hoffman is a legend and he has had too many great roles to count. I found his character almost drab in this. He seemed out of place (and I know to some extent that was the point) but I didn't find myself invested enough in his character. His chaotic and spiral into fear didn't capture me in the right way. I do understand why some would consider Laurence Olivier so brilliant in this. He is absolutely a twisted and blood thirsty villain who has some truly great scenes especially towards the end of the film. He definitely gives the best performance and considering the man was ravaged with cancer during this performance you have to give him props for an intense and villainous role. He takes an otherwise dreary script and makes it his own. The lack of chemistry though between Hoffman and Olivier was what made parts of the film seem so dull. Roy Scheider has a mostly small, effective role that he doesn't really get to do much with but he has enough charisma on screen to make his performance noticeable. Marthe Keller is decent but painfully predictable in her role as Hoffman's love interest. The moment she appeared on screen I had her entire character figured out because they made it so blatantly obvious. William Devane also has a very small role that is almost pointless and could have been played by any person.There are definitely a few intense, violent scenes that come out of nowhere adding to the shock value but it does nothing to make the story any more effective. I suppose if I had seen the film back in '76 it would have been less predictable, obvious and bland to me but this genre has been done before and done better since. This is the first film I have seen of John Schlesinger's but really his claim to fame is this and Midnight Cowboy. If you look at his film bio, he has had a string of movies that no one has ever heard of. I think perhaps he got lucky with those two films and that his talent isn't as great as his luck is. The directing and the writing feels clumsy and there are certain scenes where I could feel the tension and see the possibility of a truly great moment but the directing is foolish and leaves it in the dust. The closing scene of this film is probably the most effective but to me that scene in the water treatment plant could have been EPIC...and instead it was missing something. Again, Olivier commands the scene completely and Hoffman seems awkwardly out of place and almost bored. I very much wanted to like Marathon Man but it didn't hit the right notes for me. The reason to watch this film is Olivier without a doubt and the rest is lacklustre at best. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Is it safe?","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" What an instantly memorable quote - Is it safe? There can't be many film buffs who don't know that quote, and don't remember that classic scene, which is Laurence Olivier's best piece of acting in film by far and leaves many people with a fear of the dentist, or at least a little squeamish at the idea of having toothache. Of course, there is more to the film Marathon Man than just one scene, but that scene is the scene that single handedly lifts this film from what could have been a hum- drum thriller that doesn't always make sense or move as quickly as it should. Marathon Man starts with a German in New York picking up a package. He passes this package on to someone else, and goes to his car. Following a car chase, the German ends up dead, and it is revealed that he was the bother of War Criminal Christian Szell (Laurence Olivier), who was a Nazi dentist. At the same time, student Babe Levy (Dustin Hoffman) discovers this his brother is in league with a mysterious government organisation, that in turn is dealing with Szell. When Babe's brother is killed, Szell assumes that Babe must know more than he really does and goes after him. The plot for this film is at times a bit too loose, and a bit slow. Writer William Goldman adapted the screenplay from his own book, and broke his own rule about 'getting in as late as you can, and getting out as early as you can'. The first 30 minutes of this film could have been cut, and the character of Szell introduced a little earlier. The film would have moved with more suitable pace had that happened. That said, the arrival of the character of Szell is what really lifts this film. Laurence Oliver earned his Oscar nomination for the role of the villainous Nazi. He is so understated in the role, so cool (is that is the right word), that you can feel the pure evil of the character on the screen. Every scene that he is in, he steals, and of course he's the one responsible for the infamous delivery of Is it safe. There are not many others who could have acted a villain with such understated menace. The film also benefits from a very strong cast including Dustin Hoffman (who is a little too old for the role, but it doesn't matter), William Devane and Roy Scheider, who successfully help lift this thriller. Roy Scheider in particular can be singled out for his skill, which takes a questionable character and makes him believable. The direction from John Schlesinger is also tight, and dark. The action scenes are very well directed, and are very believable. I wouldn't say there are any fight scenes or action scenes in this that are overly gratuitous. It's a solidly directed. I just wish that Goldman had followed his own advice and cut a few bits and pieces from the script. Had he done that, the pace and the plot would have been faster and sharper. Still, everything else from the acting to the action make up for it.Very much recommended. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Harrowing Thriller.","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Dustin Hoffman plays a history graduate student who finds himself unwittingly involved with an infamous fugitive Nazi war criminal(Sir Laurence Olivier, excellent) who is determined to find some stolen diamonds, after his brother is killed in a car accident, and he must go on the run. Roy Scheider plays Hoffman's brother, who is also a government agent, which is what leads Olivier to Hoffman, and into a particularly brutal torture scene in a dentist's chair that scared audiences away from perfectly nice dentists for years. William Devane plays another government agent, whose loyalty is debatable...Harrowing thriller is well directed by John Schlesinger, and adapted by William Goldman, from his novel. Film is at times muddled and far-fetched, but kept on track by the fine performances of its cast, and has a memorable ending. Not for the squeamish however! "},{"Title":"The Falcon and the Snowman","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a brief review of Marathon Man and The Falcon and the Snowman, two thrillers by director John Schlesinger. The more famous of the two, Marathon Man's about a grad student (Dustin Hoffman) who becomes embroiled in his big brother's business (Roy Scheider), which unfortunately has to do with spies, guns, double agents, diamonds and evil Nazi dentists. Scheider is suave, Hoffman is excellent and Schlesinger hits us with some neat visuals (the reveal of the Eiffel tower is stunning), but what's most interesting about the film is the way that its various plot lines don't intersect until the 1 hour mark. Even then, it takes a further half hour for things to start making sense. Unfortunately, the film ends with a clichéd showdown between the villain and the good guy, everything neatly resolved and explained. The Falcon and the Snowman is a bit more ambitious. Sean Penn and Timothy Hutton play two friends who sell government secrets to the Soviet Union. Hutton works as a civil defence contractor and smuggles information out of his office and into the hands of Penn, a small time drug dealer who has no qualms selling to the KGB. Penn does this strictly for the money, whilst Hutton is disillusioned with the American government (particularly its attempt to depose the leader of Australia) and so sells the secrets strictly because he hates how his country commits crimes and conducts games of espionage. In a sense, the film is about a conspiracy undertaken as a response to conspiracies.Incidentally, the secrets being sold in the film are loosely based on historical facts. The CIA and MI5 really did overthrow the Australian government via a clandestine coup in 1975. This - an attempt to remove a left leaning Labour cabinet - echoes similar CIA plots in over 80 countries over the past century. In the name of Western capitalist and Imperialist interests, countless egalitarian political movements have been murderously eradicated.Marathon Man &#x96; 7.9/10 The Falcon and the Snowman &#x96; 8/10 Aside from an oddly slapstick car crash and its clichéd ending, Marathon Man is an effective thriller, with several neat scenes. Snowman is even better, Penn turning in a memorable performance. "},{"Title":"Marathon Man The fight of an ordinary man against a Nazi war criminal based on a book by William Goldman","Date":"15 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" There are plenty of reasons to watch Marathon Man.I would like to cite two key reasons which would induce ordinary viewers as well as inveterate cinéphiles to watch this film.Firstly,it is directed by a leading English director John Schlesinger who made Midnight Cowboy. Secondly,this film features an attractive star cast made up of actors namely Sir Laurence Olivier,Dustin Hoffman and Roy Scheider. Marthe Keller,noted Swiss actress too has a minor albeit important role.As a film,Marathon Man is the fight of an ordinary man against clever criminals. The film depicts that it is possible for a common man to gather courage and fight against forces which threaten his existence. Marathon Man has been hailed as a commercial success but has weak spots in the form of its numerous sub plots which might be construed as a narrative obstacle.This is the reason why it shifts sporadically from the destiny of a relentless Nazi war criminal to the current life of an agile secret service agent to end up around a shy history student. However,despite this minor shortcoming justice is upheld in the end.This is something which viewers would retain after having seen the film. "},{"Title":"Is it safe?... Is it safe?","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Laurence Olivier received an Oscar nomination for Best Motion Picture Actor in a Supporting Role. BAFTA and Golden Globe nominations were also handed out for John Schlesinger's direction, Dustin Hoffman and Marthe Keller's acting, and William Goldman's script.This is the way thrillers used to be made, and producers today should pay attention.It slowly draws you in. You really don't know how things connect at first. You don't know who to trust. You really don't know what they are after.When it does get going, the action is fast and furious. The holes are filled in, and we know that the challenge will be to survive.Great acting, great direction and a great script. "},{"Title":"From Shakespearean to German, Olivier has done it all with majestic flair and ease.","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" If it wasn't for Dustin Hoffman's speech when Sir Larry was awarded the Cecil B. DeMille Award, I wouldn't have watched this film. Dustin extols the works of Larry Olivier and how he, despite the physical suffering, gave one of his best performances in decades, with utmost dedication.The wonderful screenplay filled with several twists adds to the suspense in this political thriller. At a certain point, I was unsure of what I was watching- a compilation of too many short stories with subplots- but at a later point, they all started to converge and then emerged the perfect, realistic ending to the movie.Sir Laurence plays a former Nazi who made a good fortune during the holocaust by ferrying wealthy Jews to safety, in return for gold. He keeps his brother in-charge of the diamonds in a bank's safe and with the accidental death of his brother, many men are after the bounty and this forces the exiled Szell to step in the scene. He tries to terminate Doc, who too knows about the diamonds but Doc escapes and when they fail to strike a deal, he brutally murders Doc and tortures Babe, who is clueless as to what was happening.Babe, deeply mired in controversy and bereaved, is hunted by Szell's men. Babe resists, overcomes them and reaches Szell and offers Szell a fine way of keeping his diamonds- by swallowing as many as he can.The death of Szell concludes one of the best thrillers of the 70s. "},{"Title":"A classic thriller that will leave your teeth chattering.....","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Dustin Hoffman is a put-upon New Yorker, a rather introverted young man interested in history whose brother (Roy Scheider) is involved in a case that will keep you in suspense for two hours as to the details of everything that happens. This is the story of one of the most vile men in history, a former Nazi (Laurence Olivier) now living in Uruguay who must come to New York to uncover the diamonds left to him by his late brother who was killed in a vile car accident while arguing with a Jewish man. This is a huge puzzle with many pieces and one of the most despicable villains in film history. Olivier's Szell is an urbane man, most romantic in many ways, but like Bela Lugosi's Dracula, the Nazi's played by Conrad Veidt and Dr. Hannibal Lector in Silence of the Lambs, do not let his sophistication and seemingly calm nature fool you.The shot of Hoffman running around the reservoir in Central Park (once blocked by a wire fence before the current gates were put in) is truly memorable as are the block houses in which he passes on a daily basis but finally takes refuge in for the final confrontation with Olivier. In fact, there are some truly memorable New York scenes, from Central Park's Ramble to the old streets of the financial district, and finally the jewelry district where we see Olivier at his most officious. It is ironic that just two years later, he would play a Nazi hunter in the brilliant The Boys From Brazil. This chilling thriller is a treat from start to finish, certainly not for the queasy, but not impossible to watch for those who have a dislike for dental drills. Just hearing Olivier repeating Is It Safe? will give the viewer chills, and is perhaps one of the greatest tag lines in movie history.Beautifully filmed and well acted by supporting players William Devane and Marthe Keller (whose loyalties are never clear), Marathon Man is one of the best movies of the 1970's, extremely well written and perfectly directed by John Schleshinger. "},{"Title":"Bloated runtime, missing intrigue blows the cover","Date":"11 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Marathon Man never quite could elevate itself than your average pot boiler type thriller despite the excellent performances and able direction. Though it tries to be secretive, compartmentalizing and strategically letting in on information to the viewers, I could not find it intriguing enough to sit on the edge. The cloak and dagger stuff is predictable and poorly executed and the scenes inserted to just get the screenplay and plot moving are laughable.Doc (Roy Scheider) is a Government operative in pursuit of some diamonds stashed by a Nazi War criminal Szell (Laurence Olivier) dubbed the White Angel. Babe (Dustin Hoffman) is a history student and a younger brother to Doc, he is also practicing to participate in a full marathon and meets a beautiful girl of foreign origin Elsa (Marthe Keller). One day Doc falls into Babe's doorstep with a stab wound and succumbs before he tells anything. Babe is then abducted, tortured and pursued to spit out what Doc has revealed in his final moments.A scene in the first 15 minutes where two old men has a road rage is one of the worst scenes I have come across. The entire story runs on the paranoia of Szell regarding the safety of his diamonds and the way they came up for portraying it is by Szell saying he is paranoid about the safety of his diamonds. Occasionally it gets loud and irrational (large help from Hoffman's character) and I never made me bothered to feel what is going to come next. The character Elsa does not do enough justification considering the screen time. Scheider gives a calculated and reliable performance while Hoffman is inconsistent. The scene of Szell walking by the Jewish market was effective but could have raised the pulse had it been longer or if could have been the climax. The climax was very badly done depicting a cheap B-movie.Bloated runtime, missing intrigue blows the cover "},{"Title":"More than a thriller, a nightmarish existential masterpiece ...","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" In a nutshell, John Schlesinger's Marathon Man is one of the greatest thrillers of the 70's, an intricate and paranoid masterpiece, served by an impeccable casting Dustin Hoffman, Laurence Olivier, Roy Scheider, Marthe Keller and Richard Bright. Thomas Babbington Levy aka 'Babe' studies history in Columbia University and prepares a thesis on Tyranny in America. He's also a marathon runner, training every day in Central Park, trying to emulate his idol, the Ethiopian marathon runner Abebe Bikila. A sepia footage of Bikila's victory in Tokyo Olympic Games punctuates the opening credits sequence; although the athlete is more notorious for having won the previous marathon in Rome &#x85; barefoot. Bikila explained; I wanted the world to know that my country, Ethiopia, has always won with determination and heroism These two words hit a sensitive chord in Babe. His father killed himself during the McCarthyism, leaving unanswered the question of his innocence. Babe's thesis can't avoid this dark parenthesis as reminds his teacher (who admired his father) and Babe acknowledges that. The wound is even harder to conceal because he's torn between his filial love and his personal admiration of virtues like bravery. His father could have faced the hearings and be a model if not a hero, he chose to be a victim, not even a martyr since he inflicted his own punishment by pulling the trigger. Babe keeps the gun in a drawer like the infamous weight of guilt in his heart, the detestable idea of having either a traitor or a weak man as a father.Why are you keeping the gun? Asks his brother 'Doc' (Roy Scheider), Babe doesn't know or maybe he does and keeps it as a warning, he might end like his father, with whom he's got a lot in common, while Doc, more of a respectable businessman type would have been disowned. In a way, Babe lives his life like a marathon; it's a matter of determination, as said Bikila being the fastest on the long run. The secret is endurance and the capability of canalizing the pain and keeping on running. He carries the infamy of his father's lack of 'heroism' and punishes himself as to exorcise his inner demons. And the secret is to find balance by sticking to the weight of past through his history studies and escaping from it through running.The character study is almost imperceptible behind the Hitchcockian and sometimes James Bond-like feeling of some scenes, but there's no doubt that Babe as a tormented man, haunted by his past, is the center of the psychological drama. And as counterpart, the film provides an unforgettable villain through Dr. Christian Szell, a Nazi-dentist played by Laurence Olivier in a virtuoso performance. Olivier is not only scary as the White Angel, but like many iconic villains, he's not genuinely frightening but keeps a gentlemanly attitude that makes him even scarier. The softness and even carefulness he displays when checking Babe's teeth is more horror-inducing than the piercing scream when he probes a cavity. I'm referring of course to one of the scariest scenes of cinema's history.Is it safe?' repeatedly asks Dr. Szell to an exhausted Babe, he has just been kidnapped, saw his brother dying in his arms, and has been near-drowned in his bathtub Babe is naturally baffled by the question. The efficiency of the scene is conveyed by our total empathy toward Babe because we know he doesn't know. What safe? What the it refers to? I've seen this scene enough to remember the extraordinary close-up right after Babe replies sarcastically, Olivier is so scary that we immediately figure Babe's next reaction, no, it's not safe, it's dangerous, be careful. The directing and the focus on Olivier put us on the same emotional wavelength than Babe and we endure the scene just as if we were in his place. If only because going to the dentist is a painful experience, but relatively banal so anyone can relate to it.Yet again, there's more than a simple scene terrorizing viewers for the sake of it. Szell immediately applies some oil of cloves and the pain disappears. He gives Babe a cruel choice between telling what he knows and being relieved from the pain, or keeping silent and suffering, and when you know nothing, when truth is as painful as silence, you're stuck in an existential nightmare. To a certain degree, Babe is pushed to the same dead-end as his father during the hearings. Except that he manages to escape from the bad guys and inevitably runs for his life. The chase sequence is another brilliant piece of filmmaking. Babe is out of breath because he's a distance runner, not a sprinter but he runs for his survival, he decides to live, he embodies the same determination than his idol Bikila, fittingly running barefoot during the whole chase.But if he's clearly determined, he's not heroic yet. As Szell said, he belongs to the past, while Babe studies the past. In a way, Szell is the one that confronts Babe to his inner demons, and it's only when Babe gets back to Szell and risks his life to avenge the death of his brother, to make Szell swallow the same diamonds that were bought with the blood of Jewish people in Concentration Camp. It's only when he finally confronts his own bravery and caused Szell to impale himself with the same retractable blade that killed his brother, killing him without pulling the trigger, that Babe finally cleared his conscience, and it's not surprising that the last thing he does is throwing his father's gun in the water. I know I could have explored other themes, other performances, but I just feel that, like a good wine, the film gets better after more viewings revealing more hidden gems beneath the thriller surface, like the fact that it's a fascinating character study and one of Dustin Hoffman's greatest roles. "},{"Title":"A great thriller that is full of suspense.","Date":"2 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I watched this film because it was recommended to me by my mother, usually we don't like the same kind of films but this was an exception. I don't like going into detail when I am reviewing films because well... I can't, I don't have the technical vocabulary or knowledge of films to write a review like a professional, I simply write my opinion and my opinion is that this is a great thriller. It keeps you guessing, when you figure out the bad guy is a German you are suspicious of Babe's new found girlfriend, when the co-worker of Babe's brother is helping Babe you are continuously suspicious as he seems like the type that you cannot trust and the torture scene is the best, I won't ruin the horrible surprise but when Babe is being questioned, the person questioning him is preparing himself to perform the torture at the same time, it is very suspenseful, it gives you a feeling of helplessness, no matter what Babe says even if it is the truth he is still going to go through unimaginable pain and yet you still have hope that he won't. Also I love the ending, again I won't go into detail as I don't want to spoil it but it is great. "},{"Title":"Terrific thriller","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have always found this to be a very entertaining, involving, taut suspense movie with some very dramatic scenes. I've seen in three times and liked it better each time, particularly since it's been available on DVD which enhanced the sound from mono to stereo, and the 1.851 widescreen enhancing the cinematography.I didn't find the infamous (this was quite a buzz when the film came out) dentist scene to be as terrifying as it was made up to be and the references to the McCarthy hearings are a bit annoying and typical of Hollywood director John Scheslinger. It's also a typical modern-day film in which the U.S government's police agencies are corrupt (oh, puhleeze, filmmakers - think of something new).However, despite those negatives, the film is fascinating with no dry spots despite its two-hour length. There is a nice variety of action scenes and very interesting characters. Marthe Keller never looked better. Too bad she didn't make more movies in the U.S. Dustin Hoffman, as he did so well in the '70s, keeps your attention and Laurence Olivier is absolutely riveting. This is a terrific thriller, start to finish. "}{"Title":"Everything we do cuts both ways.","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" While watching this film for the first time, it's easy to get caught up in the drama and intrigue of the characters and their situations. When it's over and you start to think about how things played out, there's a lot that happened that defies credibility. For starters, there's the library encounter between Babe (Dustin Hoffman) and Elsa (Marthe Keller); what if he simply weren't interested? Or the way Szell (Laurence Olivier) didn't finish the job of killing Doc (Roy Scheider). Why just leave him there without his death a certainty? So what you have to do I guess, is overlook those tenuous plot points and go with the flow of the story. When you do, it works as an effective thriller that produces a few nail biting moments. As someone who has his own personal nose mask for my trips to the dentist, (nitrous oxide a requirement), the dental scene was particularly cringe worthy. I have to admit however, even though it was probably stated a couple of dozen times, I'm not quite sure what Is it safe? was supposed to convey. It sure sounded like an important question, but I think my own reaction would have been the same as Babe's, I'd cover myself with an answer on both sides of the fence.You know, I get a kick out of any movie that features a running scene, because unless you're a runner yourself, you probably don't realize that a non-athlete would never be able to keep any kind of pace for more than say, a city block. Now Hoffman's character was in training for a marathon, so he gets a pass. However someone like Janeway would never have been able to keep up with his quarry. At full tilt, your lungs would burn after only a few minutes; forcing yourself and you'd just collapse. Come to think of it, Hoffman's character didn't look like a convincing runner himself, but since it's called Marathon Man, we'll have to go with it.I guess it sounds like I'm being harsh on the picture but I actually enjoyed it for it's tension and suspense. But as I say, some things like Babe's ability to out-gun three professionals at the farm house was stretching things a bit. I liked the ending though. Can you imagine all those diamonds falling away after having made them your life's work? For me, that hurt more than pulling teeth. "},{"Title":"Powerful Tense Cinema","Date":"14 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Recently, I found myself discussing this seventies gem with my father (a director of theatre productions for many years). We focused on the two central performances of Szell (played with convincing menace by Olivier) and Levy (energetically delivered by Hoffman). We're both big admirers of these actors, so this film's worth a viewing on that basis alone.A strong cast complete an often tense, moving drama. Political thrillers need tension. Here, we're drawn into a taunt world that's rooted in truth. There's tension between the two brothers (who are dealing with the death of their father in different ways). Political tension is also examined, since the McCarthyism that led to Levy Senior's death is similar to another form of lingering tyranny, Nazism. The writing is subtle and powerful. Film companies don't often make films as clever as Marathon Man. But I doubt the issues examined here have really gone away. Underpinning the story is the haunting reality of Jewish Holocaust, one of the darkest moments in 20th century history. The film is formidable in this respect, because even back in 1976, the Holocaust of the 1940s had already happened decades ago. Through a 21st century lens, the story still has a powerful message.Characters like the Weis Engel really did exist, they really did perform unnecessary operations on their victims and it was always about the money. So, ask yourselves guys Is it safe? "},{"Title":"Dustin Hoffman stars an excellent thriller","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Thomas Babe Levy is a graduate history student and a marathon runner.His brother Henry, nicknamed Doc, appears and Babe believes he works as an oil company executive when in fact he is a U.S. government agent.The brother of a Nazi war criminal has a safety deposit box key to a valuable diamond collection, but is killed in a car accident after a Jewish man chases him.Soon we see his brother, Dr. Szell, who is still feared by many Auschwitz survivors.Babe falls for a woman named Elsa Opel, who claims to come from Switzerland, but is actually German.His brother is killed by Szell, and soon Babe is in danger.The Marathon Man (1976) is directed by John Schlesinger.It's based on William Goldman's novel, which I haven't read.Dustin Hoffman is amazing as Babe.Laurence Olivier gives an outstanding performance as Dr. Christian Szell.Roy Scheider is great as Doc.William Devane is terrific as Peter Janeway.Marthe Keller is very good as Opel.The movie has got many thrilling scenes.One of them is when Babe makes his escape.And when the hoodlums rob his apartment, after has asked them to do so to get his gun.And it almost hurts to watch the torture scene with the dentist equipment.I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"A very good thriller!!","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The plot goes up intelligently and skillfully helped by a nice atmosphere, a proper tone, beautifully served by the interpretations of actors, particularly that of Dustin Hoffman and Roy Scheider.The pace of this film takes us gradually and gently into the mystery of the plot and then so breathless.An interesting plot directly inspired geopolitical background of real history, which allows some interesting reflections.A very good thriller, certainly precursor and inspiring for the future movies.Watch this movie !!Jeliosjelios@hotmail.fr "},{"Title":"Stays the distance","Date":"17 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Cracking, if slightly improbable mid 70's thriller with the kind of labyrinthine plot born of a thumpingly thick paperback adaptation. It takes a long time for the various pieces to fit, which piques your interest along the way, interspersed with some effective action / violent interludes leading up to a dramatic conclusion between its two major stars Dustin Hoffman and Laurence Olivier.Director Schlesinger keeps the pace moving and if occasionally dwelling too long on a scene (for instance the road-rage duel in New York between Olivier's Nazi war criminal Szell's brother and a hot-tempered elderly Jew which turns blazingly fatal for both and precipitates the succeeding events) and over-marginalising other characters (for instance Marthe Keller's character), never forgets that it's principally Hoffman and Olivier that we're wanting to see. Their encounters centre and close the film, with turnabout as fair play when we get to see Hoffman putting his dentist-tormentor through an almost as excruciating orificial ordeal. In my mind I'm still not sure of the significance of Hoffman's adored father's suicide to the proceedings other than to define and differentiate his character from brother Scheider or why we're treated to presumably imagined or inspirational black and white shots of an athlete running a marathon, but a film as big as this is bound to have some head-scratching loose ends to ponder.The violence is extremely well done, from Hoffman's brother Roy Scheider life-or-death fight in his hotel room near the start, to his sudden demise at the hands of Olivier, night-lit by the fountain (although to be fair Szell's Rosa Klebb-type implement belongs in a different, more escapist type of thriller altogether), Hoffman's lung-busting break for freedom where his roadwork training comes to his aid, taking in the notorious scenes where Hoffman gets a double dose of Olivier's individual dental care, being asked all the time Is it safe with Olivier delivering the line differently each time.The modern day cinematography is excellent, making good use of actual New York locations, there's an effective soundtrack helping the action along, while the acting by the two principals is excellent, their scenes together having a real frisson. Support players Scheider and William Devane also acquit themselves with aplomb.No, this is the way I like my modern-day thrillers, taut, mysterious and gripping. Marathon Man deserves a gold medal for satisfactorily delivering all three. "},{"Title":"pretty good political thriller.(7.5/10)","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" this is a pretty good political thriller.aside from a few slow moments,it's well paced.it's very intense and suspenseful.i did find it a bit predictable,but that's a minor quibble with this film.Dustin Hoffman stars as a college student who unwittingly becomes caught up in political intrigue and danger.Laurence Oliver stars as well in a chilling villainous performance.William Devane co stars.but i really liked the Swiss actress Marthe Keller.she was very good here in my opinion.you may not think the title The Marathon Man means much but it actually ties in well with the movie.in any event,this is a taught well made thriller.for me,The marathon Man is a 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Exciting story about a  young student  and marathon runner,  cruelly pursued by a  brutal ex- Nazi","Date":"27 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This pursuit-thriller concerns about previous aging Nazi Dr. Szell(Laurence Olivier), a Joseph Mengele-alike, an arch-nasty denominated the 'White Angel of Auschwitz', he has an insidious scheme to get a priceless diamonds and he will not stop at nothing . A graduate history student named Babe(a superb Dustin Hoffman) and expert runner in N.Y. is drawn into a criminal whirlpool. He becomes unwittingly involved to sadistic Nazi, along with his brother(Roy Scheider) an his European fiancée(Marthe Keller). Meanwhile, Babe is pursued by the Szell's hoodlums(Richard Bright, Mark Lawrence). He's helped by a secret agent(William Devane) from an organization called 'the Division' which also belongs his brother and whose members start to be killed one by one. Szell has a diamonds treasure hidden into a safety box and is aware which 'the runner' knows whether or no it is safe to go to pick it up.This exciting movie packs noisy action, thrills, chills,love story, betrayal and is quite entertaining. This intense thriller that holds your interest throughout, certainly is worth watch seeing for Olivier's brilliant, credible performance as repellent and murderous villain, including one of the creepiest scenes of tortures ever made. Interesting movie but with some holes and gaps and ridiculous scenes , as the silly chase at the beginning when the brother of the infamous Nazi war criminal undergoes a race cars causing a collision course, as at the ending when the Doctor Szell is unbelievable recognized by people here and there. Suspenseful musical score by Michael Small and adequate cinematography by Conrad L. Hall. The motion picture is well directed by Englishman John Schelesinger. He's a dramas(Far from the madding crowd,Day of Locust, Yanks, Midnight cowboy) expert and suspense(Believers, eye for eye, The innocents, Falcon and snowman)movies. "},{"Title":"Definitely Reccomendable!","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" As far as thrillers go, the genre name has become a label of the plot type, since most films that call themselves that fail to generate much (if any) tension. Marathon Man is not one of them. It starts out with a bang, which serves as a preview of the suspense to come. Then it has a slow period (that's more brief than one might expect). Finally, it kicks into high gear and it doesn't stop until the end.Babe (Dustin Hoffman) is a graduate student working on his thesis who gets pulled into a scheme involving a wanted Nazi criminal and a lot of diamonds. That's really about all that can be said without giving anything away.Marathon Man is more suspenseful than it probably deserves, as the story isn't exactly airtight (nor is it that compelling for that matter). Additionally, the performances aren't that great either, though they get the job done. Credit goes to John Schlesinger for being able to generate such tension with this material.Solid is the word that probably describes the acting in the film. Dustin Hoffman is less aloof than he usually is, and it suits the material better than if he had given Babe a few quirks to make him more interesting (it's not that kind of a movie). Roy Scheider is also good here. I liked the rapport he had with his on-screen brother Babe, which made their relationship very believable. Also solid is Marthe Keller as Babe's new girlfriend, who is able to capture our sympathy. Though not as big of a name as her co-stars (at least in the present day), she fits right in.Much has been made of Laurence Olivier's performance. He was nominated for an Oscar, and one of cinema's classic lines is uttered by him. Actually though, while he is suitably villainous, he's really not that creepy. Instead, William Devane is (I can't go more into his character without giving anything away--just take my word for it).The story isn't very original, and it suffers from the lack of intelligence that most thrillers do. An example of this would be the fact that despite Babe being a graduate student at an Ivy League university, he certainly does some dumb things (this appears that is present only to fit with the setting, not the character-again like most thrillers). Still, Schlesinger puts this film together so well that we're willing to overlook (if not forget) these inconsistencies).Marathon Man is a '70s thriller through and through. From the film style to the typical thriller soundtrack that was leftover from Hitchcockian films (a name that actually fits because in many ways, it's very similar to a film from the Master of Suspense).If you're looking for two hours of suspense, check this one out. "},{"Title":"Perfect performances all around...","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film progressively builds the suspense, and you will not be able to miss one minute, without feeling you are missing a particular insight, or nuance added by the director. How many movies fit this category?. Sadly, precious few.Roy Scheider as Doc has a nefarious job as an oil executive (code for CIA) as Dustin Hoffman tells his professor. Hoffman is a candidate for his Doctoral degree in history, and there are some telling scenes with Fritz Weaver. ...the McCarthy exploits are central to your dissertation... he says, as Hoffman states his doctoral thesis is to encompass government use of tyranny to manipulate its people.Scheider ends up dead by the hand of Nazi leader, Szell (Flawless performance by Laurence Olivier). The scenes in South America are foretelling, as we see Szell, all in white, his perfectly rearranged life as a Nazi war criminal seemingly untouchable. He must visit New York to acquire his spoils, a kings ransom of diamonds acquired from his war victims.There are some suspenseful and nail biting scenes, such as the Szell dentist scene. Is it safe he asks, as Hoffman is forced to undergo excruciating oral surgery/torture.Overall this is the perfect suspense and war paranoia film, which has you watching every minute with trepidation and sympathy for Hoffman. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Olivier was a Horrible Dentist","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Have seen this film many times and it always holds my interest from the beginning to the very end. Dustin Hoffman, (Thomas Levy) is a brilliant graduate history student and loves to prepare himself for a marathon and is running through Central Park, New York all the time. Thomas has a brother Henry Levy, (Roy Scheider) who is involved with the government and realizes that his brother is getting deeply involved with an international crime which involves stolen diamonds which were given to Henry Levy by Jewish people. Dr. Christian Szell, ( Laurence Olivier) is a former Nazi doctor who performed horrible operations on poor Jewish people and wanted these diamonds very badly. There is a horrible scene where Dr. Szell does some dentistry work on Thomas Levy which simply drives him crazy. Great film with great actors and Dustin Hoffman gave a great performance along with Laurence Olivier who I understand was not feeling in good health when he made this film, but you would never know it. Enjoy. "}{"Title":"Great Cold War movie.","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Of all the movies made during the cold war, I can't think of one more entertaining and gripping than this. From scenes of the city back in the 70's (trust me, it was that bad) to the interesting interaction between Hoffman and Scheider with Scheider almost a father figure to his younger brother. Than of course the famous drill scene. My favorite scene actually is the scene with Hoffman in the bathtub while his apartment has been broken into. Truly a classic tense scene. Long before movies like Hostel and Saw came out, there was this classic about what it means to wake up, tied up and truly knowing your in the wrong place at the wrong time. And no, Its not safe..... "},{"Title":"Now-legendary, yet still extremely frightening and nightmarish thriller","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Riveting and now-legendary urban thriller that really goes for the throat. Based on William Goldman's notorious novel of a Nazi- syndicate connection eating its way into young New York student/runner Hoffmann's life, this is a great example of atmosphere and vivid direction matching a deeply intriguing story. Many voices have complained about its somewhat blurry, Kafka-like plot... which doesn't bother me one bit - I DON'T have to follow EVERY frigging little detailed step of the way to feel both chilled and thrilled. 30 years on, it's extremely frightening, nightmarish (yet not sickening) and very quotable, with unforgettable characters and scenes by the truckload! Dream cast, too.8 out of 10 from Ozjeppe "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of cloak and dagger suspense and thrills","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Marathon Man is a personal favourite of mine. It is quite frankly one of the greatest films ever made.Dustin Hoffman is Thomas Levy, known to family and friends as 'Babe' a college student living in New York with hopes of becoming a historian in the future. Babe's spare time is running through Central Park dreaming of one day competing in a Marathon. His life is going forward.Meanwhile his brother (played by the brilliant Roy Scheider), known to him as 'Doc' is also known to a division of the Central Intelligence Agency as 'Scylla' because Doc works as a courier and assassin for the government, travelling Europe to deliver diamonds to an infamous Nazi known as Szell. (lawerence Olivier). Babe, meanwhile is unaware of all this and believes Doc is in the Oil business.The story takes a nasty turn when attempts on Scylla's life finally come to a head when he is murdered by the evil Nazi Szell himself in New York while visiting his brother. Pretty soon, paranoid that Scylla's brother knew more than he should Szell sets about Babe and tortures him in this film's most infamous scene with dental tools, and rather than be beaten, Babe becomes determined to escape and get revenge on Szell.Special mentions must go to Dustin Hoffmann for his excellent portrayal of a young man in peril fighting forces where the odds are stacked considerably against him.To Roy Scheider for playing a very interesting role in Scylla, he gives his character an air of mystery about him and he looks superb in every scene hes in, also its interesting to note that at the time, Scheider was a big star thanks to his role in Jaws and was able to take risks with roles that would surprise you halfway through the film.To Olivier, one of the greatest British actors of our time. His evil turn as Szell will be best remembered with these three little words. 'Is it safe?' And his ruthless character's determination to get his diamonds no matter what stay long in the mind, especially after he slices the throat of a Jewish diamond jeweller who remembers him from the Death Camps all those years ago.Finally, the actor William Devane is excellent as Janey, a sort of Iago character who is a double agent within the government, playing everyone off against each other. His scenes with Scheider and Hoffmann are compelling.If you haven't seen Marathon Man, see it now, it is not only one of the greatest films of the 1970s but one of the greatest ever made.A Classic. Ten Out Of Ten. "},{"Title":"unconventional performances and shooting style","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" It was remarkable to watch this film recently and really observe that it is the anti-film. All of the acting is understated and real and gritty. The stakes are so high and the tension is exhilarating. the scene in the diamond district is so arresting it gives you chills. Why can't the modern system of film-making allow for movies like these? How is our system so fatally flawed? Something has got to give soon! It will probably be the internet that brings the entertainment moguls to their knees and heralds a new form of film-making. But because the studio system has so many players with so many needs, it's almost impossible to make a pure movie within that system. Future filmmakers stand up! It's up to you. Onward! "},{"Title":"the greatest terror is from within","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" On a terror/anguish/depression scale, this one takes a 10. Which is amazing, considering that there are no serial killers,no war zone setting and there is no mention about the famine in Ethiopia. What I mean is, almost 100% of the horror in this movie comes from human emotion, be it a nightmarish and Kafkaesque one. I remember seeing this as a kid, and the thriller genre standard went through the roof for me. After seeing this, Nightmare on Elm Street looked like a comedy to me. Freddy Kruger is nothing compared to the torture and chase scenes in MM. Fear is explored to its limits and bestiality is rather suggested but incredibly effective. The atmosphere is claustrophobic at times and the urban setting is right on, especially the night scenes. Along with The Omen and The Exorcist, MM defines the horror genre in the 70's. The flashbacks, the filming and the pacing are extraordinary. Except maybe Pacino (who was attached to the project at one point), Hoffmann was definitely the right choice. And Olivier is brilliant and impressed me(better than in The Boys from Brazil), and I am not even a big fan of his. A great great great film. "},{"Title":"Thriller for the ages","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film is the epitome of what a thriller should be. Superb acting, great writing, and an entertaining and creative plot make this a movie that is thoroughly enjoyable.The movie centers around Babe, played by a young Dustin Hoffman. In a career overflowing with memorable performances, Marathon Man is one of his most impressive, even after almost 30 years. As Babe, Dustin plays an elite student in New York City who becomes embroiled in a twisted game of espionage and intrigue, revolving around a cache of diamonds, and an ex Nazi, played chillingly by the ever talented Laurence Olivier.Laurence Olivier plays Dr. Christian Szell. Dr. Szell is an ex Nazi who uses dental equipment to extract information and fear. He shows that you don't need guns and big muscles to play a villain worthy of a film of this stature. His interaction with Dustin Hoffman is an acting clinic in and of itself.Adding support to Hoffman and Oliver are Roy Scheider, of Jaws fame, and William Devane, both of whom are excellent and contribute towards a cast that is one of the best you'll ever see.The newcomer Marthe Keller does an admirable job, especially given her limited mastery of the English language. As Else Opel, she plays Babe's foreign love interest.Overall, Marathon Man was as entertaining as you can expect a thriller to be. While the plot may not be the most original ever written, it has enough twists and turns, as well as great writing, to keep you on the edge of your seat. I would highly suggest this film to anyone looking for a suspense movie that's actually suspenseful and has great acting to boot.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful interaction between Hoffman and Olivier","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A unique film, playing on the post-WW II search for former Nazis.  Roy Scheider adds to the ensemble by adding an intense connection that links Hoffman and Olivier.One of the most chilling scenes in movies is the one where Olivier (as the maniacal Weisse Engel -- White Angel)... interrogates Hoffman by using his dentist's drill. "},{"Title":"'Safe' to say a first rate thriller","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Marathon Man was an extremely suspenseful thriller. The acting was excellent as would be expected of a cast of this caliber. On the behind-the-scenes feature on the DVD, we learn that initially Hoffman's character was to go over the edge and murder Szell but apparently they didn't want to taint his morality and diminish the sympathy the audience had for him. How manipulative! I recommend this movie because it was superbly made despite the very tired plot of a former Nazi who must must be stopped. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It has been popping up on TV again after a lengthy absence, and it still looks magnificent. A true classic, with Hoffman absolutely outstanding as young New Yorker caught up in something he has absolutely no understanding of. Olivier as a stand-in for Dr. Mengele is scary as hell. The tooth drilling torture scene still is extremely hard to watch. I saw it from the first row of a theater on its initial run (the place was packed and we had no choice on our seating). The highlight of this incredible movie has to be the scene where Hoffman hides in his bathroom from intruders bent on kidnapping him. It is played like a waking nightmare. The title always bothered me for some reason, but what the hell. Hoffman is a marathon runner, which saves his ass in the end. "},{"Title":"Faithful adaptation of a great thriller novel","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a faithful adaptation of a great thriller novel, the acting by all main characters is superb, with Olivier (towards the end of his career) and Hoffman (towards the beginning of his) showing their mastery of the art. The gritty style and lack of unnecessary side twists was evocative of the 70's style of thriller movie and makes it continued great viewing more than a quarter century after first release. The chilling portrayal of the Nazi fugitive Szell as an unfeeling monster treating torture like a chat over tea was particularly effective and its leaves an impression on the viewer long after the film has ended. Recommended viewing by anyone who likes a good suspense thriller. "}{"Title":"super suspenseful and terrifying","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  An excellent mystery/suspense film.I watched this movie awhile ago and was amazed at the photography,acting,and tense moments.The bathtub scene where Dustin Hoffman sees the lights going off in his room is very tense.Very good story too,but the plot could have been a little bit stronger.Overall,a great film. Rating (8 of 10) "},{"Title":"Read the Book Before You See the Film!","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I realize this isn't the place for a book review, but if you have a chance to read the book first, do it. The less you know about the plot before you read, the better. As film is a visual medium, there are things that Goldman succeeded in brilliantly in the book, but just weren't possible in the film. The book is full of wonderful detail and dark humor, which will only add to your understanding of events/motivations in the film.I highly recommend the film, but to get the whole package, do yourself a favor and read the book first. "},{"Title":"EXCEPTIONAL ACTING","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well-acted thriller. Dustin Hoffman plays his part very well. An outstanding supporting cast with Laurence Olivier, Roy Scheider, William Devane. The romance angle seems a bit tacked on, but a first-rate movie.The dentist scenes are excrutiating to watch. "},{"Title":"More high praise for Marathon Man","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Olivier outstanding, is it safe, blah blah blah.  Other reviewers have praised this film more than adequately, as you can read below.  I couldn't have said it better myself.  i can't believe I waited so long to see such an incredible film.  Was the bulging door in Pi perhaps an homage to the scene in which Hoffman sits in the bath and watches the door slowly crowbarred open?  in any case, I added this senseless review to point out one very interesting bit of trivia.  As I watched the closing credits, the name Harry Goz caught my eye.  I rushed to IMDb to find out from exactly where I knew the actor.  Imagine my surprise to learn that he provides the voice for none other than Capt. Hazel Hank Murphy of Cartoon Network's Sealab 2021!  From diamond merchant to the most brilliantly demented character in television history!  Goz's Murphy is the worthy successor to the insanity of Olivier's Szell.  Layers upon layers...  "},{"Title":"Is it safe?","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Is it safe? Is it safe? Is, it, safe? Asks Szell to Dustin Hoffman before drilling into his tooth.  This film is basically an underrated classic, the script is thick and the acting is top rate and the battle scenes are also realistic.  Laurence Olivier is definitely at home with Szell and he looks scary (not as scary as The Terminator) but never the less he looks as if he means business in a subtle way.  A young Dustin Hoffman post-gruff voice act and a pre-Jaws performance from Rob Schneider. "},{"Title":"Is it safe?","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Famous line from this one of a kind movie.  I caught this again the other night and found it as gripping as ever.****warning - minor spoilers**** Laurence Olivier is certainly the star, an absolutely stellar performance.  Dustin shines youthfully in this role, even though he was in his late 30s when filming, he gives the illusion of someone barely out of their teens. This is superlative in its suspense quotient and the only serious flaw is in its ending. Quite disappointing as to how the whole matter of the character played by O.L. is treated at the end.  It falls very flat. The dental scene is haunting and the death of Doc gruesome. Some of the action scenes are very well done, particularly the chase on the ramps. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wow I have a new appreciation for Dustin Hoffman's acting ability.","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Put this movie as a double feature with Papillion and one will have a very heavy night of watching movies. One would constantly look over their shoulder. Anyway, having seen Dachau Jewish Concentration Camp outside of Munich Germany I could feel, smell, see all of the emotions.I will add Laurence Olivier to a night of movie watching. Most of Dustin's movies were out when I was going to school      or working at  four separate jobs in LA.  I have a greater appreciation for you as an actor.If ritualistic behavior is truly indicative of rain man's behavior then I am working beside a rain woman. She does the same thing every day and has since we stared working together. She eats the same breakfast every morning. See everyone at the Oscars. "},{"Title":"exciting and fun","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not going to go raving about how original this movie is because the fact is I've seen a bunch of movies like it. but how many of them were better? Probably not many. It's about a guy who gets caught up in some spy business that he doesn't know anything about. Suddenly he's the guy who everyone's after and he doesn't have a clue why. This is the basic storyline for so many of Alfered Hitchcock's movies like North By Northwest. Marathon Man focuses more on the action than those movies do and it works out real well. The movie is divided up nicely so that the first half is all about the setup and the second half is about the action. That second half is a nice payoff. Even though this movie felt familiar, it was still very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Film","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Don't miss this classic thriller of the 1970's..what was it about that decade produced so many great films such as this one?My favorite scene is the street scene in Madison Avenue when some former Concentration camp victims (this is assumed) recognise Schnell in the street.  Incredible filming and acting by Lord Olivier.Hoffman and Schneider are excellent. "},{"Title":"Eerie drama of former-Nazi shenanigans","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Fascinating movie of college student Hoffman caught up in attempt by former Nazi (Lawrence Olivier) to reclaim diamonds taken from concentration camp victims.  Loads of subplots make this one a little hard to follow, but there are memorable performances all around.  Most particularly outstanding are Olivier as totally evil Nazi, Scheider as Hoffman's spy brother, and Devane as fellow agency member.  Book is even better than the movie, worth a serious shot if you like the film. "}{"Title":"A Classic Thriller","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best mystery/action/chase thrillers ever made.  The plot gets confusing in spots, but moves at such breakneck speed that we really don't mind.  Excellent performances from the entire cast and taut direction by John Schlesinger.  Many chilling and nerve-jangling sequences, including the scene where Olivier's Zell character (a dentist in the past) tortures Hoffman by drilling on his teeth.  ARGH!!!!!!So tell me.....Is it safe?  "},{"Title":"One of the best thrillers ever made","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Just over the last few years I've come to the realization that the 1970s produced some of the best thrillers of all time -- All the President's Men, The French Connection, and this fantastic film. Dustin Hoffman once again proves that he's one of the finest actors in film history, this time portraying a college student who becomes unwittingly involved in his brother's secret life as a Nazi courier. Intelligent, well-paced, and wonderfully acted. Laurence Olivier and the always-underrated Roy Scheider make this one worthwhile as well.  "},{"Title":"Everybody at the top of their form","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Schlesinger, Goldman, Hoffman and Olivier! How can you go wrong, particularly when all are at the top of their form? Anybody that  isn't entertained by this movie must have kept their eyes closed and their ears covered up. The scene of Zell, the Nazi, walking through the streets of the diamond district of Manhattan are priceless. "},{"Title":"A Thriller that Plays Like a Good James Bond Film","Date":"8 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Director John Schlesinger's The Marathon Man is really a version of a James Bond movie in the best sense of the word. Roy Schneider delivers a wonderful performance as the suave, elegant and smart James Bond-esque Doc, a secret agent who works for different sides in a complicated laundering scheme. Dustin Hoffman plays Doc's younger brother Babe who inadvertently gets caught up in his brother's messy situation. Finally Laurence Oliver gives a great performance as the villain Szell who was obviously modelled after the infamous Nazi doctor at Auschwitz Joseph Mengele.The plot of The Marathon Man is simplistic, but the way that the story is told is superb. On the surface, a story about a Nazi smuggling diamonds is boring. But there are enough thrilling scenes throughout this movie to make the viewing experience more than worth it, such as an assassination attempt against Doc in Paris, Babe's audience with the dentist from hell who asks cryptically, Is it safe?, and an exciting and desperate foot chase throughout the dark alleys of New York among many others. The only scenes that are anti-climactic and predictable are towards the end of the movie, but fortunately they make up only 10 minutes in an otherwise exciting roller coaster of a film. "},{"Title":"Babe In The Woods","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" When you hear Marathon Man, immediately you think of diabolic dentistry and that killer scene where Laurence Olivier gave new meaning to the term waiting room anxiety. Yet for all the power of that one scene, the rest of the film packs a punch in its own right.Graduate student Tom Babe Levy (Dustin Hoffman) lives under the shadow of his father, a suspected Communist who killed himself rather than face a Congressional panel in the red-scare 1950s. His father was innocent, but his brother Doc (Roy Scheider) may not be when it comes to cavorting with totalitarians of another stripe, namely infamous Nazi Christian Szell (Laurence Olivier), who stole diamonds off of doomed Jews and is now trying to recover them from a safe deposit box in New York City.Director John Schlesinger renews his love affair with the Big Apple and Hoffman's method acting style in a film that also gives the director of Midnight Cowboy a chance to showcase his chops in a straightforward suspense yarn.It's an appropriate companion piece to Family Plot, the final Alfred Hitchcock movie which came out the same year. Though the two films couldn't be farther apart in terms of tone, Schlesinger and writer William Goldman seem to channel the master with loving accuracy, the central story being of a man up against forces he doesn't understand with plenty of Maguffins and illogical-but-sinister ambiance thrown in.Both Family Plot and Marathon Man also feature the engaging William Devane as a suspicious character with a yen for diamonds, who appears with Hoffman in a scene that may pack more of a punch than the dentist scene. A later confrontation with Olivier is also a moment to remember, but the best scene in the movie for me is when Babe introduces Doc to his new squeeze Elsa, played by Marthe Keller (Hitchcock references are not the only nods made to the old school here, as her name seems inspired by Ingrid Bergman's role in Casablanca.)You know the great chablis of the world are almost always green-eyed, Doc observes, very oddly taking Elsa's hand. In fact, they're the ones that most resemble diamonds. This strange comment carries more weight than we initially realize, becoming one of many mines Goldman lays before us. It's a key point made again and again No one but Hoffman's character is exactly who they appear, which accounts for much of Marathon Man's clever charm and sinister undertow.Not everything works in this film, like a street gang that befriends Babe at a critical moment. The motivations of many of the characters at several junctures make little or no sense. It's also a surprisingly humorless film from the guy who wrote Butch Cassidy And The Sundance Kid. But as Hitchcock demonstrated long before this, making sense is not the most important thing in making a thriller. It's pulling in the audience that matters, and this Marathon Man does in spades.Olivier makes the most of his screen time as a deceptively meek-looking fellow whose lack of conscience makes him highly dangerous to anyone who even thinks of crossing him. It's an eviler part for him than his celebrated turn as Richard III, who at least talked to the audience and let us into his plans. Szell trusts no one, a big part of what makes him tick.What makes Marathon Man tick is a storyline that takes a while to start but never slows down, going the distance much as Babe does training for that marathon he hopes someday to run. When you run 26 miles, you don't give into pain, he tells Elsa. It hurts, but you don't pay any attention.Marathon Man is a sometimes hard film to watch that way, especially when Szell teaches Babe the importance of oral hygiene, but it's even harder to stop watching, a stylish, savvy exercise in playing with audience expectations every bit worthy of Hitchcock's legacy. "},{"Title":"not exactly safe, as it's attained more of a cult-status than a full-blown mainstream success","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Marathon Man worked best for me seeing it really late at night, all the lights off, almost close to the twilight hours. It was here that the film was able to put forward its full power of thrills and chills, so to speak, but also with a very thick, icy comedy to some moments of it. It's also got Dustin Hoffman who, along with his turn in Straw Dogs, has rarely since gone to lengths in a thriller to really work hard for the material. This time he plays a guy who is maybe closer to himself- aside from all the running of course- but thrust into an incredible situation involving a mad German doctor (Laurence Olivier, in his most disturbing role to date, maybe his most memorable by contemporary standards), after his brother is killed. It's also a case of a movie being much more memorable for little moments than for the overall. A romantic side-bar between Hoffman and his female counterpart in the film isn't nearly as interesting as the villain dilemma. Little moments with Roy Scheider ring off well. But more than anything for me, aside from the obvious is it safe? scene (where torture got to be its most wrenching and harrowing as any until Reservoir Dogs in an American film), is the beginning of the film.After we get the obligatory montage of Hoffman running, Schlesinger and writer William Goldman thrust the viewer into an almost completely absurd yet very real and horrific conflict between a German driver and a Jewish driver on a road in Manhattan, and its in equal turns darkly funny, cringe-worthy, and daring in being as exciting as it is shocking. Both drivers, with their rickety cars and rage amplified by the racism that gears up- leading them into their ends- don't seem like actors, but more like people Schlesinger picked up off the street. This even tops the big climax at the reservoir for me as being a wholly successful, near-perfect scene, and about as excellent as anything in Schlesinger's Midnight Cowboy. It's maybe less than great due to some of it early on being a bit too conventional, but when the thrilling aspects of it do kick in, like seeing Hoffman really having to run for his life, it can hook a viewer in not expecting much. Marathon Man also marks as one of the rare successes of Robert Evans career as a producer. "},{"Title":"Great Acting","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" In 1976 my girlfriend and I were coming out of a Glasgow cinema having just seen this film.That guy who played the German acted Dustin Hoffman under the table, I said.That's Laurence Olivier, my girlfriend replied.Is it? I asked. I had only remembered the image of Henry V. No wonder they say he's a good actor.Let us be fair. Olivier has the better part. All Hoffman's character does is jog, puff, blow and wince.This is a pretty formulaic thriller. Apart from the early scene with the Nazi war criminal being recognised by a concentration camp survivor, the scene in the dentist's chair, and Olivier being forced to eat the diamonds, there is nothing much to write home about. But if it is on the TV ever, I will watch it again.The film has a happy ending I married my knowledgeable girlfriend, and we lived happily ever after and had a son called Laurence. (NOT, I hasten to add, named after Olivier.) "},{"Title":"It's so safe, you wouldn't believe how safe it is.","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I love those gritty 1970's City (esp. NYC) thrillers like Taking of Pelham 1,2,3 Dog Day Afternoon and The Warriors.  There's something about 1970's multi-ethnic almost-bankrupt Manhattan that just sets you on edge.  That's one of the main draws of Marathon Man.  Check out the diamond district scene -- is it real or is it acting?  Speaking of acting, you can't get any more real than Dustin Hoffman's Babe character.  Part-obnoxious, part-bookworm, full of angst and anger.  The perfect powderkeg for the plotline to play into.  Unfortunately, the plot, overused in the 70's (Boys From Brazil comes immediately into mind), has so many holes that you could start a doughnut shop.  BUT, the suspense, not to mention the teeth-rattling torture scene, really do make up for it.  Laurence Olivier is just TOO believable in character just great.  Even William Devane, normally a creepy guy anyway, gives a fine hysterical performance.  I thought that was Angus Scrimm as one of his henchmen!  Ha!  And Roy Scheider gives another great perf, just eating up the 70's with Seven-Ups and Jaws.  James Woods and Roy Scheider separated at birth?  I give the movie 9 out of 10, simply on the weight of momentum, nail-biting suspense, emotional involvement, and a truly-grueling soundtrack. "},{"Title":"A tribute to the late John Schlesinger. WARNING SPOILERS!!","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Along with Ira Levin's THE BOYS FROM BRAZIL and Gosta-Gavras' classic courtroom film MUSIC BOX,, which dealt with a similar subject. MARATHON MAN (1976) is in my view John Schlesinger's most commercial films. Admittedly, MIDNIGHT COWBOY will garner more critical attention, but his work on MARATHON MAN, along with the principal actors concerned, will stand the test of time.Dustin Hoffman plays Babe, a New York graduate student studying the backdrop of his father's years. Meanwhile in Paris, his older brother Doc (Roy Scheider) is almost assassinated by a Chinese hitman using a cheese wire and is involved in a diamond smuggling operation. Babe becomes involved with a mature student, Elsa and they embark on a romantic liaison.Meanwhile, Doc meets Christian Szell, the 'Weissangel' (Lawrence Olivier), at a private meeting near the Lincoln Centre in New York with regard to recovering some diamonds and is fatally stabbed. Doc manages to make it back to Babe'a apartment, but dies on his floor. A detective, Janeway, questions Babe about his brother's background and then is used by Janeway as bait to lure the killers out into the open......The concept of the title man is a good metaphor for Hoffman's character. Is he running to his destiny, or running from fate? Admittedly, the 'dentist chair' scene, which is examined in greater detail in one of screenwriter William Goldman's screenplay volumes, is the scene that most will remember, but the pace and suspense of the thriller, especially during the second half of the film, will have you on the edge of your seat.So long, Mr Schlesinger. Thanks for the memories and especially this film. "},{"Title":"It was a decent film but it could have been better","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" At the end of the Marathon Man, I felt myself asking a lot more questions about Dustin's character. I thought Lord Laurence Olivier did wonderful chilling performance as the evil Nazi dentist was worthy to watch but I felt the story was not solid enough to explain the situation. But still, it is worth watching. I loved the scenes shot on location in Manhattan. I felt confused after watching this movie. I understand what happens but I don't why which left me wanting more of this film to answer my questions. I thought Olivier was just marvelous and so was Dustin Hoffman who were very hard for this role according to the story of making this film. Olivier told him to imagine not sleeping nights rather than actually working sleeplessly. "}{"Title":"I will never go to the DENTIST again.","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a great movie.  For a 1970's era film, the suspense was awesome.  Dustin Hoffman plays a runner who is caught up in the world of Nazi's and diamonds.  Lawrence O plays the perfect fugitive nazi who tortures Dustin with Dentist tools in one scene to attempt to make Dustin tell him is it safe, referring to the diamonds.  I have to admit, that I was very on the edge of my seat on this movie.  It's the only movie I have seen that involves a Nazi fugitive up to his old tricks.  The ending is perfect and Dustin didn't just blow away the nazi with his pistol.  Instead he manipulates him and it goes on for a few minutes where the audience just goes yeah! in anticipation of Dustin getting revenge on that mean Nazi.  I would consider purchasing this on DVD it was so good and suspenseful.  If it's suspense that you want, this is the movie to watch.  I would give this a HUGE thumb up! "},{"Title":"Marathon Man","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Olivier sends chills up your spine in his Oscar nominated performance as the evil Dr. Szell. In one of the most astounding scenes ever put on film, he tortures Dustin  Hoffman with his famous Is it safe? line. In his later years, it is the role that showed great range and ability for the aging actor. Schlesinger and Goldman combine their talents to make a taut and disturbing thriller.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"2 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" At first I liked the movie. I love thriller, especially the ones involving history, and the atmosphere in the 70s movies.Actors are good, even though Dustin Hoffman is quite old to be a PhD student. I liked the very beginning with the two old guys, but found it stupid that they die this way.Quickly, the movie turns out to be very disappointing. The plot is vague, not very original, and, above all, contains major non-senses (like the scene in the house when Babe tries to escape with his girlfriend  why does the cop kill his partner instead of Babe, since he wants to kill him just after?). Everything is obvious (a corrupted cop, a deceiving German lover), end included.I really don't understand the success of this movie. "},{"Title":"typical thriller of the seventies","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Along with Midnight Cowboy (1969), this is John Schlesinger's most important work in a rather undistinguished filmography. Although they belong to two distinct genres, these two works have some common points the same backdrop New York, the same main actor, Dustin Hoffman, here hires for another type of character. The 1969 film had seen him in the shoes of a little miserable Italian emigrant who suffered from TB. The second film gives him the role of a student, Babe haunted by the suicide of his father caused by McCarthysm. His thesis about the abuses of power in American political history seems less prominent to his eyes than the marathon for which he intensely trains. A solitary life which will be interrupted by an infernal chain of foreboding mishaps. They revolve around a conspiracy involving a former Nazi criminal, Szell (Laurence Olivier) nicknamed the white devil of Auschwitz. Babe finds himself in the throes of darkness, wrestling with unforgiving, formidable evil forces whose motivations and goals are elusive to him.Marathon Man is a representative film about a trend which developed in the seventies the conspiracy cinema fueled by generalized suspicion and an increasing paranoia. Just check works such as the Parallax View (1974) by Alan J. Pakula or Three Days of the Condor (1975) by Sydney Pollack. From a fragmented, meandering master plan elaborated by William Goldman, John Schlesinger captures a discomforting climate of fear and paranoia which increase throughout Babe's struggle in the darkness. The director has also the aptitude to generate eerie feelings from sequences shrouded with a muted anxiety. Helped by a brutal editing, an invisible, impending threat hangs over the film and will sooner or later catch Babe up. To puzzle more the audience, Schlesinger muddies the waters and one of his cunning tricks is to delay as much as possible the clarification and the denouement of this apparently convoluted story to make this unsettling atmosphere last. For a major part of the film, the different parts of the puzzle remain separated but to piece them together and so to decipher the story, the viewer will have to be patient just like Babe. He's caught in a spiral of unnerving events which go beyond him and his immature behavior inconveniences the audience, perhaps more than Szell and his henchmen. Before having made the acquaintance of Elsa, Babe tried to flee from reality but is finally caught up by it. To blur the picture, Schlesinger and Goldman tap numerous possibilities of the suspense genre. Illusions and lies abound in the film under different forms the image Doc gives to Babe, the moment when he sneaks into Babe's cramped flat to test his reactions, Babe's false release from Szell's clutches.Schlesinger's directing is laced with effective suspenseful scenes but about the notorious torture sequence with dental surgery instruments, I have never found it really creepy and doesn't live up to its reputation. A character will hint at it in a droll sequence in Serial Mom (1994) by John Waters. On the other hand, the scene is somewhat intense when Olivier asks to Hoffman is it safe?. One of the best sequences of the film shows him in Madison Avenue where he is recognized by former prisoners and no one seems to care about the woman's shouts. This scene rings true. On the other hand, the film includes weaknesses to bridge the steps of the story like the moment when Babe asks his scoffing neighbors to pretend to burglarize his flat to give him his clothes and his gun. And while I'm on the possible drawbacks of the film, Schlesinger's directing doesn't exclude some easy effects. But they are of minor importance.Even if he's credible as an immature, brazen student, Dustin Hoffman was a little too old for the role. To think that the same year, he acted a clear-sighted journalist, Carl Bernstein in Alan J. Pakula's compelling All the President's Men. Beside him Laurence Olivier is brilliant as usual and the two secondary actors, Roy Scheider and Marthe Keller confer to their characters mysterious, opaque dimensions.This is a legion suspenseful movie of the right bottle. "},{"Title":"Should be a 9+","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I think this is the best thriller I've ever seen. If you look at it today, it also proves that audiences were more intelligent in 1976 than they are now. MM was a fairly sizeable hit movie - despite making absolutely NO concessions to the lazy filmgoer who refuses to think. Nowadays you can read actual film critics who call something like The Matrix confusing and hard to follow, when in fact Laurence Fishburne just stands there and TELLS YOU what is happening. 25 years of lifeless, same old same old movies and TV have made most people into dimbulbs. If you're not one of them you'll love MM. "},{"Title":"One of the best thrillers ever made","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The film is a gem, everything works wonderfully and is in its right place. We have a super-director like John Schlesinger (Darling, Midnight Cowboy, Sunday Bloody Sunday), two screen giants like Dustin Hoffman and Laurence Olivier -plus a luxurious cast with Roy Scheider, William Devane and Marthe Keller-. We have a big screenwriter like William Goldman (Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, All the President's Men). We have New York. We have Paris. We have an original story. That's cinema!!!I don't mean that big names and big stars necessarily make a good movie, but in this case it is true Marathon man is a reunion of big talents, which don't let down. A student (with the hobby of running) discovers that his assassinated brother was working for a Nazi in smuggling diamonds. The student will discover a terrible truth and will find himself in a duel with the old criminal.The film (who was a big hit in '76) steel keeps his promises. It still looks fresh after almost 30 years... There are no dead moments; the more the story grows, the more tensions go higher. A THRILLER, one of the best ever made. "},{"Title":"Heart-Thumping Pace!","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This mid-70s film by J. Schlesinger was trying to capture some of the realistic dialogue of TAXI DRIVER and ultra-violence from earlier that year.  It succeeds partially, but has cleverly-driven plot that is pretty decent.  D. Hoffman seems a bit old to be playing Babe, but puts his all into it.  Marthe Keller is boring as always.  Roy Scheider is excellent as Babe's brother who has a few secrets of his own.  Olivier is frightening at times and annoying at others and there is able support from Bill Devane and Richard Bright.Schlesinger has made films with such variety of plots (MIDNIGHT COWBOY is his best) but has made some fine films from different genres.  A 6 out 10.  Best performance = Roy Scheider.  Work a look! "},{"Title":"Overrated.","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The movie's reputation is unjustified. Yes, it has that realistic 70s look and a good cast, but its plot is somewhat muddled, somewhat evil-gov't-conspiracy-minded. Of course, the critics loved the left-wing sub-themes, including the one about the oh-so evil Senator McCarthy's terror. What I found to be silly is this 1) why would Devane kill his two helpers when they tried to kill Hoffman - after all, the whole point of them going to the Nazi brother's house was to eliminate Hoffman and NOT to make any kind of deal with him (because they knew by then that he knew nothing); 2) Martha Keller is predictably involved in the whole affair, and was a set-up for Hoffman - yet she didn't approach Hoffman he approached her; 3) when Olivier the Nazi takes a walk in the streets of New York, he gets recognized by two concentration camp survivors within MINUTES! Hello!!!! Just how many concentration camp survivors actually live in New York? 150,000,000?; 4) Why would Hoffman take a bath and not have the gun at his side at all times if he knows he's in danger? Again the left-wing subtext is why this movie has such a reputation. It's merely another solid thriller with some logic flaws. "},{"Title":"Best movie of early Hoffman career","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie was brilliant. It is on of Dustin's least known movies yet if you watch this chances are you will not forget it. It was a great movie but unfortunately it came out the same year as Rocky, One flew over the cuckoos nest, Star is born and Taxi driver. Really hard to compete in that crowd.It has a simple story that is effective and well acted. It has a element of a guy in the wrong place at the wrong time and Midnight express. If you liked the movie Misery you will like this.I do not want to give any of this story away...but you will remember this movie every time you visit the dentist. Is it safe? "},{"Title":"Check your pulse and your heart rate, Is it safe?","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie gives you reason to checkout your health. Dustin Hoffman puts on a gritty performance as the runner, Thomas Levy. Living like a slob, learn like any young man in college, he minds his own business like any one else. There you have Thomas' brother Henry(Roy Schieder, of JAWS' fame). His brother was in a shady deal that costs him his life by the hands of that Nazi dentist Szell(Sir Laurence Olivier). With that fiendish look and frightening glare on his face, no wonder the Jewish community was afraid. Saying Is it safe? 9 times can drive anyone batty. What do you mean Is it safe? Thomas' love Elsa(Marthe Miller) was great. She quite resembles Glenda Jackson. I was angered when Peter Janeway(William Devane, before Knot's Landing) killed Elsa, before he later met his end by Thomas' .45. That dreaded Szell was very clever when he made the quick slice again the witness, then later cried for help. Then of course his own knife was used against him when his greed got the best of him. If he'd died with the diamonds in him his corpse would be open to greedier morticians. As for Thomas he should get a dentist to do extensive work that the Nazi caused him great pain. At least his choice of dentist won't torture him as much as Szell did! 5 stars! "}{"Title":"Great acting coupled with a great story.","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  'Marathon Man' always appeared to be a rather elusive film. Despite it's status as a 'classic' I always found it somewhat difficult to actually hunt down a copy.Having seen it recently I was impressed and relieved. This film managed to 'pull-it-off'. Connotating that 'Marathon Man' is an almost non-stop thrill ride of action, suspense, thrills, and held together tightly by some great directing and some stunning acting. This is a very good recipe for a very good film. It certainly is concerned with World War II (as many other reviewers have noted) and the intrigue and suspense that surrounds the film gives it an almost sinister, and at times 'eerie', quality. There is a sort of grittiness here not too dissimilar to 'Taxi Driver' and this is easily one of Hoffman's stronger and realistic performances, Olivier is truly scary too. It's also worth noting Roy Schneider's acting as the 'tough-talking' but 'smooth-dressing' 'Doc'. One word of advice watch the film closely as the plot tends to get very deep and very thick relatively quickly. I sometimes struggle to coherently ( - and who doesn't?) understand films and I had to watch this quite closely. On the other hand though, at least I am not afraid to admit this.I'd seriously recommend this film to anyone who enjoys a serious thrill-ride. It is decidedly hard-hitting and perhaps one of my all-time favourites. I was also unaware, before I saw it, as to how violent it really is. -'8'-  "},{"Title":"Quite good.","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Warningpotential spoilers!Dustin Hoffman plays a marathon runner whose CIA brother is killed by an evil former nazi played by Laurence Olivier.Exciting,gripping thriller features fine acting from Hoffman and Olivier.Features a good fight scene between Roy Scheider & some assassin guy.Features the classic scene in which Olivier tortures Hoffman with a dentist drill! ouch! The way Olivier dies is a little disappointing.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Interesting ideas but not very enjoyable","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'll confess to my bias right away I don't like torture scenes, I find them unpleasant and don't want to experience them in a film which is supposed to be an entertaining experience.I found this movie to be a cobbling together of interesting ideas but lacking in any redeeming point. Nazis are greedy and evil? Well, that should hardly be surprising to any halfway educated person. The government is not to be trusted? That was done much more eloquently in some of the other films of the post-Watergate conspiracy film cycle of which Marathon Man was a part.Maybe the torture scenes disinclined for me to look for anything redeeming in the rest of the movie, but those parts just strike me as clumsily paced (we don't even find out Babe's connection to the story until 50 minutes in) and generally boring. "},{"Title":"Keep on Running...","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Chances are first time viewers will tune into this out of curiosity regarding the famous scene, but although this is undeniably effective in the terror stakes, the truth is there's a terrifically streamlined thriller built around it as well. The connections that link Laurence Oliviers war criminal to Dustin Hoffmans unassuming graduate (of a very different mettle to the one he played in the 60's!) are twisty like the best exercise route, but the nervous thrills come from being propelled along with the main character into the midst of a cover up he doesn't understand.Despite being exhausted at the climax of his ordeal, Tom still has enough wherewithal to manage to outwit the man who by this stage has become his nemesis. After what amounts to such a draining journey for all concerned, it's a pleasure of a different kind when we the audience finally get the opportunity to see two acting legends go toe-to-toe. It's a thriller in the mould of an endurance test, but such trials are rarely so enjoyable as this one turns out to be. "},{"Title":"Is it safe?... Is it safe?","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" We first come upon Thomas Babe Levy (Dustin Hoffman, 'All The President's Men') as he trains for his first marathon, shoes beating along the footpath, perspiration dripping down his face. To run a marathon, one must possess dogged determination and unwavering conviction. We see this quality tested as he attempts to chase down a runner who has overtaken him. After a several-minute pursuit that leads him through puddles and past the jaws of a vicious dog, Levy throws up his hands, slowing to a stop and conceding defeat. For the moment at least, he is not ready to run a marathon.An incident of road rage in the streets of New York results in dire consequences. Two elderly male drivers, pestering each other in a struggle for road dominance, unexpectedly career into a reversing gas tanker, which subsequently bursts into flame, killing both of them. One of these men, as it happens, is the brother of the former SS Nazi dentist and war criminal Dr. Christian Szell (Sir Laurence Olivier, 'Rebecca'), believed to be long deceased by authorities. Szell now resides in the jungle depths of Uruguay, but must emerge from hiding to reclaim his mighty stash of diamonds from a bank safe deposit box in New York. Olivier's character was largely modeled on real-life SS physician Josef Mengele, who performed numerous horrific experiments on Jewish prisoners, before escaping to South America after the war and surviving until 1979.Levy's brother, Henry (Roy Scheider, 'Jaws'), claims to be a wealthy oil businessman, though we already know that he is being slightly dishonest in saying this, having witnessed his shady undercover work with an ultra-secret intelligence agency known as The Division. Marthe Keller portrays Elsa Opel, a (supposedly) Swiss history student who becomes Levy's developing love interest. William Devane (whom I best know as Secretary of Defense James Heller of TV's '24') is very good as Peter Janeway, a high-ranking member of The Division, and a good friend of Henry's.Without giving away too much of the plot, I can safely say that there are some fine suspenseful moments in this film. One of these involves Dr. Szell's now famous method of torture involving sharp dental instruments, whilst he repeats the simultaneously baffling yet haunting phrase, Is it safe? Another scene (memorably spoofed in the 'Seinfeld' episode, The Doorman) shows Szell strolling nervously through the Jewish diamond district of New York, when an elderly Jewish woman recognises him and screams, It is him! Szell!... Szell!... Szell!, only to be ignored by bystanders.With 'Marathon Man,' Dustin Hoffman cemented his place as one of the 1970's prime talents, also releasing the brilliant political thriller 'All The President's Men' in the same year. Laurence Olivier, already a Hollywood legend, is exceedingly disconcerting as the evil Nazi doctor who murdered so many people during the war for his own benefit, and continues to do so today. Whilst the plot of the film may, at times, appear a bit puzzling, all you have to worry about are the fantastic moments of riveting suspense and the wonderful acting. "},{"Title":"ok movie","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  i'll only going to say that this movie is ok and i'll say why. i won't go into the story to explain anything because all the people who will read this most likely would have watched the film. in this movie dustin hoffman is surprisingly bad and roy scheider and william devane are surprisingly good. i don't know what happened to dustin hoffman in this film, he just looked stupid and he delivers a very dull performances, he seems like a normal regular guy with nothing to offer except his voice, i was never interested in his character and this is a great flaw because he has the leading role. i really liked roy scheider (this is the first time i like him) and william devane is very good, although he was better in hitchcock's family plot. but the person who steals all scenes he's in is laurence olivier, he's great and this role reminded me how good he was, i loved when he retired the diamonds from the bank and he watches them with some sort of incontrolable lust.POSSIBLE SPOILERSdirection, cinematography and script are good but nothing special. special mention to the scene where the former nazi and the jew fight each other with their cars and how they finally crash and burn up. another good scene is where hoffman throws olivier's diamonds to the water. 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Missing the point","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Incredible how a few here have picked holes in this movies plot. Totally missing the point of MM. It's like complaining that Lawrence Olivier isn't really German. It's a make believe movie not a factual documentary. As for using familiar plot devices, well if that's not stating the obvious I don't know what is. Tell me one movie that doesn't rehash plot devices. This has been going on since before the Greeks and Romans. It's not the way you say it, it's what you say that counts. Schlesinger is a master of movie making and story telling because he tells the story in an artful manner. That's what's missing with many modern directors - the art of telling a story through film. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite WWII movies...","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" ...But Marathon Man takes place in present day 1970's New York (the persecutional IMDb comment reader might be heard to say), so this is a war movie as you are handsome and well-written, you dunderpated ignoramus!While the latter may be true, this is VERY much a movie about WWII, if for nothing else, the chilling Nazi evil of Olivier's infamous Dr. Szell.  More precisely, how this evil remains as lustrous as Sir Laurence's bald head even after the post-war inquests of the world have rendered the wartime Nazi might totally impotent.  Szell is a solitary appendage severed long ago from the terror of the Third Reich, now aged and a fugitive from every decent government in the world.  Though he appears enfeebled and gray, the blood of wolves still flows behind his steely eyes, and Oliver's mastery of the art allows Szell to be the most striking character in this fine film.That is not to say that the supporting roles are not fleshed out by superb actors.  Dustin Hoffman, Roy Scheider, and William Devane can make crap until they're dead, stand on their performances in this movie alone, and be redeemed eternally for all I'm concerned.  But it is the emergence of Szell from hiding that sets into action the course of all other characters.  Szell comes to New York to claim a demigod's ransom of concentration camp-pirated diamonds so that he may afford to disappear, without impunity, from the face of the Allied world forever.        Scheider is the kickass secret agent who intends to stop him, but not before his grad student little brother becomes the unwitting center of a murderous effort to determine whether or not It Is Safe.  Little bro Hoffman lives only to finish his thesis, and one day run in an actual marathon, and plays a great reluctant hero.  To say that Roy Scheider kicks ass in this movie is a ferocious understatement.  The scene where he contends with the assassin is bloody awesome.  But much credit for that scene and the many well-crafted others must go to John Schlesinger.  The feel of dread that he builds to in the movie, especially in the dentistry scene, is top-notch.  He is able to depict all the wrath and animosity of a world war 30 years past in simple confrontations like a car chase, and a visit by Szell to a jeweler's district.  If you are curious to see what the final battle of WWII would look like quietly played out in the streets of New York, you must see this movie.   "},{"Title":"Is it safe?... Is it safe?","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Laurence Olivier received an Oscar nomination for Best Motion Picture Actor in a Supporting Role. BAFTA and Golden Globe nominations were also handed out for John Schlesinger's direction, Dustin Hoffman and Marthe Keller's acting, and William Goldman's script.This is the way thrillers used to be made, and producers today should pay attention.It slowly draws you in. You really don't know how things connect at first. You don't know who to trust. You really don't know what they are after.When it does get going, the action is fast and furious. The holes are filled in, and we know that the challenge will be to survive.Great acting, great direction and a great script. "},{"Title":"Intrigue! and Nazis! and Drills! OH MY!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  MARATHON MAN (1976) *** Dustin Hoffman, Laurence Olivier, Marthe Keller, Roy Scheider, William Devane.   Suspenseful thriller with Hoffman cast as a graduate student in New York suddenly thrust into an international criminal event thanks to his covert older brother Scheider involving relentless Nazi dentist Olivier (hamming it up big time) leading to the famous `Is it safe?' inquisition (incidentally during the filming of this scene, Hoffman was reportedly without sleep for 24 hours to give his character the right, haunted look whereupon Sir Larry was said to have elucidated, `My boy, why don't you try acting?' "}{"Title":"You only thought the dentist was scary .","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Hoffman is just fine as always . But old the man steals the show . Laurence Olivier is at top form . Well the camera work is great and this is one of Hoffman's best jobs . I loved the dentist scene , get ready to scream. "},{"Title":"Underrated Suspense Classic","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I think this film is an underrated suspense classic. It is my favorite Dustin Hoffman film. I have always thought it would make a great double-bill with The French Connection on the midnight movie circuit.Who better to play the sinister former nazi villain than the great Sir Laurence (Is it safe?) Olivier? This film makes Roy Scheider's third appearance in a classic 1970's film, with the others being The French Connection and Jaws.The first time I saw this film I was shocked by the scene where Olivier's character stabs Roy Scheider's character. Naturally, being a fomer nazi doctor, he knew exactly where to stab him to inflict the most damage. Very effective.I hope someday this film receives the praise it deserves. An incredibly underrated film. "},{"Title":"Stunning Olivier, not-so-stunning script.","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Marathon Man is too unpleasant to be typically entertaining, but it's still a fine piece of moviemaking, intensely suspenseful at times. Olivier's performance is stunning and will stay in the memory of any person that watches this film. But the script isn't so stunning. It's adequate for a good thriller, limited for a great one. "},{"Title":"Well done but far too grim and violent","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Thomas 'Babe' Levy (Dustin Hoffman) gets unwittingly involved with a gang of vicious people...especially Dr. Christian Szell (Laurence Olivier). It seems his brother Henry 'Doc' (Roy Scheider) works for a secret agency and, not knowing it, targeted his brother for danger.That synopsis may sound a little confused but then the movie is too! This movie has a lot of admirers and I can see why. It's grim, negative and strong. However, for me, this is far too depressing and the violence is really overdone. There's strangulation, stabbings and shootings all done with blood gushing out in every direction. There was even a graphic torture scene with Olivier using dental torture on Hoffman. Director John Schlesinger saw it with a preview audience and noticed quite a few people walking out during that section. He realized it was too strong and stopped the movie cold so he had it cut completely. Violence aside, the plot is confusing and there are plot holes galore. There's some truly terrible dialogue too. Also Marthe Keller and William Devane are terrible in small roles.The only thing that makes this bearable are the acting and directing. Hoffman and Olivier are both just great in their roles and Scheider is strong in a small part. The directing by Schlesinger is great too (no surprise there). But the grimness, violence and plot holes really wore me down on this one. I can only give it a 6.Is it safe? "},{"Title":"Just when you thought it was safe to go back to the Dentist!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  )This movie is pretty cool! The dentist scenes were pretty messed up. Geez no wonder I hate going to the dentist!!!!Anyway, the performances were great. The film had pretty good direction and editing with some pretty good suspenseful music. The only problem with this movie is the plot. Well, the plot is good but it needed some help.3(***)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"Is unplanned dentistry safe?","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The scene that everyone remembers is the dentistry scene, but Marathon Man's plot actually centers on Nazi doctor Christian Szell (Laurence Olivier) looking for some diamonds, and marathon runner Thomas Babington Babe Levy (Dustin Hoffman) - whose brother Henry (Roy Scheider) is investigating Szell - accidentally gets drug into the plot.As it is, you might have a little trouble following the plot. I mainly noticed that in this movie, Laurence Olivier plays a Nazi fugitive living in South America, and in The Boys from Brazil he plays a man hunting for a Nazi fugitive who lives in South America. Marathon Man is nothing special, but still worth seeing (although some people might feel a little unpleasant after the dentistry scene). John Schlesinger, who previously directed Dustin Hoffman in Midnight Cowboy, casts him as someone with the same kind of gritty look as Ratso Rizzo has.Oh, and FYI, Szell says Is it safe? a total of nine times. "},{"Title":"um, this movie sucks im really sorry...","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  um i don't know what crack y'all were smoking when you decided you thought this movie was excellent or whatever.  I had heard so much good stuff about it, but it really sucked a lot.  I'm sorry but both Dustin Hoffman's character and Laurence Olivier's character are completely underdeveloped. And what is the relationship of the marathon man idea, it seems like half of this movie is there so that like in key scenes they can come into play. Like he runs marathons and thats how he gets away from the men chasing him.  This movie's first hour and a half is completely incomprehensible, i had no idea what the hell was going on.  There are great actors and they try really hard but this is a really poorly written movie.  William Goldman really tried hard with this but it seems like in adapting his book he forgot a lot of stuff. i felt like if i read the book it would be better.  This movie all in all just seemed to pale in comparison to The Boys of Brazil, which dealt with very similiar themes but did it in a much scarier and better manner. Anyway it sucked, by the last hour we were doing mystery science theater 3000 dialogue to this stupidity.   "},{"Title":"more than 40 Km to the understand","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It is rather difficult, that's to say impossible to dare criticize a such wonderful movie! But it requires a knowledge of the U.S. History, and so the Choa in Europe by the  nazis. The hero has a brother (Roy Sheider) who is believed to work in a major oil company. That is wrong. An old nazi (Sir Alec Guiness) play this character. Our hero is named in the Bronx  the Slug because he is a fan of jogging until to be able to win one marathon. Owing this hobby he save his life. But the nazi desire his lot of diamonds. Who will win? At last, our hero, student in history, can forget the father's suicide during the Mac- Carthysm epoch!  "},{"Title":"Worse movie with high-profile actors","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie made no sense until the garage scene with William Devane and Dustin Hoffman.  Olivier ran around saying little more than 'safe', 'safe'....which I cannot construe as effective acting, no matter who is playing the part.Certainly, this movie really stretched under the fierce notion anybody would just be beyond themselves if somebody is trying to pull my teeth for no apparently good reason.I cannot for the love of me understand why anyone thinks and believes this movie should have been made.  It stunk from the word go.Ironically, Dustin Hoffman was recorded as to asking Olivier how he, Olivier, got into a part.  Olivier was quoted to respond that you just act. Unfortunately, both forgot to follow this rule during this sad, sad movie.Yes, this movie and the movie 'Born on the Fourth of July' rank right there at the top as the two worse movies with high salaried actors.  "},{"Title":"Stiff Dustin Hoffman, and a Lucid Lawrence Olivier","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I liked this movie for one reason the performance by Lawrence Olivier. I had disliked his style in movies like Rebecca, where I felt he had been too dramatic; but this movie made me change my view regarding him.This movie also helped me find why I could never really appreciate Dustin Hoffman. Lawrence Olivier in his, Why not try acting? It's much easier. was right Dustin Hoffman should learn to act. Forgive my saying this; but in my opinion, Dustin Hoffman remains too stiff too rigid, and that makes sure that his performance (in spite of his oft quoted method acting) would never reach the level of Al Pacino and Robert De Niro (not to mention the great Brando, or Nicholson), both of whose main forte is lucidity. I watched his The Graduate and I continued to dislike his style. I think one needs to have either the intensity of Brando/Nicholson, the lucidity of Pacino/De Niro or the natural style of (Freeman)Morgan/(Lee) Strasberg. For the ones who aim to remain stiff, Hoffman or (Denzel) Washington is the choice! "}{"Title":"Classic Thriller","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  MARATHON MAN starts off with a blackly comical scene of a fatal car crash and just gets better . William Goldman is a legendary screenwriter and seeing his script play out it`s easy to see why . It`s not often we`re treated to a screenplay this intelligent anymore . But the best thing about MARATHON MAN is Laurence Olivier . Sir Larry is nowhere near regarded as highly as a film actor than he was as a stage actor but here he gives an unforgettable performance as a Nazi war criminal . It would have been very easy for Olivier to play the part as a parody but he`s unbelievably convincing as both a mass murderer and a doctor . This is one performance in which Olivier deserved an Oscar nod   "},{"Title":"Marathon Man","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" From Golden Globe nominated director John Schlesinger (Midnight Cowboy, Pacific Heights), I remember seeing this film once, and of course I remembered the significant and most memorable scenes, but I had to see it again to appreciate it. Basically in New York City, the brother of infamous Nazi criminal Dr. Christian 'The White Angel' Szell (Golden Globe winning, and Oscar nominated Lord Sir Laurence Olivier) was killed in a car accident, and he held a valuable safe deposit box key. Thomas Babington 'Babe' Levy (BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Dustin Hoffman) is the graduate medical student who also aspires to run a marathon so runs avidly, and soon after this accident was reported, his brother Henry David 'Doc' (Roy Scheider) shows up out of nowhere, unknown to his brother he is only posing as an oil tycoon, he is fact a spy. Working for the secret agency called The Division, headed by director Peter Janeway (William Devane), Doc suspects the dead man's brother will show up in the city in order to get this key and retrieve the valuable contents of the safe deposit box. Babe starts a relationship with Elsa Opel (Golden Globe nominated Marthe Keller) who claims to be from Switzerland, Doc suspected her of being involved with Szell, but she is not, she just wants to marry and be a U.S. citizen. After being wounded in an encounter with Szell, Doc goes to Babe and dies in his arms, without saying anything, and he gets questioned by the police, and that is when he meets Janeway who reveals his brother was a spy. Then he is abducted by Szell and his subordinates, believing Doc may have said something to him about, and being a skilled dentist Szell tortures him with the repeating of the words Is it safe? (number 70 on 100 Years, 100 Quotes) and drilling into a healthy tooth. Babe is let go when they realise he obviously know anything about, and after escaping he invites a neighbour to rob his house in order to get clothes and a gun to end what is going on, and he starts with killing traitor double agent Janeway and Szell's men, who also killed Elsa. Szell meanwhile has the key to the safe deposit, and he is overjoyed to see it stashed with diamonds, but he cannot value them with most of the diamond shop owners being Jewish, some will recognise him from Auschwitz. After seemingly getting away with his case of diamonds, Szell is forced at gunpoint into the pump rooms of the reservoir, and rather than kill the sinister doctor he takes the diamonds and individually scatters them in the water below. In the end, after forced to swallow a diamond or two, Szell ends up killing himself with his own sleeve switch blade while falling down the stairs to retrieve the diamonds, and drowning as well, and Babe walks away, throwing his gun in the ocean. Also starring Fritz Weaver as Prof. Biesenthal, Richard Bright as Karl, The Man with the Golden Gun's Marc Lawrence as Erhard, Allen Joseph as Babe's Father, Tito Goya as Melendez, Ben Dova as Szell's Brother and Lou Gilbert as Rosenbaum. Hoffman is really good as the young man in the middle of a big conspiracy, and Scheider and Keller do well with his time on screen, but of course Olivier steals the show as the demented dentist doctor who's only goal is the find the diamonds, and his most evil moment is of course the dental torture scene, which still manages to disturb. I agree it takes a little while to really get stuck into what the main plot is, and there are little gaps in amongst, but once you get to grips with it, it is a mostly intense and interesting dark film, a most watchable thriller. It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film Editing, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Screenplay. Dustin Hoffman was number 24 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Lord Sir Laurence Olivier was number 21 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, he was number 3 on Britain's Finest Actors, he was number 14 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, and Hoffman was number 21, and Olivier number 4 on The World's Greatest Actor, Dr. Szell was number 34 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, the film was number 56 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments, and it was number 50 on 100 Years, 100 Thrills. Very good! "}]