[{"Title":"Passionate, poetic, exceptional filmmaking","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"48 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  At its base, Bound for Glory is just a simple biopic about Woody Guthrie. In execution, it turns out to be a lot more. We actually learn very little about Woody Guthrie's life. I don't know the exact statistic, but I would guess that it covers no more than a few years, with an end title that tells us briefly of his death. And basically all of the experiences shown onscreen can be seen in other films, most notably John Ford's brilliant American masterpiece The Grapes of Wrath. To be absolutely fair, the scenes of migrant workers' woes are at least equal to those in its predecessor. A good one-line summary of Bound for Glory might read a modernist equivalent of The Grapes of Wrath told from the point of view of folk singer Woody Guthrie. But Bound for Glory has a few things that make it stand out from other films, that make it as memorable as The Grapes of Wrath.First and maybe foremost, you have the brilliant and gorgeous cinematography of the great Haskell Wexler. I'm no expert on cinematographers, but Wexler is one of only three I can name offhand (the other two being, if you are interested, Vittorio de Sica and Sven Nykvist). I love Wexler's work in films like Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? and Matewan (a thematically similar film directed by the great John Sayles). But what Bound for Glory most resembles is Wexler's very controversial cinematography on Days of Heaven. Not controversial because of anything specifically photographed, of course, but, if you know the story, a different cinematographer took credit as lead DP, leaving Wexler with a credit that was something along the lines of with additional photography by. Wexler claims to have photographed more than 50% of the scenes in the finished film. He has sat through the film several times, I have heard, with a stopwatch. Bound for Glory, at any rate, is one of the most beautiful films you're ever likely to see. It's golden colors are beautiful, and the camera is moved gently, but with precision. This film actually has the first shot that used a steadicam, although I had forgotten to keep an eye out for it when the film was playing (I was far too engrossed). My favorite scene is one where Guthrie and a black hobo have left the boxcar of a train and move to the top of it. There they sit and converse as the most beautiful landscapes in our country pass by behind them. These are some of the best shots I've ever seen. And just because of those shots, even if the film didn't contain a plethora of other relevant materials, I would call this film one of the best ever made about the United States.Secondly and thirdly, this film is about Woody Guthrie, one of the greatest American artists of the past century. David Carradine, who, in other performances, has never convinced me that he was as good as his father, John (who was in Grapes of Wrath, incidentally), or his brother, Keith, breaks apart my former opinion of him and delivers a masterful performance. I don't know whether I could identify why he is so good in this film. It's as if he has an aura about him. He really does, however, seem to enbody Guthrie's convictions. Throughout the film, Guthrie's music is played, whether sung or as an extra-diagetic score. This is great American music. So much of it has become part of the soundtrack to the American life. I mean, I remember learning songs like This Land is Your Land and This Train in elementary school music class. In his day, Guthrie had difficulty in getting those kind of songs out to the public. His bosses were constantly ordering him to tone down the political edge of his music. Luckily for America, he steadfastly refused to do so. Woody Guthrie was a true American hero. Bound for Glory depicts that as much as he could have hoped for.   "},{"Title":"It Is Glorious. It Made It.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"39 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Of all the five best picture nominees of 1976, Bound for Glory is the most difficult for most to remember. I mean it was the quiet film in a year which consisted of Rocky, Network, All the President's Men and Taxi Driver. Woody Guthrie (David Carradine of Kung Fu fame) is suffering through the Dust Bowl of Pampa, Texas in 1936. There are no jobs, no crops and really no hope. Guthrie decides that the best way for him to do his part is to become a folk singer for the poorest peoples of Northern Texas and depression-era Oklahoma. What follows is a genuinely wonderful story which is all based upon the life of America's greatest folk singer. Bound for Glory is well-written, well-directed by the wonderful Hal Ashby and well-acted by David Carradine in the role of a lifetime. Melinda Dillon, Randy Quaid and Ronny Cox are among the other players, but this is Carradine's show from the word go. A wonderful, but truthfully somewhat forgotten masterpiece from the 1970s. 4.5 out of 5 stars.    "},{"Title":"Better than good Important","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"31 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" BOUND FOR GLORY compassionately portrays that Woody Guthrie's gift to mankind was about being at life's mercy, deliberately staying on a par with everyday people -- not just understanding and speaking for them, but being them and speaking for himself.BOUND FOR GLORY had the courage to abstain from the bigger-than-life formula for Hollywood success, and never hurried its pace to placate a predictably impatient audience. The scenes, and David Carradine morphing into Woody Guthrie, took whatever time was needed to ripen into the enriching story of inherent human value, undeniable personal dignity, and the insidious soul-starving quality of greed that this masterpiece movie tells.Ronny Cox, Melinda Dillon, Gail Strickland, Randy Quaid, and David Carradine all delivered academy award worthy performances. No saints, no heroes, no cavalry to the rescue; just actors tenderly disappearing into heart capturing characters who are disturbingly vulnerable, familiar, ordinary, and profound. "},{"Title":"Great performance from...David Carradine!!??","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bound For Glory is a very involving and interesting movie in a hypnotic, slow-moving seventies kind of way. In fact, for the first 45 minutes I was watching it on cable TV, I had no idea why I was watching it. Nothing much was happening. The story was episodic and meandering. But I did watch the thing all the way through--all 2 and a half hours of it. In retrospect, I can now see some reasons why the film held me so. To begin with, the cinematography is beautiful and the music is wonderful. But mostly it was the acting, which is uniformly excellent in a naturalistic way that is rarely seen these days. I had the impression I was peeking in on real people and events, not on movie actors playing out a script. The biggest revelation, however, was David Carradine, who gives an amazing performance as Woody Guthrie. He's just living the part. I mean--what has the guy ever done before or since that even hinted at the fact that he could act so damn well? Nothing, that's what! Carradine's performance in Bound for Glory reminds me of two other, more recent performances in similar films Ashley Judd in Victor Nunez's Ruby in Paradise and Peter Fonda in the role that gave him an Oscar nomination, Ulee's Gold, also by Nunez.In these films you can see the main character thinking, breathing--living. Not acting out some melodrama.Another common thread runs between these three performances, too none of these actors have been allowed to (or been able to?) do work anywhere near as good again. The post-Ruby Judd has gone on to major in spunky thriller heroines and Fonda has drifted back off the map to wherever he was before Ulee.But Carradine is the one who really breaks your heart. He has continued acting, like Judd. But the horrendous quality of his projects make you wish he'd disappeared back in to the vapor of obscurity, like Fonda. After watching Bound For Glory, the sight of Carradine zombie-walking through an episode of Kung Fu the Legend Continues or snarling like a brain-dead idiot in one of his European-made direct-to-video action cheapies is enough to make you cry. The massive talent he wasted.Still, many actors never have even one moment of glory.  "},{"Title":"Why Woody, soon you'll be singin' to the whole damn country!","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Is there any other musical figure in history who can be called as heroic as Woody Guthrie? The man was a musical genius, a visionary songwriter, and a great man, a man who never gave up on his dream, a man who gave up a lot of money so he could take his songs to the people, the people the songs were written by, and for, in the first place. Woody Guthrie was integrity personified, a great American hero. Bound for Glory is quite appropriately one of the greatest American films of all time, as well as one of the most criminally overlooked, despite two Academy Awards for cinematography and score, and four more nominations including 'Best Picture' (losing in that category to Rocky).Astonishingly accomplished cinematography from legend Haskell Wexler as well as some great editing and a stunning score in addition to Hal Ashby's (Harold and Maude) excellent direction make this a beautiful, haunting, and brilliant film. The performances carry the film, with David Carradine turning in what is surely his greatest ever performance, a stunning, passionate, beautiful portrayal of Guthrie which fully captures the man's spirit. Ronny Cox and Melinda Dillon are also superb in their roles. Ashby gets a sort of realism from his actors that is sorely missed today, and any other method of portrayal would make this film far less captivating and beautiful than it is. Screenwriter Robert Getchell adapts his script very well from Guthrie's autobiography, choosing the correct parts to tell. In many senses this feels less like a biopic and more like a story about working class America. Maybe that's why this is probably the greatest biopic of all time. In terms of technical accomplishment, this is easily among the top 100 films of all time. It's a great American film about a great American hero. It tells the story of not only Guthrie, but also those who surrounded him and the people he sung to. It's a beautiful, emotional, and arresting film that is surely essential viewing. One of the most criminally overlooked films of all time. A resounding 10/10 "},{"Title":"Integrity personified....","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This film is about a guy who had integrity. He couldn't be bought off. He didn't sell out. Woody Guthrie felt his music. It came from a sense of caring about people. As a film, Bound for Glory does a ten-star job of conveying the spirit of a man who could joke when the chips were down and who could sing out with an affection his listeners could believe. Guthrie made music move people to see themselves as worthwhile, as creators of vitality, gusto and dignity. And he did this during the Great Depression. People, especially people in the industrial world, feel less and less a sense of connectedness to each other. Community tends to lose quality as the rule of quantitative cheapness triumphs. The more the narrow, modern sort of individualism envelops them, the more humans slip into an alienation reinforced by commodified cocoons. Wage-slaves we are and wage-slaves we were in the 1930s. Only back then, we still had some remnant of solidarity, some spark of humanity to touch each other with. We still do, but it's fading fast. Woody's life was about fanning those embers into flames as people worked for wages, while others, the unemployed and under paid caught up in the depression of the Great Depression, wondered whether their families and other families like them would ever make it. Woody came from them and he sang for them. Woody was a working class hero, a modern day troubadour. He infused his listeners with his humorous, never give-up gumption, which, if you weren't lucky enough to know him personally, came out in waves as you drank in his warm words and tunes. Woody made them feel that maybe they could be bound for glory!If you find this movie on the rental shelf, pick it up and see it. It's great. I especially loved the scenes with Ozark Bule (played by Ronnie Cox). He must have been something. The first time you see him, he stands up on his vehicle near some unemployed field workers and sings the old IWW song composed by Joe Hill ************************************************** Long-haired preachers come out every night Try to tell you what's wrong and what's right But when asked about something to eat They will answer in voices so sweet'You will eat, by and by, In that glorious land above the sky Work and pray, live on hay - You'll get pie in the sky when you die' - that's a lie!And the Starvation Army they play And they sing and the clap and they pray Till they get all your coin on the drum Then they'll tell you when you're on the bum . . .Holy Rollers and Jumpers come out And they sing and they clap and they shout 'Give your money to Jesus,' they say, 'He will cure all diseases today . . .Working folks of all countries, unite Side by side we for freedom will fight When the world and it's wealth we have gained To the grafters we'll sing this refrainYou will eat, by and by, When you've learned how to cook and how to fry Chop some wood, it'll do you good Then you'll eat in the sweet by and by - that's no lie! ************************************************************And David Carradine (Bill of Kill Bill fame) would never do acting as fine as this again. His Guthrie is near perfect, one level above Gary Cooper's portrayal of Sergeant York. Hal Ashby got the most from his acting company. They all look and act like real people with real lives, not stars. And Haskell Wexler's camera work is as artistically brushed as Woody's best known song*****************************************************************THIS LAND IS YOUR LAND words and music by Woody GuthrieChorus This land is your land, this land is my land From California, to the New York Island From the redwood forest, to the gulf stream waters This land was made for you and meAs I was walking a ribbon of highway I saw above me an endless skyway I saw below me a golden valley This land was made for you and meChorusI've roamed and rambled and I've followed my footsteps To the sparkling sands of her diamond deserts And all around me a voice was sounding This land was made for you and meChorusThe sun comes shining as I was strolling The wheat fields waving and the dust clouds rolling The fog was lifting a voice come chanting This land was made for you and meChorusAs I was walkin' - I saw a sign there And that sign said - no tress passin' But on the other side .... it didn't say nothing! Now that side was made for you and me!ChorusIn the squares of the city - In the shadow of the steeple Near the relief office - I see my people And some are grumblin' and some are wonderin' If this land's still made for you and me "},{"Title":"This film was made for you and me","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  One can go into this film from several different angles, and be  rewarded at every turn. You like history? Bound For Glory's depiction of Depression Era life is both accurate and eye-opening. You like music? The perspective gained on one of our nation's greatest songwriters is delightful in a way every man can appreciate. You like against-the-odds stories of rugged individualism?  Hope you're hungry. The pace may be criticized as slow, but works in emphasizing the dreariness and despair needed to understand the motivations and emotions that lead to Woody Guthrie's greatness. The deliberate storytelling also reminds one of the manner in which Kurosawa might weave a fable. Which reminds me, David Carradine's performance is inspired. Great film any way you look at it.  "},{"Title":"Excellent.  Carradine does a GREAT job.  Music outstanding.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Found the movie to be real.  Did a great job of showing how things were at the time.  Carradine & Cox did an outstanding job.  Really enjoyed the music.  Feel that this movie has certainly been overlooked during the years. A real QUALITY film. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" An unusual film, it starts by depicting the harsh life that many had to live during the Depression era, but then about halfway through it takes a sharp turn to become a biography of a musician. This change is rather jarring, as it comes unexpected. It manages to paint the glumness and the poverty of the Depression era so well that the sudden change in story direction just about violates what has gone before. In fairness, it does give us an idea of what the protagonist went through and what motivated his career, but is there not too much time spent on it? There is relatively little in the way of story until the music side enters in. It is quite meandering, and full of characters that have no importance later on, there is cause to wonder whether it could have been compressed down. For the adventure genre that the film best fits into, it is also relatively unexciting. The film is rather awkwardly put together, and it could do with a few events removed, but there are still a lot of good points to it. The cinematography won the film an Academy Award, as did the adapted music soundtrack, and both these elements are good. Haskell Wexler has chosen some interesting angles to shoot the film from, and the songs are fitted into the material quite well. Overall it is a good film, but a difficult one too. It takes patience to get through, but there are some good things in the end. "},{"Title":"High apple pie in the sky this film isn't a lie!","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" In one of his many masterpieces throughout the '70s, Hal Ashby tells the story of Woody Guthrie (David Carradine) during the folk singer's Depression-era travels, and how he got politicized. We see the plight of working families moving to California, and everything such. One of the best scenes is when a rich family picks up Woody. While they talk about their wealth and stuff, Woody says something that I'm probably not allowed to write here.All in all, this is a magnificent look into one man's life, and into history in general. If only one thing's for certain, it's that Woody Guthrie will remain an important part of Americana. A great movie. Also starring Ronny Cox and Melinda Dillon. "}{"Title":"Outstanding! An accurate glimpse at life in tougher times.","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie will give the open-minded viewer a look at what life in America was like in the 1930's. I fear younger viewers who expect to have cars blowing up and a hero who can defeat a half dozen opponents at once will be disappointed. David Carradine turns in his best performance of all that I have seen. As others have mentioned the cinematography is fantastic. This movie is for those viewers who can appreciate that many have struggled and suffered to bring this country to the point where some can be bored by a movie of this caliber. To appreciate what we now have one must sit through the boring parts to see how badly people lived during this time in the USA. The movie does move slowly at times but that is how slowly the lives of people moved in that time period. They had little or no work, didn't always know where their next meal would come from. VERY MINOR SPOILER The movie portrays Woody in his struggle to bring respect and equity to those who toiled and were abused. There are still those who do not believe that conditions like this once existed in this country. I doubt they would believe it if they watched the movie. I rate this movie 8 of 10 for the harsh portrayal of a time many are not aware of, the convincing acting of Carradine, and the cinematography. "},{"Title":"Well done but not for everyone.","Date":"9 July 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Bound for Glory is a dramatization of the early career of Woody Guthrie--particularly his wanderings around the country and the establishment of his career as a folk singer. However, the film does NOT cover his later years and his affliction with Huntington's.Have you ever seen a movie that is well made and you are supposed to enjoy it but you didn't? That's my experience with Bound for Glory. While I could see it was a fine film and David Carradine did a fine job, I found my attention wandering throughout. Part of it is because the film is VERY deliberately paced (i.e., slow). Part of it is because I just don't happen to care much about the subject matter. This is sad, I know, as I am a retired history teacher and I should love seeing the dust bowl and the history of Woody Guthrie but I still didn't. Part of it is because Guthrie was a pretty selfish guy (leaving his family and just going on the road for months or years at a time with little regard for them). Regardless, I just didn't enjoy the experience. Well done but I had a devil of a time with Bound for Glory... But, I am NOT saying it's a bad film or that you shouldn't see it--it's just that I was not bowled over by it like nearly all the other reviewers. "},{"Title":"Like a rolling stone","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I've seen lots of funny men in this world. Some will rob you with a six-gun and some will rob you with a fountain pen &#x96; Woody Guthrie Set during the Great Depression, Hal Ashby's Bound for Glory follows folk singer Woody Guthrie as he evolves from a lowly sign painter in Texas to a popular radio singer in California. Guthrie's cross-country journey was itself commonplace during the Dust Bowl years. This decades long period saw dust storms and droughts ravaging the American panhandle, conditions which led to an exodus of farmers, most of whom lost their land and travelled West, eventually settling in California, where they were ruthlessly exploited by land barons who pitted worker against worker.Like most of Ashby's lead characters, Woody's thus a non-conformist with a strong sense of moral outrage. Ashby paints him as a wandering artist, hopping from town to town, riding trains, hitching rides, meeting folk and developing his conscience. It's not long before his songs become weapons; a means to rally men against social injustice.And so as the film progresses, Woody begins to inspire people to unionise and organise (against farm barons and landlords) and morphs into a kind of romantic anarchist-socialist figure who lives to fight and loves to sing.Like John Ford's Grapes of Wrath, Bound for Glory's view of the Great Depression mixes inappropriately cosy postcard images with gut wrenching hardship. Families struggle to make ends meet, food is scarce and jobs are few. But where Ashby and Ford differ most is in the latter's sense of optimism; things will be better, if only we keep singing. If only we keep chanting, our guitars in hand. Ashy, you sense, is a bit more pessimistic. Understandable, considering the era in which he was active.The title of Ashby's 1979 film, Being There, was perhaps inspired by German philosopher Martin Heidegger's magnum opus Being and Time. In his book, Heidegger coined the term Dasein or Being there, which referred to existence in the most minimal sense. By using the expression Being There, Heidegger called attention to the fact that a human being cannot be taken into account except as a being existing in the middle of a larger fabric. To be human is to be fixed, embedded and immersed in the physical, literal, tangible day to day. But Heidegger believed that certain people could escape this fabric, or perhaps be more attuned to it via a heightened self reflexivity, thought most were too preoccupied to do so.In Being There, Ashby had actor Peter Sellers essentially play a brain damaged child called Chance. Depending upon one's reading of the film, Chance's innocence either represented a kind of perceptual freedom which allowed him to unknowingly see beyond the delusive forms that mask everyday reality, or the exact opposite, Chance a figure of chance, of lawless, nonsensical irrationality. Regardless, Bound for Glory's Guthrie is obviously intended to be juxtaposed with Chance. Gutherie's a simple man with few possessions and few ties. But while others are on their hands and knees, working and toiling in the dirt, Woody stands upright and sees the world both as it is, and in terms of possibilities instead of limitations. Whever someone tries to force their frameworks upon him, Woody rejects them (marriage, family, job, class, money etc) and goes in search of better paths. These path may not be visible, or indeed even exist, but what matters most is that Woody inspires others to join him on his search.8.5/10 - Though Ashby fails to delve deeply into Guthrie's life, preferring to reduce him to an archetypal wandering artist character, this is nevertheless a fine, era defining film, and features some stunning cinematography by the legendary Haskell Wexler. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"Carradine was Outstanding","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Enjoyed this film from beginning to the very end because it was so down to earth and told a great story about Woody Guthrie played by David Carradine. Woody Guthrie left his Texas home and headed for California and along the way he experienced riding the railroad in a box car and even on top of them from town to town and was beaten up by the railroad workers. Woody meets up with some very poor people who were trying to make a living by picking crops in the fields for penny's a day and children deprived of food and shelter. Ronny Cox,(Ozark Bule) meets up the Woody and they play music for a radio station and at the same time try to get a union established for the working people on the farms. David Carradine did a great job of acting and this is a very outstanding picture to view more than once. Enjoy "},{"Title":"This Is the Story Of The Great Depression","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Bound For Glory is a great deal more than the story of Woody Guthrie. It is a virtual experience of living through the Great Depression.This is the ultimate historical-based re-creation of life in America in the 1930s. From the unemployment to the box car hopping, dust storms, soup kitchens, migrant workers and their union organizing, the film takes you into the eye of the Great Depression hurricane that devastated life in America.It provides a first-person perspective as the story builds upon the life of folk music legend Woody Guthrie.Teachers from 5th grade through college can use this as a valuable instructional tool, and not even have to worry about any bad language or erotic scenes.Where Grapes of Wrath was once used as Hollywood's contribution to showing the Great Depression, Bound For Glory surpasses it with a compelling storyline that keeps you riveted, production design and sets that are as stimulating as they are accurate, and superb acting and cinematography.If you somehow missed this film because most of the attention that year was going to Rocky, Network, All the President's Men and Taxi Driver, find out for yourself why this was the other film nominated for Best Picture. "},{"Title":"You Can't Scare  Me, I'm Sticking to the Union","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This was one of the first biographies of a music star. Woody Guthrie was also the most famous communist in American history. This made just doing the movie an act of extreme courage on the part of everybody involved.The movie is as much about the depression in the 1930's as it is about Guthrie. Evoking the atmosphere of the 1930's Midwestern United States is what the movie does best. Bonnie and Clyde is really the only other movie that succeeds as well as this one.When I saw it thirty-two years ago, I thought it was beautiful, but politically tepid, downplaying much of the politics of Guthrie and the period. It seemed to also show Guthrie as inarticulate, rash, self-destructive, egocentric and foolish. Looking at it now, the cinematography is not great, some of it is quite grainy. It is fine, but not brilliant.More importantly, I appreciate now that it does not romanticize Guthrie. No doubt in the coming century, he will become an icon like Che Guevara. One gets a vision of a real flawed and down-to-earth person and not a white-washed myth in Carradine's brooding portrayal. It hurts the drama, but that is something I think Guthrie would have appreciated.Some have noted that David Carradine never did anything better. This is true. Still, he has worked steadily as an actor, now with over 200 movie and television roles. He is in no less than ten movies this year. If you include over 120 episodes of his two Kung Fu television series, he has been in as many productions as his legendary father, John Carradine (339). It is ironic that his father was best known for his role in Grapes of Wrath and he will be best known for his role in Bound for Glory, Altogether this is a beautiful, laid-back, easy-going version of the Woody Guthrie story. One expects that soon, in the future, a much more passionate version will appear. "},{"Title":"Hard Travelin'","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Woody is hitchhiking to the do-re-mi state of California when he is picked up by a middle-aged couple in a camper trailer automobile. The driver, M. Emmet Walsh, babbles incessantly about all the sites he and his wife have visited across the nation. Woody, in the backseat, is finally given an opportunity to speak. He blurts out, The more you eat, the more you s**t. Immediately, Woody is hitchhiking once more. This one scene epitomizes Woody's attitude and character. He is the common man writ large, no pretense, no fabrication, just plain talk.This movie is based on Woody's book, Bound for Glory, the title coming from the old spiritual, This Train is Bound for Glory, This Train. A popular song of the day was Born to Lose by the western swing band, Ted Daffan's Texans, much later a big hit for Ray Charles. Woody hated the words to the song, with its pessimistic, fatalistic outlook on life and love. Partly in response to this song, Wood wrote his Bound for Glory. The book like the movie is a look inside Woody's mind. It's about his philosophy and how it relates to his music and songwriting. It is thereby not much of a biography, dealing with a few episodes in Woody's odyssey across American and his rather brief career as a professional musician.All Woody's best songs are showcased in Bound for Glory. I Ain't Got No Home, Talking Dust Bowl Blues, So Long It's Been Good To Know Ya, They Laid Jesus Christ in His Grave, Howdjadoo, Deportees, Hard Travelin', Pastures of Plenty, and his most recorded ditty, This Land Is Your Land. About the only ones missing are Pretty Boy Floyd,Vigilante Man, and Take Me For a Ride In Your Car-Car (Riding In My Car). When one imagines an actor portraying Woody, Preacher Casey (John Carradine) from The Grapes of Wrath comes to mind. In 1976, John Carradine would have been too old to fit the part. Why not his lookalike son, David? A good choice. David Carradine not only acts the role, much like George C. Scott in Patton, he becomes Woody. Added to the believability is David's ability to play the guitar and harmonica and to sing in Woody's style. Modern ears have difficulty listening to the rough, often grating, primitive singing and playing of Woody. Woody wanted it that way. He desired to sound like the common man, not like some radio crooner. The movie highlights this when a cocktail lounge singer is auditioning with I'm In The Mood For Love. Guthrie follows with a hillybilly rendition of Pastures of Plenty, much more sophisticated than it appears to be. Caradine captures the sound perfectly, without over playing it.Maverick director, Hal Ashby, and his cinematographer, Haskell Wexler, by studying Dorothea Lange's famous photos of the Great Depression and by utilizing inspiration gained from watching John Ford's The Grapes of Wrath, are able to capture on film the essence of hopelessness, frustration, and misery of those caught in the maelstrom of starvation and unemployment. One telling scene has a horde of migrant workers slowly walking toward the camera, their heads bent in quiet desperation, having been rejected from fruit-picking work because only thirty hands were needed. In the midst of this swirl of despondency, Woody walks tall against the flow, his head in the air, as much a maverick as Ashby. Only two other Hollywood films equal Bound for Glory in their depiction of the Great Depression on the big screen, The Grapes of Wrath, and Arthur Penn's Bonnie and Clyde.Even Woody's ambivalent attitude toward women is not glossed over. Woody was at heart a drifter, unable to stay in one place too long, always breaking free from the ties that bind. Keeping with this accurate presentation of the bard, The film shows Woody's concept of labor unions as being for fair treatment of workers with a decent wage, not the compromising fanaticism of Ozark Bule (Ronny Cox), demanding all or nothing until the chips are down; then backing up on his principles. A similar outlook causes Woody problems with being a professional musician. When agents, managers, and producers--all in it for the money--try to groom Woody for the big time, he throws his guitar over his shoulder and heads for New York Town where he would find, People going' down to the ground, Buildings going' up to the sky, as Dylan would later sing, in homage to his mentor. "},{"Title":"I just couldn't get into this","Date":"26 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This slow-moving film isn't bad, but it feels rather formless, interested in giving you a sense of what Guthrie saw (even though it turns out it's entirely fictionalized) more than what he did. Perhaps you get a better sense of Guthrie in the second half of the film, but I had trouble keeping with it. I could have kept watching without minding it, but I wasn't remotely invested in it. It didn't help that Guthrie turned out to be pretty selfish early on, and yes, a lot of famous people are flawed, but if you were to watch the first half of this movie without knowing who Guthrie is, you would wonder what the movie was about besides some random guy living through the dust bowl days. And the movie isn't an interesting enough version of that sort of movie. "},{"Title":"Evocative, thoughtful, gritty, and sometimes funny...but without a dynamic core","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Rabble-rousing kid from 1930s Oklahoma heads west with his guitar for a better life, using the hardships of the roadside vagrants and field-pickers for his musical material. Talented Hal Ashby directed this Depression-era dramatization of folk singer Woodrow Woody Guthrie from a screenplay by the estimable Robert Getchell (adapting Guthrie's autobiography). However, Ashby allows the narrative to drift and ramble; while some may feel this approach appropriate, the lackadaisical overall feel--coupled with David Carradine's somewhat lachrymose lead performance--fails to lend the film the big emotional heart one longs for it to have. There are certainly compensations, particularly Haskell Wexler's cinematography and Leonard Rosenman's music-adaptation, both of which won Oscars. Guthrie's romantic life plays out like a series of rerun episodes (which each of his women seen smiling from the bedroom), yet there's a great deal of beauty in Ashby's presentation and several witty passages in Getchell's script. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Carradine's best performance","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Forget 'the grasshopper' guy. Carradine outperformed himself and showed he was truly his father's son. The way he responded to the bullying and attempts to package him were great. However, he must have interacted or found a way or an agent to interact with the music business enough to get his music known all over the world.The expressions on his face as he listens to the humiliating demands of the show business people mirror the attitudes of the thugs who were trying to get him to stay away from the workers as he tried to unionize them. So much of this is true today, where the media are forced to tell only the 'news' the corporations want out there in our own National Pravda. Actually, the coercion is so profound in this country that either you wouldn't even get hired if you were detected as a liberal, or you would be forced to read the managed news the network prostitutes had written.As our country becomes more and more corrupt, you can't help but love these movies where Americans actually trusted one another. Woody asks to borrow the worker's car and he says, Sure, will you come back? And Woody says, That's where I've got to sleep. Which isn't an answer as he could steal the truck and still sleep in it on the other side of the country.The sight of the railroad goons shooting the guy at the moment he's so exhilarated about getting into L.A. was quite a surprise. YOu really expected that to happen at the beginning of Woodie's riding the rails experience, when they lined all those folks up, women and men, and threatened them.And we're heading for those rough times again, as people begin to wake up from the lies the corporate media have told us about the 'bailout'. At least Rolling Stone has it right we gave the money to the banks, and it was like giving the bankers an ATM account into the taxpayers pocket. Of course, we'll never see that money again. The bankers and their Congressional goons/whores will see to that. This movie was about a similar time in our country's history.It is too bad that his own family had to suffer from his wanderings. Although his wife was a nag, one can't blame her. Wonder if Arlo has ever opened up about that, since effectively he chose a very similar lifestyle to his father.Despite the bad review I read in The Thousand Best Movies Ever Made, this was a beautifully made film.And in fact, the book itself is quite funny as much of the reviews pan the movies that are 'the best'!!!!! Rent it. Buy it. It gives you a lot about our country to remember and love, even if it's gone forever. Unions forever!!! Organize or the middle class is dead; and so I do what Woody got fired from the station for doing speak of something controversial that will irritate our corporate 'massas'. "}{"Title":"Woody Guthrie's early life","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Unravelling at a leisurely pace and featuring some of the best folk music of the 20th Century, this film takes a look at the early life of Woody Guthrie, from his days scraping a living painting signs in Texas to his small-time success on L.A. radio and his labor activism. Thanks largely to the deft but light hand of director Hal Ashby and a well modulated performance from David Carradine, the film manages to get its ideas across without seeming sentimental or cloying.Guthrie has a complicated relationship with his wife (Melinda Dillon) and forms close friendships with strange men (and women) everywhere he goes. One of his closest friends is Ozark Bule (Ronny Cox), a semi-successful folkie who brings Guthrie along to the radio station and inspires him to help with the union, but who balks at Guthrie's extreme sense of anti-commercialism. The film overall does a pretty good job of showing how Guthrie had some real weaknesses, and that his anti-authoritarian stance wasn't just a case of righteousness but more one of personal conviction.Haskell Wexler's photography should be applauded, because the film's slow pace allows us to drink in the beauty of so many landscapes and dustbowl worker's camps. The musical selections are excellent. I only wish the film could have gone on longer, and showed us some of his real success that led to him becoming world-famous. It's too bad there wasn't a chance to do another film about his time in NYC and his eventual illness. "},{"Title":"Grows","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" If you would've asked me, what I thought of the movie, right after I saw it, I would've probably gave it a lower rating. But the movie grows on you. Carradine's performance is mesmerizing to say the least and his underdog is more than likable. You can see that he has his priorities straight, even if they get him in all sorts of trouble, be it at home or at work.The problem of the movie is, that it tries so hard to depict a historical character in a short period of time. Well short might be a stretch here, seeing that the pace of the movie itself is pretty slow, which make you think, the movie is longer than it actually is. Not really much is happening and the same issues get played twice or more times, with almost the same conclusion. The stoic Carradine character remains the same. This might be truthful (I can't say, because I haven't read any bios on the real man portrayed here), but could also become boring after awhile for quite a few people. "},{"Title":"Exceptional look at Americans in protest.","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Director Hal Ashby's screen presentation of Woody Guthrie's autobiography is cinematic pleasure. Bleak and heartfelt, sympathetic and proud. Guthrie(David Carradine)as a young man was trying to support his wife Mary(Melinda Dillon)and two small children by painting signs during the Dust Bowl of the 1930s. Just like a multitude of Okies, he left Texas thinking salvation would come from the fields of California. He left his wife and kids with her family and jumped on a west bound freight. Riding the rails with others like him, the protest singer he was gathered more ideas for his mournful and sad songs of protest. As a migrant worker in the San Fernando Valley, he continued writing songs about the sights he had seen and the sorrows he shared. He joined up with Ozark Bule(Ronny Cox)on the radio. He not only sang his songs of union organizing, he was proud of his share of brawling against union-busters. His radio job in shambles, Guthrie hit the rails again heading east to New York and a bigger audience to present his songs of protest to. If anything good came from the Great Depression it was Woody Guthrie. Carradine did his own singing which is impressing itself. This movie captured the feel of America and her people during a deliberate and testing time. Also in the cast John Lehne, Gail Strickland, Ji-Tu Cumbuka, Elizabeth Macey and Randy Quaid. "},{"Title":"A movie that needs to be rediscovered and shown often.","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" How did I miss this movie all those years ago?Beautifully photographed,and too,a story of a Great American;acted simply and straight-forwardly...it has production values that makes the movies of today pale in comparison.Could have used a little more editing in some scenes,particularly in the first half.Still a fine film.AMC or some movie channel should be showing this every 6 months or so.The thing that struck me as genius was,at the very outset of the film,the storyline has Woody leaving his guitar behind as he begins his adventure west.How true to life that he finds it again,only much later,by observing its powers through the ears and eyes of a listener.Bound For Glory should be viewed by every American,papers or no,rich and poor.In todays world climate,it has relevance.Surely,a movie that needs to be rediscovered and shown often. "},{"Title":"An excellent & absorbing Woody Guthrie bio film with a top-rate David Carradine performance","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" David Carradine, looking suitably gaunt, tattered and worn-out (and doing his own astonishingly tuneful, subdued, rawboned singing with a hoarse, but sturdy baritone, plus playing a pretty mean acoustic guitar), gives a terrifically tenacious, touching and totally believable performance as legendary folk singer/songwriter Woody Guthrie in this excellent, engrossing, ruggedly authentic biopic about Guthrie's tough, but eventful formative years during the Great Depression. The late, great Hal Ashby does a sterling job directing this lengthy (it's two and a half hours long), ambitious, prodigiously expansive, but never dull or meandering film the meticulously telling recreation of the downcast, financially and emotionally troubled, spirit-wrenching Dust Bowl era never strikes a single false note, there are many acutely observed, often wryly humorous vignettes (Guthrie's encounter with a likable, allegedly insane overweight man is a small gem), the pacing slogs along at an ingratiatingly insouciant, leisurely clip that's completely in sync with that decade's intrinsic dreariness, the hard times of the 30's are neither cloyingly sentimentalized nor grossly simplified, and the movie overall successfully creates and maintains a delicate, heart-melting poignancy that's made all the more affecting because it stems naturally from the characters and the grueling ordeals they courageously face throughout the film.Although Carradine's exemplary portrayal -- simple, sincere and sweetly moving while effortlessly radiating a durable, dignified inner strength that's quietly overwhelming in its very humility -- is the main thespian showpiece featured herein all the other actors in parts major and minor alike are equally outstanding Melinda Dillon as Guthrie's loyal, pushy, long-suffering wife, Ronny Cox as a kindly, willful itinerant minstrel, Randy Quaid as an earnest union organizer, Gail Strickland as a thoughtful, caring soup kitchen proprietor, Ji-Tu Cumbaka as an amiable train-jumping hobo, M. Emmet Walsh as a gabby motorist who ejects Guthrie from his car after he says s**t in front of his wife, Brion James as the needy father of several hungry kids, John Lehne as a strict, repressive radio station owner, James Hong as the peppery, peevish chili cook at a roadside diner, and Robert Ginty as an impassive fruit picker. Robert Getchell wrote the fine, colorful script. Both Haskell Wexler's beautifully evocative, golden-hued cinematography and Leonard Rosenman's flavorsome, understated country and western score deservedly won Oscars. A lovely, touching and quite wonderful film. "},{"Title":"The Dust Bowl Troubadour","Date":"21 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" For realistic images of the 1930s dust bowl in Oklahoma and Texas, this is the film to see ... the shabby, frame houses, the dilapidated autos, the dreary clothes, the grinding poverty, and all that dust. Although the film was shot in color, the lighting is muted, even in daylight. I suspect that was on purpose, to show how the dust blotted out much of the sunlight, and thematically much of the optimism.Bound For Glory is the story of folksinger Woody Guthrie (David Carradine), whose life as a sign painter and hobo during tough times led him to write many songs, the most famous being This Land Is Your Land. The story begins in Texas, with Woody already married and with children. Eventually, all that dust and dreariness causes him to forsake his wife and kids, as he hitchhikes and rides the rails westward to the promised land.But the promised land doesn't want any more Okies. And Guthrie ends up eating in free soup kitchens and living in ugly migrant worker camps. He writes music about life as a poor man. He identifies with the problems of migrant workers, stuck with poverty wages, if they're lucky enough even to get a job. He and them resent the cruelty of their arrogant bosses and rich, powerful corporations, which leads him to write songs of protest.Despite the film's lengthy run-time, only a small part of Guthrie's life is shown here. We never learn anything about him once he becomes famous. Nor do we learn anything about his upbringing in rural Oklahoma. The film is more of a year-in-the-life-of, rather than a comprehensive bio.Bound For Glory looks good, visually, with terrific period piece production design and costumes. And the cinematography is impressive. But the plot pace is very, very slow and deliberate. Everything is understated. And not until the film's end do we get to hear his most famous song. David Carradine is reasonably persuasive as Guthrie. Other performances are fairly standard.For all the great visuals, the script is somewhat of a letdown. I would have preferred a more conventional biography, with a faster clip. As is, genuinely certified fans of Woody Guthrie are the only viewers likely to have the patience and forbearance to sit through this toilsome and sluggish, though realistic, story. "},{"Title":"the stuff of legends, as they try not to be, as Woody Guthrie personifies the quest and struggle of the working man","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Bound for Glory breaks the trends of the usual bio-pics on musicians because Woody Guthrie, unlike most, sincerely wasn't out for fame in the usual sense. He liked recognition from time to time, and to be able to get his voice out to as many people as he could. But- and this is from the looks of the film and from what else has come up about Guthrie- he never sold out. He wasn't a political figure, but his songs had that driving force of politics, of something inspirational, that couldn't be reached through typical rhetoric. When Guthrie goes through the fields of workers picking artichokes or workers at a factory and he goes on and on singing his protest songs until the bosses beat him up and wreck his guitar, it's about as close as a political act as one has ever seen a singer/musician in a based-on-a-true-story picture. But at the same time Hal Ashby isn't out to make an entirely explicit 'message' heavy movie, even if there is, of course, messages to be taken to heart.It's about the man himself, and the times and circumstances that drove Woody Guthrie on his own, apart from his family, in mid 1930s depression era America. One could look at the film as an examination of a man caught in such dire times, of a country where the line between rich and poor was so significant there was barely any middle ground. But one can also look at it as the story of a wanderer, someone who- as his protge Bob Dylan would later make as his proclamation in Like a Rolling Stone with no direction home- always felt a little restless. His journey is what really counts and shapes his music and outlook. It almost comes close to what it must be to have faith; if you want to sing, just sing, as Guthrie tells a bunch of kids (a little simplistic but with a kernel of truth), no matter what it's about. To suddenly find more meaning in the songs from the circumstances becomes part of the narrative, of a man who could be a hero in the historical sense while not being the kind of man who would be entirely one to aspire to be. He's happy to just walk down a road and sing his songs for anyone who will hear, as his family leaves him behind and any chance of conventional success floats by the wayside.It's hard not to make messages in a film where its character in real life once had the ultimate f***-you to the establishment right on his guitar case (This machine kills fascists). But it's the high skill of film-making, and the performance at the lead, that enrich what is already potent, awesome material. Haskell Wexler, the late-great cinematographer behind Cuckoo's Nest and Medium Cool, puts his stamp significantly as a work of Americana of the traditionalist sense a dust-storm is like something both alien and beautiful, while the train scenes are exciting, lush with vibrancy with dirt all around. Ashby, too, has a mark here from his editing days; there's not one transition from scene to scene that doesn't have a fade, making it a step removed from the usual lot of films at the time (even Ashby's) where just a straight cut-to or a jump-cut would suffice. He could've made this film, in the technical sense, twenty years before and it wouldn't of made much of a difference.And finally, David Carradine. If Kill Bill is the guiltiest pleasure of his career, Bound for Glory is his serious triumph as an actor. He's got that quality, which may or may not have been like the real Guthrie, that sucks a viewer in even when the character does something or says something that shouldn't feel like it's the thing to do as the protagonist of the story. He's a character led solely by his convictions, and Carradine enriches that through the performances of the songs, and his own self-confidence radiating just walking down a road or going to do something out of the goodness of his soul. From every moment he's on screen, as if in some kind of folk-rhythm mode out of Kung-fu, he's mesmerizing, in a performance that should've been nominated along with De Niro, Finch and Giannini in the best actor race (albeit more low-key than the others). Bound for Glory is a blissful epic of conscience, and a kind of eccentric story a man who lacked any cynicism in his being. Plus, of course, the songs are great, as they're played on the spot without any over-dubbing. "},{"Title":"Fictionalized Biography of Folk Hero Woodrow Wilson Guthrie","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" It is 1936 in Pampa, Texas during the oppressive Dust Bowl. Work is hardly available, even for 24 year-old sign-painter Woody Guthrie (David Carradine), who doesn't seem to mind as he spends time with his friends and singing and playing the guitar. Woody's first wife, long-suffering Mary (Melinda Dillon), is most concerned about the lack of cash for the growing family (two little girls thus far). After a dust storm strikes, Woody simply packs up and heads for California, where jobs are supposedly plentiful. He leaves a note for Mary, Going to California. Will send for you all. Constantly struck with wanderlust (as we shall see), Woody is really a drifter. So Woody, along with many hobos of the Great Depression, hitchhikes and rides the rails on his journey. By the way, this is the largest migration in US history. Along the way Woody lives in migrant worker camps and Hoovervilles. Along his travels he meets all kinds of characters, including Slim Snedeger (Ji-Tu Cumbuka) and unionizing folk singer Ozark Bule (Ronny Cox). At a migrant camp Ozark and Woody sing and extort the workers to unionize until thugs arrive and break up the gathering. As Woody observes the miserable plight of many Americans, his social conscience is so raised that he composes and sings many of his folk songs. Note the memorable scene atop a boxcar where Woody plunks away at his guitar while he composes the words to This Land Is Your Land. Later on there is another set where Woody waltzes into a factory and exhorts the workers to unionize; he is promptly beaten up by security folks. Ozark Bule helps Woody to get a radio job at KTNS for twenty dollars a week. Most of the mail from listeners is positive, and Woody and singing partner Memphis Sue (Melinda Dillon again) get an offer of thirty-five dollars weekly. Station manager Locke (John Lehne), concerned about his new sponsors, tells Woody not to sing any controversial songs. After all, the sponsors pay for what they want to hear, and they do not want provocative subject matter. But there really is no compromise for Woody. Note that this scene is really inaccurate, as Woody was really advocating support of the Soviet Union. (Then when Russia's Stalin signed the August 1939 non-aggression pact with Nazi Germany, the leftists were stunned and . . . Oh, never mind!)An agent, Baker (Bernie Kopell), plans on getting Woody an offer to play for CBS as long as his songs are not controversial. No thanks! And as there is no middle ground, it is time for the detached Woody to move on. Ultimately Woody will work his way to New York where there are many people and unions who will hear the message of his music. Woody is destined to gain even greater acclaim than previously. The movie focus is on a slice of Woody's life (1936-1940), loosely based upon his 1943 autobiography. The famous folk singer-songwriter and musician is flawed and neglectful of his family, even after he relocates them to California. Although married, he was a notorious womanizer. In his real life the detached Woody had three wives and seven children (son Arlo was not born until 1947). But Woody inspired folks who had nothing except hope; he said one's skin color is not important. Despite his defects he remained idealistic and gave up various monetary offers. Still, he was not an easy man to live with. The songs, performed by David Carradine, include This Train Is Bound for Glory, Talking Dust Bowl Blues, I Ain't Got No Home, and of course the famous This Land Is Your Land. The feature may be slow-paced, but there are also impressive golden-colored cinematography and scenic views. There are also authentic and stunning period details, like the shabby frame houses and jalopies. The acting is natural; Carradine is very good as the folk singer who never surrenders his deeply felt convictions. In fact in this movie Carradine is Woody. Bound for Glory received an Oscar nomination for Best Picture, but understandably lost out to Rocky, a top 100 of all time movie. "},{"Title":"The True Meaning of 'Folk' Music","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Till I saw this movie, I always viewed 'folk music' as tree hugging save the world hippy happy tunes. But from this movie I now understand the emphasis on 'folk'. And really it's not too different from 'punk'. Woody sang about the people he was singing to. Hardships and hopes. Decency before profit. And how great America is, even when America wasn't doing so great. Hal Ashby put's a 'grit' not only into, but onto the film. I could literally feel the dust and grime on me as I watched. And say what you will about David Carradine being a cantankerous S.O.B., but he was cast and played Woody perfectly. To steal a line from Dr. Strangelove - Woody is a man of the people. But he's also a 'man', if you follow my meaning... And Ronny Cox I thought was stellar in his performance. All in all, the movie gives me great appreciation for the depiction of Woody, the depression era, and the unsung brilliance of Hal Ashby and the cast. A must have for anyone that's into music, sociology, history, and/or just great film making! "},{"Title":"guitar used like a camera","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is America. The musician captured the soul of America, or was it the movie that did that? Through financial hardships it seems that there was still overall beauty and love for the country to be found in every corner. The black train rolling through the country side, and the chase of the American dream, only to be confronted with desolate treatment and less then equal human rights. The downtrodden suffered greatly with zero hope. Anger and despair was reflected in the guitar music. America became the place that it is today because of people like this guitar player. Woody was so emotionally attached to the suffering of the people that he neglected himself and his family, or were the two adults just not a good match? Perhaps they did not share the same ideals. I know in my past, I found an individual, who listened to Woody Guthrie, and whom understood me, but it is only after seven years of distance, that i comprehend the depth of the connection and at the same time, the loss. Like Woody, i followed my dream and neglected family. I followed passion and fell into a dark isolation, and i wonder if this is what happened to Woody, especially since he ended up in a hospital for his final years. It is how Woody spent his last days, weeks, months that bother me. His suffering seems so great both internally and externally and even though his songs on his guitar captured human suffering in America like a photograph, I cannot help but wonder if he could not attain even an ounce of happiness in his lifetime. This movie is about socialism and communism. It is opposing capitalism. Here capitalism is not shown in a good light. It is exposed to show the suffering and slave labour of the marginalized versus the elite. In this movie, the idea of the criminal is blurred, as is it not criminal to treat individuals like slaves to make a financial profit? Who benefits? The rich or the marginalized? Who voices the concerns of the marginalized, if not for Woody Guthrie? Who voices the concerns in 2014? Are not the voices of the underdog marked as delusional, and silenced by the powerful 1 %? Or are the voices silenced because they are considered criminal in a capitalist society? How did we get to this point in revisionism? How did we get to this point in time? "}{"Title":"quiet movie with inventive camera work","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This biopic starts in 1936. Woody Guthrie (David Carradine) is struggling in the dusty small town of Pampa, Texas with his wife Mary (Melinda Dillon). Jobs are hard to find and everybody is looking to leave for California. He runs off to ride the rails and becomes one of the most influential folk singers.This is limited in excitement and tension. It's a quiet easy movie. It's quietness takes away some of the emotions in the movie. David Carradine is putting in a simple nice guy performance. There are some inventive camera work using the new steadycam. The look of the movie is one of faded dusty postcard. It's a pretty and interesting movie to look but it's not much more than that. It's a long winding road. "},{"Title":"Great filmmaking. Fine story, writing, acting, directing, sets, costuming, etc.","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" After all these years, finally got around to watching it. Lovely to see Carradine as a young guy, having seen him in Kill Bill I/II. Haven't seen _Kung Fu_ (yet).I was struck by the great, great script. The writing makes the characters both human and mythic, at every level, from storyline motivation to the poetry of utterance under the sway of passions, both conventional and visionary.The film put me under its spell of biographical story arc, and held me. That's rare and beautiful.The only production false notes were fleeting instances of the fight choreography failing to convince. Besides that, writing to direction to acting feels of-a-piece and seamless. Add to this the set work and costuming and you are absolutely immersed in a great story.One other disappointment According to an IMDb goofs note, it seems the screenwriter pulled a punch re Guthrie's relationship with the station manager over content In reality, the rift was apparently not over support for the migrant workers, but over support for the nascent workers' paradise in the Soviet Union. I think they should've hewed to history on that one. Maybe it would've put some folks off, but it would also have given the lefties something to really chew on, vs. this sterilized portrait. I'm left-leaning myself, and love the tempering that bits of real history like this impart. The screenwriter/producers should have nutted up and eaten this one.Anyway, check it out. "},{"Title":"Drawn-Out but Doesn't Drag","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I expect it took the counter-cultural period of the 60's and 70's to get a slice of Guthrie's life onto the big screen. After all, the folk singer was not only a union radical but pro-soviet as well. I can imagine how old Hollywood would have sanitized the script on the off chance of dealing with his life story.Here, Guthrie's turned into a prairie populist, evolving from dust bowl hobo to union organizer, armed with a guitar and a talent for turning words into music. At 2-hours plus, the movie is drawn out but never drags. In fact, the first hour is a pip as we get an unvarnished look at the down home poverty&#x97; the rickety shacks, the overloaded flivvers, the rail yard bulls, but most of all, the gritty people just trying to survive a world turned suddenly against them. It's well done, without rubbing your nose in it.The scene that stays with me, however, is not like anything I've seen. It's the damaged fat guy who shambles up to sign-painter Guthrie and stammers about needing brushes to paint the pictures in his head. The scene's a beautifully composed blend of humanity and understanding as the human lump shambles off, with new paint brushes in hand, while we realize Guthrie's an instinctive man of the people.No need to repeat the consensus points made by others. I'm just glad the film brought this neglected figure to popular audiences, along with his music. It's a fine period piece about an America that, despite the years, has never really left us. "},{"Title":"A film I appreciate and admire, although I don't quite love","Date":"20 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This portrait of Woody Guthrie has a lot of highlights, including Haskell Wexler's great photography).But David Carradine is very good, not great in the lead, and the film feels a bit unfocused. There's surprisingly little of Guthrie's music performed, and a lot of it played orchestrally as soundtrack, which seemed odd and out of character to me. I appreciate that this is grittier, darker, and less linear than the standard Hollywood bio-pic. And I love that Guthrie is shown as a deeply flawed man, (e.g. his easy willingness to cheat on his wife). But in the end this doesn't go very deeply into his politics or his music, the two most important things about his life. "},{"Title":"This train don't carry no liars","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" While a written biography may cover its subject's life from beginning to end over hundreds of pages, a biopic that lasts only two or three hours simply does not have the time to do the same. And yet the best biopics do justice to an individual's life by offering a slice of their existence, giving an impression of who they were and what they did. Bound for Glory covers only a few years in Woody Guthrie's life, and yet the portion it covers is a transitional one, showing his change from a friendly, easygoing country boy, to a man more cynical but firmly politicised, with his emotions shaken but his core honesty intact, and his career on the verge of national fame.A good biopic is often as much about tone as story, and this requires a good director. Consummate 70s filmmaker Hal Ashby is perfect for the project. His style is just so wonderfully light and tentative. He won't force an idea upon you, but he'll give you time to notice some little snippet of life which adds texture to a scene, for example a split-second shot that reveals one of the hobos being pulled off the train has only one arm. There's a lot of darkness in this movie, a lot of enclosed spaces and shuttered windows. The countryside appears achingly beautiful, but it is only fleetingly glimpsed, over the top of a railway carriage or through a gap in the swirling dust, like some unattainable paradise. The sublime cinematography of Haskell Wexler picks out every mote of dust and finds shape and definition in the swathes of black and brown.Let's give a word a two now to lead man David Carradine. Carradine has long been one of my favourite actors, even before he was in Kill Bill and everyone had heard of him. He worked mostly in TV and B-Westerns before landing this, his greatest and most apt role, the one he seems born to play. He has no ego. He doesn't play to the camera, and yet he has such presence here, such charisma. He thereby gives a good account of the real Woody, as well as giving us the impression of a life being lived rather than a performance being played. And of course being a proper folk musician he can do the songs justice.And the songs are crucial to this adaptation. Bound for Glory works much like a semi-musical King Vidor movie from nearly fifty years earlier by the name of Hallelujah. All the music is diagetic &#x96; it makes sense within the scene, and yet it is used to comment upon the narrative and move it forward, just as a true musical does. When Woody decides to leave his dustbowl home, he never actually states his intention to do so in dialogue, but we hear him singing a lose version of So Long, It's Been Good to Know You with its appropriate line about dusty old dust, which is then picked up in instrumental form as he heads out of town. Later, the scene of Woody playing I Ain't Got no Home in the radio studio segues into a shot of workers in a field as the tune continues, linking the man and his music to their social context. The songs are never merely presented while the story takes a break, the songs exist alongside and become part of story. Bound for Glory does not just show the life of a musician, it shows a musical life. "},{"Title":"Couldn't They Get the Hair Right?","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" In Joe Klein's biography of Woody Guthrie, he complained that that the movie Bound For Glory was highly inaccurate. It's been a long time since I read it, but after having seen the movie, I couldn't spot any glaring distortions of Guthrie's life. Besides, you can justify all kinds of changes as artistic license. One thing does bother me, though. In all the pictures I've seen of Woody Guthrie from the time frame of Bound For Glory, he has a distinctive mane of curly hair, much like what Bob Dylan, a big fan of Guthrie's, would later sport. David Carradine's thin, straight hair couldn't be more different. It doesn't bother me that Carradine doesn't look much like Guthrie (for one thing, he's much taller), but how hard would it be to fit him with a thick, curly wig? "},{"Title":"not quite woody's story","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a stupefying film. Wexler's camera work brings the correct light and intensity, Carradine's performance is solid, the sense of America at it's worst is there. However, this is hardly an accurate depiction of the life of Woody Guthrie. If you want to know about Woody watch the American Masters film or, better still read Joe Klein's amazing biography. The film lover in me recognized this as a well-made piece, but the woody fan in me was disappointed. Why did they, for example, speed up such perfect songs as pastures of plenty? Why does carradine's voice crack in all the places woody's did not? And how come they could use the name woody guthrie but not lefty lou and cisco houston?Still it is a film worth seeing. Pete Seeger and the Almanac Singers version of so long and reuben james is great as the credits roll. I would encourage teachers to show this to students studying the depression or labor history, but for students of Woody, there is much lacking. "},{"Title":"Cinetography","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The Dust Bowl-oriented scenes in Bound for Glory were filmed in the Sacramento River Delta in Sacramento County in north-central California but were uncredited. Instead, Bakersfield and Stockton were credited. I should know, I was present watching these scenes being filmed. The fact that the place where I lived was in this film is the only reason I even watched it at all and eventually got the DVD - so I could point out what scenes were filmed and where. Also if some residents were extras and I recognized them I would point them out also. The January 1978 issue of Playboy had an article on movie special effects and the Bound for Glory dust storm scene was featured which included my neighborhood, and that was the only reason my parents bought that issue of Playboy despite the fact that we kids were barely in our teens at the time and this would be a must-read Article with pictures other than the Playmate Pictorial. The day the aerial shot was filmed I was inside the house, so technically I was in Playboy, or rather my house was! "},{"Title":"How I Spent My Summer Vacation","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a frustratingly uninvolving Woody Guthrie biopic.  I felt that I learned more about Woody the person from the Billy Bragg/Wilco album Mermaid Avenue than this fragmented and dull film.  The movie is nice to look at (probably the sole reason for its existence) and gives us one of the more realistic portrayals of depression-era life, but tells us nothing new or particularly revealing about Woody Guthrie all it offers is he was just a regular guy revelations about his adultery.  Hal Ashby's film is an empty and enervated postcard. "},{"Title":"Dusty Clarity","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" A film that depicts a Man and His Time with remarkable dust filled clarity. There is much emphasis on the plight of the poor and the Crusade that Woody Guthrie embraced and brought to America through songs with an unfiltered reality like Life Magazine did through pictures. It has a brought to life performance from David Carradine and the whole cast is in great support. The Award Winning Cinematography is excellent ditto the soundtrack but the Woody songs sung adequately by the Star are far less than the crackling creations of the real Guthrie and are only passable and infrequent. The film is compelling and evenly and effectively paced that exemplifies the extraordinary stifling situations that are depressing the people during the depression. But there is also some hope burning beneath the Western sun and most of it comes from the Western soul of a bona fide benefactor of the working poor and a breathless voice who sang anthems with songs like...there are no liars on THIS TRAIN...and...THIS LAND was made for you and me.There was no lie in this man...Woody Guthrie. The movie does him proud. "}{"Title":"Welcome to Great Depression. I Mean, The Great Depression.","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" There are visuals in Hal Ashby's Bound For Glory so real or so becoming that I might have to withdraw statements I've made in the past about Ashby not being a visual filmmaker. But the subdued but all-consuming absorption in the imagery eventually takes its toll on the movie's intonation. Scene after scene unfolds at such a patient rhythm, with such forecast and subtlety, that ultimately we appear to be experiencing a moving slideshow of the Depression. The film has a serious nobility and formality, which is fine---I found it fascinating that Woody Guthrie seems to take a backseat through his own biopic and that it is less about him and more about the time in which he lived---however it doesn't tend to have much life, which would be enthralling.The film maintains thorough fidelity to that adventure. Another element I admire greatly is that there's not an ingenuous frame in it, not a moment when we sense the significance of Guthrie's life has been arbitrated in favor of Hollywood license-taking. David Carradine's performance as Guthrie finds just the correct pitch between his dignity and inborn candor. There can hardly have been a period film before it with such affectionate heed to every historical detail, to the ways cars and dresses and living rooms and roadside diners looked during the Depression. We learn so much unconsciously through the mise-en-scene. All of these attributes have been treated cautiously, and with reverence. And ironically, as much as those elements are top-heavy compared to the drama itself, they are all done with the same deliberate subtlety with which Ashby lenses his other films. The imagery never points to itself; it's just there for us to subliminally take in.Nevertheless Bound For Glory is altogether a very sluggish experience. Each scene is organized so deliberately, is framed by immortal cinematographer Haskell Wexler with such virtuosity, is played with such gravity, that ultimately the movie feels too uniform. We want more drollery, more cheek, more of an clue that Guthrie had vinegar infused with his altruism. Anyone who loves movies or is intrigued by Guthrie should see Bound For Glory, though it'll be a rewarding affair that's very languid.There are two shots that are especially unforgettable One is an incredible image showcasing a dust storm nearing Woody's little home town, and another is a shot on top of a freight train, held for minutes without a cut, while Woody and an accompanying vagabond share worldviews while the train carries them past the infinite fields, into the pitch black of a tunnel, reappears, feels about to run forever. However, the movie's political text, the doggedness of Woody and a musician friend to unionize the migrant workers, is calculable and repetitious. Guthrie's politics were evidently pivotal to his music, and yet in the film they feel virtually unnecessary. The matters of state and activism could have arisen naturally from the story, rather than being wedged in.This is not the only film I've found to be credited as the first film in which the invention of the Steadicam was used, but apparently it is, and that may account for its status as a contemporary classic. It may also largely account for the arresting fascination of the viewer with the Great Depression than the subject of the Great Depression does. So Bound For Glory isn't quite the great film it could have been. However, it is one of the most gorgeous films ever made, in its cinematography, in its locations, in its reconstruction of the America that Woody Guthrie found. "},{"Title":"Bound for Snorey","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Who in who's name thought that David Carradine was the man to play Woody Guthrie. His portrayal of one of America's greatest characters & song writers was empty, listening to the songs was an ordeal, they were butchered, which is a big problem when watching a film about a singer / songwriter. As a result the films attempt to tell the story of the downtrodden, misplaced masses of the time has no emotional affect, has no affect. Nothing about this film was right, there didn't seem to be any serious ups or downs, just some guy called Woody, he meets a few people and he sings some songs. I read Woody's book and it is a fascinating real life adventure story, this film seems in no way related. Damn, i'm disappointed. Maybe someone will pick up the story again some time and do it right. If you are a fan of Woody Guthrie, listen to his music and I also recommend you read his book but there's nothing for you here. "},{"Title":"average","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This Woody Guthrie biopic got deserved Oscars for cinematography and musical score but it doesn't have much more to recommend it. If you want to watch a story about Okies and migrant workers in the Depression, The Grapes of Wrath is vastly superior. While this is probably the best role that David Carradine ever had, I found his performance very frustrating. He was so laconic, laid back and minimalistic that he almost faded into the background. Film biographies are about bigger than life characters and that is not Woody Guthrie in this movie.Honestly, I think the movie would've been better had Ronny Cox, who plays a supporting role in this film as another union-activist folk singer, had played Guthrie instead of Carradine. "},{"Title":"Terrific Performance By Carradine","Date":"19 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Bound for Glory (1976) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Excellent biography of Woody Guthrie (David Carradine) who leaves his Oklahoma home when he sees no future there and travels to California where he sees nothing but poor workers being mistreated and underpaid. Guthrie finally picks up a guitar and begins to write songs about what he's seeing in hopes that it can change how things are. Hal Ashby's BOUND FOR GLORY is a very slow-paced film that really doesn't appear to be about anything. As with most of Ashby's films, this one here takes its time getting told and if you barely looked at it you'd think that there wasn't anything going on and that there wasn't any life to the film. The movie takes about ten minutes for the viewer really to settle in and from here on it's quite a powerful movie with a classic performance by Carradine, some terrific movie and some truly wonderful images. The cinematography by Haskell Wexler is among some of the best that you're ever going to see and it perfectly blends with Ashby's masterful direction, which really puts you in the time and place that all of this takes place. The beautiful images of Guthrie riding on the top of trains or the work camps where violence often erupts if union is mentioned is perfectly brought to life and you really can't help but feel as if you're watching an actual documentary from the 1930s about the Depression, the Dusk Bowl and this small man who would rise up to do great things. Carradine certainly deserved all the praise he got for his performance because there's not a single moment where you're watching the movie and seeing an actor playing a part. Instead you see Guthrie right up there on the screen doing his thing. Many times actors can't separate themselves when they play a real person but Carradine is so into the character that you really can't help but be amazed. Ronny Cox appears as Ozark Bule, the man who brought Woody into the business and Randy Quaid also has a small role as a picker. As with most bio-pics, you really can't believe everything you're seeing as certain events are going to be changed for a wide range of reasons but that really shouldn't keep anyone from watching the picture. I know many can't stand the slowness that Ashby brought to his films but I think the slow pace actually helps the film because it just seems to fit the times and situations that were going on. At 147-minutes, the film is certainly entertaining from start to finish due to that beautiful cinematography and of course Carradine, the actor and singer. "},{"Title":"Bound for the promise land","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought this movie wasn't a true depiction of Woody when I first saw it in the 70's but looking at it again  it's more about the class struggle during the depression era. At the same time author Upton Sinclair was running for governor of California as a socialists.  When Woody came out there was a big campaign by the Hollywood rich to stop any socialists ideas from getting to the public. Sinclair almost won but because FDR didn't want to appear red he didn't give him any support. FDR eventually put social security through so he did have some red in him after all. Today most of the old people, like my father, who have been collecting social security vote republican.  I guess on the whole it will be a long time for any real change but in the meantime there may be some more great artist, like Woody, that will sing about it.  "},{"Title":"Out of touch","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Perhaps the only thing more disappointing than a movie without dramatic tension is a long movie without dramatic tension.  Or originality.  Or memorable performances.A leisurely stroll through the quiet desperation of grinding dustbowl Depression poverty?  You will find it here, amid impressive scenic views, authentic period details, and some rather mild songs of social protest. This is a soft picture about an era that pushed America to the brink of social upheaval.  For a far better take on those times, stick with The Grapes of Wrath. "},{"Title":"Idealists are boring","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a movie about Woody Guthrie, a man I've never heard of, which is no surprise because country music is not my area of interest. However, the man seems to have made fine music. And here, we have a movie about him and not so much about his life as about the fact that he was a good man who cared for the poor and rebelled against the rich. Yes, it's great that we had people like him and yes, we should remember them but maybe a documentary would have been a better idea than a feature film of two and a half hours. It was simply a very boring movie with no ability to catch. Sorry, Mr. Guthrie, nothing against you. "}]