[{"Title":"Not a Bad Effort","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"118 out of 145 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" OK, to respond to the review from Richard WA.The movie is of course based on Jack Higgins' bestseller of the same name and like many debut books, is by far the best book he wrote - being written over a period of years as Higgins worked as a schoolteacher. It is meticulously researched and a fine read.Now the film.First, Of course an historically illiterate US teen would barely comprehend that history existed pre World War II or understand that the USA doesn't have a monopoly of the eagle as a national symbol. I read the book back in the mid-70's and never even thought about moon landings. For war movies/books, eagles are forever associated with Germany & that the USA also uses an eagle as a national symbol is purely coincidental. Richard WA can relax in the knowledge that few outside his peer group experienced his confusion.Second, By telling the story from the German perspective, we get a new appreciation of the German fighting man's view. Just as Das Boot gave us an insight into the German mind, so too does this. A similar experience can be had watching the WWII POW camp movie The McKenzie Break where German POW's try to escape from a British camp - quite interesting really. But I guess if you're only interested in rooting for the Red, White and Blue, this is not your thing.Third, The accents are brilliantly done. It was decided for the movie that the comical Hollywood German accent would not be used. The Ve haff vays of making you tork you schweinhund is nowhere to be seen, instead the German characters use perfect accentless English to great effect.Fourth, Sutherland's Irish character, Devlin, is not a Nazi sympathiser. He agrees to support the operation because the Germans offer to pay him a fortune to do so. Money for the cause etc.Fifth, The pre-operation phase of the movie is actually too short - as the producers wanted more of an action flick than the book delivers. In the book, the planning of the operation is analysed to infinite detail, down to the uniform details and relative attributes of allied versus German parachutes. I guess if your experience is computer games, then exposure to any kind of pre-operation detail is not something you're used to.Sixth, A newcomer in WWII Britain would certainly raise suspicion and Sutherland's character certainly does do that - not really a flaw of the book/movie but an operational problem that the Germans just had to accept given the timeframes involved.Seventh, Jenny Agutter's character is completely unbelievable. Try to ignore that part of the movie - thankfully she's there for purely aesthetic purposes.Eighth, The 5th columnist who already lives in the English village is actually a South African survivor of the British concentration camps - as explained in the movie. Perhaps Richard WA thought they were a German invention or more likely he's never heard of the Boer War and sleepwalked through that part of the movie.Ninth, The battle scene is deliberately short to emphasise the gulf in class between German paratroops and National Guards. When the Germans are confronted by real soldiers, they're defeated in short order. Larry Hagman's character is a poor caricature and serves only to supply a comic element that's not needed - something the movie suffers from as if the producer was scared to make the movie too gritty. Richard WA's last point is most revealing. Why should Germans fight for Germany when everyone knew that they were going to lose and were on the wrong side anyway. Who ever heard of a brave German soldier fighting to the end anyway? Despite what many think, Americans don't have an monopoly on patriotism either - I doubt if he ever wonders why Steve McQueen never settled for a comfortable life in a German POW camp!Tenth, Yeah, the tunnel is something of a contrived device...it's not in the book BTW.Eleventh, The reason for not spiriting Churchill away after the attempt to kidnap him was precisely because the British wanted Germany to think he was there and not in Tehran! The whole point of a decoy is that it's visible and attracts the attention while the real principal is concealed.In summery, the Eagle has Landed is a solid attempt to film a great book. I doubt, given the plot, that a universally appealing movie could've been made but the greatest movies ever are not universally appealing. Movies you love as children are not regarded in the same way in adulthood.The Eagle has Landed is in many ways like The Day of the Jackal. Most of the action goes on inside the principals' heads. Deception, mental thought processes and subterfuge don't make good cinema. However the movie has some very good pointsGreat locations. Great actors doing good jobs (Jenny Agutter excepted) - especially Donald Pleasance doing the best ever spine-chilling portrayal of Himmler. Good twist at the end. Challenging portrayal of the enemy.I recommend it - it's not A Bridge Too far but it's pretty good. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable adaptation of Jack Higgins' novel.","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"54 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"     After the successful rescue of Mussolini by German Paratroopers, Col.Max Radl is asked to prepare a feasibility study on an attempt to kidnap Winston Churchill. At first this seems a preposterous idea, until a message arrives from an agent in Britain which reports that Churchill will spend a weekend in the picturesque Norfolk village of Studley Constable, which is only a few miles from a deserted stretch of coastline. A plan is formulated to drop Col.Kurt Steiner and his highly experienced unit into Norfolk to carry out the mission, aided by IRA man Liam Devlin and respected local figure Joanna Grey, who is a German agent and the source of the original message.   This film has been a personal favourite of mine since I first saw it on its TV premiere around 1979, aged 12. It is of course the screen adaptation of Jack Higgins bestseller. I must admit to never having read the book, so I can't testify how closely the film follows it. Produced by ITC in 1976, it boasts an impressive cast in Michael Caine, Donald Sutherland, Robert Duvall, Donald Pleasance and a pre-JR Larry Hagman. Veteran Hollywood Director John Sturges was at the helm - the man responsible for 'Bad Day At Black Rock', 'The Magnificent Seven' and 'The Great Escape' to name just three. The production values and technical credits are uniformally good.   As to the film itself, it remains an entertaining romp. Your interest is held throughout, and you find yourself half wanting the Germans to get away with it, as Michael Caine and his men are such decent chaps. Donald Sutherland is full of Irish charm as Devlin, Larry Hagman is intentionally funny as the incompetent Col.Clarence T.Pitts, Robert Duvall is convincing and sympathetic as Radl, and Donald Pleasance quite chilling as Himmler. Good though the film is, it might have been better. In his autobiography, Michael Caine talks about the fact that after shooting had wrapped, Sturges headed back to California and never returned for any of the editing or post production. Caine felt let down by this, for as he correctly states, a Director can do some of his most important work at this stage. However, he also remembers the shooting of the film as a very pleasurable experience. At that time he lived at Windsor, and much of the filming was done nearby on the beautiful Mapledurham Estate, during the longest, hottest summer that most of us remember.   I paid a visit to Mapledurham recently, during the fine summer that we've just enjoyed. It's instantly recognisible - the watermill, the church, the manor house, Joanna Grey's cottage - all as they appear in the film and well worth a visit. It always amuses me that the events are supposed to take place in November - a truly miserable month here - and yet its clearly mid-summer on screen.   I have one major gripe. Not with the film itself, but its availability on DVD. The UK version is to be avoided like the plague. Cursed with being distributed here by Carlton, its in 1.331 and worse is missing some 12 minutes of footage. The US version is at least in 2.351, but is still missing 3 to 4 minutes of the film. Thank heavens that I still have my complete version recorded from the BBC some 12 years ago, before they decided to cut some brief moments of violence. Its really annoying when a good film that did reasonable business at the box office gets such shoddy treatment on DVD. There really is no excuse for it.   When all is said and done, this is a good entertaining yarn and an intriguing idea (even if it does have echoes of 'Went The Day Well'). Maybe not a classic, but always good fun, professionally mounted and with some lovely locations. Give it a try if you haven't already seen it, just avoid that Region 2 DVD!    "},{"Title":"Generally gets the thumbs-up, but has a couple of slightly disappointing features.","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"49 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   Based on a best-selling tall story by Jack Higgins, and featuring an all-star cast that must've cost half the budget just to get to sign up for the project, The Eagle Has Landed is an enjoyable but slightly overlong wartime actioner. German soldier Max Radl (Robert Duvall) comes up with an audacious plot to deliver a devastating blow to the Allied forces by kidnapping Winston Churchill from a Norfolk village. A team of deadly German spies, led by Kurt Steiner (Michael Caine), are smuggled into England to carry out this sinister scheme. Aided by an Irish mercenary (Donald Sutherland), the German forces rapidly and ruthlessly close in on their target. Only an inexperienced American garrison, posted in a quiet corner of Norfolk, can stand in the way of a devastating German victory. The Eagle Has Landed is one of the few films where the all-star cast doesn't have a detrimental effect. In films like A Bridge Too Far and The Longest Day, the presence of so many stars actually results in a game of star-spotting, and this diverts the audience's attention away from important plot developments. In The Eagle Has Landed, each actor brings depth and charisma to their strongly written roles (especially Sutherland as the devious Irish rogue, and Duvall as an eye-patch wearing Nazi). This film's faults lie elsewhere. The opening hour and a quarter goes on rather too much and ought to have been trimmed by at least fifteen minutes. Also, the plot rides its luck with increasingly less likely, less plausible developments (especially the unpersuasive twist ending). For these reasons, The Eagle Has Landed isn't quite the excellent film you might be hoping for. What it is, however, is an enjoyable, well-acted and very watchable slice of escapism. "},{"Title":"A   Fine  Good  Bye  for  John  Sturges","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Eagle has Landed is a fine World War II fiction film placed in England that deals with a German commando operation planned to kidnap (or kill) Winston Chruchill.The pìcture is most entertaining right from the start -when the plan is designed- and keeps up all along when it comes to the operation's achieving. A good script, excellent British outdoor locations, well made action sequences and a most competent cast are highlights of the film. Its also interesting that the German commandos are shown as decent and even likable men, professional soldiers that just like the allies fight a war for their country even if they don't agree with the Nazi regime that rules it.The Eagle has Landed is also a good farewell from movies for director John Sturges (this is his last work in direction) a prolific man that gave us movie and western fans very good titles of the genre such us Gunfight at OK Corral, The Magnificent Seven, Last Train from Gun Hill and the more contemporary Bad Day at Black Rock.A most entertaining and enjoyable film in the genre. "},{"Title":"A Good Entertainment","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"39 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In September of 1943, Col. Max Radl (Robert Duvall) develops a plan, approved by Heinrich Himmler (Donald Pleasance), to kidnap or kill Winston Churchill in England. The rebel Col. Kurt Steiner (Michael Caine),who is arrested with his men due to insubordination, is invited to participate, since he has had a British education. They would have clean records and recover their military patents again. The condition not negotiable of Col. Kurt to accept the mission is that his men wear the German uniform below their costumes, since they are soldiers and not spies. The group, dressed like Polish soldiers, together with the Irish Liam Devlin (Donald Sutherland), goes to a coastal town, where Churchill is supposed to pass through. An incident with a girl reveals their plot to the local civilians, jeopardizing their mission. Having an outstanding cast and the direction of John Sturges, this movie is a great entertainment, having drama, suspense, action and some comedy in right doses. Fans of war movies will certainly like it. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) 'A Águia Pousou'(' The Eagle Has Landed') "},{"Title":"Strong Second Half Saves Boring First Hour","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"39 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I almost gave up on this film after the first hour. It was just too slow for me and I was having difficulty picking up some of dialog with the foreign accents (no subtitles are offered on the DVD).However, once the invasion started the film was very interesting. The only ridiculous part was the role played by Larry Hagman. Liberal Hollywood loves to portray every Southerner as a gung-ho, out-of-control military freak. If I was from the South, I would have been highly offended at this stereotype.What's really different about this film is that it's a World War II story told from the German side where the Germans are pictured as humane people. You don't see that too much from English-speaking filmmakers.Michael Caine is the most likable of these people, one of those given the assignment of kidnapping Winston Churchill (interesting premise, off the best- selling book by Jack Higgins). Donald Sutherland plays an Irishman recruited to help in the kidnapping and he's fun to watch.This is really a man's movie, something like The Guns Of Navarone, but they inserted Jenny Agutter in here to give the viewers a pretty face and some romance, even though it has absolutely no bearing on the story.Robert Duvall, Jean Marsh, Treat Williams, Donald Pleasance and Anthony Quayle are some of the other name actors who contribute. All in all, a pretty good movie if you can get by that first hour! "},{"Title":"It's not the best example of seventies war movies, but it works","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Partially thanks to my father I've always been a fan of war movies and that's how I already saw several of them as a kid. But of course as a kid I wasn't as critical towards them as I am today. Several of the war movies from the sixties and seventies now seem dated and very unbelievable (think for instance of Where Eagles Dare from 1968, which many people seem to like, but which lacks all realism as the Allies seem impenetrable by German bullets). But that doesn't mean that they all are bad. Take for instance Cross of Iron, All Quiet on the Western Front (the TV remake), A Bridge Too Far,... which are one by one excellent movies. If I have to give this movie a place in between these two categories, than I would say right in the middle. It isn't the best war movie from that time period, but it's far from bad.Based on the novel by Jack Higgins, this movie tells the story of Colonel Steiner, a German parachute unit commander, who has been court-marshaled for opposing the SS in rounding up Jews. To avoid further imprisonment and certain death, he is offered the chance to go on an assignment in England. He and his unit will have to kidnap the British Prime Minister Winston Churchil on a covert mission. They decide to go for the seemingly impossible assignment and dressed as Polish soldiers on a training maneuver, they soon take over a small English town, waiting for the visit of the Prime Minister who will take his vacation there...Even though I have read the book, I'm not really able to tell you whether the adaption to the movie has been a success or not. I read the book about ten years ago and it's impossible for me to remember all the details. However, as I already said, this certainly isn't a bad movie. The acting for instance is very nice. People like Michael Caine, Donald Sutherland, Robert Duvall,... all did a nice job. Especially Donald Sutherland stole the show playing the IRA militant and full time playboy Liam Devlin. What I also liked was that the 'Germans' didn't speak with some funny accent, but spoke fluent English. I prefer to hear the Germans speak German, but when that it isn't possible, this option is the best to go for. There is nothing more hateful than a well-known Hollywood actor who tries to make you believe that he speaks a language other than English (it never works and only brings down the quality of a movie).Overall this is a good WWII movie that shows the war from a different perspective, namely from the German side. For some that will probably make it uninteresting as they see the Germans as the stupid bad guys, unable of doing some daring operations, but for me it works. I really liked this movie and all its aspects. The story is nice, the action scenes look more than OK, the acting is very good,... I really liked it all and that's why I give this movie a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"By this time next year pigeons are going to be crapping on statues of you across the whole damn state of Nebraska.","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The German's hatch a plan to kidnap Churchill. Using a local citizen sympathetic to the German cause and an IRA operative, the Nazis move a group of specially trained commandos into England disguised as Polish paratroopers. But their cover is quickly blown while on maneuvers when one of the German soldier's true identity is revealed after he jumps into a canal to save a little girl. It's up to some U.S. National Guard troops stationed nearby to root out the Nazis and save Churchill.It's hard for me to put a finger on it, but there's just something about The Eagle Has Landed that's not quite right. I've narrowed it down to a couple of things that really distract from my overall enjoyment of the movie. The first is obvious &#150; Larry Hagman's performance as Col. Pitts. To be blunt, he's terrible. For whatever reason, John Sturges had Hagman play his character as comic relief. It's completely out of place and really harms the mood of the movie. A straight performance would have been much more preferable.The second thing I find distracting about the movie is very difficult to explain, but it has something to do with the overall look of the film. Other than a few shots of gore as the American soldiers are being hit by bullets, much of the movie has a cheap, made-for-TV look to it that also takes away from the tone of the movie. It's not as gritty looking (for lack of a better word) as it should be. The battle scene doesn't look as real as it should. The soldiers look like actors.That's not to say that I don't find things enjoyable about The Eagle Has Landed. Other than Hagman, the acting is first-rate. Michael Caine, Donald Sutherland, Robert Duvall, and Donald Pleasence give terrific performances. The plot is an interesting idea although I would have preferred more on the planning of the kidnapping. Not being much of a student of history I have no idea how much is true, but it certainly seems feasible as presented. And finally, I really enjoy the Nazi operative played by Jean Marsh. The look on her face after her cover is blown and the local priest confronts her is priceless. It's a nice moment of acting. "},{"Title":"difficult to believe but great entertainment","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is an exceptional war movie about a supposed plot by the Nazis to kidnap Churchill. Michael Caine is a German officer who speaks perfect English and leads a team of paratroopers who are disguised as Poles. The cover story is that they are a Free Polish regiment on maneuvers in Britain. At the same time, IRA leader Donald Sutherland helps lay the groundwork for their arrival.The story is very complex and the acting is first-rate. Provided you don't think too much, this is a highly entertaining film. Sure, the Nazis didn't attempt such a mission, but I enjoyed this alternative history movie. "},{"Title":"Not the best example of WW II/action-movie making but it has some great moments.","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The concept of the movie is both great and original but however the execution of it is not exactly done in the best way possible.The movie starts of very slow and even perhaps a bit boring. Thankfuly the second halve of the movie is much better once the action and story really start and take more pace and form. It might not be as entertaining and good as other WW II/action movies, meant as entertainment, such as Where Eagles Dare, Kelly's Heroes and The Guns of Navarone but it does have some great moments in it which still helps to make The Eagle Has Landed a bit of a must see for the fans of the genre.The story is just great and its interesting to see a movie for once from the perspective of the German side. For once the Germans are not portrayed as ruthless villains but as soldiers with valor and courage instead. The movie is perhaps a bit moralistic in the first halve of the movie (basicly every German soldier shown in the movie openly hates Hitler and is against the deportation of Jews to the concentration camps. It feels too forced all) but nevertheless the perspective the movie is told from is great and works good for the movie. It's too bad that the movie is told needlessly slow at times, while it could had been a great fast paced action-movie.The movie has a great cast but this is not really an actors movie, meaning that the movie wouldn't had been any better or worse with some other lesser known names in it. It was weird to hear Donald Sutherland talking in an Irish accent and Robert Duvall with a German one. Also Treat Williams in one of his first movie roles was horrible as the American soldier Capt. Clark. On the other hand, it was great to see Donald Pleasance as Heinrich Himmler. Other big names in this movie are Michael Caine, Anthony Quayle and Jean Marsh.The action sequences are good and definitely the best part of the movie. The movie is somewhat entertaining to watch and it does have some well placed humor at times but its not quite enough to truly uplift this movie to a level of greatness.This last movie from director John Sturges is a memorable but not perfect one.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"It could make The Charge Of The Light Brigade look like military genius.","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A small Norfolk village in England is suddenly the focal point for a Polish regiment's training exercise. It would seem they are not all they are saying they are, so with Winston Churchill due to visit the village, there is something seriously afoot.Written by Jack Higins, directed by John Sturges The Great Escape and starring Michael Caine, Donald Sutherland and Robert Duvall, The Eagle Has Landed is a different sort of war movie. Flipping the axis to a German point of view and having English and American actors playing the Germans, is a bold move that, fluctuating accents aside, makes for a totally engrossing picture. Offering a fair bit more than your standard film of men on a suicide mission for the war effort, the piece's pulp origins, and its idyllic country setting give it a quality that ensures the viewers attention stays firmly with the film's steadily paced first half. Also adding intrigue into this already interesting broth is that our main Nazi protagonist is not down with the whole killing Jews thing. It's very sly in how it pans out, its not asking the audience to feel sympathy with Steiner Caine professionally impacting, it's just proclaiming that not all people should be tarred with the same brush.Mostly the cast are fine and boosted by a brilliant turn from Donald Sutherland as an IRA spy helping the Germans, Robert Duvall, Donald Pleasance, Anthony Quayle, Jenny Agutter and Jean Marsh all are solid within the picture's structure. Oddly the performance of Larry Hagman as the appropriately named Colonel Pitts sticks out like a sore thumb, buffoonery in bravado intent it's difficult to tell if it's meant to be comic relief or a statement of how the British viewed the yanks at this time? A young Treat Williams as Capt. Harry Clark ensures that not all American soldiers in the film come off as dunderheads. Playing out more as a mystery with it's various twists and turns, and seeping with tension amidst the village folk, The Eagle Has Landed is an odd sort of picture, but it certainly delivers enough to make it way above average. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Stirring warlike movie  about a Nazi commando attempting  a risked operation in England","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After Mussolini's valiant rescue by Scorzeny, the Furher Hitler orders Winston Churchill can be kidnapped and taken to Germany and assigns Admiral Wilhelm Canaris(Anthony Quayle) to make a viability plot. Lieutenant Colonel (Robert Duvall)in charge schemes an intelligent plan and reports to Himmler(Donald Pleasance). He commissions an Irish(Donald Sutherland), English hating, and a German officer named Steiner(Michael Caine) and his parachute equipment. Steiner is imprisoned for confronting about rounding up Jews . His mission concerns pose as Polish soldiers on a training maneuver in a small British town where live simple citizens, as a beautiful young girl (Jenny Agutter), a spinster(Jean Marsh) and the parish priest(John Standing), among others. When the Prime Minister Winston Churchill appear, the infiltrators bent on abducting him. But near encounter an American detachment, commanded by a colonel(Larry Hagman) and a captain(Treat Williams).This memorable WWII action movie displays suspense, thrills, drama, shootouts and spectacular scenes. Based on Jack Higgings' best-seller novel with an interesting screenplay by Tom Mankiewicz, though weak on the silly relationship between Donald Sutherland and Jenny Agutter. Large casting with good performances, as a first rate acting for Michael Caine and Robert Duvall. Excellent plethora of secondaries actors,Anthony Quayle, Judy Geeson, John Standing and Treat Williams film debut. The film belongs the warlike commandos genre which in the 60s and 70s achieved splendor, as the picture takes parts, here and there from  ¨When the eagles dare(Brian G Hutton), Dirty dozen(Robert Aldrich) and Kelly's heroes(Brian G Hutton)¨. Sensible and fitting to action musical score by Lalo Schifrin and atmospheric cinematography by Anthony Richmond. The motion picture is well directed thanks capable hands of filmmaker John Sturges. He's a warlike genre expert(Great escape, Never so few) and Western master(Gunfight OK Corral,Last train of Gun Hill,The law and Jake Wade). Well worth seeing, the movie will like to Michael Caine, Robert Duvall fans. "},{"Title":"A superb colorful war movie","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Usually I do not like war movies, but this one is excellent seen from different point of views.The dialogue is fantastic and helps describing the characters. Every line is as written for the actors.And what an incredible cast Michael Caine as Nazi officer driven by duty and honor, Donald Sutherland as an amazing Irish dog and horse whisperer (there is always those sparkling glimpses in his eyes!), Robert Duval as colonel Radl (he does not play the character - he IS in fact the colonel), Donald Pleasance as a slimy and yet funny Himmler and not to forget the energic Larry Hagman as home made American red neck officer. Besides that a good supporting cast.But what is more important in this well done movie is the complexity of the war combatants - e.g. Caine trying to save a jewish women from certain death, one of his soldiers saving a little English girl from drowning at the water mill, Hagman as an incompetent, but yet war loving officer, sacrificing of an actor who takes over Churchill's part. The conclusion is that when you cut down to basics you will find honorable men among the enemies (Nazis) and less sympathetic men among the Allied.By the way - there is a lot of humor on both sides - and that is not too bad though! "},{"Title":"Worth Watching But Only Because Of The Fine Cast","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"26 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jack Higgins ? Surely one the most clichéd commercial writers there has ever been . Maybe he's not the worst writer to make millionaire status since there's a lot of competition for that tag like Harold Robbins , Jackie Collins or even that dreadful hack called Rowling who has conned a lot of children out of their pocket money by publishing the same mediocre book year after year , but certainly as a writer Higgins is rather poor and it's no surprise that for many years film producers are totally disinterested in buying the movie rights to his stories THE EAGLE HAS LANDED is a typical Higgins story - Clichéd and with a ludicrous plot . What's it about ? A bunch of German paratroopers disguised as Poles drop into Norfolk in 1943 on a mission to kidnap Winston Churchill thereby bring about a negotiated settlement with the Western allies ? Can anyone see a flaw with this plot ? If you wonder what I'm talking about please read a history book on the second world war . Found it yet ? You might notice that Churchill was never kidnapped by German paratroopers which leads even the most ignorant audience member to have a rough idea of how the movie will end . On top of all that you find yourself comparing the movie to the far more superior Graham Greene adaptation of WENT THE DAY WELL which features a very similar plot But it's the clichés that really get me with this movie . I don't doubt that from 1939-45 many Germans disliked Nazism and were disgusted by the genocidal policies of the party , but watching this movie you'd think EVERYONE was physically opposed to Nazism . Kurt Stiener ( A banal German name but better that Schmidt I guess ) assaults a totenkopf officer and vainly tries to save a Jewish woman from a death squad in Poland . Yup happened all the time I imagine , while Liam Devlin is mistaken as a gestapo member in a bar , has whisky poured over him and thrown through a window . Yes I'm sure if someone has the power of life and death over you and your family and you slightly disagreed with their racial politics you too would want to give them a piece of your mind . Oh I've just looked up a history book called History Of The Second World War And Why Germany Lost by Jack Higgins that fails to mention the lack of resources Germany had , or the slow degradation of its industrial power by allied bombing or massive loss of manpower suffered on the Eastern front , instead he states Germany lost the war because the average German hated the Nazis more than they hated the countries they were at war with ! If the clichés aren't bad enough we also have to endure some ridiculous plot devices . IRA man Liam Devlin ( Who wants to overthrow the British empire without blowing up innocent passers by - Yawn ) embarks on a relationship with a local girl within five minutes of landing in Norfolk . I guess this is to lull a potential female audience into the story , but would any woman be interested in a Jack Higgins story ? Would anyone with any common sense be interested in a Higgins story ! Oh and not wanting to be shot as spies the German wear their Luftwaffe uniforms under their Polish uniforms . Let me see now , they don't want to be shot as spies so if they wear their own uniforms under their disguise this will protect them under the terms laid out by the Geneva convention ! Actually it won't because they're spies / assassins . Of course this is another plot device , another daft plot device This is a really stupid movie but I have no hesitation in awarding it six out of ten simply because the cast go out of their way to rise above the material . Michael Caine was infamous in the mid to late 1970s to taking on roles that were obviously just to pay the rent but he manages to make Kurt Stiener as well rounded and as affable as a thinly written cypher can be . Donald Sutherland steals every scene he's in but it's Robert Duvall who gives the stand out performance as a German Oberst . It's a very subtle performance in which his body language says far more about his character than the written dialogue . Uanfortunately Larry Hagman gives a terrible performance as an American officer . Remember the sheriff in THE DUKES OF HAZZARD ? I'm sure that was inspired by Hagman's performance here "},{"Title":"Perplexing war movie.","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" No, it's not about the first moon landings, although it sounds as if it should be. It's about a group of German soldiers led by Michael Caine and aided by Donald Southerland as an Irishman, who parachute into England in an attempt to kidnap Winston Churchill and bring an end to the war. They fail, which can't be too big a surprise.The movie's plot is all over the place. Caine and his men are disguised as British paratroopers and they more or less take over a small British village, claiming to be on an exercise. But they wear their German uniforms under their fake British uniforms, and one of the men while saving the life of a young girl, dies and has his true identity revealed. This happens rather early in the movie, so the whole disguise business lasts only about 15 minutes. After that, the movie becomes routine. The Germans strip to field gray and hole up in a church. They are surrounded and outnumbered by American rangers and fight to the death, although it's not clear why they just don't surrender. The war is nearly over.What lifts the movie a bit above the expectable -- and this may be completely accidental -- is that it's not easy for the average viewer, used to watching less complicated material like Funniest Home Videos, to figure out which side to root for.The Germans of course have been fighting for an evil cause. Yet, in this instance at least, they are men of probity and honor. Their goal is not to assassinate Churchill (if that can be avoided) but to put the snatch on him and try to negotiate a settlement with the Allies. And you can tell the people who made the movie did not want a horde of hairy Huns playing goose-stepping Nazi types because the soldiers look like young men. One of them seems to be still in his teens and plays Bach on the church organ.And the U. S. Army that we see is led by a Colonel who is, as far as it's possible to tell, a complete idiot. The actor, Larry Hagman, hams it up outrageously, but it doesn't come across as comic, just stupid. His Colonel is so puffed up with ego, so angry at not having been allowed to see combat, that he chews out subordinates all the time and struts around with tiny mincing steps. When a woman finally puts a bullet through his head and he looks a little indignant -- well, it almost funny but not quite.Donald Southerland is a stage Irishman of a type we've seen before -- all charm and rosy cheeks. He laughs gaily at the prospect of putting his life in danger. He's romantic, falls in love with the wrong girl, likes a drop now and then, and is always ready for a fist fight.At the end, Caine finds himself in a position to shoot and kill Churchill. His face turns grim. He approaches the PM who stares at him with horror, and he deliberately shoots the guy. (Who turns out to be a mere stand-in for the real Churchill.) I don't know why he did that. It's not really in keeping with what we've seen of Caine's character so far. He's a proud man but not a cold-blooded murderer. I suspect the scene is in there to give the audience a momentary frisson -- WHAT? Churchill DEAD? It's pretty corny but then there are other banal scenes throughout the movie. The true identity of the Germans is revealed only through the hoary device of having one of the soldiers save an enemy's daughter from drowning and giving his own life in the process.The script is poor and the direction ordinary but the performances are competent enough, given what the actors have to work with. Jenny Agutter's nose turns up like a ski jump, like the inverted clipper bow of a Japanese battleship, like the trajectory of a freshly launched shuttle from Cape Canaveral. Any normal man would want to kiss it and bite it a little. Judy Geason looks just fine too. It wasn't nice of the writers to have her shot, but at least she survives. "},{"Title":"High adventure in Studley Constable...","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There be spoilers ahead...I tend to love movies like this -- high adventure and a ripping good yarn, especially when fact and fiction is blended (unfortunately, that's also a feature of most Hollywood films that purport to be factual) -- and the book upon which it was based was one of my favorites when I was in my early teens.  This excellent and entertaining movie still holds up well and is a classic of its genre.Actors like Michael Caine and others -- some known and some lesser-known to most -- anchor a simple but strong storyline that's nicely paced.  The acting's good from all involved, and Donald Sutherland plays his role as the sardonic Irishman to the hilt, perfectly, but if there's one stand-out performance in this film my vote would go to Robert Duvall, whose Colonel Radl is the most complex and conflicted of all of the characters (most of the principals being similarly conflicted, one way or another) and his acting is paradoxically stunning yet subtle.  A recent graduate of The Godfather, Duvall would go on to ever-greater heights with his work in the magnificent Apocalypse Now and beyond.  This movie's not quite the caliber of either of those two hallowed ventures, but it's well worth catching if you're a fan of Duvall, too.The plot is entirely plausible in both its big picture and in its details. One of the most refreshing aspects of the film is that the German characters are not portrayed as Nazi fanatics.  Indeed, all of the film's German characters are portrayed as being decent people, contemptuous of the Fuehrer and his Nazi hierarchy, except for Himmler and his SS men.Steiner, Michael Caine's character, is a paratrooper decorated with a Knights Cross (and subsequent  honors), and his men are a collection of combat veterans.  The contrast between these 'good' Germans and the 'bad' Germans is established from the start, with the showdown between Steiner's group and SS who were 'liquidating' a Polish ghetto and shipping Jews off to the death camps.  Steiner's stand results in he and his team being assigned to a penal unit for which life expectancies were very low.  The planned kidnapping of Churchill, at first dismissed by Duvall's Radl and his superior, Admiral Canaris (a historical figure, chief of German intelligence, played well by Anthony Quayle, who even looks like the Abwehr head), begins to seem possible in light of a random intelligence note regarding the British Prime Minister's impending visit to a remote, seaside town.  A special team would be needed, and herein lay the road to salvation for British-educated Steiner and his crew.  The actors who play Steiner's men are believable as elite forces who have seen it all yet still have retained their humanity.  Included among Steiner's men is a face, briefly shown clearly, familiar to viewers of 1978's Grease -- Jeff Conaway.The ubiquitous Donald Pleasance (whose lack of discrimination in film projects is rivaled perhaps only by that of Michael Caine) wallows in the role of Himmler, perfectly capturing the former failed chicken-farmer's look and unnerving normality, a normality that barely concealed a seriously-disturbed megalomaniac.  He's perfect as Himmler, turning the small role that the Reichsfuhrer-SS has in this film into a freaky and haunting performance.  A gray little man with no personal charisma or physical ability, Pleasance's Himmler is ruthless and emboldened by the power that he wields and it shows.  Scary.Larry Hagman is great (if greatly annoying, albeit intentionally) as the aptly-named Colonel Pitts, a gung-ho but combat-green US Ranger officer who injects a bit of comic relief amidst the serious action of combat.  I think that Pitts has seen too many John Wayne movies.  He also plays to certain stereotypes about the Ugly American that have become firmly entrenched in the UK and elsewhere -- our sympathies lie more with the Germans of Steiner's unit than with him.  His foil -- antidote, really -- is the All-American Treat Williams, playing a junior Ranger officer who does actually appear to know what he's doing.  Still, the firefight between the relatively raw Rangers and their seasoned opposition -- Steiner's men are veterans of the Eastern Front, Crete, Norway, and may other nasty war zones -- is something of a study in contrasts.Michael Caine, who gets to wear the cool leather jacket, is really the main character in the movie but the piece is such an ensemble effort that he is far from the movie's focus in terms of time.  I wouldn't be surprised to find that Donald Sutherland's sly character actually gets more screen time. Donald Sutherland's always excellent and this film's no exception.  He's also got some of the film's best lines and his character progresses the most as the film goes on.Michael Caine's always a pleasure to watch, even in his most dire films (and several have been pretty dire).   He's well cast as Steiner and embodies his war-weariness, style, knowing humor, and gentlemanly conduct very well. Colonel Steiner is the calm in the center of the storm in this film and is the kind of leader that most soldiers would probably love to serve with.If you want to see a movie that's not too heavy and not too cerebral but still not lacking intelligence in combination with a good, rollicking storyline that includes a few satisfying twists, this one's a good one to sit back and enjoy.  It's a tribute to the film-makers' breaking away from the stereotyped Nazi that the viewing audience and the German characters' American and British adversaries feel sadness at the film's end, with the decimation of what remained of Steiner's men.  Ultimately, the film's further testimony to the futility of war, even more directly in this case because of the ersatz Churchill -- a nice, sad twist to the tale.They don't make movies like this any more, and that's a pity.  "},{"Title":"The Eagle Was Plucked","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Thirty some years after its release, it is now clear that The Eagle Has Landed was a plucked raptor when it fell out of Sturgis' respectable aerie into 1970s theaters. Almost every character is unbelievable, even more so because they're fleshed out by major star shtick working with a script and direction that hugged any cliché within reach but with out the swagger, fun or poignancy of, say, The Great Escape or Von Ryan's Express. So too with the plot contrivances, Thomas Kinkade settings and the clumsy battle sequences. After seeing this expensive movie on TCM last night, it occurred to me why Treat Williams in the film Hair (as George Berger) marched with so much anxiety onto the troop transport plane headed for Viet Nam. He was probably remembering what had happened three years earlier to his Captain Clark character in The Eagle Has Landed -- defeated by hoakum even as he assumes command after Larry Hagman (doing a Yank version of a Pythonesque/John Cleese kind of military idiot) gets a slug in the head by a tea and bisquit matron. Too bad the gun wasn't fired by Terry Jones in drag. "},{"Title":"Good acting, but poor script and dull plot","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When dealing with fiction, it's mostly easy to make it entertaining. When dealing with non-fiction, true, historically correct stories, you have to make an effort to keep it true to facts; however, you still have to make it entertaining, otherwise, everyone but the historians and story-loving audiences will find it less than worth their time; and that is exactly what went wrong here. As far as I know, this film is fairly historically accurate(apart from the main plot-line, which I'm not entirely sure about). It's also well-acted and the locations and costumes are authentic. Thing is, that's all it is; authentic, historically accurate(to a certain extent, at least) and well-acted. The film has little to no entertainment value. I realize that a war film shouldn't be a hilarious or something to cheer at(like an action flick, for example), but it can at least show it's audience the courtesy of being slightly interesting, apart from the plot(which, I think, to some extent deviates from what really happened, in a typical Hollywood fashion) which seems predictable and is easily figured out from the very beginning, simply due to it obviously trying hard to be historically accurate, which negates the tension that the last scenes are trying to build. Even in the very end, which contains a twist(obviously designed to build tension) is predictable and almost immediately figured out. The plot is somewhat good, it's just too predictable and virtually everyone will figure out how it's going to end, save for the historically ignorant(who probably won't see the movie anyway). The pacing is bad, unless, once again, you're interested in seeing this for the historical accuracy. The film never really seemed to take off, until the last half hour or so, when you've stopped caring about the plot. The acting is very good; pretty much the only thing worthwhile in this movie. The characters are well-written(I guess, but they are based on real people, so there's not much room to go wrong there) and mostly credible. The cinematography is nothing memorable. The costumes and locations are very authentic and well done. All in all, not a particularly good film, but worth watching for fans of (fairly) historically accurate war films, and fans of the various actors, since they all give great performances. Anyone else should avoid this. There are far better war movies out there. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Brave, honorable, resourceful Nazis vs. bumbling imbecilic Americans","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There's a certain sort of militaristic, maladjusted creep -- I've met a few in my time -- who's fascinated by Nazis to the point of idolatry. (Often, too, he's an expert on German regalia, uniforms, weaponry, etc.) Guys like this must love The Eagle Has Landed, because the Nazis in it are -- with a few exceptions -- paragons of courage and virtue. (The few exceptions are, as usual, the Gestapo and the SS. As in another popular sympathy-for-the-Nazis movie, Das Boot, these branches make convenient villains, serving as a contrast to the clean-cut good-guy Germans who just happen to be fighting for the Fuhrer because...well, they're patriots, that's all; they have absolutely nothing against Jews, and they despise those slimy fanatical Gestapo bastards -- honest!) The Michael Caine character in Eagle actually incurs punishment for trying to save a Jewish woman's life (how heroic can you get?); later, rather than shoot an unwary American sentry, he simply knocks the man unconscious. One of Caine's men dies rescuing a little English girl from drowning. The Germans take English villagers hostage but honorably let them all go unharmed, then die together fighting for the Fatherland rather than surrender.Meanwhile, the Americans are headed up by Larry Hagman, playing a cartoonish officer straight out of the Three Stooges. When he learns that Nazis have landed in England to kidnap Churchill and are holding hostages in a nearby church, he -- get this! -- refuses to inform central command; you see, he wants the glory all to himself. He and most of his men end up dead, sometimes in Keystone Kops style. (One jeep goes hurtling off a road into a river; Hagman himself puts on a surprised, comic, almost cross-eyed face when he gets shot and tumbles down a flight of stairs.)England herself fares little better. One muscular villager is a hostile lout whom Donald Sutherland, as an England-hating IRA agent, effortlessly beats to a pulp, and does so without losing his impish Irish grin. (In real life, said lout would have kicked the reedy Sutherland all over the set.) Sutherland trades a few romantic quips with a village lass played by Jenny Agutter; they have maybe five or six minutes of conversation (fully clothed, which is rare for Agutter), whereupon the lass falls so deeply in love with the IRA man that she shoots the English lout dead and proceeds to betray her fellow villagers -- indeed, her entire country. I suspect that some scenes developing the relationship may have been cut; still, shame on Agutter, Caine, and every other Briton involved in this production. If Britain were as feckless as this, its citizens would now be speaking German (or Gaelic).A few commentators have mentioned this movie's similarity to a little-known English film called Went the Day Well? It was made during the war, on a much tinier budget, in black and white, without any international stars (unless Leslie Banks qualifies as one), but its characters are better drawn, and it's far more suspenseful and about a thousand times more charming. "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Based on the 1975 novel of the same name by Jack Higgins, this is an extremely enjoyable Boy's Own-type adventure thriller concerning a Nazi plot to kidnap Churchill in 1943. I first saw the film in 2006 and I did not particularly enjoy it. I think that the major problem that I had with it then was that I was expecting it to be on the same level as the director John Sturges' previous films The Magnificent Seven and The Great Escape, my fourth and fifth favourite films respectively then and now, and it most certainly isn't. However, I was unfair to it on that occasion. On my second viewing of it today, I enjoyed it considerably more for what it was as opposed to disliking it for what it wasn't. There was a few rather silly moments but it has a cracking script by Tom Mankiewicz. I would praise Sturges' direction from what I saw on screen but, according to Mankiewicz and Michael Caine, most of the editing work was done by Anne V. Coates so it is a little hard to gauge it in the way that I normally would for such things. This was Sturges' final film, incidentally.Michael Caine is characteristically excellent as the highly decorated but disgraced protagonist Oberst Kurt Steiner. He is introduced while trying to save a young Jewish woman from being rounded up by the SS in Poland, saying that he does not have any strong feelings about the Jews one way or the other but he has seen too many people die in the war already. Steiner is a comparatively honourable man who at times is even sympathetic in spite of the fact that he is leading the mission to kidnap the Prime Minister. In fact, most of his men are honourable as one of them gives his life to save a little English girl from being crushed by a waterwheel. He meets that unpleasant fate himself. His Free Polish uniform is torn and it is revealed that he is wearing a German one underneath and, consequently, that they are Germans. Steiner insisted that he and his men be allowed to wear their German uniforms, one of the aforementioned silly moments.I said in my review of Ordinary People last week that Donald Sutherland is one of the best actors of his generation and I stand by that. However, he was badly miscast as the Germans' IRA accomplice Liam Devlin. He does the best that he can with the role but his Irish accent is not great and the character is a little clichéd, his second line being Top o' the mornin' to ya. Bar one year in Edinburgh, I have lived all of my 28 years in Ireland and I have yet to hear anyone say that unless they were mocking Irish stereotypes! Richard Harris was strongly considered for the role and he would certainly have been more suited to it as, aside from his nationality, he often played rough and ready characters. However, perhaps he was too suited to it. The producers decided that it was a bad idea to cast him since he was known for making pro-IRA statements in real life. Considering that this was a British film made in the 1970s, I don't think that it was a great idea or a very tasteful one to make Devlin a lovable rogue, essentially. His love story with Molly, admittedly played very well by Jenny Agutter, is nice but it doesn't really add much to the film.The film has a very strong supporting cast overall such as Robert Duvall as Oberst Radl, Anthony Quayle as the Cassandra-esque Admiral Wilhelm Canaris (who was executed for treason in 1945), a suitably creepy Donald Pleasence as Himmler, Jean Marsh as the sleeper agent Joanna Grey, Sven-Bertil Taube as Hans, John Standing as Father Verecker, a very young Treat Williams as Captain Clark, Michael Byrne as Karl, Siegfried Rauch (the most prominent German cast member) as Brandt and, last but not least, Larry Hagman as the blustering, buffoonish US Army Colonel Clarence E. Pitts. Interestingly, he played a somewhat similar character in his cameo in Superman, likewise written by Mankiewicz. The film also features nice small appearances from Maurice Roëves, Judy Geeson, Jeff Conaway, Roy Marsden and Denis Lill.Overall, this is not a heavy hitter when it comes to World War II films but it's great fun. Oh, and what a twist at the end! "}{"Title":"The Eagle Has Landed","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" John Sturges' World War II adventure hit of the 1970s still works somewhat decently within its genre. The story deals with a group of German soldiers who are sent on a nearly impossible mission of kidnapping Winston Churchill when he comes to visit a rural English village. Compiled by a frustrated Colonel Radl (Robert Duvall), the team consists of a Britain-hating Irish militant Liam Devlin (Donald Sutherland) and the loyal men of a righteous hero soldier Kurt Steiner (Michael Caine) who has been dishonoured and imprisoned for his lack of respect for his superiors. Devlin is sent to infiltrate the coastal village of Studley Constable and to contact a German sleeper agent Joanna Grey (Jean Marsh) in advance, while Steiner prepares his troops to pose as friendly Polish soldiers and arrives in Britain later. Having reached the village, the team finds a settlement of American soldiers nearby and as expected, things don't go neatly according to the plans.The movie doesn't go for an analytical meditation on the nature of war and focuses on the personal level instead. The tone stays somewhat light for the most part and especially Devlin's antics while getting to know the English locals, such as Molly and Arthur (Jenny Agutter and Terry Plummer), approach comedy at points. The pacing is very leisurely action scenes are only seen during the last third of the runtime and while they are entertaining enough for what it's worth, they are not spectacular enough to carry the whole story alone. Even though we know from history if the team's mission will be successful or not, there is a small twist at the end that adds a sense of sadness to the mood &#x96; the message about the futility of war efforts from a grunt's point of view culminate in Steiner's final scene somewhat effectively, even if the big payoff doesn't ultimately feel quite worth the wait.The emphasis being on the characters' on-screen chemistry, the importance of the actors becomes even bigger than usual. Luckily, most of the cast does a good job throughout. Particularly the always creepy-looking Donald Sutherland suits his role formidably, conveying a feel of joviality and menace at the same time. The quiet and mousy Himmler is also portrayed with natural ease by Donald Pleasence and the calm Robert Duvall is at home as the eyepatch-wearing Radl. Larry Hagman's role as the American Colonel Pitts brings humour to the mix while avoiding overly annoying bumbling. The only complaint I have is that it is difficult to see Michael Caine as a German officer, even if his character is explained to have studied in England &#x96; Caine is such an archetype of Britishness that a German uniform is not enough to make his legendary persona disappear.In addition to the performances, some of the scenery of the windy beaches and the surrounding areas look very nice and Lalo Schifrin's score fits in with the mood well. However, tighter pacing and writing would have been needed to raise The Eagle Has Landed to the master class. As it is now, it is a watchable war flick but not among the best of its ilk. Fans of the stars should find it enjoyable though. "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am somewhere on the cutting room floor of this one and so I feel somewhat in awe of this movie. It was filmed locally to where I lived in England. A place called Mapledurham to be precise. I was only 7 when my family and I stumbled into several of the shots and severely annoyed the crew and cast, including Donald Sutherland who I've loved ever since, as it was his scene we interrupted. The movie itself was fun and exciting. The shots taken in Mapledurham were brilliant because it didn't look like the village at all. But I love the movie and if you are into old war movies, this is a good one to watch. Enjoy!! "},{"Title":"Michael Caine attacks second homes in North Norfolk","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A low grade production,an extremely implausible load of daring-do dos from a thriller which in fairness was probably able to explain the mad plot and all the business with Himmler and the politics behind the scenes.Maybe the reasons passed me by.Donald Pleasance,born to play Himmler,did this with sufficient malice but Duvall's, mit de one-eye,''ver is das Stukely Constable''? got lost after the plot got under way and the next time we see him is shot for failure.Why did Mr Integrity with a unit of Poles(?!)decide to carry on with this ludicrous plan when he manifestly hated the Nazis he was representing?.Even when it meant his demise ,on he went,down a convenient secret passage,to shoot the poor sap who stood in for Winnie.Yes it was a way out for him but it seemed weak. A cartoon Irishman,hilarious Donald Sutherland, with a grievance,a South African with a grievance.Note the shoe-horning in of the ,who originated Concentration camps? fact.Did we know about them then,anyway? A horsey girl who falls for Sutherland instantly and shoots her old boyfriend,because he is going to the police,so enamoured is she of the Irishman! On and on,cliché after cliché,stout vicar with dutiful sister,lots of strange catholic bowing,choccy box village in North Norfolk shot up at the end(if only!),gung-ho JR going down guns blazing,but finally Treat Williams sorts it out thank goodness and a grass chewing local makes the only 2 jokes in the piece. "},{"Title":"Not good","Date":"3 August 2011","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There looks to be something promising about this film if you like World War II action stuff. You could read it in Victor comic books of the bygone era about military heroes. The action looks intriguing and casting of Michael Caine, the sparkling Jenny Agutter or Larry Hagman looks good. However, the film plot clearly looks too be far-fetched about a Nazi conspiracy to kidnap the British wartime leader yet which leader would have been in their hidden agenda?. Chamberlain had died in the early stages of the war having resigned from office two months previously due to ill health and was succeeded by Churchill.Also, it is difficult to understand the liking for this film in the press but I suspect its all to do with it being based on a novel by the legendary Jack Higgins. Overall, the film is a bit of an unpatriotic mess as the acting and quality is poor in some places and it's ridiculous, dull and stupid as some of my family members seem to claim. One to miss. "},{"Title":"A great cast with great performances and a fun watch.","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A group of German Soldiers, invade the U.K to kidnap Winston Churchill because it's one of Hitler's whims. Simple plot, not too much to it actually. What makes this movie great however is the dialog, the cast and the great performances that came with both. Donald Sutherland plays once of those characters he was made to play and gets all the laughs. Michael Caine plays the duty driven soldier and does it so well that it doesn't matter he's an English actor playing a German soldier. Donald Pleasence plays the historic figure Heinrich Himmler. It's not much of a part, it just helps get the ball rolling, but Pleasence manages to put his mark on the role. Robert Duvall plays the Col. told to get this operation moving and pitch the people to do it. If it goes wrong, it's his head. Especially since deep down he knows it's not going to work, but when Hitler and Himmler say jump, you ask how high. Duvall does this so well that despite him being a Nazi, you're worrying if his head is going to roll. Also look for a great Captain America type performance from Treat Williams, one of his very first roles. The dialog is a real treat in this one too. The dialog gives some great comedic lines to Sutherland, who executes them perfectly. The dialog that gives the whole sense of honor that is Caine's character. The dialog that gives Treat Williams the exact lines we'd be thinking. So the story might be simple in nature, even a bit absurd, but any movie that has you caring for characters that are Nazi's, or Nazi sympathizers as the case may be, all the while still rooting for the good guys has to have a great director, a great writer, and a great cast.  "},{"Title":"bloody awful with comic moments","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" /SPOILER/ Is this comedy or drama? Comedy perhaps... Donald Sutherland's attempt to speak now and again with an Irish accent is so bad and the fact that he plays some kind of Latin lover capable of winning a young girl's heart and her mind - she is willing to betray her country for him after all - must make him a comic figure. Then there are the Good Germans who are not Nazis and who are willing to die to save the life of a Polish Jew... very believable. Good Germans and stupid Americans. Comic relief perhaps. Strange how the Germans can't miss when they are killing the blundering first attack and they can't hit when it's the turn of the Good Americans to attack. No one ever reloads either, but that, I suppose, is a constant in war films, be they good or ridiculous.Characters appear then disappear for no apparent reason. People betray or seem to change their minds at the first opportunity. Stoic Germans die rather than surrender. A German commando plays Bach and dies at the keyboard of the organ - what a comic moment that is! Oh, I almost forgot the Good German played by Robert Duvall. He comes complete with an eye patch and perhaps a missing left arm. /SPOILER/All in all, then, as bad a film as you could possibly imagine, perhaps worse even than that. Now if Tarantino were to remake it... "},{"Title":"The Eagle has foundered","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Seeing this movie after many since it hit the screens, I can only say that I am glad I did not pay to go and see it in the cinema - caught it on a free DVD recently! The plot holes are so large to be laughable. Was there a war on in Norfolk? Only bit I saw was an old mine warning on a beach that was too hilly and rocky to be Norfolk, let alone the lack of planes going overhead! The acting bears no scrutiny - accents wobbling left right and centre, or downright awful as in Sutherland's case. He was to repeat this role in another awful adaptation of Ken Follett! Michael Caine was in his prime in looks but at the depths of his acting capabilities. Lew Grade was trying to make world class films at the time, but this one like his legionnaire film is an utter disaster. A re-run of 'Went The Day Well' in the middle does not match the earlier wartime movie. And poor John Sturges - what an end to a career?! - as director! And I am still looking for the marsh that Sutherland was supposed to be warden of? Yes, Tom your 'Valkyrie' was a decidedly better attempt at good Germans than this long forgotten puerile rubbish. "},{"Title":"Plausible!!!???","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can't believe some reviewers find this film plausible. Admittedly the book is little better. In fact the plot is nutty. Consider just three points (a) Medieval churches at the centre of English villages are Anglican, not Roman Catholic, (b) How come the village only has 15 inhabitants? and (c) Why do the British military people continue to drive the fake Churchill to the manor house even when they know there are German paratroopers in the village? Many reviewers have pointed out other ludicrous aspects.The early part of the film also goes way over the top in its laboured efforts to show us that Michael Caine and co are non-Nazi, honourable Germans. (In the event, so honourable that Caine is prepared to shoot Churchill in cold blood, even though he realises that Hitler's regime is evil and the war is lost.) How assassinating Churchill is meant to help matters is more than obscure. Could anybody really think it would lead the Allies to drop the demand for Germany's unconditional surrender and go for a negotiated peace instead? Hokum, pure sloppily constructed hokum. "},{"Title":"one of the best films ever made","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Yes i cannot believe some of the negative comments I am reading here.This is one of the best films ever made, period.It fully captures the look and feel of 1940s wartime Britain, and has excellent locations, it is filmed in one of the most picturesque areas of the UK, I believe Herfordshire, and has plenty of local colour and humour.It is also very exciting, with a powerful score by Lalo Schifrin.It has a very fine cast too, all of whom give wonderful performances.The action scenes are not cheap looking at all like one commentator below wrote, they are sweeping and thrilling, with authentic attention to detail.The humour provided by Larry Hagman is a welcome relief from the intensity of the mission being portrayed and makes his bloody death scene where he gets shot through the helmet by Jean Marsh even more shocking.He is also plausible as a an early day George Bush.And the film also highlights one of the lesser known aspects of WW2 I don't think any other film has the occupation of the Channel Islands by the Nazis! Watch it now!! I love this film! "},{"Title":"Could do better.","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm tempted to believe that Jack Higgins saw Went the Day Well (Alberto Cavalcanti, 1942) at some point during his formative years, and used its plot for his novel/screenplay to The Eagle Has Landed. Eagle elicits an average performance from Michael Caine and a laughable one from Donald Sutherland (whose enigmatic Irish rebel act just doesn't wash). Deadly boring performances from Jenny Agutter and Jean Marsh fail to illuminate on the distaff side. You could do better by tracking down a copy of Went The Day Well and watching that instead.  "}{"Title":"Great WW2 movie","Date":"21 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Great WW2 movie.Based on the Jack Higgins novel, the plot interesting and believable, despite being, on the surface, quite far-fetched. Ending is a bit tame though.All-star cast delivers in spades. Michael Caine in the lead role is superb, as always. Good support from Robert Duvall, Donald Sutherland, Donald Pleasance, Anthony Quayle, Treat Williams and Jenny Agutter. Larry Hagman overdoes the buffoonery though.A classic war-drama. "},{"Title":"Sent Me Back to the Book","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Watch out for spoilers It's a cliché to say the book is better. Some books are, since they have more depth of character. This is not, however, universal. Many screenplays, for obvious reasons, streamline novels, cutting out extraneous characters and making the stories flow much more smoothly. I can point out lots of cases where the movie actually is better.Not here. The Eagle Has Landed does streamline the story, naturally. The entire Preston subplot is excised. So is a lot of the back-and-forth yo-yoing of Radl to Himmler. In fact, Canaris has so little to do in this flick, I'm surprised they left him in at all. (Anthony Quayle is wasted as Canaris; Donald Pleasence has a field day as Himmler, and he lets us know what Hamlet means when he says one can smile and be a villain).On the plus side, the screenplay telescopes the story nicely. The novel takes place over months, while the screenplay seems to cover just a few days.Michael Caine is perfect as the German soldier with a conscience, while playing his cards close to his chest. Donald Sutherland is fine as the wry Devlin (replacing Richard Harris, and it's too bad we missed that performance). Larry Hagman, never the world's greatest actor, plays a character who was an idiot in the book and manages to be even more stupid in the movie (so although he did the part well enough as written, he can't help coming off looking unpleasantly like a buffoon; I'm surprised they didn't hire a comedic actor to play the part). I've never been a fan of Jean Marsh so I'm happy with her performance as the faux-British traitor. Jenny Agutter is pertly pretty; that's all that is required of her and that's all she does.But when all the shooting is over, one has never really connected to the characters. In the book one is surprisingly drawn to the IRA assassin and all the men fighting for their German fatherland (or, in Steiner's case, his real father, who is in Himmler's clutches). Confronted, in the movie, with dumb Americans and Brits, angry churchmen, supposedly compassionate characters studded over with Nazi regalia, and a moonstruck girl who shoots an unwelcome suitor in the back with both barrels to keep him from betraying her hit-man lover, there is really no one here for the film-goer to sympathize with.This is where the book's depth of character makes it superior. In the book you even feel disappointed when the Nazis lose, which shows the author's mastery. In many ways the screenplay and the editing improve on the story. But overall, once the shooting starts it's a bore, when that should be the exciting part. "},{"Title":"Plausible Study of Wartime Behavior as Well as Being a Good Actioner","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" To lovers of movie curiosities, THE EAGLE HAS LANDED offers the unique experience of watching actors speak in funny accents, whether it be Michael Caine's Cockney German, Jean Marsh's English Afrikaans, Robert Duvall's impeccable RP English, or (best of all) Donald Sutherland's Irish blarney. Beneath such superficialities, however, there lies a movie that makes some important points about human behavior during wartime. In one important sequence at the beginning, Caine's Col. Steiner is shown saving a Jewish girl from the clutches of the SS, even though he risks almost certain punishment as a result. Confronting the Obergruppenfuhrer (Joachim Hansen), Steiner makes an important point about showing humanity - even to one's sworn enemies. When a young girl falls into the jaws of a water-wheel, he sanctions one of his officers to go and rescue her, even if by doing so the officer reveals his true identity as a Nazi agent Steiner shows the same concern for the welfare of his men during their daring raid on England, and expects the same in return. When a wounded officer refuses to board the tug-boat taking him to safety, Steiner reminds him of his responsibilities as a human being, as well as being a member of Steiner's force the officer has to go, even if he doesn't want to.Steiner's concern for others renders him a highly ambiguous character. On the one hand we should fear his ruthlessness, his obsessive desire to carry out the mission to capture Churchill (Leigh Dilley), even if the odds are stacked against him. On the other hand we admire him for his enduring loyalty to his men. Sutherland's Liam Devlin, a collaborator in the plan, proves equally ambiguous, his ruthlessness as a fixer and fighter has to be balanced against his concern for young Molly (Jenny Agutter), a nineteen-year-old villager who finds the kind of inspiration in Devlin that she could never discover in her long-term English boyfriend Arthur (Keith Buckley). Even Duvall's Colonel Radl is not entirely evil - while sanctioning the plot to kidnap Churchill in the first place, he realizes the risks involved, both to Steiner and his men, as well as himself. At one point he advises a junior officer to return home from the Channel Islands back to Berlin, so as to avoid the inevitable punishment that will result from the failure of the entire operation.While John Sturges' film contains some exciting action sequences - the final shoot-out between the Nazis and the Americans is particularly dramatically handled, with the chocolate-box English village forming a backdrop - the main focus of interest centers on the characters. Even though the Americans are portrayed as 'good' characters, rescuing the terrified villagers from Nazi captivity, their leader Col. Pitts (Larry Hagman) is both inexperienced in combat and entirely selfish, refusing to listen to the (good) advice of the men he commands. As a result he leads his troops into dangerous situations that could have been avoided if he had been a little more meticulous in his planning. Compared to Steiner, he seems rough-and-ready, the kind of man to avoid rather than admire. We are left to reflect on the nature of leadership, a quality that transcends national loyalties. The film itself stands up very well after forty years, even though its basic subject-matter was not new, even at the time of release. Alberto Cavalcanti's WENT THE DAY WELL (1942), based on a Graham Greene story, offers a chilling account of what might have happened if the Nazis had landed in the United Kingdom. THE EAGLE HAS LANDED sketches an equally convincing portrait, even though the British villagers seem remarkably sanguine about the presence of invaders in their midst. One of them (John Barrett) sardonically remarks Bloody foreigners again. Nonetheless its story remains highly plausible with a good surprise ending. Definitely worth looking at more than once. "},{"Title":"A Fine Game of War, and in the End the Allies Win.","Date":"27 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Eagle Has Landed is is one of the classic war movies from the 70's. A flock of the time's finest Anglo-American actors have been put together in a film where gentleman soldiers from both sides of the WWII frontline are having a match in the art of war. Yes, gentleman soldiers. Many classic WWII films are usually seen with plenty of evil nazi pigs, Germans speaking English with German accent and patriotic atmosphere backing the allied forces towards the victorious end. There are very little of those features here.If you weren't aware of the existence of the WWII, watching this film, in many points you couldn't actually distinguish who the two counterparts fighting each other are. Everybody speaks English in different accents, not just German, British or American accents as may be in many cases. The German colonel Steiner speaks fluent English with an English accent, an Irishman is on the German side fighting the English, etc.. Also, the German soldiers are not demonised but seen equally human and humane as the English villagers and the American troops. The events are viewed more from the Germans' side than of the English and the Americans. These equalising features separate the film's events from the history in the way that in the end it's merely a story about some military forces that invade some town in a mission to kidnap a head of some state. The film concentrates on individual relationships, on duty, greater good and betrayal.The war in this film has no terrors. Soldiers of both sides obey the rules of proper warfare and they respect each other. There are no bads in this film, only goods. It seems as if they were playing a game. Everybody does what they are supposed and expected to do, even when it results in giving away one's life. Player's on both sides do what is right based on their role in the war game.All this together, the film is a light war story. It also has an even lighter love story on the side. Reality and authenticity are not an issue. Acting is good, the sights are beautiful and the plot advances steadily. The film is entertaining and easy to watch. Of course, if you have read your history books, you can also predict the outcome of the Germans' plan, but it doesn't matter. The Eagle Has Landed could be described as the Ocean's Eleven in war. A group of gentlemen challenging another group of gentlemen. Only in this case, they are not robbing a casino, they are robbing a PM. All the same, the general attitude in the film feels similar. "},{"Title":"Exciting, Suspenseful, WWII Secret Mission Spy Thriller With Terrific Cast","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Nazi High Command hatches a bold plot - to kidnap Winston Churchill whilst he stays briefly in the remote village of Studley Constable on the Norfolk coast. A crack platoon of paratroopers are sent to pose as Polish soldiers on manoeuvres, commanded by the brilliant Colonel Steiner. But how long before their little ruse is discovered &#133;This is one of those great seventies international co-production war/adventure films (see also Kelly's Heroes or Cross Of Iron) which isn't interested in boring historical accuracy or realism, it just wants to entertain as much as possible. The casting of Caine, the world's most iconic Cockney, as a German Luftwaffe officer is cheeky beyond belief, but he is sensational; dogmatic, thoughtful - he just gets on with it, the way a good actor should. Duvall is also excellent as the chain-smoking, one-eyed Colonel Radl, explaining the whole plot without us ever realising that's what he's doing. These two straight-ahead performances allow Sutherland to be completely wild as a good-natured Irish mercenary, all mad eyed grinning and witty repartee. The supporting cast also features great bits by Marsh (as the village traitor), Agutter (in her patented English Rose mode), Pleasence (as Himmler) and Byrne (as Duvall's faithful adjutant). Based on a bestselling book by Jack Higgins, the plot is the best kind of adventure story - an insanely dangerous mission, honourable but desperate heroes, loads of action and a touch of romance. Scripted by Tom Mankiewicz, the premise is more than a little similar to an old British movie, Went The Day Well ? (minus the Churchill element), but is completely different stylistically. If there is one thing that lets it down a little I think it's the final act - the trigger for the discovery and the ensuing gun battles are excellent, but once the action moves beyond the village for the finale, it kind of runs out of steam a little, taking too long to set us up for a final twist. Featuring a fabulous pounding score by Lalo Schifrin and great photography throughout by the prolific Anthony Richmond. Produced by British TV mogul Lew Grade's ITC company, which made some great films (Capricorn One, The Dark Crystal, several others), the title refers to the Caine character, but is also of course the famous quote from the Apollo 11 moon landing. Shot mostly in the village of Mapledurham in Berkshire. This was Sturges' last movie, and epitomises the quality and professionalism of his fine body of work, beautifully made and filled with entertainment from start to finish, something all filmmakers should aspire to. A great adventure movie. "},{"Title":"Easy Sunday afternoon viewing","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Eagle has landed is one of those Second World War capers so welcome on a Sunday afternoon. The plot concerns a German secret mission to murder Churchill, plunging England into disaster. Chosen to lead this team of assassins is Michael Caine. Now this is where the film takes on ludicrous proportions. Caine is a Cockney pure and simple, thus his accent is highly recognisable. In this he makes the odd, token attempt at a Jerry accent, but effectively plays a German officer with a broad chimney sweep Cockney voice! This makes it very hard to view him as a Hun, but once you ignore that, the film is OK. Accents let the film down generally. Donald Sutherland is awful at the Irish tongue, whilst Robert Duvall's German has more than a hint of the pantomime about it. The film as a whole, despite a slow start, picks up nicely in the final hour as the Germans take over a quaint English village and close in on Churchill. There is plenty of gunfire as the Huns get surrounded in a church, whilst the American forces are typically gung-ho. There is then a rather nice twist at the end.... "},{"Title":"Good acting, but a poor script","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Eagle Has Landed is based on Jack Higgins bestselling book by the same name. And even though it may sound as a cliché to say this, the book is better than the movie.When Mussolini is rescued by the SS, Hitler wants to kidnap Winston Churchill. Colonel Max Radl (Robert Duvall) is tasked with planning the kidnapping, and the actual operation is to be carried out by a court-marshaled Colonel called Kurt Steiner (Michael Caine) and his band of elite paratroopers. The plan is to drop into a small town called Studley Constable as Polish paratroopers and kidnap Churchill.The book focuses a lot on the planning stage of the operation, but a lot of this is lost in the movie. Quite a few important parts are left out, but the movie is still easy to understand, especially since the Germans don't speak English with a heavy accent of German.The cast in this movie is an all-star cast, but opposed to films like The Longest Day, it's not to much of a disturbance. The acting is very good, with special credits to Donald Pleasance as Himmler. However, Jenny Agutter, who plays Molly, is an exception. She really doesn't play her part to well, mainly because the characters part is reduced a great deal from the book, in which the relationship with the Irish Liam Devlin (Donald Sutherland) plays a much larger role.In all, the movie is decent attempt at making a good film from the book. It has good acting, but fails when it comes to the story. However, the acting and the descent action saves this movie, and it's a good movie to see if you like WWII movies. A weak 8/10. "},{"Title":"Pretty good but with a few disappointments.","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Overall, the movie is great but the book still beats the movie.In the book, they had Bren machine guns, M1 Garands, and silenced Mark IIS Sten SMGs. well, in the movie they used normal Stan guns without silencers for theatrical effect of course, and they didn't have any Bren guns or Garands.The biggest disappointment was, in the book and in the movie, they showed the Para's medals and that the 16 German Paras were really battle hardened troops who wouldn't be easy to beat.In the movie, they lasted roughly a couple of seconds in the church, which i thought they would have put up a real challenge for the US Rangers attacking them. The US Rangers hardly suffered any cashualties, where as the book had said that half the company of Rangers were killed.The movie is great, and i would recommend it for any 'old war movie' fan.  "},{"Title":"One of the better adaptations I have seen","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS                                      This film, based upon Jack Higgins' novel of the same title, is by far and away one of my favourite war films. Why? because it is partially based on historical fact (operations to kidnap or murder Churchill and other senior allied leaders were certainly planned but not implemented), refrains from portraying German soldiers as baby eating rapists, and actually shows planning and preparation as opposed to just kicking off right into roving gun battles. Overall the standard of acting is quite high with Donald Pleasance quite chilling as Himmler, Donald Sutherland as a reluctant IRA man who is brought along because the abwehr has nobody else to hand and makes for quite entertaining viewing, Robert Duvall as put upon Colonel Radl who transforms one of Hitler's mad schemes into a workable scheme and Michael Caine is quite superb as Steiner, the disgraced officer given this chance to vindicate himself and His men. The only actor/character I found to be annoying in this film was Larry Hagman's gung-ho John Wayne type Colonel. Despite much of the book being cut out (the British Nazi Preston and the three weeks Devlin spends preparing at Studley Constable being examples) I feel that this film is a quite decent WW2 adventure story 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Get Churchill","Date":"24 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Based on Jack Higgins' bestselling 1975 novel, The Eagle Has Landed can be summed up rather easily. The year is 1943 World War II rages in Europe and, following the rescue by German commandos of defeated Italian dictator Benito Mussolini, Hitler orders the kidnapping of British Prime Minister Winston Churchill. Though not a serious suggestion, events quickly lead to a group of German paratroopers being sent into a quiet English village on a mission that could change the course of the war. The film features a strong cast. There is Michael Caine as the German paratrooper officer Kurt Steiner which Caine fills rather admirably and, even without a German accent, believably as a leader. Donald Sutherland as IRA turned German agent Liam Devlin manages to bring a lot of charm and humor to his rather duplicitous role, despite an at times shaky accent. There's also Robert Duvall as Colonel Radl, the mastermind behind the operation, which Duvall plays a rather subdued but intriguing character. The supporting cast ranges from Jenny Agutter as village girl Molly Prior, Jean Marsh as villager Joanna Gray, John Standing as the village vicar to Sven-Bertil Taube as Steiner's second in command. The film also features the clichéd and over the top character of the American Ranger Colonel Pitts played by Larry Hagman in a performance that is nothing short of cringe worthy. More successful as both a character and a performance is his underling Captain Clark played by a young Treat Williams. Last but not least is Donald Pleasence who makes a couple of brief appearance as Heinrich Himmler, working an oddly menacing quality over the real life Nazi leader. The result is a well-acted film for the most part.The production values of the film are strong as well for the most part. There's some good recreations of the World War II settings ranging from German military offices to the English village where the bulk of the film's back half takes place (though as noted elsewhere there are goofs). The film's action sequences are well staged and feature some strong stunt work as well. In particular, the parachuting sequence and the initial battle in the village work splendidly. That said the film's pace is rather pedestrian at times, due to almost uninterested direction from John Sturges (this was to be his last film and it has been reported that Sturges took the film on mainly for money and walked out on the post production entirely). What keeps the film moving during those times is the score from Lalo Schifrin which suits the film's various settings and events admirably. The film's script and plot, adapted from the Higgins' bestseller as mentioned earlier, also works well. Like Fredrick Forsyth's The Day Of The Jackal (and its' own excellent film adaptation), the film works despite the fact that we clearly know that German paratroopers didn't manage to kidnap Winston Churchill in the middle of World War II. The film, as with the source material, instead works through the sheer power of its what it? premise by taking the audience along throughout the entire mission from its planning to the recruitment of Steiner and his men through the mission right up to the finale. The script by Tom Mankiewicz follows the Higgins' novel quite closely though it does jettison a few characters and plot points (including a member of S.S. British Free Corps sent in with the paratroopers for example) but the result is a by and large faithful presentation of the novel for the screen. Despite uninterested direction and a sometimes pedestrian pace, The Eagle Has Landed stands up well after more than thirty-five years. That is in large part thanks to a strong cast, good production values and action sequences. Above all though, it may well be down to the power of the Mankiewicz adaptation of Jack Higgins' original novel and the strength of its premise. The film then stands up as a good example of the World War II action/thriller, pure and simple. "}{"Title":"Great Novel - well-acted adaptation...","Date":"21 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A German Paratroop officer (Steiner, played by a suave Michael Caine), a war hero, runs afoul of the S.S. and is given a court-martial, more or less a death-sentence for him, and the soldiers under his command. It happens that he is British-educated, and would be useful to the German Military they have concocted a secret mission to have a team of commandos inserted into a remote British coastal village to kidnap Churchill. The S.S., under H. Himmler himself, take a hand in 'overseeing' the wild plot, for reasons that become evident later on.Thus begins the film adaptation of Jack Higgins' greatest novel. There is excellent acting from a variety of 'name players' doing limited roles, such as Anthony Quayle, Robert Duvall, Treat Williams and Donald Sutherland. Donald Pleasence turns in an eerie, chilling portrayal of Himmler, showing the excellent range of a fine actor (who, for instance, portrayed an amiable, meek and mild forger in 'Great Escape').You do 'get the picture' that German soldiers also suffered under the Nazi regime, and the rank-and-file soldiers were not in league with fanatical Nazi aims. (The recent movie 'Valkyrie' with Tom Cruise portrayed that the German military command long sought to get rid of Hitler, especially after the Normandy invasion in June/1944. One of Hitler's greatest opponents - secretly, of course - was Admiral Canaris, played well in this film by Anthony Quayle).There are lots of well-choreographed shoot-em-up scenes, leading to a gripping conclusion. It is a guy-film - not a 'date' flick! 8/10*spoilers* (partial) from the book - the father of Steiner (Michael Caine) is also German military, but was under S. S. imprisonment at the order of Himmler, to induce Steiner to complete his mission, and not capitulate to the British (this answers a question posted here at IMDb)..- the German commando squad included a 'British Freecorps' thug - this was a British citizen who joined the German S.S. to fight the Russians, claiming anti-Communist sentiments. Freecorps members were universally hated, by everyone, including the S.S.- Liam Devlin survives and shows up in other Jack Higgins novels.- the Jewish girl that Steiner helped in the beginning, at the Railway yard? she escaped successfully! "},{"Title":"title should have been.. The Eagle Has Crashed","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This overly long film was based on one of Jack Higgins first novels, He has written many books since & nearly all of them have been far better.John Sturgis directed this & it was his final directorial effort.He had a very mixed career. His best was THE MAGIFICENT SEVEN,His worst was MAROONED. This effort is closer to Marooned than Magnificent Seven.Tom Mankiewicz adapted this from Higgins' novel, Tom wrote many screenplays, sometimes the apple falls far from the tree. Tom's father was the award winning director/writer Joseph (ALL ABOUT EVE) & his Uncle Herman, worked with Orson Welles on CITIZEN KANE.The cast includes some of the top stars of 1976(year of release) Micheal Caine, Donald Sutherland,Robert Duval,Donald Pleasance,Larry Hagman & Treat William, also Jenny Aguiter & Jean Marsh plus others.Nearly every one was either miscast or vastly changed from the original novel. In the book they all were flesh & blood,you were able to care for each one. In the movie they all seemed lifeless & listless.There is one needlessly extended action scene at the end.I can understand now why I missed this in 1976,I should have realized or remembered that it was not a good film.Ratings ** (out of 4) 54 points (out of 100) IMDb 4 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Call this one a drama, not an action/adventure.","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is about the people portrayed in it.Everyone knows more or less how it will end.Everyone knows whether or not this really happened.The combat scenes were not intended to be the reason people watched the movie.This movie was about the kind of people the characters were and the strength and depth of character from strong and moral to weak and superficial. That is why the movie had such a fine cast. And be sure to note how well Pleasance does Himmler with limited screen time. But there were too many complex characters to do justice to all of them in this script. Hence, 7 out of 10.Call this one a drama, not an action/adventure. "},{"Title":"A well put together movie that's worth your while","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Eagle Has Landed is a good example of just plain quality movie making. It has a terrific cast and takes the time to throughly establish it's fictional premise.What I enjoyed most about this movie was that it felt authentic even though it's based upon a fictional story by Jack Higgins.My only criticism would be that the love interests had spent too little time together on-screen to make the plausible jump for me. Perhaps this was developed better in the novel and made more sense to the story at hand, I did feel the ending may have been condensed from the book to focus on the action but it really does not interfere with the overall completeness of the adventure.Micheal Caine is a pleasure to watch and really manages to add his master's touch of bringing the story together with his character's intensity. The set design is spot-on and has all the right touches of period realism to set the stage properly.That is about it, just one very interesting possible take on the Second World War that is very entertaining. So this movie will rate a generous '8' for me because I was engrossed in the picture and the actors from beginning to end and happen to like alternative time-line stories, so if you expect a straight 'War' picture then your viewing experience may be different. "},{"Title":"Condemned German paratoopers sent on a life-or-death mission...the German version of The Dirty Dozen!","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Although fictional, Jack Higgins' novel, and, this movie, is very believable, and, could have been very possible.Send a detachment of highly-trained and seasoned German paratroopers to England disguised as Polish 'Free' paratroopers and into a town that is nearby where Winston Churchill is expected to be...and, assassinate him.SEAL TEAM Six did this same thing with Osama Bin Laden.This is a great movie (and, a great novel)! I remember the evening that my Dad (EN1(SS) US SUBMARINE SERVICE ETERNAL PATROL...RIP) brought me to see this after a family get-together in 1976...and, also feeling badly for my cousin who didn't get to go with us after talking about wanting to see this movie. His dad was a military failure (US Submarine Service 'drop-out' and life-long zero and sworn sissy); and, he just wouldn't let my cousin join us!?!?However, this movie is great - a detachment of German paratroopers, in disguise; lead by a Luftwaffe Oberst (Colonel), and, a Luftwaffe Hauptmann (Captain), who are both fluent in English...work an operation to assassinate Winston Churchill. This is a great and ambitious endeavor.Yet, SADLY, this movie (and, novel) also shows the corruption and cowardice of the Nazi High Command - in-and-how they cover-up their own failures and deeds by blaming and executing those whom they've ordered to follow through with this operation!?!? This is a great operation lead by a great group of 'real' soldiers who are loyal to their country; but, the operation is overseen by cut-throats and corrupt government sleezes who are only looking out for themselves.If you're a World War II buff...this is for you! ) "},{"Title":"the eagle has landed","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have seen the film on a number of occasions over the years since it was made. The thing that intrigues me however is where in Norfolk was it actually placed/filmed??? To settle an argument please let me know the exact location where Churchill visited.I recently came back from a holiday in North Norfolk, and driving to Cromer from Wells-next-the-Sea, we saw a house on a hill, and my partner said, That looks like the house from the Eagle has landed. I said he would have stayed at Holkham Hall, and that they only pretend to use a house on a hill because it looked more strategic. Also which village was used, and church. "},{"Title":"sub titles","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Movie Man, I bet you needed subtitles for Crocodile Dundee too. With actors like Robert Duval, Donald Sutherland, Jean Marsh, Jenny Agutter, how could you not understand them. Apart from Sutherland's Irish accent, which wasn't broad, the rest of the cast spoke straight English. Unless of course you were referring to Larry Hagman or Treat Williams but I found them both quite understandable and no problems with their accents.Still, it was a good movie, a bit light in parts from the book, like the landing of Devlin in Ireland and the planning for the assault; that is the parachutes, the plane and what happened to the plane. "},{"Title":"Adequate Vintage Hokum","Date":"9 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those 'judgement suspension' movies like 'Where Eagles Dare' or 'Guns Of Navarone' in which a crack team set out to accomplish the seeming impossible. Except that as the team in this movie are Germans, unlike the Yanks or Brits - they fail.It's a convoluted 'Boys-Own' adventure that you must never, ever take seriously, just come along for the ride.Like the others, its got a stellar cast, complex sub-plots, and crap accents. The Germans are going to kidnap/assassinate Churchill. Like the much earlier 'Went The Day Well' they seem to have miraculously procured their own transport, with no explanation as to how. Maybe Jack Higgins tells us in his book. I haven't read it. Also like 'Went The Day Well' there is a resident traitor.This is a perfectly adequate little romp, directed in a rather straightforward, even laid-back, style by John Sturges. Michael Caine leads the German paratroopers disguised as Poles. Donald Sutherland is an Irish Quisling who has a curious way with animals - later inherited by Crocodile Dundee. Robert Duvall and almost inevitable Donald Pleasance represent the German High-Command. Jenny Agutter plays a tomboyish femme-fatale. There's a host of other familiars who pop-up as and when.It's never intended to be a serious slice of WW2, just a thorough-going goodie-versus-baddie, not-too-demanding adventure. Technical stuff is competent from a lighting, directing, editing, standpoint, as you'd expect from Sturges. The script won't set any pens ablaze. Escapism, plain and simple.My DVD cost 3 quid. That's about right. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, fairly well-made WWII film","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Eagle Has Landed is a World War II film directed by John Sturges, the legendary director who also helmed The Great Escape and The Magnificent Seven. This was his last film and features some fantastic performances; Treat Williams is very good as Capt. Clark, an American soldier who, to his everlasting credit conducts military actions according to the military's books. Michael Caine is very very good as a conflicted German officer who disagrees with the policy of exterminating Jews. He conveys the man's decency and a sense of frustration, but also devotion to his position as an officer which makes for a nuanced depiction of a fairly decent human being. I thought the part of Devlin, the IRA member who offers the German's the contact they need to occupy the small village from which they plan on assassinating Churchill, was a bit clownish. That said, Donald Sutherland plays the part well. The sub-plot of his romance with Molly (Jenny Agutter) was a bit unnecessary and to suggest that women wouldn't necessarily be interested in a war film without a romantic sub-plot is a little insulting to women. One commenter suggested the sub-plot was there for that reason. In any case, the romance seemed superfluous and extremely improbable. Robert Duvall is very good as Col. Hadl who conceives of the plot to assassinate Churchill. He is cool and calculating while not seeming inhuman. Mention must also be made of Donald Pleasence, giving a fittingly chilling depiction of Heinrich Himmler.As mentioned by many other commenters, it is obviously good to see German soldiers not portrayed as child-digesting, mother-rapists. Yes, many of them did terrible things during WWII, as did soldiers from all countries. And this is not to excuse poor behavior, but as with soldiers from any country, their motivation is loyalty to their country, something which seems not to have crossed the mind of Richard B. Cheney regarding Iraq. It doesn't matter how bad your leader is, the pull of responding and working on behalf of your country is strong, regardless of the reasons for the war. I found the use of Larry Hagman as a frustrated, war- craving Col. Pitts silly. While there may have been soldiers who jonesed for the heat of battle, the drawing of the character seems overly broad and, given the limited depiction of American troops in the film, rather insulting to the generally representative manner in which US troops conducted themselves during the war. Perhaps Sturges, in depicting the German troops generally humanely, and one US soldier as craven, was playing with notions of behavior by troops on different sides of battle during war, but I thought that Col. Pitts' part in general was somewhat insulting to US troops. Jean Marsh is very good as an ice cold Nazi sympathizer who helps facilitate the activity against Mr. Churchill. The directing and the cinematography are competent. I enjoyed the unexpected conclusion to the film and thought that it was an interesting narrative choice. Obviously it was based on the book which I have not read, but nevertheless, I found it an interesting touch. I found this a diverting, if not earth-shattering World War II pic. It's worth your time. "},{"Title":"Courageous trial","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie few years ago and when i saw it i was astonished by this amazing trial to change the course of the war.Think about it ,16 paratroopers were landed behind the enemy lines to kidnap the prime minister of the opposing country to trade his life for a settlement .Actually the idea deserves to be tried and it reminds me with the Allied trial to kidnap or( kill ) ROMMEL -the desert fox- during the African campaign during which the British leader of the operation was also killed like the German leader of this one.For me there are a lot of amazing scenes in this movie The German soldier died while trying to save the life of the British girl( my God a lot of people did not think that the NAZI soldiers have a human feelings to behave like that).The determination of the German major to carry out his mission even though he is alone and the net result may be his death. The exchanged salute between the American officer and the German major( the American officer was a low ranked officer compared to the German )this is an expression about the real fixed traditions of war.For me this is one of the most impressing movies i have ever seen about the second world war. "}{"Title":"Good portrayal of the Germans as soldiers","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Enjoyable movie with some contrived plot devices, but that's common in fiction.I particularly liked that the German soldiers were portrayed as real people not faceless monsters, since the average German soldier was just an ordinary person with a life and family, not a deranged, homicidal fanatic. It is a common saying that people who kill each other in war could have been friends under other circumstances; particularly true when you're dealing with conscripts.Not unexpectedly Steiner and his men choose what they consider the honourable path, they fight knowing they will die. Steiner appears as if he might have an aristocratic background and his men are completely loyal so they automatically follow him.It is not really surprising that the Germans are quickly completely overwhelmed - they might be proficient commandos, but they are out-gunned and outnumbered. It is however a little implausible that they did not act a little more intelligently because such commandos could easily have killed quite a few more of the American soldiers before they were killed themselves. "},{"Title":"A realistic war movie in the sense that it shows that the combatants can not easily be pigeonholed as good or bad.","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Germans were the bad guys in WWII right? But Oberst Steiner is an officer in the paratroopers, one with a conscience in the sense that he tried to save a Jewish woman from the SS. The British were with the Allies. So they were good guys, right? But they had Ireland under their boot where the Irish Catholics were denied basic human rights like the right to own land, government employment, etc. (Read Leon Uris' Trinity). So was Devlin (played by Donald Sutherland), the IRA operative, a bad guy for helping the Germans in their operation to kidnap Churchill? Also, the German commandos were prematurely revealed to the townspeople because one of them saved a child from being crushed by a water wheel when she fell into a stream. The German uniform he wore under his Polish soldier disguise showed as he lay dead spreadeagled on the water wheel. That's what makes this film meaningful and important. Sure, there are flaws but the acting by Caine, Pleasance and Duvall make up for them.Sven Bertil Taube, the actor who portrayed Col.Steiner's (Caine) second in command, Hauptmann Von Neustadt had a touching dialog with his Herr Oberst. SPOILER The plot was blown and Steiner's commandos offered to stay in the church where they were holed up to give covering fire and serve as a diversion as Steiner tries to complete the mission in the face of a sweeping up operation by American troops. His faithful adjutant forcefully says no and offers to stay behind to help him. Caine pauses for a moment and asks him gently How long have we known each other? The Captain names the combat engagements they had gone through since the war began.Here Steiner/Caine adopts a stern attitude and harshly asks him And in all that time have you ever disobeyed any order of mine? Bewildered the Captain vehemently said Why? No! Herr Oberst! Never! And Caine closes the argument with Well, you are not going to start now. And the Hauptmann had to board the evacuation boat. "},{"Title":"Take it as an action comedy, relax, and enjoy","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The following contains a very minor spoiler.For years I got this movie's title mixed up with the deadly serious, and deadly dull, WHERE EAGLES DARE.  I was happy, when I read the back of the DVD box in my local video store, to see that this was an entirely different movie.  I suspected that with the combination of Michael Caine, Robert Duvall, Donald Sutherland, and Larry Hagman that the movie might be a bit tongue in cheek.Was it intended to be an action comedy?  Certainly their are moments of intentional comic relief.  Was it meant to be a sly version of THE RUSSIANS HAVE LANDED, THE RUSSIANS HAVE LANDED?  You'll have to judge for yourself, but in my opinion, the whole film is a comment on the absurdities inherent in war, and not a straightforward action film.The spoiler I referred to is a murder that draws absolutely no comment from those who discover the corpse, yet who should be most alarmed--especially considering where they find it!  The murder may have been intended, in the book, to give us a sense of the depth of love felt by the perpetrator, but in the movie it is completely pointless, and the one bad key on the piano.If you are a serious fan of any of the stars in this movie, it is worth a watch.  Anyway, for a hash of action and comedy with some really fun performances, this is a  satisfying waste of time.  It's not worth watching if it will make you late to dinner with your girlfriend, but if you have nothing better to do than surf the Web or see an old kung fu movie, this is a nice alternative.  I feel less guilty watching stuff like this if the weather is bad. "},{"Title":"Not the book, but a great movie.","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think a lot of the complaints about this movie simply stem from people not having enough of a background in history, or a grasp of what was going on during the second world war.There was the guy who complained that this was not a movie about the moon landing, well as someone else pointed out the Eagle has long been a symbol of Germany, and of many other things for that matter.In regards to the Germans wearing the own uniforms under the their captured Polish gear, that was made clear in the book, and touched on in the movie. Kurt Steiner and his men were sentenced to serve in a prison unit, suicide missions, for actions they took to save a Jewish girl on the eastern front. Therefore they were not spies, but taking this mission was the only option they had to avoid dying one at a time riding piloted torpedoes into allied ships. Since these men were not spies, they did not want to be treated as such if captured in England, and thus insisted on wearing their German Paratrooper uniforms under their polish gear. Perhaps what some people do not understand about the second world war was that not all German troops were Nazis, or SS. The paratroopers were for the most part an arm of the regular German forces, Air Force (Luftwaffe) and were know for being fiercely brave and proud, and playing by the code of war. These men fought even when they knew defeat was certain, and resisted right to the end of the war, regardless of their opinions on Hitler or the Nazis. Not unlike other brave troops in todays world who go to war, in spite of their opinions of their own governments. (Think Americans in Iraq, or Canadians in Afganistan).Good movie, maybe more for the history buff than a person into a good old shoot em up flick. PS Book was a 11/10...worth the read, Liam Devlin is one of the better fictional characters of our time. See Also Sean Dillon... "},{"Title":"....too bad a script didn't land as well!","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Saw this strange WWII piece again recently, surely a case of Good, Bad and Ugly. The good the sympathetic portrayals of German officers by both Michael Caine and Robert Duvall, and the outstanding work of Donald Pleasance as Heinrich Himmler. I just finished reading Peter Profield's Himmler biography, and Pleasance seems to really have captured the essence of Himmler in his small role. The bad the comic relief element as provided by Larry Hagman. He resembles Wiley Coyote more than a US Army officer (you almost can hear The Merry-Go-Round Broke Down every time he appears!) The ugly I love Lalo Schifrin, but what was going on with his '70s exploitation film score? I almost expected to see Bruce Lee appear and start kicking Fallschirmjaeger butt through glass mirrors. A mixed bag, to say the least.  "},{"Title":"Went the Day Well? part 2?","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I disagree with the last review about the movie being original, as it seems more of a whimsical version of 'Went the Day Well?.The cast are as stiff as a Huns helmet. Caine hardly moves his neck, is he acting or went to bed in an odd position? When the German stars playing with his organ in the church it becomes all too obvious this was supposed to be a send-up.I tried the whistling trick with two rottweilers & ended up with my left arm amputated below the elbow & months of rehabilitation, I tried it again with two Yorkshire terriers & ended up with a missing testical.Anyway when seeing this when it first came out it already seemed dated & cheesy.I think most of the 'Carry On cast were still alive at the time & would have been a great help/support in bringing a giggle to this long slow movie.An opportunity missed alas. Oooh vicar "},{"Title":"The Eagle hasn't landed as well as it should...","Date":"18 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Eagle Has Landed is watchable, but considering the cast it was disappointing at the same time. It does look good, if perhaps lacking grit, with great cinematography, several sequences are very well shots and the production values are promising. Most of the action is hefty and exciting, John Sturges' direction is credible and the acting is good enough with Michael Caine and Donald Pleasance faring best. However, some of the characters don't convince, especially the Germans as a lurking party, and the screenplay feels rather ramshackle in places. My two main problems with The Eagle Has Landed are the pace and some of the story. The pace does feel rambling sometimes, making the film longer than it is, and the story while interesting at hindsight is far fetched and implausible. Also the second half is better than the first, the first hour or so takes far too long to set up, but the second hour has more suspense and tension. Overall, uneven and didn't quite work as well it should have done, but it is watchable with some entertainment parts. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Unconventional WWII flick from 1977","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Michael Caine is outstanding as Colonel Steiner, an untamed German paratroop commander, who's covert mission is to go to Great Britain and kidnap Winston Churchill whilst on a retreat. The Germans are helped by Irishman Liam Devlin, played by Donald Sutherland, who essentially paves the way for their operation at a coastal hamlet (shot in Cornwall and Berkshire, England). Jenny Agutter plays Devlin's near-jailbait romantic interest in the quaint village, while Larry Hagman and Treat Williams play American officers, the former foolishly gung-ho. Robert Duvall and Donald Sutherland are also on hand as German officers.As you can see from the plot, this is an unconventional WWII picture. It doesn't feature the typical major battles or stereotypical characters and situations of most war flicks. Both Caine and Sutherland shine in their roles, especially Caine as the fearless Steiner. Many memorable moments abound.The film runs 131 minutes but feels shorter.GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"It has been an honour serving with you.","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I re watched this recently and its still good. The extended version DVD with the 11 minutes put back in is really much, much, better too. The idiots who cut this film down for TV should be sacked to prevent them committing similar crimes to other movies.Caine's acting is still incredibly subtle in places and each time you watch it you spot something new. Also brilliant are Jean Marsh, Treat Williams, Donald Sutherland and Robert Duval. Duval's character has cancer and winces as he walks in several scenes. Clearly he is clearly method acting the pain in his pauses.To those who have lambasted Larry Hagman's acting as Colonel Pitts - well I can say I have met officers this stupid in the army, and after seeing David Schwimmer's character, who was based on real life, in 'Band of Brothers' it appears idiots of this calibre really did get to battalion rank in the US Army in WW2. Larry is brilliant in this film and I enjoy his moments every time I watch it. "},{"Title":"exciting nazi plot film","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" *may contain spoilers* A good story with strong cast which set in wartime and a tense situation. The baddies are the Nazis with help of jolly collaborator from Ireland played by donald sutherland in one of his memorable roles from 1970s. The film is fast moving, the plot rolls along. England is infiltrated by nazi supporters and spies and it's up to British with help of Americans based in england to help defeat fantastic plot to assassinate winston churchill. Some tense moments and ruthlessness of nazi spies/sympathisers highlighted as well as detail and plotting of people behind the plot who are portrayed as determined by stars michael caine, robert duvall and donald sutherland. The question is can plot be carried through or can it be stopped in time and British war effort kept on track. It's good title for a film saying Nazis have arrived in Britain "}{"Title":"Entertaining war drama with plenty of explosive moments...","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" John Sturges directed some fine movies in his time and THE EAGLE HAS LANDED is certainly one of them. It's a shame it isn't a better known war film, its fictional plot about an attempt to kidnap Winston Churchill coming from a best-seller by Jack Higgins.The plot is heavy going at times, particularly the whole first hour leading up to the planned landing, and some of the dialog--heavily accented Germans--is not easy to understand without subtitles. This is a serious drawback for setting up this complex mission and establishing everything for the viewer, but the second half of the film has enough visual excitement, action and tension to make up for the talky first half.MICHAEL CAINE is excellent as a German paratrooper commando posing as a Polish military man with his group of invaders when they land to carry out their mission. ROBERT DUVALL is effective as German Col. Radl and there are good performances from DONALD PLEASANCE as Himmler, DONALD SUTHERLAND as an IRA loyalist who has a brief affair with JENNY AGUTTER, JOHN STANDING (excellent as a brave pastor), LARRY HAGMAN, as a cartoonish sort of Mad Max colonel, and TREAT WILLIAMS as a young Captain.It builds its tension steadily once the men have landed to complete their mission and there are many unexpected moments where anything can happen and usually does. It's all highly unpredictable and that's part of the fun in following the absorbing plot with its slight twist at the end.Visually, it's a pleasure to watch, photographed as it is in Finland and Great Britain in gorgeous color and featuring a score by Lalo Schafrin that adds to the excitement and tension.Summing up Should be more widely known among all the war films produced during the '70s. "},{"Title":"Fun movie to watch if you want to see big name actors in their youth","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What appealed to me about the movie's DVD jacket was the list of stars Caine, Sutherland and Duvall, with an excellent support cast. Unfortunately, the movie was simply too fictional. For that reason, it lost an element of drama that would otherwise be in a WWII film.This film is interesting to watch in that it endeavors to introduce an element of humanity into the German soldier -- a stereotypical role until the early 70's. A Bridge Too Far would expand that concept by introducing German officers who acted with intelligence and humor.What was fun about the film was seeing three actors who I enjoy watching very much. "},{"Title":"Cracking Adaptation of Jack Higgin's Pageturner!","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" the eagle has landed is a superb adaptation of jack Higgins bestselling novel about a daring plot to kidnap Winston Churchill Michael Caine headlines this all star cast as Kurt steiner leader of the crack commandos assigned to undertake the perilous task. Donald Pleasance is cast as Himmler who eerily emulates the real life figure. Donald Sutherland is faultless in his role as IRA sympathizer Liam Devlin allegedly the role was meant for Richard Harris, who famously bowled out of the production after attending an IRA convention in America! Jenny Augetter plays Sutherlands love interest, it's a great film to watch the suspense never lets up it's advisable to buy the 2 disc DVD as watching it on TV it suffers greatly from various edits and pan and scanning. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I own the film The Eagle has Landed on video and it gives you what you what; entertainment. Now many might criticise it for being predictable and flimsy in plot but I think people tend to get too fussy about what films contain and what they want from them. The point is if you like classic 70's war films then this is for you. It has a good enough plot and it does what it was no doubt aiming to do, provide some easily palatable entertainment for those who like those kind of war films. It isn't Shindler's List but it doesn't pretend to be and the twist at the end while maybe not earth shatteringly revelatory did catch me offgaurd so it delivers on that front. So if you like 70's war films and you're not some critic whose going to want something out of it that it was never aiming to give you in the first place then watch it. Thankyou and goodnight. "},{"Title":"Classic! *Historical Spoiler* (Churchill)","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched it recently and I immediately wanted to watch it again.The plot Michael Caine leads a band of German paratrooper in to Britain disguised as the free polish army. Their mission is to assassinate Winston Churchill as he visits a local village.The eagle has landed in supported with a strong cast including Michael Caine, Donald Sutherland, Robert Duvall and Donald Pleasance. This is by far one of the great classics or WW2. There are two distinctive versions of the film. One is the extended 145-minute version that includes 7 new scenes incorporated into the film. The only down fall is that it has a mono soundtrack. There other version is the theatrical version that runs 130 minutes. The sound is better on this because it has a DD 5.1 remix. There were no added sounds to this; just what was on the film.Now I know what you're saying, I know Winston Churchill was never killed, especially in WW2 But remember this is a story. The film claims that at least 50% is fact. But remember 50% could mean that there was a Germany and Britain a Winston Churchill and American troops in Britain during WW2? But never the less it was an entertaining film.I would give it 5 out of 5  "},{"Title":"The Eagle Has Landed Sturges last film","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  John Sturges last film. He always had an excellent cast in his films and this is no exception. Once more he directed a film with some potential but without chance to really reach the top. Might there be some miscasting here, as he almost always had in his films?I always enjoy Donald Pleasence and Michael Caine was an actor that became big during this time. Caine is maybe more famous today than he was in the 1970´s, even if he was a star than (what does that word mean anyway?).No dialog in German as I could hear. Would the film be better if Pleasence and Duvall spoke German?Spoilers aheadIsn't it hard to make a film where the main characters must die just because of what happened in reality?Rating 6+ of 10. "},{"Title":"Possible Spoiler  Dialog Edit","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In early 1979 the NBC TV network aired  'Eagle' in the United States.  The airing included dialog from the film which was never a part of its theatrical release.  It featured Steiner and Von Neustadt at the airport awaiting their flight for the drop into England.  It goes something like thisSteiner  'It IS out there, Hans.  150 miles due west.  (referring to England)(missing response from vNeustadt)Steiner The Gruppenfuhrer from Poland will be a part of Germany as a whole as she will be one day.'vNeustadt 'SO, BY GOD, WILL WE!'Anyone have info on this or any other dropped dialog?  I'd be curious to know how dialog from the film was dropped but instead then inserted into its TV showing! "},{"Title":"one of my all-time favorites","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I first decided to see this movie, because I was enamored with Donald Sutherland, (still am).  Along with Michael Caine, who has gorgeous lashes, and Robert Duvall. They're some of my favorite actors.  I thought the scenery and the suspense was great.  I was never bored a minute, and the climax shocked me, even though I knew it didn't really happen.  The movie has great tension, much humor, and was not one-sided in terms of Allies vs. Germans.  The scene at the waterwheel had me holding my breath. After I saw the movie, I had to read several of Jack Higgins' books, which I greatly enjoyed.  I've seen the movie several times since then, on video.  I think I'll check it out from the library again soon, to refresh my memory.  Love Donald Sutherland! "},{"Title":"Fanciful World War II Adventure.","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Based on Jack Higgen's novel, film tells the story of a secret German plan to kidnap Winston Churchill as a bargaining chip against Great Britain! Michael Caine leads the mission, where they are disguised as Polish soldiers on maneuvers, and helped by an IRA supporter(played by Donald Sutherland) who will do anything in his war against the British. Robert Duvall, Donald Pleasance, Jenny Agutter, and Jean Marsh round out the fine cast.Despite the fanciful premise, this is an old-fashioned and very entertaining adventure, well directed by John Sturges, and features a good script as well, leading to the surprise climax. "},{"Title":"Plot of the film","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I thought this was quite a good film of the genre and a reasonable adaptation of the book by Jack Higgins which I have read more than once. I have recently watched a wartime film where the plot is as follows. A group of German paratroopers land in an English village in wartime. By accident their true identity is uncovered and they take a number of the villagers as hostages in the church. They are assisted in their task by a local villager who is, in fact, a fifth columnist. One of the villagers manages to escape and warn the allied forces. They attack the village and all the Germans lose their lives. I seem to have forgotten to give the name of the film. It was Went The Day Well which was made in 1942 ans was an adaptation of a short story by Graham Green and I can thoroughly recommend Does it ring a bell? "}{"Title":" The Law of Proability rears it's head and the Impossible,  suddenly seems feasible ","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Every now and then one reads a literal but fictional work which when completed, causes the reader to wonder if such a thing ever occurred. For this to happen, the reader has to know something about history. During World War Two, it was once speculated that were the events of August 20th 1944, to have gone off flawlessly, the war would have ended sooner. That being said, here is a superb novel which allows the reader to also wonder, 'What if.' The story, was transferred to the Big Screen is entitled  The Eagle has Landed.  It concerns an elite group of German soldiers, led by Colonel Kurt Steiner (Michael Caine) already condemned to death, are told they can be spared if they volunteer for a special, but dangerous and nearly impossible suicide mission to England. The objective; 'To kidnap the Prime Minister of England, Winston Churchhill and bring him to Berlin.' This mission is the brainchild of Colonel Max Radl (Robert Duvall) who further involves an Irish mercenary, one Liam Devlin. (Donald Sutherland, who is superb in this role) to help. Donald Pleasence is frightening as Heinrich Himmler. Anthony Quayle, Larry Hagman and Treat Williams add to this serious film which is filled with surprising action and becomes a tour-de-force for Michael Caine. Right up to the ending, one is reminded that Steiner and his men are the very best at what they do. Those who know him, realize he has never failed to accomplish his objective. That is the most dramatic aspect to this film. Recommended to all. **** "},{"Title":"More Bloody Foreigners","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Michael Cain, who is from England, plays a German paratrooper. Donald Sutherland, a Canadian, plays an Irishman, and Larry Hagman who is from Dallas, plays an American. I'm surprised they didn't call up John Wayne to do a cameo as Hitler. Robert Duvall had played a German soldier a couple of times on Combat, so he had the whole accent thing down. I'm guessing he got excited when he heard he would get to wear an eye patch. Every serious actor has to play at least one part in their career where they wear an eye patch. I like the idea of the story. The Nazis try and kidnap Churchill hoping to figure out how a guy who is overweight, smokes and drinks too much, can live to be ninety. Of course they fail, and the fun is seeing how they screw up. Donald Pleasence deserves special mention for his wheezing laugh in his portrayal of Himmler. "},{"Title":"Rubbish!","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not impressed by Jenny Agutter - she seems to be there simply for the sake of providing a pretty female. BUT the Donald Sutherland character is simply dire. I assume that when a play or drama is cast the actors will be able to fit their parts. Sutherland however, is a total embarrassment in his part. His attempt at an Irish accent is quite simply a joke - pathetic and totally unrealistic. I love to hear regional accents if the actor is capable of doing the required accent. Sutherland is not - his attempt at an Irish accent is both puerile and embarrassing. There must be hundreds of as yet unknown Irish actors who could have played the part convincingly but we have to put up with an American star who insults our intelligence with his pathetic attempt at an Irish accent. I ask, and not for the first time Where a part requires an actor to speak in a regional accent, can we please have an actor who is capable of delivering that accent accurately, even if the actor is hitherto unknown, rather than some big name actor who is happy to earn a large pay packet for insulting viewers with a puerile attempt at the accent. Mr Sutherland is not only dire, he insults our intelligence! "},{"Title":"Decent war thriller","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Nazies plot to kidnap Winston Churchill by landing a small task force in rural England.This is a moderately well-made and well-paced war action thriller, with a sturdy if uncomplicated plot, a very good cast, well-staged action, and various plot threads which are mostly - but not wholly - resolved as you would wish them to be.It is interesting in that it is one of the earliest tales from England/USA to put forward a point of view which shows Germans who are not part of high command as conscientiously patriotic soldiers.And thank heavens we had the Yanks over in England to sort it out for us, eh? "},{"Title":"A decent war film with a twist","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is unusual in that it is set during the Second World War but follows the actions of a German unit; Colonel Steiner and his men have been ordered to parachute into Norfolk and kidnap Winston Churchill during a visit to the county. To enable them to pass unnoticed by the locals the unit dress in the uniforms of Polish paratroopers. They aren't the only people working for their cause in the area; there is also an Irish spy, Liam Devlin, who arrived shortly before them and Joanna Grey, a South African woman who has lived in the area for some time. Everything is going according to plan until one of the village children falls into the mill pond; one of the Germans dives in and rescues her; he is drowned though and as he is caught up on the mill wheel the German uniform he was wearing under the Polish one is exposed. Now they must take the villagers hostage in the church until Churchill arrives. One of the villagers manages to escape and alerts the Americans stationed nearby... it looks as if it is all over for the Germans but Steiner manages to escape and makes a daring attempt to get to Churchill.It made a refreshing change to see a war film from the side of German soldiers; we are clearly meant to think of them as 'Good Germans' we even see Steiner attempt to save the life of a Jewish woman and Admiral Canaris, the man ordered by Hitler to prepare the plan went to the trouble of listing just about every major Nazi and suggesting they were mad! The acting was solid; I particularly liked Michael Caine's portrayal of Steiner and while some might have disliked Larry Hagman's portrayal of US Colonel Pitts I thought it was an entertaining portrayal of a man desperate to see action before his war was over. The only real criticism of the acting is of Donald Sutherland's Irish accent which seemed doubly bad when the character claimed to come from Belfast! The action was fairly solid and looked believable to my non-expert eye. The romantic subplot between Devlin and local girl Molly, played by Jenny Agutter, wasn't really necessary although it did serve to show he had a caring side.If you want to watch a slightly different war film I'd certainly recommend this; and if you enjoy this I'd recommend checking out the similarly themed 'Went the Day Well'; another film about Germans taking over an English village but this time made while the war was still very much on! "},{"Title":"A Sensible Military Exercise","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" John Sturges' last film The Eagle Has Landed came out about the same time as Sam Peckinpah's Cross of Iron and Andrew V. McLaglen's Breakthrough, and all three concerned so-called 'good' German soldiers, not the heartless Nazis. Of course, 'good' German soldiers had been around as early as Marlon Brando in The Young Lions, but that was at the tail end of the 1950s. These World War II movies belonged to the post-Vietnam era and most of them were international productions. The Eagle Has Landed is an engrossing espionage actioneer that takes place in 1943 when Adolph Hitler decides to dispatch an elite group of German commandos to England to capture his greatest enemy Winston Churchill after a previous band of intrepid Germans rescued Benito Mussolini from his captors. The thing that sets The Eagle Has Landed apart from most World War II thrillers is that the Germans ordered on the raid are good guy Germans. Early in the action, Oberst Steiner (Michael Caine) and his men interfere when the Gestapo are rounding up Jews for extermination in the concentration camp. Specifically, Steiner and his men try to help a young Jewish woman escape. They manage to put her on a train during a stand-off between Steiner's men and the Nazis. However, a Nazi sharp-shooter kills the girl, and the Gestapo pour into the railway station and surround our heroes. Steiner and his men are reprimanded and sent to France to ride torpedoes into Allied shipping.Meanwhile, Colonel Max Radl (Robert Duvall of The Godfather)is a wounded German officer who is ordered to present a feasibility study about how to either capture or kill Churchill. He discovers that Steiner speaks English fluently and that a double agent, Miss Joanna Grey (Jean Marsh),knows when Churchill will be vulnerable for kidnapping. Eventually, Steiner takes command of the remaining sixteen men in his command, and they bail out over the English coast and rendezvous with a double-agent working in the village where Churchill plans to spend a quiet weekend. As Liam Devlin, Donald Sutherland of The Dirty Dozen plays a sarcastic IRA gunman who poses as a marsh warden to help Steiner. Devlin finds himself in trouble with one of the town locals when he takes up with Molly Prior (Jenny Agutter of Logan's Run)who reciprocates his interest.John Sturges, who directed The Great Escape and Never So Few, maintains a brisk pace throughout this complicated 134 minute war movie and the momentum never flags. Live and Let Die scenarist Tom Mankiewicz has done a splendid job of adapting Jack Higgins' international best-seller with one exception. The American colonel in the novel is not the imbecile that Colonel Pitts is in the movie. Basically, it looks like Mankiewicz resurrected James Bond sheriff J.W. Pepper and put him in an army uniform. Nevertheless, Mankiewicz has written some fine dialogue. Once they reach England the commandos occupy the village and seal it off. What they don't count on is one of the villagers escapinf to warn a nearby base where a complete cretin of an American military officer Colonel Pitts(Larry Hagman) is in command. Pitts organizes an attack, and the Germans riddle the hell out of them. British actor Donald Pleasence is a dead ringer for Himmler. Sturges does a marvelous job of staging the multi-pronged attack by Pitts' men on the village. Composer Lalo Schifrin of Joe Kidd underlines every suspenseful minute of this film with his atmospheric orchestral score. The marching score when the Germans bail out and land in the surf is memorable. The surprise ending is a knock-out. "},{"Title":"PhD Adaptation","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having read the book by Jack Higgins, I must admit that the film did the book justice in the sense that at least it moved along. The book dragged sadly, and had no point of engagement, even in its concept. The film brought together Michael Caine and Robert Duvall after his success in 'The Godfather Part 2'. "},{"Title":"The movie had a very good script!","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The eagle has landed knows a very good script, and also very great actors like Michael Caine, Donald Sutherland and Robert Duvall. There's also a role in the movie for Dallas-star Larry Hagman. Especially the trick in the end with Winston Churchill was a strong point in the movie. All in all I very much liked the movie. "},{"Title":"I thoroughly enjoyed it (sorry if spelling is wrong)","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I got this film with the WAR MOVIE magazine...which i've been collecting. I watched it and thought it was very good. It was a bit slow to begin with but when the Germans are revealed...it gets very exciting very quickly. I like HOW they are revealed...by a heroic act that ends a man's life to save another...very interesting.Michael Caine was outstanding, Robert Duvall was as always brilliant and Donald Sutherland I thought was funny (odd?)...I also enjoyed a young Treat Williams as the lead American hero.However as it isn't as realistic as todays war films...this kind of film still thinks that if a man is shot once then he dies immediately....but still if u ignore the silly things like that, and the typical gung-ho-ness of it all...it's still very entertainingall in all...very good fun 8/10 "},{"Title":"This eagle didn't exactly lay a golden egg.","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Rated PG Runtime 131mins Release Date 1976Nearing the end of the Second World War an elite group of German soldiers are called upon to give leverage back to Germany by pulling off the most daring and elaborate mission the world would ever know, to infiltrate England and kidnap it's most illustrious leader, Winston Churchill.The Eagle has Landed stars Michael Caine as Colonel Steiner, a disgraced German soldier, who, along with a handful of faithful men, is called upon by a genius and plotting Col. Radl (a brilliant Robert Duvall), to carry out a plan which would give Germany bargaining power in a peace treaty that would allow them time to regroup and maybe even change back the tide of the war. The plan, to kidnap Winston Churchill while he takes vacation in a small British town and then return him back to German soil. Radl also enlists the help of a young and flamboyant former Irish Republican Army member, Liam Devlin (a perfectly cast Donald Sutherland), to go undercover on the inside and to provide detailed information about the town including the perfect spot to pull off the plan.In my opinion, the Eagle has Landed should have remained as the Jack Higgins novel. It has a first rate cast, especially all three of the leads who happen to pull out some of the best performances of their careers for this film, most noticeably Duvall. I mention him purely because while most of the German characters render British accents Duvall stays true to character and throws out a surprisingly realistic German accent.Director John Sturges did by no means direct a terrible movie. This is a solid wartime thriller, but it just lacks a little too much substance such as the plotting of the caper between Caine's men, and carries itself out like a very long book. There were scenes with Sutherland that just stretched on for too long. The scenery was terrific and I have to admit writer Tom Mankiewicz came up with some sharp dialogue, especially the dialogue written for Caine's character. Producers David Niven Jr. and Jack Wiener did put a lot of money into this film, however, I think a little too much. Running at one-hundred and thirty-one minutes this movie would have sat better with me had it been trimmed down to ninety so it would have seemed less like a soap opera and more like a thriller. I do like to see the element of love in films, but this one was supposed to be a thriller, and with all the Sutherland love scenes added it seemed more like a love story with thrill aspects.This movie is entertaining and worth a rent, especially if you want to see three fantastic actors in one movie. Yet I believe it had the potential to be something a little more. I'm not really sure what movie to compare the Eagle has Landed to; it did have an original story line, which makes it very difficult. But I can say that if you like great acting, or are even a fan of war films themselves, then by all means make this a Sunday afternoon rental but after doing so once, clip this birds wings and make sure The Eagle Has Landed in your house only once and never again.Overall Rating 6 out of 10 "}{"Title":"To the Moon Nazi.","Date":"24 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Eagle Has Landed 5/10 The Eagle Has Landed is one of those revisionist war films that were so popular after the Vietnam War.In this film the Nazis are the protagonists (though not necessarily the good guys). While the British are painted as morally equivalent (mention is made of the British concentration camps during the Second Boer war) and the United States forces are portrayed as untested buffoons (Two words; Larry Hagman; see below).The Eagle has Landed is about a Nazi plot to kidnap Winston Churchill and bring him back to Germany. An eye patched Robert Duvall plays the plan’s author and Donald Pleasence plays his ruthless boss Heinrich Himmler (great casting there). They recruit German airborne leader Michael Caine (Who was educated in England though how a German at Oxford picks up a Cockney accent is never explained.) Caine’s character is where the movie starts to float of the rails. Caine and his men are in a German prison camp because they tried to rescue a Jewish girl. This of course sets Caine up as the “good” Nazi. This honestly is as bad a copout as when Mel Gibson’s character in The Patriot was proffered as being the only plantation owner in the American south to use free blacks exclusively.If the movie wants us to root for the Nazi’s at least be honest about it. This unfortunate choice also gives a Dirty Dozen vibe to the film that it neither deserves nor can live up to.After Caine’s men land in Middle Earth (sorry a small English village) disguised as polish paratroopers (Insert obvious joke here) they quickly set up camp with the help of a local woman with a chip on her shoulder (Jean Marsh) and an IRA man played broadly by Donald Sutherland. The film quickly develops more subplots then its two and a half hour running time can comfortable handle.The silliest of these involves the romance between Sutherland’s romantic IRA gadfly and a local village girl played by a disappointing clothed Jenny Agutter. They have one slight meet cute date at the beach and based on a chaste peck and some poetry (not to mention the promises of an Irishman); Agutter’s character shoots her other suitor with a shotgun, covers for the Nazis (including working their radio) and needless to say runs away with her charming murdering rogue.Pile on the Germans demanding the right to wear their Nazi uniforms under their disguises (Yeah that’s a foolproof idea. No possible downside there); Sutherland’s spy character not noting the large American ranger base just up the road; and the fact that the village itself is not suspicious of an Irishman who seemed to just drop out of the sky. (Literally) After this entire dimwitted English shire consists of about 12 people, a waterwheel and a Catholic church. (Not Anglican???) Why Churchill would ever visit such a hamlet in the first place is never explained.And then there are the American Rangers. I’ve heard Larry Hagman was a good actor on occasion (I’m not about to sit through Fail Safe anytime soon to find out) but in this film he is unfunny broad comic relief. While up to this point all the actors have done a great job with sometimes poorly written roles (I’m giving Agutter a pass on this one) and have really helped to keep the movie together; Hagman’s comic relief guy simply kills any serious mood the movie had created up to this point. It’s overacting scene-chewing buffoonery that has to be seen to be believed.The other major American role is played by Treat Williams. Yeah enough said.Last nail in an otherwise attractive coffin are the action scenes themselves. Maybe I play to much Call of Duty but have any of these guys ever heard of covering fire or squad tactics? Another reviewer compared it to the A-team and I concur. The action scenes seem simply sloppy and the movie piddles out into a trick ending.Had they played it straight throughout and allowed the characters to act like real people this could have been a great movie. They certainly had the budget and the cast to do a great film. They simply didn’t have the confidence in the material to let the chips fall where they may. "},{"Title":"A lot of things don't appear as they seem","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It was a wildly awful plan kidnap Churchill from his seaside cottage. Don't kill him, just borrow him for a while to negotiate a better truce. How sensitive. Hey, they did got Il Duce in the same way. As the fates would have it, Duvall was given the job of making it happen and luck was on his side. The plan needed a gutsy, nothing to lose type of officer. Luck again Michael Cain. A highly decorated German SS officer is about to face the death sentence (for saving a Juden. Why? Who cares, logic will only get in the way of the plot). Things are going just great when, BAD LUCK. A small group of US Rangers are camped out in town. How did the great Nazi's miss this point. For goodness sakes, they had Donald Sutherland parading around town as a Marsh Warden, they had a mole in town scoping everything out at Churchill's abode! How did they get every detail about the town correct and overlook a whole bunch of US Army Rangers?! Don't let another lapse in plausibility spoil the plot. OK. so the Germans land in town disguised as Polish (I thought they lost the war?) paratroopers (not the ones who bought parachutes that open on impact). The German/Poles are running around town practicing maneuvers (wink, wink, nudge, nudge. Just to add some spice, Donald Sutherland, using a great can of red hair dye that came with a thick brogue, gets a little innocent 19 year old girl to fall in love with him. How nice. How did he do it? Must have been the way he espoused poetry. Plausibility has to be suspended again for us to believe that smack in the middle of a war, the lass is ready to give up, nay, SHOOT, her long time beloved. The best action scene is when Sutherland opens up a can of pugilistic poetry on the nose of the town's only sensible guy. I love it when Sutherland says Don't worry father, we were just discussing the trinity Foot work (bam, a shot to the guy's nose, Timing (whack, anothe shot to the nose), and jabbing (pow, sock'em, down goes the good guy). It reminded me of Ingrid Bergman teaching the street urchin to fight in The Bells of St. Mary. The novel by Higgins was good because I believed that the Germans were actually German. The movie fails to convince me that Michael Cain,Anthony Quayle, Donald Pleasance, and every other English speaking actor is a German. Accents come and so fast that the actors lose the plausibility factor. And Larry Hagman's acting is over the top. Did the director intentionally ask him to be a buffoon. I knew after he spouted his first lines that two things were going to happen to him 1) he was going to be dead very soon. 2) He was going to jeopordize the mission (the Germans could pull it off) 3)Michael Cain was going to show his keen bravado by making Hagman's character die young. It was a set up. Larry Hagman is a great dramatic actor. If you don't think so, then I suggest you watch him in go line for line with Henry Fonda in Fail Safe. The action scenes are reminiscent of a gunfight scene on The A team. GI Joe's jump, roll, and come up firing. Perfect shots, right through the narrow window casing that happens to have a crack German paratrooper positioned perfectly in the center of the frame. What luck again!. The crack German paratroopers forgot everything they learned about having a low profile. Even I know that you should not stand in the middle of a window. But then, how would we get to see them do the famous front head dive with a half-gainer. I wanted to feel something for Michael Cain's character A man with conviction. A man of valor who happened to be wearing the wrong uniform. But I just couldn't believe it. He is the character that knows better than everyone else. If he knows so much why does he end up so dead?This was the last film for director John Sturges. He really gave depth to the characters he directed in The Great Escape and The Magnificent Seven. But he missed the depth chapter for characters in this movie. He chose all English actors (a casualty of ITC, the movie's distributor?) to act like Germans. Whassup with that? In the Great Escape he had Germans play Germans, Americans play Americans, and Donald Pleasance play an Englishman. What a concept. Well, the Germans couldn't pull off taking WC. Everyone gets their just rewards. Don't bother watching it. Even Winston Churchill was a fake. If you want to see a good movie with many similarities then watch Went the Day Well. "},{"Title":"probably the most balanced WWII action movie so far","Date":"10 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" We had to wait until 1976 before we got a movie that was the equivalent, politically, of All Quiet on the Western Front regarding WWII.Here, as in that earlier film, the losers are the heroes, despite having a boss like Hitler. Accuracy is beside the point. Of course it never happened nor was it likely to occur. Having the Germans portrayed like something else than simply the Hun was the point and, in a way, this turns out to be an anti-war film, showing us how good men are wasted for nothing.We feel for these German soldiers and they are not just like the criminals portrayed in, for instance, Carpenter's Assault on Precinct 13, an anonymous clumsy but nevertheless threatening bunch. Compare this film with Where Eagles Dare and you get my point. If the Germans were as stupid as in that film they would not have lasted for 6 years and more likely for only 6 minutes.Again, what you are left with after seeing this film, is that war, all wars, are wrong and that those who die in them are probably the best of us. "},{"Title":"Skip the first hour","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie gets off to one slow start. On top of polluting an otherwise good film with redundant characters from the Nazi high command having endless conversations, it is difficult to understand their dialogue, as it is delivered in a kind of thick German accent -- and our edition has NO SUBTITLES. My friends and I literally paused the movie after about forty-five minutes and discussed just giving up and watching something else. We decided that we would wait until we got to Michael Caine and Donald Sutherland. I'm glad that we did.Let me go ahead and say that a distracting issue with this movie is that the Germans all speak English. Most unfortunate, they do so with different English accents. Donald Sutherland's character is an Irish German, and he has an Irish accent! What were they thinking?But as most other reviewers have noted, the second half is exceptional. The young American sergeant is honestly one of the most accurate portrayals of an American soldier that I have ever seen on screen. The American stereotype general is, on the other hand ... a stereotype. He's a bit unrealistic and overused.Michael Caine is, as always, splendid. It is great to watch a younger Mr. Caine in film. To witness his poise and delivery in this film, back when he was in his physical prime, is a memorable experience.Honestly, skip up until you get to the scene with Donald Sutherland the rest is completely useless prattle. Except for the scene on the railroad (with Michael Caine) -- that one is pretty good too. "},{"Title":"If I flunk my Kindergarten tests, can I go to grad school?","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After Were Eagles Dare, I would place this miles down since there are a few slow paced sequences. But it still remains one of my favourites due to multiple reasons. One of them being, I am still searching for answers to the one riddle this movie threw at me. ;) And the riddle - Kurt Steiner returning from the Eastern front sees Jews being ill treated. Kurt takes remedial action to show some genuine concern for the Jews. But he and his men end up being detained. Actually they are sent on suicidal missions on a German gunboat to inflict maximum damage to British convoys.This is as ridiculous as it gets in the plot. Because if you are a soldier you are expected to fight. How can you be expected to perform the tasks of the navy? Hmmm... wonder if anyone has been punished this way. The adventurous way. If I fail my Kindergarten tests, will I be put to grad school? Guess the Nazis must have been really short pressed for soldiers... ?+?&#153; "},{"Title":"Cast of Great Actors","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The German's had a plan in 1940 to fly in sixteen paratroopers into England in a remote little town and Liam Devlin, (Donald Sutherland) was sent in ahead to pretend he was the marsh inspector and he made sure things fit into place. Liam also set himself up with a very young pretty English gal who he falls in love with. Col. Kurt Steiner, (Michael Caine) plays the role as commander of the German army which is planning to capture a very well known English Prime Minister. This film shows very clear details on the German side and the British and many high German officials are portrayed by many great veteran actors. The photography is outstanding and old war planes give the film a great deal of realism. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Most complex and well played war movie ever","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is my favorite war movie of all times. I've seen it about 10 times, and it still pulls off to amaze me. The clover of Caine, Duvall and Sutherland is sublime. And the plot is as well intelligent as it is very very well-written. As it is a bit old, some scenes seems long, but again the action is so nice that you quickly forgets about the slow tempo.The characters are brilliant and especially Sutherland keeps amazing me, i practically hated this guy before this movie.Not much to say, watch this movie and enjoy three gentlemen play Nazis.But again- a shame they don't get Churchill "},{"Title":"Clever German Con","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The mild attraction of this is that this time it is the Germans who are clever, Americans who are mostly dunces and incompetent and the Brits clueless. Well, that last is relatively common in war movies, but not the first two. So there's a bit of a twist on the ordinary adventure going in.But this is clever in a different way. Basically, it is a con movie imposed on the war genre. In a con movie, you follow the con crew as they perform their elaborate plan. Usually this is prefaced by a long section where the team is assembled, usually around someone extraordinary.Then the plan executes smoothly until one unplanned happenstance. What follows is our engagement in how the crew responds. Always, Always, there is a con-related revelation at the end. The revelation in this case was truly a surprise, a thrill at having been fooled.Its interesting how some movies are constructed. This one has all the war movie intrigue and noise. It has some jaunty characters and oddly deviant women. But all that is just to fill up the space until the end where the con mechanisms snap shut.Along the way are three talented actors, but only one (Sutherland) actually shining.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"The best director is...time","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Unlike Port Wine. this unplotted, chaotic film, does not resist to time. There is , however, a pleasure in the revival of so many great stars of today and trying to uncover the best actors that they seem to be so long ago.  "},{"Title":"The Eagle Has Landed","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" From director John Sturges (Bad Day at Black Rock, Gunfight at the O.K. Corral, The Magnificent Seven, The Great Escape), I recognised the title because of the leading British actor, so I was going to watch, and while watching I recognised the star of Deep Impact wearing the eye patch. Basically, set in World War II, Colonel Oberst Kurt Steiner (Sir Michael Caine) is the German parachute unit commander has been court marshaled for opposing the capture of Jews, he is sent to England on a mission to kidnap the Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill. One man helping in whatever way he can to pull this off is Irish man Liam Devlin (Donald Sutherland) with the identity of The Eagle, but he is distracted by falling in love with local girl Molly Prior (Jenny Agutter). Eye patch wearing Colonel Oberst Radl (Robert Duvall) gets involved as well with the reports of Churchill visiting the country's eastern coast, of course all the Nazis are under the orders of Heinrich Himmler (Donald Pleasence), one of Adolf Hitler's right hand men. There is a point when the Germans are forced to hold people hostage in a town church, including Father Verecker (John Standing), to avoid the American army, led by Colonel Pitts (Dallas's Larry Hagman), and it turns into a small battle. In the end, the particular characters (that didn't exist in history) get what they deserve, and it turns out that Churchill wasn't actually in the country, it was a lookalike. Also starring Lawrence of Arabia's Anthony Quayle as Admiral Canaris, Jean Marsh as Joanna Grey, Sven-Bertil Taube as Captain Von Neustadt, Judy Geeson as Pamela, Treat Williams as Captain Clark, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade's Michael Byrne as Karl and Grease's Jeff Conaway as Frazier. Caine does not bother to try a German accent, Sutherland tries to be Irish but isn't completely convincing, I remember seeing clips of Duvall who was quite good, Pleasance makes a surprisingly charming Himmler, and some of the other cast members are reasonable as well. It is obviously based on books and not any real events in the war, if it was tweaked a bit it could have worked as a convincing story, but there are not enough action scenes and only one real life figure featured, it's not a terrible second world war adventure. Okay! "}{"Title":"The Eagle Has Landed, should be moe like the Lemon has landed.","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I thought this was going to be as good as Sturgess' The Great Escape. If it weren't for the exceptional cast and acting this movie would have been laughable. In fact, even with their great performances this utterly ridiculous story was, well ridiculous and completely unbelievable. The beginning of the movie I had much anticipation that this was going to be one of the best war movies - the cast, director, location, subject all added to this. Until, of course, the movie was about 20 minuets in and the silly escaped began. I gave this movie a 4 out of 10, I warn - don't rent! The Eagle Has Landed, should be more like the Lemon has Landed. It was agonizing to see such good actors submerse themselves in such comic stupidity for 122 minuets "},{"Title":"not worth the time","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"7 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Having just read Michael Caine's autobiography I was anxious to see some of his older movies. I must say that I was sorely disappointed by The Eagle Has Landed SPOILERS ALERT.First, the title. I know it must be based on a book but after 1969 virtually anyone who knows history would associate The Eagle Has Landed with the Apollo 11 moon landing. Why have this as a title for a WWII movie?Second, any movie which focuses on the Germans in WWII for its story is going to have a hard time getting the audience to pull and root for the main characters. Who wants the Nazis to succeed? No one, of course, so why should we interested in watching a story told from the German side?Third, no one seems to keep his accent in this movie. Robert Duvall is a German officer but his German accent is barely noticeable. This is a movie that Duvall made after both of the The Godfather movies; I can't believe he decided to take a secondary role in this movie. Michael Caine doesn't even seem to try and affect a German accent. In fact his character, Col. Steiner, is said to have studied in England so I guess that was a way for his character to avoid trying to sound like a German. Of course Steiner goes to England posing as a Polish paratrooper (no jokes, please) and he doesn't attempt any Polish accent, either. Although a couple of his fellow commandos do it easily and seem to be able to speak Polish fluently. Lastly on accents, Donald Sutherland is trying to do an Irish accent and he at least is able to keep his brogue throughout the movie.Fourth, why is Sutherland trying to help the Germans anyway? He is Devlin, an Irish nationalist who is so hell bent on a unified Ireland that he's thrown in with the Nazis. But by the time he's recruited for the mission (to kidnap Churchill) even Duvall's character has conceded that the war has been lost, and it is only 1943! If the Irish really wanted to assassinate Churchill they'd hardly need German help since Irishmen are all over England.Fifth, the first part of the movie is entirely too long. It is used to try and establish I guess that Caine (Steiner) and his commandos are supposed to be the best soldiers in Germany but that they also aren't sympathetic to the Nazi cause. For that they're jailed. Then in a sort of German version of The Dirty Dozen Steiner and his men are offered a chance at freedom and reinstatement in the German Army if they will try and pull off this fly-by-the-seat-of-your-pants mission to kidnap Churchill. Sixth, Sutherland (Devlin) is dropped in a couple of days before the Germans in order to be a pathfinder I guess. He's supposed to be a marsh warden which I guess is something of a park ranger and everyone in the town seems to accept him in that role even though he's only been there a day or so. No suspicion on their part of an Irishman just showing up.Seventh, Jenny Agutter, the ingenue for the movie, almost immediately falls in love with Devlin and even says she's in love with him, but having barely known him for more than 48 hrs. She's so much in love with him she murders his romantic rival after the rival discovers that Devlin is a Nazi agent of some sort. Even when Devlin confirms that he's working for the Nazis, Agutter still is loyal to him!Eighth, some woman in the town is a Fifth Columnist for the Nazis but why she is working for them, who knows?Ninth, very quickly the Germans' cover as Polish paratroopers is blown and they take the town hostage and are in a stand-off with a bunch of US Army Rangers led by a blow-hard National Guard colonel, Larry Hagman. You'd think you'd be waiting for a big battle sequence but no, the battle consists of an ambush by the Germans and then the Americans massacring the Germans who decide to die with their boots on, providing cover for Steiner and Devlin as they escape and try to continue on with the mission. You'd think that, knowing the war is lost anyway, they would've taken the chance to just surrender and sit the war out in a comfortable Allied POW camp.Tenth, although the Americans seemingly have surrounded the town, Steiner and Devlin escape through an amazing, ancient tunnel that is in the church and which almost takes them out of town! Boy, was that a lucky break! Eleventh, realizing that Steiner hasn't given up trying to kill Churchill, the Americans and British take Churchill to a place that is secure (why not get him the hell into his limo and take him back to London?). Steiner of course easily infiltrates the place and kills Churchill only to be gunned down the the Americans. Steiner dies believing he's killed Churchill but, wait a minute, it is Churchill's double! (an aside, the actor really does look like Churchill). The real Churchill is at the famous Tehran conference being held with FDR and Stalin. Now you would've thought that German military intelligence would've known about the Tehran Conference and realized that the real Churchill would be going to that meeting, not going to a vacation at some British coastal town. In all, The Eagle Has Landed is a big disappointment. John Sturges, the director, had made The Great Escape and The Magnificent Seven and it is very sad that he pretty much ended a distinguished career with this sort of drivel. "}]