[{"Title":"Before Luke Skywalker, there was Doug McClure...","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" His John Dark-Kevin Connor fantasy adventures were a mainstay of Summer holiday movies in the days before Star Wars they weren't masterpieces, they didn't boast state-of-the-art special effects, but they were exactly what an audience of kids wanted from a film back in the mid 70s.At the Earth's Core catches just the right tone for the appropriately named Burroughs' pulp adventure about Victorian inventor Peter Cushing and the inevitable Doug McClure ending up in the underground world of Pelucidar and battling its evil telepathic fighting dinosaurs. This time the puppets from he Land That Time Forgot are gone in favour of men in monster suits, which is a lot more fun if you're willing to suspend your disbelief, and if you're not there's always Caroline Munro's cleavage to look at. Aside from what may well be Peter Cushing's worst performance, an irritating but dottier rehash of his movie Dr Who (You can't mesmerise me, I'm British!), it's easily the best of the John Dark-Kevin Connor-Doug McClure fantasy adventures, surprisingly well directed and boasting an atmospheric use of colour. Never especially good at exterior scenes, Alan Hume's photography gains immensely from the control a studio set gives him (the film was shot entirely on soundstages) to paint a luridly vivid world worthy of a pulp novel cover. Not high art but definitely great Saturday matinée fun. "},{"Title":"Sure, it's cheap but it's FUN!","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"24 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The main criticism of AT THE EARTH'S CORE is that it's cheap, the special effects are bad and so on and so forth. Yes, some of the special effects are painfully bad but what a lot of folks overlook about it is that it's actually quite fun, which is very important in my book.In comparison, just look at the latest STAR WARS films they have the latest, greatest special effects created by the latest technological advances which are capable in creating stunning visual effects as far reaching as the human imagination can imagine and yet, with all the razzle dazzle, those films were as exciting as a funeral. As Yoda would say, Fun they're not! In other words, who cares if the FX aren't the greatest when the spirit of the film is fast-paced, humorous and clearly set on the side of action. I love everything about AT THE EARTH'S CORE the contrast between stodgy Victorian England VS the wild other-worldly, colorful setting of Pellucidar, the cast of characters, the concept of a lost underground world, the telepathic Pterodactyls, the human slaves rebelling, Jubal the ugly one (lol!), the inspired teaming of Peter Cushing (who's great!) and Doug McClure, the excellent music (it's really good), cinematography by the amazing Alan Hume and last but not least, Caroline Munro. She's effing sexy in this movie. One of the sexiest B-movie babes ever captured on screen.Seriously, anyone who doesn't like this movie doesn't know what fun is. Gimme AT THE EARTH'S CORE over any turgid STAR WARS prequels any time! At least it has Caroline Munro, which no CGI fx can ever recreate. "},{"Title":"Rubber-monster-tastic!!","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Shame on you if you give this film a low rating. How can you not like a film that has Doug McClure, Peter Cushing, silly rubber monsters, fights, (and for the guys, that woman that was the baddie's henchwoman in The Spy Who Loved Me and one of the seventies Sinbad films, not wearing very much of whom my mother said She wasn't picked for the colour of her eyes), lava, silly wigs and a daft Victorian drilling machine very much like the one used in the old Thunderbirds series? Whoever watched this film and slagged it off was watching it for the wrong reasons. It may be crap, but is definitely good crap. They don't make 'em like they used to, sigh...... "},{"Title":"You cannot mesmerize me... I'm rubber","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"30 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Make no mistake, this is a very silly movie.  Peter Cushing knew it; he gives one of his most over-the-top, ham it up performances.Generally speaking, this movie has awful production values.  Flying rubber pterodactyl creatures ruling the underworld.  Piggish humanoid servants of said pterodactyls.  A vapid, vacant-eyed Caroline Munro.  An oh-so-macho leading man who, when you really look at him, doesn't look all that tough.Still, At the Earth's Core has a charming innocence about it that gives it a bit of appeal.  Best viewed by 10 year old boys on rainy Saturday afternoons, it's all in good fun. "},{"Title":"One of the BEST Old School Monster Movies","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" CONTEXT is everything when one goes to rate a movie. When rating this movie one has to consider the time in which it was made. We didn't really know WHAT the inside of the EARTH was in those days so you can't rag on the movie too much for the plot (based on a much older book). For the era, this was top notch special effects and the production quality was great. I watched this movie in a masterfully restored HD master. For the time the makeup and effects almost make the guys in the rubber suits look plausible as a monster-thing. This is pure movie cheese complete with bad rubber suits, models, and creepy costumes. AWESOME. PS Doug McClure ROCKS! "},{"Title":"Edgar Rice Burroughs was never like this.","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film begins with a wonderful piece of music and an excellently tense and edge-of-seat sequence in which Victorian scientists (played by Doug McClure and Peter Cushing) drill into the depths of the earth in their 'Iron Mole'.  You truly believe you're going to see a great film to rival 'The Land That Time Forgot'. But then the two companions arrive in the underground world and encounter their first monster, which is quite obviously a man in an outfit which looks like a dinosaur with a parrot's face.  From here it's downhill all the way as the intrepid scientists encounter ovens with tentacles on strings, fire-breathing critters with clearly visible flame-thrower nozzles and pterodactyl-people who, when they fall down, explode for no apparent reason. It's a shame the special-effects are so awful, as the storyline is quite interesting with some good situations and the music is excellently atmospheric.  But what we have here is a good script let down by poor execution.  All I can say in this film's favor is it's watchably bad.  But I'd have been a lot happier if it was watchably good.  "},{"Title":"Last and greatest of the scientist-discovers-prehistoric-world films","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If one ignores the fake-looking giant bird creature at the very beginning, the rest of the movie is much more thoughtful and very well done. Scientists tunnel deep within the Earth and discover a whole prehistoric world. But in this movie, it seems the flying reptiles are super-intelligent and have telepathic dominion over Man, using some for servants but others for food. The original was much bloodier than the tv version. This movie was the last of it's kind, and the end of an era. "},{"Title":"A claustrophobic world","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Funny, I'd read most of Edgar Rice Burroughs' fantasy adventure novels by the time I saw this movie, and knew that this wasn't Pellucidar where were the vast, open spaces of the hollow earth, the blazing sun, the endless forests and lakes and mountains? Where were the friggin' tarags and thipdars?? And yet, this cheesy movie has managed to stick with me over the years. I love the cramped, fake-looking sets, the dazed actors playing slaves, the hyperactive Sagoths acting like Japanese prison camp guards in some WWII flick. And best of all are the dinosaurs, looking more like something from a medieval bestiary than actual prehistoric animals. They seem to combine aspects of human, rhino, frog, titanothere, you name it. All this, and cave princess Caroline Munro running around screaming, shooting smoky glances at Doug McClure from her sexy, kohl-rimmed eyes. It was TOO MUCH.I can't help it. At the Earth's Core is one of my all-time great guilty pleasures. I only wish I could see it properly in a movie theater with an audience some day before I die. "},{"Title":"Total B-Movie delight. Watch it and be amused.","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Hi! I'm Doug McClure. You may remember me from such other cheesy adaptations of Edgar Rice Burroughs works as, The Land that Time Forgot and The People that Time Forgot.This movie is hysterical. Even allowing when it was made, the monsters are just bad, bad, bad, bad, bad! All rubber suited things with people inside. There's even a fire-breathing beastie, but don't look at it's mouth too close or you'll see the flame-thrower nozzle poking out. Couple that with Peter Cushing's wonderfully useless old professor routine and Doug's stoic hero performance and you'll laugh the whole way through. Carolyn Monroe plays Dougies love interest, though I did wonder where she got cosmetics from, living deep in the Earth. Perhaps the Avon lady calls there.The flying monsters at the end are particularly silly. They have all the aerodynamic properties (and believability) of a concrete block. Just a bunch of fat blokes in rubber suits. All they do is sit on a ledge and hypnotise people. It's only when that fails, or it's feeding time, that they swoop down to attack. And when I say swoop, I mean someone prods the rubber thingy in the back and it swings down on a cable.Total B-Movie delight. Watch it and be amused. Be very amused. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of the Z grade fantasy genre.","Date":"26 September 2009","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm serious as well, I mean don't get me wrong, if you haven't got a bent for this type of Z grade, creaky creature feature (why would you be watching is my first thought?) then it's a rating of about 3 to 4 out of 10 tops, but to me it's a special kind of nonsense that takes me back to a nice time in my childhood. You know the kind, the memories that never leave you. Eagerly taking it all in with youthful wonderment as Doug McClure and Peter Cushing tunnel beneath the mantle to do battle with a host of creatures and sub-human species. And guys! Now we are all grown up we can admire most seriously at the wonder of Caroline Munro and her heaving cleavage. No wonder my older brother was keen to take me to the cinema to see this one! Yes the effects are bad, men in suits, strings pinging parrot monsters around and exploding rubber frog like thingies amuse us greatly. And yes, Cushing and a surprisingly pudgy McClure act as if they have truly been mesmerised by the evil Meyhas at the core of our film. But it matters not, zany and clunky and awash in glorious colour, At The Earth's Core is a throwback to a special pre-ILM time when kids like me queued around the block to see such joyous nonsense. 8/10 "}{"Title":"*gasps* It's Jubal the Ugly One!","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Man, what isn't there to like about this movie? Sure the SFX are kinda low-budget and some of the actors sort of ham it up, but imagine if this film was made today with CG and bland actors whom take everything seriously, it just would not be the same movie.The movie follows, well, two scientists whom drill beneath the Earth's core, run into bizarre monsters (whom looked like they were kicked out of Daiei's Gamera films BTW), become slaves, and explore the strange world and so on. I don't remember the novel very well, but I sure know that this movie is one of those so cheesy and wild, it's hard to forget type of movies.BTW, check out the part with Jubal the Ugly one! PRICELESS! "},{"Title":"Pellucidar Comes Alive!","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" One of my favorite lost world settings is Edgar Rice Burroughs' Pellucidar. It is a primordial world existing on the underside of the earth's crust, with the central core of magma providing a perpetual noonday sun. The land is full of ancient mammals, dinosaurs and beautiful cave girls. The story begins with a eccentric inventor and his friend who plan to explore the earth's crust in an 'iron mole.' They go off course and plunge toward the center of the earth, finally surfacing in Pellucidar. They discover a world in which telepathic flying reptiles dominate, and human cave tribes are either on the run or enslaved. What do our plucky explorers do upon encountering this primeval world? They attempt to liberate the humans and civilize them! There are a lot of cheesy 'Lost World' type movies. At the Earth's Core is certainly one of the cheesiest. I would never argue with those believe that this is a bad movie, but I love it. The setting has a wonderful inner world feel with weird plants and a pale red sky. The caverns and tunnels are well developed. The iron mole looks very cool. The cave people and Sagoth costumes are adequate and cheesy in a fun '70s way. How about the dinosaurs and creatures? Hmm. The monsters in this movie are the lamest monsters to ever grace the silver screen. They set a standard for lameness that will probably never be surpassed. But as lame-o as the monsters are, they are a fun and active group. Several of them seem to have a propensity for exploding at the moment of death. That's always fun, isn't it? The Mahar telepathic powers are clearly presented with the eyes lighting up, the zzzzzz-zrt! sound, the eyelids closing. 'Cmon, admit it, it's a cool effect. And the way the Mahars swoop down upon the sacrificial cave girls, this scene actually provides a moment of horror, in spite of the lame Mahar costumes. Doug McClure, Peter Cushing and Caroline Monroe are perfectly cast in the roles of David Innes, Abner Perry and Dian the Beautiful. I can no longer read the books without picturing these actors in the story. I could have watched many Pellucidar sequels with these actors. McClure is the perfect actor for any cheesy lost world adventure. Nobody - and I mean nobody - fights lame-o monsters like Doug McClure. The guy is brilliant. Check out the arena scene, where he faces off against a lame saber-toothed hippo thing. McClure swings, he grits, he staggers and strains. I love how he jukes the monster off balance to retrieve the spear head from underneath it. Yeah! What other actor would have put so much into that scene? Peter Cushing is certainly a far better actor than this movie deserves, and yet he gives a surprising and outrageous performance. Don't critique him too much for hamming it up, some of his lines are right out of the book, and the character calls for a goofball. Caroline Monroe looks like she just stepped out of a Frank Frazetta painting. Too bad her role is limited to being a mere one-dimensional love interest. Sure, it is a cheesy movie. But if you can suspend disbelief and stay with this movie, you just might like it. No question, it is a challenge to hang in there, neither mocking the movie nor beating your head against the wall. If you can get in, and stay in, this is an amazing lost world movie. But you have to fight the cheesiness, you have to fight the lameness. You have to fight like Doug McClure! "},{"Title":"The legend of Doug McClure.","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" My father took me to see this film when it was released in 1976. I was but a child and it scared the crap out of me. So much so that I had to leave the theatre during a particularly claustrophobic tunnel scene as it was too intense for me!!! I went home to the safety of my family. I saw the film all the way through as I got older and thoroughly enjoyed it. Shame about the men in monster suits, though. If you overlook the cheapness of the production and delve deeper, you'll find an excellent performance by Cushing, a stunning opening score, some nice photography and the ever reliable Mr.Douglas McClure, my childhood hero!British police constables guarding the Whitehouse at the end! Titty bang bang cave woman! Monsters with beaks! Actors in monster suits gliding on wires! This has it all! Superb. "},{"Title":"Screwing to the center of the earth.","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Based on a Edgar Rice Burroughs novel, AT THE EARTH'S CORE provides little more than means to escape and give your brain a rest. A Victorian scientist Dr. Abner Perry(Peter Cushing)invents a giant burrowing machine, which he and his American partner(Doug McClure)use to corkscrew their way deep into the earth to explore what mysteries it may hold. They soon discover a lost world of subhuman creatures having conflict with prehistoric monsters.Cushing comes across as an absent minded professor to the point of being annoying. Instead of being a bold adventurer, he comes across effeminate. On the other hand McClure overacted enough to make himself also laughable. Caroline Munro plays the pretty Princess Dia that refuses to leave her world near the center of the earth. Also in the cast are Godfrey James, Cy Grant and Michael Crane. "},{"Title":"Just about worth watching for the delectable Ms. Munro.","Date":"22 October 2008","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Way back in the 70s, when I was kid, we didn't have fancy CGI effects in our monster movies if we were lucky, the film featured stop motion work, but often they would rely on men in shonky rubber suits, made to look enormous through dodgy matte work or back projection.Case in point At The Earth's Core, a ropey adaptation of an Edgar Rice Burroughs story (which I caught on its original release in '76) that presents creatures so pathetic that I'm surprised that any of the actors in the film managed to keep a straight face. To their credit, though, B-movie hunk Doug McClure and horror legend Peter Cushing do manage to hold back the laughter, playing a couple of Victorian explorers who travel under the Earth's crust in a mechanical 'mole', only to discover lost civilisations and prehistoric monsters.Even as an 8 year old kid, I remember being distinctly unimpressed with this pretty poor effort from director Kevin Connor, finding not only the effects to be laughably bad, but also the acting to be of a pretty poor standard (Cushing, in particular, gives an amazingly hammy performance that still makes me cringe to watch). Nowadays, however, I find this whole sorry affair just about watchable thanks to the gorgeous Caroline Munro, a major hottie of the 70s who spends this film prancing around in a skimpy outfit that reveals her ample cleavage, and the unintentional laughs that can be had from the awful dialogue, bargain basement visuals, and general atmosphere of cheesiness. "},{"Title":"Adventure tale full of colorful  scenarios and pretty fierce monsters","Date":"1 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This engaging adaptation is a special version of the Edgar Rice Burroughs adventure yarn . There are rip-roaring action, spirit of adventure, derring-do, thrills, and results to be quite entertaining. It's a brief fun with average special effects , passable set decoration , functional art direction and none use of computer generator. Fantastic adventures full of monsters in a lost continent on the center of earth . Searching for adventures, a Victorian professor (Peter Cushing acting against his usual type as the absentminded scientific) and his American supporter named David Innes( an impulsive Doug McClure who has a good time) set off in their new boring rocket with a short proof on a Welsh mountain. Unfortunately the things were wrong and less easy than expected and they end up in a large cavern at the centre of the earth. When they're watching how humans are dragged by an evil over-sized prehistoric bird , then they suddenly are attacked by a flying monster . It's a domineering world governed by a monstrous race which rules the human beings with extra-sensory abilities. There they meet a race of humans enslaved , being one of them a gorgeous and eye-catching cavern-girl ( the scream-girl Caroline Munro from Hammer Productions as film's chief attribute) in scantily clad .This fantasy picture produced by Max Rosenberg and Milton Subotsky packs thrills, action, weird monsters, lively pace and fantastic scenarios. The rubber monsters are the real stars of this production ,however being middling made . The fable is silly and laughable , though the effects and action are regularly made . Among the most spectacular of its visuals there are a deeply shrouded caverns full of monsters roaring menacingly towards the camera , a little tableau comprising attack of a giant monsters and the colorful backgrounds of the lost land . Some monsters are clumsily made but movie is OK . Some illogical parts in the argument are more than compensated for the excitement provided by Roger Dicken's monsters, though sometimes are a little bit cheesy. Filmed in glimmer and shimmer cinematography by Alan Hume in Pinewood studios , England , showing a colorful camp treat. Splendid and stirring musical score by Mike Vickers. This is the fourth collaboration between producer John Dark and director Kevin Connor who also made in similar style  ¨The land that time forgot(1975)¨, , ¨The people that time forgot(77)¨. ¨Warlord of Atlantis¨ , mostly starred by Doug McClure and with Dicken as the monster-maker. The film will appeal to adolescents who swallow whole and sit convulsed in their armchair. Older kids will enjoy the colorful sets and fire-breathing animals. Rating  Passable and acceptable film . "},{"Title":"Please release At the Earth's Core, and Warlords of Atlantis on DVD","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Currently MGM has released The Land that Time forgot, and The People that Time Forgot, on one of their Midnight Movies Double Feature DVD's. I have purchased this DVD and have enjoyed it immensely.The films are based on the classic writings of Edgar Rice Burroughs. And while the dinosaurs look fake by today's standards, the stories and characters are really enjoyable. Most of the other miniature work is also impressive for this time period.Hopefully they will release the other two movies in this series, At the Earth's Core, and Warlords of Atlantis, on another Midnight Movies Double Feature DVD. I would be very interested in purchasing it.  "},{"Title":"Low budget thrills at the centre of the Earth","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the second movie to be directed by Kevin Conner and starring Doug McClure.In this one, McClure and fellow scientist, Peter Cushing give their Iron Mole a test run.  All doesn't go to plan and they end up at the centre of the Earth and discover a strange land, Pelucidar.  It is inhabited by rubber prehistoric and non prehistoric monsters (more of which later) and strange human type creatures, the Mahar.  After being captured by these people, the two scientists are taken to their home, some caves and McClure falls in love with one of the female slaves there.  After several adventures, McClure kills the Ugly One and then takes some of the goodies to defeat the Mahar.  They achieve this and after McClure's love interest decides to stay behind, he and Cushing leave and **SPOILER** end up in the grounds of the White House... Now to those monsters.  The first one we see walks upright, has the head of a bird and a long tail.  Then we see two fighting.  I can't make out what those are suppose to be.  Then we are introduced to the rather unfriendly Pterodactyl like creatures which seem to control the Mahar.  These explode at the end when they are killed.  We also see a fire breathing dinosaur, which gets blown up after Cushing fires some arrows at it and McClure has a fight with another strange looking beast, a cross between a dinosaur and a hippo (a similar creature turned up in The People That Time Forgot a year later in 1977, possibly the same one used here).  We also see some man-eating plants.  McClure's love interest is played by Caroline Munro (The Spy Who Loved Me) and Keith Barron, who starred with McClure in The Land That Time Forgot, has a small part as a reporter.I have seen this movie several times and find it great fun, despite those monsters.  The movie also has nice theme music.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"an old favourite","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have fond memories of watching this when it came out. It's one of those films that you know is rubbish, even when you're a kid, but at that age you overlook the ludicrous acting, special effects and plot (so there's a race of big-busted nymphets living underground, huh?) and just enjoy the campy monsters for all they're worth. "},{"Title":"The Pink magnesium Sky! Wow!","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think this is a great, classic monster film for the family. The mole, what a machine! The tall creature with the beak, the flying green lizards, Ranthorincus/mayas or whatever they are and the ape men things the speak telepathically with them. The battle of the men in rubber suits fighting for a doll for breakfast umm! yummy!  Class, what else can I say?  How would they make a 2002 remake of this one? "}{"Title":"One of the best movies to watch at 3AM","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a true gem of corny sci-fi! Peter Cushing adds a great personality to this midnite movie classic.I particularly like the sound design. The weird choppy voices of the creatures and the rhino creatures all provide a bizarre backdrop (Of course the scantily clad babe doesn't hurt either!) "},{"Title":"Great fun! You can watch with your family & not be embarrassed.","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Nice way to relax. I am packing my suitcase now so I can go and be with Caroline Munroe. Phony monsters and scenery make for 89 minutes of harmless fun. Something you can enjoy with your family and not be offended. "},{"Title":"You cannot mesmerize me! I'm British!","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" How many of these lost-world/center-of-the-earth style movies did they make in the late 60s and early 70s? I swear I think I've seen a dozen or more. In At the Earth's Core, Dr. Abner Perry (the great Peter Cushing) and David Innes (Doug McClure) set off for an experimental ride in their earth digging machine, the Iron Mole. Something goes horribly wrong (and doesn't it always!) and the pair find themselves miles beneath the Earth's surface in a strange and unusual world. This underground world is ruled by some ridiculous looking pterodactyl-like creatures that make slaves of the local human inhabitants. It's the usual story from here on out &#150; defeat the creatures, get the girl, escape, and generally save the day.As much as I hate rating a movie a wishy-washy 5/10, that pretty much sums up my feelings of At the Earth's Core. I mean parts of the movie are bad and parts of the movie are good. On the bad side you've got the really awful special effects and a whole been there, done that feeling to much of the movie. As bad as the rubber-suited pterodactyl men look, they pale in comparison to what I'll call the saber-toothed hippo and the giant fire-breathing frog. You've also got Doug McClure trying in vain to play the hero. It doesn't work. On the positive side you've got Peter Cushing hamming it up like I've never seen before and a sense of fun about the whole thing. It never takes itself too seriously. Just let yourself go with the silliness. Another positive I feel compelled to mention are the outfits worn by Caroline Munro. Too bad she disappears for about 2/3 of the movie. So in the end, the good and bad sort of cancel each other out and I'm left with a completely average movie. And that, at least in my way of rating movies, is just what a 5/10 is &#150; an average movie. "},{"Title":"Cheapjack sci-fi adventure","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" After their relative success with THE LAND THAT TIME FORGOT, Amicus were quick to run out this unofficial 'sequel' to that film, although a year later the proper sequel, THE PEOPLE THAT TIME FORGOT, turned up. AT THE EARTH'S CORE in fact is reminiscent of Jules Verne stories like JOURNEY TO THE CENTRE OF THE EARTH, although it is supposedly from a story by Edgar Rice Burroughs. The low-rent action and outrageous imagery make this film a must for any '70s fan. The decade's influence is clear, as a number of native tribesmen sport fetching afros! Although the film is cheaply made (it employs VOYAGE TO THE BOTTOM OF THE SEA-style shaking cameras to simulate movement), on the plus side it is a fast-paced adventure tale which never lets up and gives in to characterisation or depth of any sort. In essence it's a series of fight scenes, which take the form of monster vs. monster, man vs. man, man vs. monster. Tacky, ludicrous and awful, this is truly the nadir of British cinema. But...it manages to be exciting, hilarious and a damned good ride through a strange, psychedelic prehistoric land, enlivened by strong performances from two genre veterans.AT THE EARTH'S CORE has a number of spaced-out, obviously drug-induced sequences which are hilarious to watch. The first is the bit where Peter Cushing, no less, is being chased through the cardboard jungle by a giant bird man! I've seen some weird stuff in my time but this really takes the biscuit. The bird men are guys with huge rubber heads on, strange how they remain so motionless throughout the film. The second moment is when a group of people stop to watch some men in monster suits battle it out, kind of like a wacky GODZILLA moment which has been inserted in the film. For a start it's not for one minute believable or realistic, and also the bellowing noises these monsters make are hilarious! More wackiness ensues when a psychic connection between the bird and rodent men is revealed, with the bird guys blinking their green eyes to give commands, these birds are truly strange and yet wonderfully artistic. Especially the noises that are made, which are strangely computerised! Another hilarious moment comes when Peter Cushing shoots a fire breathing, pincushion-like monster with some arrows, it falls off a cliff and explodes in a rib-tickling scene, so cheap and yet so comic. You probably have to have a weird sense of humour like me to appreciate these admittedly dodgy delights. Other merry moments include a caveman with a blatantly cardboard weapon and bird men flying around on visible wires.You've probably grasped the kind of naïve charm this film holds for me by now, but the three main actors are also reasons to watch. Firstly we have low-budget British actress Caroline Munro as the token love interest in highly revealing costume, then there's Doug McClure as the American hero, sporting a disgusting striped jacket. McClure's charm is one which you have to view to really appreciate, but let's just say he's fun as the brawny, indestructible hero type. However it's Peter Cushing who steals the show, this time around being the comic relief, a major departure from his usually heroic or sinister roles. His doddering old man is a great creation, and his dialogue is along the lines of they're so excitable, like all foreigners and You cannot mesmerise me, I'm British! (reused from a similar line in HORROR EXPRESS). The novelty value of seeing him terrorised by these men in suits is great.You wouldn't get away with tackiness like this in a film anymore, that's for sure. Cheap, with atrocious back projection; rubbery, cardboard, yet fun, AT THE EARTH'S CORE is one for the child in all of us - the child who truly appreciate the delights of bad film making. "},{"Title":"You cannot mesmerize me! I'm British!","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Dr. Abner Perry (Peter Cushing) is a Victorian era scientist who is about to take his revolutionary vehicle, capable of boring through the Earth, on its maiden voyage. Accompanying him is former student turned businessman David Innes (Doug McClure). The vehicle is more powerful than they thought, and they end up deep inside the Earths' core. Here they encounter a nonstop assortment of monsters, a kingdom named Pellucidar, a tribe of primitive people, and their subhuman captors / tormentors, who pray to dinosaur gods.Now how can you resist any hokum featuring those elements? Produced by Amicus, and scripted by Milton Subotsky (based on the novel by Edgar Rice Burroughs), this is decently executed by director Kevin Connor, who was a real go-to filmmaker for this kind of fantasy material in the 1970s. McClure is a jut jawed hero, and Cushing seems to be relishing a rare opportunity to ham it up. His performance may not be one of his most accomplished, but it's certainly a fun one. Caroline Munro is *extremely* alluring as cave girl Dia. Also performing this amiable nonsense with straight faces are Cy Grant as the helpful Ra, Godfrey James as the stolid Ghak, and Sean Lynch as the devious Hoojah (just to be sure we get the point, Hoojah is nicknamed The Sly One).The movie begins in grand style, with some striking opening titles and a beautiful, rousing piece of music. It promises a solid diversion, and that's what it delivers. The understandable criticisms often leveled at the production are its obvious budget issues, and rubber monsters. But these monsters are just so damn amusing, especially the exploding fire breathing frog. All of this is done in an agreeable tradition of the Saturday matinée feature. The sets and the visuals are reasonably impressive, and Connor keeps things moving along nicely (the movie hits the ground running), and building to an exciting and destructive finale.At the Earth's Core does put a goofy smile on *this* viewers' face.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":" A classic,","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  ***SPOILERS*** I found this movie pretty amusing because of its notable B movie cast and fun FX.It is about a drill/submarine like machine called the mole, witch brings David (Mclure) and a scientist (Cushing) to a subterranean land, after drilling through the Earth's core. They discover the city of Pelucidar, a kingdom ruled by the Mahar, bird-like creatures that control people's mind. (Mahars were the same creatures that were used in Burrow's other classic story, tarzan.) This also had lots of monsters, and I still do not know how they pulled off the arena creature, a beastie that looked like a cross between a Hippopotamus and a Dragon. It is not a puppet, and not a guy ina suite, or stop motion, so I do not Know how they made it during this movies time periode. I give this flick 4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"A faithful rendition of an ERB classic","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie suffers from some pretty mediocre special effects, but it is faithful to the book (mostly). Doug McClure is a passable hero and the girl (what's her name) is truly gorgeous. I recommend to any ERB fans. "},{"Title":"Childish fun","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Agreeable Boy's Own Paper nonsense with a sprightly performance from Cushing, some amusing rubber monsters, colourful jungle sets, & the ever-welcome appearance of Caroline Munro in animal skins. "},{"Title":"From 1976","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Due to the fact that in 1976 there were no CGI I felt that the movie was quite watchable. The studio productions were very good and very elaborate. The background effects were very believable and always appeared as if they were part of the whole set. The actors did OK considering the premise of the film being set in a type of Jules Vern atmosphere where imagination and possibilities of future exploration were at most improbabilities. Had I watched this film in 1976 I probably would have been in awe of the ability of man to build a machine that could travel to the earths core. I still wonder to this day why we are not all flying around in our cars but I digress. McClure and Cushing have their funny moments, mostly from their facial expressions toward each other which of course makes the film somewhat campy which I loved. The 'monsters' left something to be desired but the story had a good premise although I feel as though some other sort of 'thing' could have been more believable under those circumstances. All in all quite watchable for its time and fun now. "},{"Title":"A big Fave","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Once a year in America, Saturday morning would give way to new cartoons, usually sometime in America. Just about the time school started.I guess this was to make not having school on Saturdays that more bearable.One Friday night before the premiere of the new Saturday morning cartoons, a movie came on.At The Earth's Core I had not a clue who Cushing nor McClure were. Clearly they were not from the same country, so I couldn't grasp why they were traveling together.I do recall seeing the mechanism in the fire-breathing monster's mouth.What connects this movie for me is the opening with the molten metal and then suddenly we get the band playing as we see the factory.How do you end a movie like this? The music again, and two bewlidered cops as the drill appears behind them.Whatever reason, I remember watching this movie more that Friday night than I do any new cartoon that came on the following morning.That was definitely the late seventies.It would be during Jurassic Park mania, cicra '93, I believe, before I would see this movie again.Yes, people in costumes. There was the fire-breather again.Still loved the ending with the two cops.Finally, it would be nearly another decade before I would send off for the movie on DVD.Now I would just watch the beginning and intro.Oh, I do love much of the movie. Of all these sci fi Jules Verne, HG Wells, ERB movies, this one stands as my fave.What I note now is that one of the cops begins turning around a wee bit too soon, then turns back, then he and the other cop are synchronized as they turn inward once again to look behind themselves at the drill.Perhaps for me, this movie stands as the best of the Saturday morning shows, which is why I enjoy it so much. "}{"Title":"Caroline Munro, and that's about it","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've devoted the whopping 43 nanoseconds this film review deserves, and have come up with something I hated more than the Circa Georges Melies visual effects.  It's the audio.  From the electrified clicks and grunts of the Sagoth, to the screeching dino-dragon-flying whatevers, right up to the woefully mismatched ADR work chiefly utilized during Grand Moff Cushing's utterings, the sound work here is far below the standards of a B movie.  Sound editor Jim Atkinson must have grown work weary after splicing Ned Beatty's pig squeals together four years earlier in Deliverance.Here's something else to ponder... ***POSSIBLE MAJOR SPOILER AHEAD*** At the end of the film, when the Geo-Screw emerges on the White House lawn, what the heck are British bobbies doing guarding the front gate?  Must have been a sale at Brit-Cop Surplus Wear the day of filming.On a positive note, we do have the privilege of seeing a fair amount of the statuesque Caroline Munro.  She can polish my Goodie Two Shoes (thank you Adam Ant) any old time... at the earth's core, or wherever. "},{"Title":"Rubbish Fantasy Adventure","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Doug McClure has starred in a few of these British produced genre adventures and this one has got to be the worst of the lot . I know THE LAND THAT TIME FORGOT has its critics but please at least that movie featured location filming and relatively good production values . That's the problem with this movie - The production values go way beyond  So bad they're good  affectionate territory and become  so bad I think I'll go and see what's on the other channels  One case in point is the first scene featuring the intrepid Cushing and McClure encountering a monster . It's painfully obvious the monster is an average sized man dressed up as a rubber monster being made to look over twenty foot tall via overblown back projection . It becomes even more painfully obvious that our heroes are trying to escape the monster by running on the spot . Have I mentioned that this is one of the more convincing set pieces ? No really this looks like it was filmed in somebody's living room with the spare change left over from that year's DOCTOR WHO budget . Even former DOCTOR WHO Peter Cushing is bland and what should have been an amusing line  You can't mesmerise me - I'm British  is delivered in a very flat way ( A very similar line is spoken by Cushing in HORROR EXPRESS ) in a script devoid of characterisation , plotting and memorable dialogue . It's not just the fact that the dialogue is unmemorable it's also infrequent and rare since the monsters don't speak . Wouldn't it have been better having the chief bad guys humanoids like in WARLORDS OF ATLANTIS so that they could explain the plot . Does anyone here know what the plot actually is ? A very tedious British movie that even the twin talents of Caroline Munro can not save . The whole mood of the movie is summed up by the final sequence featuring two keystone cops "},{"Title":"Hilariously bad","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" At the Earth's Core was on television yesterday. I was at my computer working and happened to glance over and see what must have been some of the worst action sequences ever made. I was instantly enthralled by the film's shoddy production values, appalling acting (by all included -- even Peter Cushing) and horrific, unintentionally hilarious action sequences and puppet-monsters.The film is about a Victorian scientist who takes a stereotypical Buff American Hero on a ground-boring trip in the Welsh countryside. Little do they know that a great evil lurks at the center of the earth's core....Forget the fact that the title doesn't make sense. (If they were really at the earth's core, they'd be about 2700 kg/m3 underground and burning alive in a sea of iron or whatever it is down there.) Forget that the puppets used in the production rival The Beast Master for being the fakest-looking of all-time. No, the real genius of At the Earth's Core is its naive stupidity -- a gung-ho action spectacle without real action and without real spectacle. It is in essence just a gung-ho movie and a stupid one at that. People who enjoy MST3K-style stuff will love this -- it's appallingly bad, and indeed so bad it is almost enjoyable in a strange way. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"5 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A Victorian era scientist (Peter Cushing) and his assistant (Doug McClure) take a test run in their Iron Mole drilling machine and end up in a strange underground labyrinth ruled by a species of giant telepathic bird and full of prehistoric monsters and cavemen.Although probably dated today (2015), this is still a fun film with some silly monsters and a plot that makes no real sense. Especially if one tries to think about it fro ma scientific point of view. There are also some questions about whether or not the film is sexist, but that is a whole other discussion.Cushing is great here (as always) and really shows his range as a vocal actor. He also has what is probably the best line in the movie, explaining why he can't be mesmerized. "},{"Title":"An adventure movie that is good fun.","Date":"17 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Just watched At The Earth's Core after not having seen it for very many years. Any serious film critic could pick dozens of holes in the movie but despite its many faults it is nevertheless fun to watch. It was made before the advent of computer graphics which dominates the film industry these days, especially in sci-fi special effects. It was deliberately made with its tongue firmly in its cheek & is an imaginative escapist movie. Based on the book by Edgar Rice Burroughs it stars Peter Cushing & Doug McClure both of whom are excellent & good fun to watch. Busty Caroline Munro provides the obligatory female interest & what a cracking piece of crumpet she was back when this movie was released in 1976. For us lads it is almost worth watching just to ogle her!. The sets are awful as are the rubber monsters but you couldn't expect much else given the low budget. They are, in fact, so bad that it somehow helps to make the movie even more fun. "},{"Title":"Dr who? Dr Abner Perry, that's Who. Giant burrowing machine gives way to ho-hum hokum","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" At the Earth's core 1976 21.1.15Impressive opening titles lit by the flickering red light of furnaces speak of vast engineering enterprise, which of course such an incredible machine would have required. The very distinctive silhouette of the tall extremely thin figure of Peter Cushing in high collar and top hat very neatly identifies the period, his character and him as the quirky genius behind it all. So far, very good. The opening scenes are quite impressive showing the vast machine in the distance and in close-up parts of the massive support structure it required. Such a marvel was this fictional Victorian machine (130 years later still science-fiction) that it would have been world wide news. On its first trial - a short burrow into a Welsh hillside, it suddenly though takes an unexpected precipitous downwards dive. Unfortunately so too at this point, does the film. Peter Cushing throughout gives an excellent thoroughly animated consistent performance as the elderly and rather frail and fussy inventor. He acts throughout as if the journey, the film and the role - mattered. In contrast a cigar-chomping Doug McClure behaves like world-weary freighter co-pilot on just another routine flight in just another routine film.In sci-fi its is always a question as to how much science and plausible fact to include. In the masterpiece 2001, a very great deal - it gave weight and logic to the story. In this, its complete antithesis, very close to zero. In something like 3 minutes' screen time the giant machine has burrowed approximately 4000 miles downwards through the Earth's core. It gets a little hot then a little cold but otherwise causes little more fuss, fatigue or fear for the crew than an trans-Atlantic flight. They arrive after this incredible journey, open the hatch only to find themselves in what appears to be the middle the complete cast of aliens and set in an average Dr Who episode. What ensues are chases and fist fights, the things that have filled time in brainless films since the dawn of cinema. The giant burrowing machine does manage to recover from its catastrophic downwards dive. The film however never does. 7/10 for the titles 3/10 for the rest "},{"Title":"Enormous fun!","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The film is rather low budget and the sets, make-up and special effects are more 1956 than 1976 but, by God, it's enormous fun. Peter Cushing and the underrated Doug McClure, who have great chemistry, make excellent leads as Dr. Abner Doc Perry and David Innes respectively. Cushing plays Doc as a lovable, eccentric gentleman adventurer in the same mould as Dr. Who in the Dalek films and gets the lion's share of the best lines. Caroline Munro is a very appealing leading lady as Princess Dia while Cy Grant offers great support as Ra. The film has no pretence about scientific accuracy - even when the Edgar Rice Burroughs novel was written in 1914, the idea of a hollow Earth was considered pseudoscientific nonsense - but that's one of the things that I love about it. While it is quite derivative of The Time Machine, it has a good storyline which rollicks along at a great pace. "},{"Title":"Birds Rule.","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Peter Cushing stars as Dr. Abner Perry, a Victorian era scientist who has invented a giant mole-drilling machine, which he plans to use in exploring the core of the Earth. With him is his assistant David(played by Doug McClure), and with much public fanfare, they do indeed reach the core, only to find it a prehistoric world ruled over by giant telepathic birds(!) who have enslaved the local population of primitive humans. They befriend a beautiful woman named Dia(played by Caroline Munro) and vow to free her people from this tyranny, since they also have other monsters to contend with...Based on the Edgar Rice Burrough's story, film is pretty clichéd and far-fetched stuff, though has a good cast who give it their all. Still, this is mostly for kids, though has a strange aura of melancholy about it. "},{"Title":"Hard-Core Kitsch entertainment!","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Those who thought that the center of our planet Earth only existed of rock, clay and lava should urgently reconsider! The Earth's core apparently is a vividly adventurous place, full of telepathic prehistoric monsters and even an entire civilization of primitive human beings, including some very hot and scantily dressed specimens like Caroline Munro! Professor Abner Perry (Peter Cushing, more British than afternoon tea) and his engineer/sponsor David Innes drill-dive underground in their gigantic mechanical mole and make a lot more scientific discoveries that they bargained for! At the Earth's Core, based on the novel by Edgar Rice Burroughs, is a totally preposterous but irresistibly charming B-movie with good old-fashioned campy effects, gloriously over-the-top acting performances and whack plot-twists. I've seen practically all movies in which Peter Cushing starred, but I never saw him overact so badly. That means that also he knew exactly what type of movie this was going to become a totally undemanding, energetic and joyously entertaining piece of kitsch that you simply cannot detest. Stories about flying reptiles hypnotizing and sacrificing humans to their gods, lumpish guys in hilarious pterodactyl suits, man versus reptile battles, Munro wandering around in a furry bra and Cushing yelling lines like You can't mesmerize me, I'm British&#x85; What's there to detest, seriously? And even though the costumes and effects may look extremely cheap, the sets and decors are established with craftsmanship and great eye for detail, like for example the interiors of the Kevin Connor directed three more movies based on the writings of Burroughs, namely The Land that Time Forgot, The People that Time Forgot and Warlords of Atlantis. I haven't seen those yet, but I won't hesitate to pop them in during a next rainy Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"A happy little time capsule","Date":"25 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A scientist and a macho hero type burrow into the Earth in a mechanical mole, and find a hidden world where stone age humans are subjugated by hypnotic pterodactyls (yes, really).At The Earth's Core sneaked in about half an hour before Star Wars rewrote the manual for fantasy cinema. So we don't have motion control, high quality travelling mattes, fantastic model work, state of the art make up, seamless interaction between real and fabricated backgrounds - no, what we have are blokes in rubber costumes, lurid set lighting, and unconvincing miniatures.Thing is, it captures Edgar Rice Burroughs Pellucidar quite well. Oh, it's all terribly unconvincing (especially the pterodactyls, even more so when they indulge in wobbly flying on all-too-visible wires), but the original books are written in prose which is even more purple than some of the set lighting.Peter Cushing and Doug Maclure play the two protagonists efficiently enough, and Caroline Munroe is beguiling. But then, she always was. "}{"Title":"Watched this film because Caroline Munro was featured.","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- At the Earth's Core, 1976. In Victorian England, a scientist professor and his American assistance build and launch a mining machine that works like a giant screw. Upon it's 'maiden' drilling trails, the machine launches but goes crazy when it's operators are knocked unconscious by machine mechanical problems. Wildly, the machine drills deep into the Earth uncontrolled and arrives in Earth's core jungle. The jungle is inhabited by dinosaurs, monsters, cavemen, and an oppressive race of hybrid human/bird people. The scientist and assistant help to save the human cave people from the monsters and whip-using hybrid jailers.*Special Stars- Caroline Munro, Doug McClure, Petter Cushing.*Theme- The British will fight for fairness and freedom anywhere.*Trivia/location/goofs- British, Based on Edgar Rice Burroughs story.*Emotion- I watched this film because Caroline Munro was featured and I had seen the film's ending on the late show. She is almost invisible in this film and her role is an afterthought. The film seemed like an interesting 'steampunk' saga until the cast reaches the Earth's jungle center. Unfortunately, the interesting creatures there are the Men in bad rubber monster suits. The monsters or 'dinosaurs' are not any known dinosaur types but weird hybrid-mix dangerous animals. These include; giant fire-breathing frogs, tentacled man-attacking plants, giant clawed walking rhinos, and more laughable killer beasts. So here's the film drama provided by Men in bad rubber monster suits and the entertainment value of this movie comes to an abrupt end. "},{"Title":"You cannot mesmerize me! I'm British!","Date":"20 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" At the Earth's Core is a wet dream to anyone who loves pulp adventure stories done well. When I watched this film, I imagined that it was a Doctor Who story with a decent budget. Man, if they could have made Doctor Who with amount of money, At the Earth's Core had, I would have reached Nirvana. There are in this film plenty of amazing practical effects, cheesy rubber monsters and a great cast to carry the corny script. By all means it's not the best film ever made or even the best pulp adventure film, but it's a damn entertaining one.We have two cult icons that some of you might know. Peter Cushing and Caroline *Hotter than Raquel Welch* Munro. Cushing pretty much plays Doctor Who and he steals every single scene his in. I love him as an actor and his performance keeps things lighthearted and entertaining. Caroline Munro is sexy and gorgeous in here that you are kinda disappointed that she has fairly limited screen time. Sadly, they both play supporting roles to Doug McClure who plays the leading American character. And he is really damn good in his part. He has a nice screen presence and he manages to bring enough intensity and emotion to a role which demands him to be just a white knight figure. The rest of the cast are indistinguishable slaves, rubber monsters and children of the rage from the Brood.The biggest treat aside from Caroline Munro, is the practical effects and the monsters. Those who enjoy the adventure movies from 50's and 60's will find a lot of enjoyment out it. If you happen to enjoy classic Doctor Who you will find a lot to enjoy. At the Earth's Core is a film of it's time and is very badly dated. It's fairly sexist and the overall pulpy feel and visuals might not appeal to everyone's taste. But those who like these actors and the way it's made, will plenty to enjoy.At the Earth's Core is a must see for the greatest line in movie history You cannot mesmerize me! I'm British!. If this doesn't make you to want see it then nothing can. If you are a fan of Peter Cushing, Caroline Munro and rubber monster adventure films there are plenty to enjoy. "},{"Title":"So Campy You Can't Help but Enjoy It","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" At the Earth's Core (1976) *** (out of 4)Set in the Victorian times, this Amicus picture has a scientist (Peter Cushing) and his assistant (Doug McClure) creating a machine that allows them to dig through the ground. They plan to go to the center of the Earth but they end up in some sort of land with monsters and humans who are being held by slaves by some sort of tribe. AT THE EARTH'S CORE turned out to be the final film from Amicus and it's really a good movie. Well, it's not really a good movie but I think it's so silly and so wacky that you can't help but have a blast with it. The term so bad it's good certainly fits this thing but the most important thing is that it's highly entertaining. We've got several different types of monsters on display here and all of them are nothing more than rubber suits, which look extremely bad. Just take a look at the first monster attack when a man is eaten by the creature. This sequence is one of the funniest things I've seen from any sci-fi picture. The entire catalog of monsters are pretty fun to watch even with the rubber suits that make some of those Godzilla creatures look like Oscar-winning work. Even the monsters holding the human slaves are incredibly cheap as they just wear masks that cover half of their faces with their normal skin still showing making it all the more obvious. Cushing plays a dimwitted scientist and while his performance is good the character is certainly less than memorable. McClure is good in his supporting role and we got Caroline Munro at least wearing a somewhat cute outfit. Throughout the film there are all sorts of fights, weird looking sets and other strange things that really make this film stand out compared to other low-budget films of the genre. AT THE EARTH'S CORE isn't going to be confused with THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL but those who enjoy campy movies should enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Extremely silly!","Date":"21 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The film begins with a goofy scientist (Peter Cushing) and his assistant (Doug McClure) embarking in their new giant drilling machine. It is far better than they'd anticipated and soon they've tunneled near the Earth's core. There they find exactly what you'd expect--giant rubber-suited dinosaurs, nasty dwarfs wearing really stupid 1/2 masks and a hot lady (Caroline Munro) who you figure will most likely eventually fall in love with McClure. It's all very brightly colored and very silly and looks quite a bit like the crappy old TV shows Lost in Space and Land of the Lost rolled into one! Acting-wise, I'd say it's no better than either show--even if it did star Peter Cushing.So is the film worth seeing? Well, yes AND no. No if you happen to want to watch a good film! But yes if you could use a good laugh and can turn off your brain and enjoy all the silliness--and there is plenty to go round in this one! By the way, this is the last film of Amicus Productions--and considering the quality of At the Earth's Core, I can see why. "},{"Title":"A fair rendition of a E.R. Burroughs story","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  OK, so this isn't a great movie, but I rather liked it when I first saw it back in the late seventies. It is a fair rendition of an old Edgar Rice Burroughs pulp novel, and may be worth watching for that reason. "},{"Title":"Explorers bore into an underground world","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  During the early 1970s, the non-Tarzan works of Edgar Rice Burroughs were unexpectedly optioned by producers seeking to create several new fantasy films.Three of these were released in a comparatively short time -- THE AND THAT TIME FORGOT, THE PEOPLE THAT TIME FORGOT and AT THE EARTH'S CORE. All three starred the late Doug McClure and fell into the category of light entertainment. They were typified by simplistic effects, and a general feeling that production was rushed, in order to simply get something into the theater ASAP.Being essentially adventure films with science-fiction touches, the requisite special effects work was far beneath that the ad campaigns suggested (even the dreary WHERE TIME BEGAN had somewhat better effects than CORE, and much of LAND was built around a floppy rubber pterodactyl.Of these three titles, CORE possesses the most atmosphere in that it is presented as a period piece, evidently set at the close of the 1800s. This lends the film a certain charm, particularly in the design of the bizarre Mole, poised ready to bury itself in the bowels of the Earth.The film also shines as a showcase for Peter Cushing who was clearly slumming in a role which was far beneath his usual from the Hammer era. As he frequently did in lesser films, Cushing played about with the role and emerged with something far better than might have been expected from a less talented and inventive actor.Would-be adventurer David Innes (McClure) has financed eccentric inventor Professor Abner Perry's (Peter Cushing in another of his amusingly conceived character roles) manned excavator, the Iron Mole. Innes hopes that, aside from getting away from it for a while, he can find untapped resources beneath the surface of the Earth. After a little preparation, the duo blast off for inner space.They arrive at the by-now familiar primordial cavern-world, filled with dinosaurs, primitive savages, and the delicious Carolyn Monroe as a local princess. The trio face off against winged creatures who dominate the underworld, eventually winning through by a mixture of bravado and genuine courage.Though not remotely an effective adventure film, and suffering badly in the face of the computer generated effects which were just beginning to spring into the movies at this time, CORE works best when accepted simply as a fun romp. Cushing, in particular, steals the show as Perry -- using props (something he became noted for in his work to flesh out occasionally one-note characters) and exhibiting an unexpected fighting spirit.An 8 out of 10 for sheer fun value "},{"Title":"core values","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" At the Earth's Core, as far as I could tell, was deliberately trying to be sort of corny. Portraying two scientists - a tough young American (Doug McClure) and a kindly old Englishman (Peter Cushing) - tunneling down into the earth and encountering a society ruled by weird beings, there does actually seem to be an allusion to the real world, given how the beings in control have limited brain power and rule only because they have the weapons (sound familiar, people?).So, the movie's nothing really special. Mainly one of those sci-fi flicks from the '70s (meaning that the special effects look silly by today's standards) that now works best if we want to be nostalgic for the Me Decade. But make no mistake about it, this is a pretty cool movie. Worth seeing.So why would his status as a Brit deprive them of the ability to mesmerize him? "},{"Title":"We've been on top of the Earth long enough, it's about time we found out what's underneath Entertaining fantasy adventure.","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" At the Earth's Core begins in a Victorian factory. It moulds special steel parts as workers assemble a strange machine to Dr. Abner Perry's (Peter Cushing) specific blueprints. Dr Perry has designed & created what he describes as a 'high calibration drilling machine', a machine that he hopes will bore it's way to the centre of the Earth. The day of it's maiden voyage has arrived, the machine nicknamed 'the iron mole' by it's pilot David Innes (Doug McClure), is taken to a hill somewhere in Wales & Dr. Perry plans to burrow through it to the other side. At first things go well but the machine becomes uncontrollable & both David & Abner lose consciousness. Eventually they come round & discover that they have burrowed to the very core of the Earth where they are shocked to find a whole new world named Pellucidar. It's a prehistoric world full of tribes & monsters, a world where the darkness of night never falls. After an encounter with a large monster that has a parrot's head but the body of a reptile Abner & David are captured by a race known as the Sagoth, humanoid type creatures with pig like facial features. The Sagoth are controlled by the Mahar, a race of intelligent, telepathic flying reptile things that rule Pellucidar with the help of the Sagoth. They capture humans & enslave them making them work, the Mahar's also like to eat pretty young girls which doesn't go down that well. When David & Abner discover what the Mahar's are up to they decide to help out the people of Pellucidar by leading a rebellion & hopefully freeing them from their evil forever. To complicate things even more David falls for a Princess named Dia (Caroline Munro) but others want her as well including a dodgy guy named Hoojah the Sly One (Sean Lynch) & a fat bloke named Jubal the Ugly One (Micheal Crane), David has to watch his back as if it's not flying telepathic birds & prehistoric monsters trying to eat him he's getting agro from jealous cavemen...Directed by Kevin Connor At the Earth's Core was the second in a quartet of similar themed films from the British production company Amicus, the first was The Land that Time Forgot (1974), then came this, the third was The People that Time Forgot (1977) & finally concluded with Warlords of Atlantis (1978) all starred Doug McClure & were directed by Connor. The script for At the Earth's Core by Milton Subotsky, based on the novel by Edgar Rice Burroughs of the same name, was very entertaining. It moves along like a rocket, we're at the Earth's core & seeing monsters within the first fifteen minutes & generally speaking the film carries on at a great pace. Luckily it never seems to take itself too seriously. It contains likable characters, good action adventure elements, the obligatory monsters & even has time to chuck in a bit of romance. However, I could have done without the mushy sentimentality at the end. A lot of people seem to criticise the special effects in At the Earth's Core & to be fair they ain't all that hot but they add a certain charm & personality to the film overall. I quite liked the monsters in this actually, from the Mahar's to the giant fire breathing frog creature. Just forget about the obvious wire work or the silly man in a rubber monster suit trying to walk menacingly, sit back & enjoy, you never know you might have some fun as I did. The production design was impressive, Pellucidar looks quite good with it's purple sky & jungle landscapes with it's bizarre plants, giant mushroom's & the City of the Mahar's with it's underground caverns & flowing lava. I also really liked the look of the drilling machine, both inside & out. The acting is OK, I'm a huge Cushing fan & think he's a great actor & I really liked him in this. Cushing plays Abner with a goofy charm, referring to the Sagoth as 'unpleasent characters' or when faced with a rampaging monster he says 'yes, it does seem a somewhat aggressive looking creature' or when the Mahar's try to control him he comments 'you can't mesmerise me, I'm British!'. McClure makes for a decent hero & Munro is fine, if a little underused, as the love interest & again there's a great bit when Dia says 'it's Jubal the Ugly One' to which McClure replies after seeing him 'you can say that again'. Personally I like this type of 'lost world' film & At the Earth's Core is a good example of the genre. On the down side the special effects do hurt it at the end of the day as it's sometimes a little hard to keep a straight face & the film definitely loses some credibility because of it. I also thought that there was a little too much walking around in caves which did start to become annoying, the fact that except for McClure nobody else has that much screen time & I didn't understand the explanation given for the Mahar's power. Overall I think At the Earth's Core is a good Saturday morning fantasy adventure film with a little bit of romance thrown in for good measure that's suitable for all ages, all that's left to say is that bad special effects don't automatically make for a bad film just as the opposite is true. "},{"Title":"Monsters look ridiculous and are laughable.","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" 'At the Earth's Core' is a fun sci-fi adventure movie in a lost underground world. The movie starts off pretty good and it makes you think that this is going to be a very impressive movie. Things quickly go down hill. Pardon the pun. Inside this underground world the travelers encounter humans that speak perfect English. No one in the film seems surprised by this in the least. Then there are the encounters with monsters. All of the monsters look ridiculous and are laughable. They really are very poorly done. It takes a lot away from the movie. The underground scenery isn't bad but could have been better. The acting is good but the plot has a lot of problems. A lot of the situations are just not believable and little or no explanations are given for them. 'At the Earth's Core' has to be watched entirely as a fun movie. Nothing can be taken too seriously or critically. Watching it that way, it can be an OK movie. "},{"Title":"What was Peter Cushing on?","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Compared to director Kevin Connor's later ARABIAN ADVENTURE, this is a masterpiece. However, that's not saying much. In fact, AT THE EARTH'S CORE is a silly fantasy adventure in which Peter Cushing - who appears to be on something strong - and some other actor (whom I don't know) use a giant digging machine called the Iron Mole dig their way down to the Earth's core - only to find that the inside of the Earth is pink and populated by ape-like creatures who have enslaved the humans. There's also a giant bird that controls the apes by means of telepathy, and we get to see it blink its eyes in closeup throughout the film. Most importantly, Cushing and what's-his-name also encounter the lovely Caroline Munro in the subterranean caves. And here's what I've really got against this little flick why oh why is it that whenever Munro's in a movie, she only gets approx. 5 minutes of screen time? In THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, MANIAC, DRACULA AD 1972, GOLDEN VOYAGE OF SINBAD - always she's in the background! How can Kevin Connor possibly think that we'd rather listen to Peter Cushing's fake accent and look at some ridiculous ape-man whose voice sounds like a scratched cd than gaze at the beautiful Munro? I don't get it. Please, somebody direct a movie where this English brunette is on-screen all the time!  "}{"Title":"Disappointing british adventure","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Mildly entertaining and self consciously cheezy -- but what else could it possibly be?  Cushing in one of his poorest roles, and he often sounds dubbed.  McClure is just too Cheezy to be believed, but who can blame him in the wasteland of this movie whose plot about ancient dinosaur birds ruling humans has 19th Century throwback period charm, but not enough and unfortunately the script carries the racist connotations of the literary genre into films.  Nice effort from the actors, but a poorly conceived production. "},{"Title":"like all films in this genre, it stunk","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A brilliant professor and his sidekick journey to the center of the earth in a huge machine which screws its way to the core. There, naturally, they find all kinds of things that are intent on killing and eating them. Plus, of course, a love interest for the young sidekick. Ho hum, does the plot never take a different tack?   "},{"Title":"Enjoyably tacky fantasy rubbish","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Rugged David Innes (solid Doug McClure) and doddery Dr. Abner Perry (a delightfully dotty Peter Cushing) drill their way into the earth's core in their spiffy mole machine. The duo discover an ancient prehistoric world populated by dangerous gigantic beasts and human beings who are used as both food and slaves by evil telepathic pterodactyl men. Director Kevin Conner, working from a blithely silly script by Milton Subotsky, maintains a constant brisk pace throughout and treats the exceptionally foolish premise with astonishing seriousness, thereby giving this picture a certain clunkily earnest quality that's amusing and endearing in equal measure. The lovably hokey (not so) special effects are quite (unintentionally) funny. The cheesy array of cut-price creatures in particular are positively sidesplitting cruddy guys-in-obvious-shoddy-rubber-suits pterodactyl men, equally rinky-dink savage ape-man brutes, and a hilariously ludicrous fire-belching frog thing who blows up real good. One gut-busting highlight occurs when McClure mixes it up with a fat and clumsy giant reptile. Another priceless scene depicts a dinosaur clutching a doll in its slavering jaws. Moreover, we also get some rousing rough'n'ready fisticuffs and an exciting climactic slave revolt. It's a total treat to see Cushing gleefully ham it up in a rare broad comedic part and become an unlikely, but enthusiastic arrow-slinging action hero in the last third of the flick. The ever-luscious Caroline Munro looks positively yummy as the fetching Princess Dia, plus there are nice supporting turns by Cy Grant as gallant warrior Ra and Sean Lynch as treacherous coward Hoojah. Mike Vickers' neatly varied score alternates between jaunty orchestral music and wonky droning synthesizer stuff. Alan Hume's crisp cinematography adds a glossy sheen to the infectiously inane proceedings. A complete campy riot. "},{"Title":"A fair rendition of a E.R. Burroughs story","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  OK, so this isn't a great movie, but I rather liked it when I first saw it back in the late seventies. It is a fair rendition of an old Edgar Rice Burroughs pulp novel, and may be worth watching for that reason. "},{"Title":"Attack of the shitty rubber suits!","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" HAHAHAHAHA!! That's the mindset you have to take when you watch this film! It is absolutely laughable!! For so many reasons too.. the awful rubber monster suits! The pterodactyl swooping on the enthralled female slaves!! The 'chocks away' conquering British spirit! And wasn't it lucky that the human slaves in Pellucidar spoke English? In saying that, this is a good film to watch to kill some time on a Saturday morning or something. I definitely would not recommend that you spend time watching this when there are more important things to do, like washing the dog.Entertaining, but avoidable. Does that make sense? Mr Peter Cushing, I thank you. This was by no means your most memorable role, and I take satisfaction that you will always be remembered for work greater than this. "},{"Title":"Makes Plan 9 from Outer Space look like The Wizard of Oz","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is by far the tackiest Edgar Rice Burrough's adaptation I have ever seen and one of the worst movies ever made. The dinosaurs bear no resemblance to anything that could have ever existed above or below ground and instead look like something an insane Japanese producer chucked into the dumpster. The sound effects the guards make are shrill and basically sound like a nauseous dial-up modem.The garish,hallucinogenic colors are out of place in what is supposed to be a Victorian fantasy, not a bad episode of Star Trek. Peter Cushing, who excelled as a vampire at Hammer Studios is wasted in this tepid effort and clearly looks dissatisfied with his wan co-star,Doug McClure who made a career of starring in trashy adaptations of classic sci-fi novels. If you're looking for watchable AIP sci-fi from the same year see Food of the Gods instead and pitch this rotten Core into the disposal.  "},{"Title":"Cushing's Magnum 'Opeless.","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There is something about Doug McLure's appearance in a movie that is a warranty of wretchedness. His DG initials are like a special cinema-certification, that comes somewhere before 'U'. Cushing, on the other hand, seemed to suffer from both a dilatory agent and poor judgement of his own. He did excellent work in the Hammer movies as Dr Van Helsing. I'v seen him do a very passable Sherlock Holmes in 'Hound Of The Baskervilles'. And his magnum opus was probably Grand Moff Tarkin in the first 'Star Wars'. The only man but the emperor who could tell Darth Vadar to 'stop bickering' and get away with it. But - crikey! - he's done some turkeys. There was that lamentable 'Daleks' movie for one. And here's another.There's a machine that's been hijacked from Tracy Island. It's a cylinder with a screw at the front and traction devices at the sides. I'm surprised Jerry Anderson didn't sue for plagiarism. Maybe he was bought-off. Yet if the movie is any guide, they can't have paid him much.It's 1976 and we're still playing about in latex romper-suits. That's about it really. Some movies have an entertainment value in the 'so bad it's good' category. This one doesn't even manage that. It wouldn't even entertain kids. 'Crash Corrigan's' stuff from the 1930's has got more going for it. "},{"Title":"A hollow Core","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's amazing to think that this movie came out only one year before Star Wars but seems a million years behind it in sophistication and special effects. Actually, the art direction and set design (nice Victorian space ship) aren't bad; it's the monster costumes that are the most laughable, resembling the guy in a rubber suit monsters from the LOST IN SPACE TV show. The evil cave-man makeup reminded me of some of the aliens from ancient TWILIGHT ZONE reruns.The script is stilted, and outside of Peter Cushing's comic relief the acting is pretty miserable too. This movie is only recommended if you really enjoy bad kitschy SF. And the music...yikes! A horrible 70s experiment with synthesizers that doesn't fit the time period of the film and which sounds like someone rambling with a Minimoog and a 2-track tape machine. "},{"Title":"there i am","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There I am sitting at home in the morning, suddenly my brother flips on what appears to be the stupidest looking movie i have ever seen. Considering it was the 70's and special effects weren't to sharpe, this movie just about equaled the definition of crap. The stupid monsters, the stupid story line, and the stupid setting made this the worst movie I have ever seen. So bad in fact I didnt even finish it, I made it up to a certain point then proceeded to see how long I could go without putting a rope around my neck and hanging myself. (im just kidding haha) AWFUL MOVIE "},{"Title":"Fascinating rock structure David!","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is just about one of the dumbest things I've ever seen. Maybe not a worst movie ever contender, but if you haven't seen that many bad ones, this could easily make your Top Ten Worst List. When you consider what was achieved in 1933 with the original King Kong, you've got to ask yourself why anyone would stoop so low as to produce this debacle. Then, taking it one step further and realizing that the quantum leap to Star Wars the following year achieved a new level in sci-fi entertainment, this offering will make you laugh and cry at the same time.Now let me ask you, what would possess the Professor (Peter Cushing) to bring along an umbrella as a prime piece of subterranean research equipment for the ride to the earth's core? OK, so it was useful in fending off the parrot/tyrannosaur (parrotosaurus?) in the early going, but come on. Somehow I don't think this is what Edgar Rice Burrough's had in mind when he wrote his tales of Pellucidar. He probably didn't have Caroline Munro in mind either as Princess Dia, probably the only redeeming factor to this whole escapade.At least there was one bit of pseudo-scientific explanation that I got a kick out of; I'm always looking for one in films like this. That would have to be how the sky at the earth's core was really the underside of the earth's crust, explaining that ethereal pinkish glow. But try as it might, the story just couldn't hook me in a way to find anything at all interesting about Hoojah the Sly One or Jubal the Ugly One, much less those goofy half man, half pterodactyl creatures. To paraphrase the good professor - You cannot mesmerize me, I'm paying attention! "}{"Title":"passable mediocre fantasy","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film is barely passable and mediocre. McClure looks more gummy-faced and wooden than ever. His tough boy combat bits are just hilarious; too bad he was either taking himself seriously or badly in need of a paycheck. I have seen many films starring Peter Cushing, and i have always praised his acting skills & his characters, way above B movies he typically starred in. This is an exception. His portrayal of a sclerotic/eccentric aging scientist goes over one's head (and on one's nerves ) fast...really fast. This said, in spite of opening credits, Cushing is hardly a star there are many characters pivoting around McClure. SFX are passable to laughable, making earliest Japanese monster movies look like true art. Telepathic giant parrots pull the strings of a subhuman tribe (=morons wearing poorly made prosthetics with a pig's nose ) that enslaves humans. Parrots eat hotties then. The prehistoric sets aren't all that bad, but it is CLEARLY seen we're dealing with limited studio sets, much like same age SPACE 1999 and not with open air sets. Acting is negligible; Cushing gets on my nerves and McClure seems to forget he isn't starring ALAMO or BEN HUR or ENTER THE DRAGON but some low-budget niche movie whose villains are men in a giant parrot's suit. Caroline Munro is very sexy and nice. Worth watching only once. "},{"Title":"The coup de grace of a genre","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Of all the E.R.Burroughs screen adaptations that Doug McClure starred in the 70s, this is the stagiest of all. It's so stagy, you can taste the dust of the sets and feel the heath of the lamps above. The thing looks like a very, very big budget school play, or indeed, a very very low budget action movie, which it actually is. It's been said on many occasions that this was the last of the genre entries, and I do hope it was. The genre didn't die peacefully, but in horrible agony, amidst a lot of smoke, fake blood and lousy sound effects. Peter Cushing must have felt a boy again, as a nutty professor whose shirt stays white as snow after the gentlemen has dragged himself through the slimy crap-holes of the Underworld. What a sport he was, to accept a part in this mishmash and carry it so bravely.Shot entirely on a sound stage and accompanied by then trendy, now unbearable synthesizer soundtrack, the main anti-attraction of this film are the cardboard monsters. Yes, there are always monsters like that in a Burroughs adaptation, but they rarely manage to be so completely ridiculous, helpless or void of any credibility. On a few occasions, during the elevated action-combat scenes where Mr McClure heroically attacks the creatures, you can almost hear the empty, hollow sound as his head bangs against the side of a triplodactocryptosaurus. Fortunately, the animals explode and go up in flames the minute they trip and fell over. Indeed, there is a great deal of unmotivated exploding as the film (and the genre) draws towards the finale. And lovely Miss Munroe loses her underworldly accent.The triple bill, currently on the market, features this film plus two others - The Land That Time Forgot and The War Lords Of Atlantis. The first two are quite strong entries, especially the first one, with a lot of money invested and occasionally even fascinating script turns. Don't expect any of these qualities from this film. Get drunk with pals and laugh shamelessly at what you see. After all, the makers didn't have any shame either. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous monsters and weak scenario","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Why is impossible to write in french ? Very Kitch! This journey in the center of the earth is despicable technical possibilities nevertheless current in 1976. These big Casimir of monsters is completely ridiculous! The film deserve however a remake, as was KING KONG (the last one), with a little more supplied scenario. The professor has resemblances with the Professor Calculus and is rather funny. David (the character) is enough inconsistent but cross(spend) to the people from below a good message  you unite and will overcome you!  Altogether we would say a film made in the 40s. Now that I said everything (or almost) the evil of which i thought of it, we can say that if we have the brain get tired or anything has to see of the other one, then the thing(matter) is even rather entertaining. Hugh! Such is my opinion! (translating French to English with Reverso  sorry for possible mistakes !) "}]