[{"Title":"Overshadowed by the pointless art versus porn debate!","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"127 out of 155 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  'Empire Of The Senses' is one of the least seen and much debated movies of the Seventies. Least seen because in many countries, including the one I live in, it has been banned, or only available in censored versions for many years. This movie divides people - those that like it hail it as ART, those that don't dimiss it snobbishly as PORN. Both camps are fooling themselves! 'Empire Of The Senseless' is BOTH. Is it serious? Yes. Is it voyeuristic and prurient? Yes. Is it a masterpiece? Not quite. Is it worth watching? Very much so. In fact I'd say it was essential viewing for anyone interested in extreme or taboo-breaking movies. The Seventies were the decade where the boundaries of screen sex, violence and disturbing imagery were repeatedly stretched. Peckinpah's 'Straw Dogs' and 'Bring Me The Head Of Alfredo Garcia', Bertolucci's 'Last Tango In Paris', Scorsese's 'Taxi Driver', Kubrick's 'A Clockwork Orange',were all milestones, and the the art movies of Herzog, Warhol, Pasolini, and Jodorowsky battled it out with the horror and exploitation of Russ Meyer, Dario Argento, John Waters,and David Cronenberg. Add to that the unexpected crossover success of 'Deep Throat' and the very existence of shockers like 'Ilse, She Wolf Of The SS' and 'Cannibal Holocaust', and what do you get? The artificial and meaningless divisions of genres, high art vs trash, new ways of thinking vs new ways of making money, it was all on the table. For one brief decade it looked like a brave new world.Then everything that was gained was lost - Spielberg and Simpson/Bruckheimer cleaned up (financially and aesthetically), and things have never been the same since. Watch 'Empire Of The Senseless' with that in mind. It may be flawed - you'll be alternatively fascinated and bored - but it is an important movie from an important period in movie history. "},{"Title":"Get Over It","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"82 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It's clear that a lot of people can't get past the explicitness of this film, which is a shame. I recall a lot of embarrassed giggling last time I saw it at the cinema. The art/pornography debate seems futile to me - this is a film about an obsessive sexual relationship/love affair and it tells it like it is. But it's about as far away from the likes of Debbie Does Dallas 26 as you can get. The film is clearly serious in intent and there is a lot of beauty in it. The subtle political content/context of the film is often overlooked - some of the few scenes shot outside the bedroom show groups of soldiers marching the other way from the direction our characters travel - and we all know where the rising Japanese militarism and nationalism of the 1930's led.I think the best comparison is probably with a film like Last Tango in Paris which dealt with similar themes in a similar way - and was probably also pretty boring for those with a short attention span. "},{"Title":"Well, if nothing else, it has guts...","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"84 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Sure, everyone (or most everyone) has heard about Sex, Lies, and Videotape and its remarkable statement about human sexuality.  However, it is unlikely that as many people have heard about this film, which in a totally different way makes perhaps as profound a statement about that topic.In fact, if you see an uncut version of this film, you are in essence watching pornography.  That is, you are watching incredibly graphic sexual content that simply would not be allowed in an American film.  I won't spell it out for you, but I will say this...do you know what they can't show you in American movies?  This one shows that.  And quite a bit more.  This is not the type of sex you would see in a film like Sex, Lies, and Videotape or Bliss or some of the other decent American films about sex (though I can't think of any others).  This is more like the sex shown in Last Tango in Paris.  The characters are so self-destructive and dangerous that the sex (one of the most inherent of all human practices) becomes an expression of their inhumanity.  This is not easy stuff.  But if you are willing to find an uncut version and experience the true power of this film, you may find yourself moved by the things you see.This film blurs the line between pornography and art, and I believe that it stays one inch to the art side, but decide for yourself.  Either way, I think that it is about time for American films to truly explore that distinction. "},{"Title":"Very sophisticated indeed","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"53 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Vague spoilersSada and Ishida share a passion for sex. She (Sada) is the aggressive one, possessive and inflammatory. He is relaxed and submissive, soaking it all up like an opium addict. Indeed, as they gradually spiral into depravity and self-destruction, the whole thing looks not unlike a drug addiction.The film exercises the mind rather than the body &#150; so yes, it's art. Is the sex meant to cause arousal? Sada looks sultry during the sex scenes &#150; the pouting lips and dangling hair make it look attractive. Indeed, would there be any point in depicting it graphically if was meant to be dull? Nobody likes dry sex. On the other hand, neither does it play like a porno movie. The sex is intense rather than intimate, and often has disturbing undertones. Various onlookers who witness the couple's performance remain unconcerned at the sight of it. The sex therefore arouses the viewers' senses rather than the libido. This makes it a very sophisticated film indeed.Whether it is immoral is, as usual, a subjective issue. Many will think so, many will not. A more useful debate is whether graphic sex is necessary to the story. Well, probably not. Other approaches may be just as effective. However, then it would be a different film and you probably wouldn't be here reading this now. Oshima knew that the gruesome fascination of the actual act would keep the film vital, and this amount of simulated sex would have been dreary indeed.So then, is it successful? Well, partly. Once we have grasped that the film is a focused approach to a monomania, it is not difficult to become immersed in it. On the other hand, sex is essentially a repetitive thing and the film frequently finds itself on the rocks of repetition. But Oshima does not compromise, despite that he must know that each new scene is apt to bring forth a slight groan. This is not to say that the director suffered a major lapse of judgment, but probably most people would admit that substituting some of these scenes for others that provide more depth to the characters and their lives would have helped the narrative enormously.It does largely hang together. Sada's descent into 'realm of the senses' (or the 'bullring of love' as the title may be read in Japanese) is depicted with perfect force and clarity. One does not doubt the couple are very much in love. Also, Sada's outrageous sexual appetite is genuine in an early enigmatic scene she offers herself to a tramp, showing both her sexual 'sympathy' as well as her perverse tastes. The tramp is no match for her however, and his own member is cowed into submission. The first hint of her power.When Sada is not having sex with Ishida (which is not often) she is in bed with a client, an old intellectual. Here she learns to connect sex with pain as an extension of her mental torment in missing her lover. Later, with Ishida, pain becomes an extension and an enhancement of sex itself.Things then start to get bizarre. Sada dips food into her vagina before feeding it to Ishida while a geisha sits close by playing a shamisen. She makes him have sex with an old woman &#150; Ishida cannot resist the challenge &#150; and the conflicting emotions of horror and fascination that play on her face as she looks on is one of the most stunning scenes of the film. Eventually, even the geishas begin to scorn the couple's never-ending frolicking. This is a warning that all is not well, and the couple deal with it characteristically she becomes aggressive, he laughs it off. However, we are now on a judgemental path. Things become increasingly intense and claustrophobic as the couple gradually experiment deeper and deeper in their ecstasy. Once they have reached the extremity of life, they start to flirt with death.Ishida is the more complex character, urbanely playing along with Sada's demands while sometimes showing just a hint of doubt and restraint. Passion for him has a tender side (he says the old woman reminded him of his mother) and he gradually reveals a fatalism that suggests a vague depression. Finally, he yields himself completely to the Sada's suffocating passion which leads to his (now inevitable) destruction.The role of children in the film, although slight, is perhaps unnecessary and regrettable, and the ending is marred by an abrupt stentorian voice-over which gives the impression that the film suddenly considers itself to be a documentary. Overall, however, this is an intense, beautifully made motion picture which craves indulgence and patience but is very rewarding, if only out of its sheer uniqueness.For a film which contains 90% fornication, there is plenty to think about.  "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking and unique. Yet strangely forgotten.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"54 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It has been described as the Japanese Last Tango in Paris- a fair comparison. For both films explore in a truly raw and puissant manner the sexuality and psychology of sex. Ai No Corrida is an overwhelming experience, if for nothing else than its sheer audacity. But Corrida is so much more than sex. It delves into a shrouded netherworld of experimentation and pain. The world of De Sade.Yet it is not turgid or depraved; it is not repugnant or diabolical. It is a poetic voyage into the unknown. It is about the search for pure fulfillment and pleasure. Nothing else in the world presented matters, reality is discarded. And thus the cause for the tragedy which ensues.The two protagonists separate themselves from all that is real for they know that to find true happiness they must transcend all levels of reality and consciousness to a mighty plane. But such a place is transient. Yet the few glorious moments in such a world are worth any heartache that follows.It was a film ahead of its time and I believe that it is still. The sparse few in the audience snickering and snorting confirmed this. It is one of those films whose reputation has preceded it and is so well known in Arthouse circles that disappointment may be said to be inevitable. But this film lives up to its reputation. For it is a truly explicit and daring film as it challenges the common perception that happiness is conformity. It proposes that true happiness is unobtainable in this world and to gain it you must sacrifice the flesh, to forward and improve the soul.Yet this film made twenty-four years ago has been forgotten in the industry for where is its influence, its mark? Few films have used pornography in such a way since. And sex is still relegated to the flea-pit cinemas and backstreet shops. Arthouse films which depict sex, even those which do so explicitly, present it as the result of the character's exploration or development. As a curiosity, or as symbolic of the ascension of a particular player. Corrida uses sex to forward the plot, to illustrate the personalities of its protagonists, to symbolize everything in their fragile society. Sex is the plot development, sex is the key player and sex is the message. The sex takes centre stage. Each new scene is the result of sex, not vice versa.This truly original concept has never taken hold. Why not? Surely the Arthouse circuit would realize the potential and milk it dry. And yet Corrida and a handful of others are the only films to take advantage.This is why Ai No Corrida is a masterpiece. The acting, the direction, script etc... are all brilliant. But the ideas and concepts and invention are what makes Corrida one of the most superb films ever made. A film unknown except to those in the Arena. A film which took no hold, was as distant and mysterious as the world it depicted. A fleeting landmark that should have shook the world; but, maybe rightly, will always remain a forgotten treasure.  "},{"Title":"Good!!","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Nagisa Oshima has achieved what few other directors have managed in dealing with the very touchy subject of sex, in this instance, with sexual obsession. If you plan to watch this movie for a cheap sexual thrill, you will be most disappointed. Oshima has drawn from a real incident reported in a 1936 Japanese newspaper. The film centers around the love between two people expressed physically, graphically, into realms of the senses where few dare to tread. And with good reason. This is a very intense film as it progresses from the attraction of two people through increasing experimentation in an effort not only to express their passion but to try to find the outer most limits of passion itself. Oshima must have had something metaphorical in mind but the journey as chronicled in the film also has retained the feel of the specifics. It's quirkey and eccentric. The backdrop of the story is as interesting as the story itself. It is an amazing spectacle to observe, giving the viewer a perspective on Japanese life not usually rendered but often alluded to in some historical accounts. One wonders what this experience must have been like for the actors. Oshima has managed what I have always believed should be done in order to treat the subject of sex fully and without shrinking from its' less savory aspects. This is serious minded erotica and quite unlike anything else on screen. The only other film I can recall that compares at all is Taxi Zum Klo which was autobiographical and starred a number of actual people playing themselves.Obviously a different catagory in that regard from what is going on here, but both films draw much of their power from explicitly sexual scenes without compromising the integrity of the story being told. This is a film experience that should not be missed. "},{"Title":"A story about sexual obsession.","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"37 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie was quite a shocker when my friend and I rented it a few years back. It was clear from the first explicit sex scene that this movie was going to be different from the types of movies my friend and I were generally used to. After having viewed it recently again, and this time focusing more on the intrinsic value of the film rather than just on the shocking images alone like I had the first time I viewed it, I was surprised to find a dark, disturbing psychological drama about sexual obsession that really held my interest.  It is interesting to note how the male and female leads, who both seem emotionally sterile to the world around them and are barely communicative towards one another in the traditional and normal sense, are inseparably bonded by a strange and sexual attraction they have for eachother. It is a fatal attraction of the darkest kind I've ever witnessed in a movie.  This movie is definitely not for all tastes or who are easily offended by graphic scenes of sex. But for those adventurous souls looking for something different and interesting, I recommend this film. Nagisa Oshima's other films of interest are Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence and the recent Taboo.  "},{"Title":"It is one of the most gripping films to have ever handled sexual obsession&#133;","Date":"3 October 2008","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In the realm of Senses is so wonderfully plotted and expertly acted that it almost has a dream-like effect&#133; It's an erotic fantasy turned nightmare&#133; It is the story of a sexual relationship between a young Japanese couple&#133; At first lustful and erotic, they can't get enough&#133; However, their experiments in sensationalism end in tragedy&#133; The film is flavored with strange yet genuinely humorous moments&#133; For example, an older lady chance upon the lovers, and&#151;for the fun of it&#151;the young man initiates a ménage à trois&#133; The incident proves to be so exhilarating that the old woman dies from exhaustion... The scene is played with such vivacity and intensity that&#151;despite the fatal outcome&#151;it does have a strange humorous overtone to it&#133; Director Nagisa Oshima developed with great care all the minor details of this affair without ever becoming overbearing or intending to teach... "},{"Title":"a film about unhealthy sexual obsession","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"30 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film brought down boundaries with the U.K.censors.  This film was finally passed by the British censors in the early 90's.  It explores every aspect of unhealthy sexual obsession.  From being clingy to someone, to being bored with someone to the extent that you try to excite the situation with dangerous actions i.e. strangulation games.  Performance wise the film is first rate, especially the performance from Tatsuya Fuji, probably giving the performance of his life.  Director Nagisa Oshima is a man,even to this day,who is not afraid of controversey.  His latest film Gohatto(Taboo)is testament to that,focusing on gay samurai,which is a controversial subject in itself.  In the Realm of the Senses is a very rarely seen film.  If you ever get the chance to check it out, do so.  It is an unforgettable and shocking experience. "},{"Title":"One of the most extraordinary films I have ever seen","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" There is nothing in cinema that I can think of that compares to In The Realm Of The Senses. It is in a class of its own beautiful, tender, sensual, erotic, horrifying. I can still remember the shock of seeing it perhaps twenty years ago not just at the explicitness of the images, in every sense, but at the extraordinary passion and honesty of the two central performances, and Oshima's direction.Despite the violent nature of the film, and the fact that it is based on a true event, I cannot think of another film that so truly captures the intensity of any emotional and sexual relationship at some point in its incarnation. If you have ever felt love and desire at their most powerful - the wish not to possess someone, but to become part of them and share with them how they experience the world - then you will recognize that feeling here. While certainly not a map for any relationship you might wish to have (I pray!), this film says more about what it means to be a man or woman than any other film I have seen. "}{"Title":"Fantastic erotic cinema -- not for the weak","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"29 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I'd been wanting to see this film for a long time, and I was honestly quite shocked by the explicit nature of the film -- it's sex, sex, and more sex. However, that's not all there is.  This is a stylized re-telling of a true story of a disastrous, obsessive love relationship that culminated in the murder and mutilation of one of the partners.  It explores the concept of sexual obsession as an expression of love far more fully and interestingly than any American film I've ever seen, and certainly is far more interesting than your usual modern X-rated flick.  The actors, lighting, composition, etc. are all superb.  "},{"Title":"The Bullring of Love","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  By now everyone knows this film is about a sexually-obsessed woman who strangles and then cuts off her lover's willie (the extent to which her lover shared in the extremity of her obsession is somewhat debatable...).  That notwithstanding, the film is well-acted, visually stylish, and manages to convey a genuine feeling for the passion which drove the characters.  It's also succinct (at 96 minutes) and has some fabulous sex scenes.As others have commented, the real-life case of 'Abe Sada' (Abe is the family name) was very well known in Japan, occurring as it did almost 40 years before Oshima made this film.  There are at least two other cinematic versions of the events.  If anything, reality was even a bit stranger than fiction in the real-life case Abe was arrested whilst carrying around the severed member in her kimono sash.  I saw a photograph of her once, taken just after her arrest you have never seen a more haunted-looking woman.The original Japanese title of the film is 'Ai no Corrida,'  'Ai' means 'love', but, interestingly, 'Corrida' is not a Japanese word at all it's a Spanish word meaning 'dash' 'sprint' or 'spurt', and is most often used in the expression 'Corrida de Toros' -- i.e. bullfight -- strongly alluding to the brutal (and inevitable) death of the bull at the end.  This puts quite a different complexion on the theme of the film than does the Western distributor's title of 'In the Realm of the Senses' which seems to imply sensual pleasure which has perhaps unintentionally got out of hand.Oshima's stock-in-trade has always been the 'shocking' film, usually made with the aim of confronting 'bourgeois' sensibilities or an accepted view of society or history.  In the 1960's they were more of the socio-political variety (e.g. 'The Sun's Burial,' 'Cruel Story of Youth'); but the success of this film firmly added the sexual element to his repertoire; you can see this continues even up to the recent film 'Gohatto.'  In my mind, however, 'Ai no Corrida' is the only one of his films that really works.  "},{"Title":"Oshima's Gift *some spoilers*","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Nagisa Oshima is one of the greatest, if not the greatest, talents Japan has ever produced. Disgusted with boundaries and all forms of repression, his films find humanity in the most extreme situations and the evocation of the most extreme human emotions the brutality of POW camps in Merry Christmas Mr. Lawrence, the nihilism of hoodlums in Cruel Story of Youth. His gift, the ability to look without judgement, has allowed him to be one of the most consistent and interesting voices of the last 40 years. Ai no Corrida is another standout in his highly productive career, maybe even the feather in the cap.I'm dissappointed that most reviewers can't look past the sexual content in this film, even its advocates. Everyone simply states their opinion on whether or not it is art or pornography, as if it were some kind of ideological testing ground, an experiment. This is in fact a disservice. Oshima is not interested in pushing buttons. He is not interested in making arguments for or against sex in the cinema. Ai no Corrida is refreshingly liberated from all such considerations it simply is.Based on true events, the story follows the relationship of a nobleman and a mentally unstable servant who falls in love with him. The attraction between them is so strange that soon they are inseperable, in more ways than one. While other servants look on, bringing them food, playing music and even sometimes participating, the two lie naked in bed having almost constant sex.In the hands of a lesser director this would be disaster but Oshima never sensationalizes the material. This is not to say the film is not explicit; it is. It contains perhaps the most explicit sexual images in the history of cinema. However it is all presented with such care and beauty that it makes the viewing of sex and the act itself seem natural.Few films have ever been this intimate. We almost never leave the bedroom. Even as the other servants express disgust or begin to gossip about the couple, so entrenched are we in their world that it phases us even less than it does them. The actors perform their own scenes and everything we see is real. Sada and Kichizo's relationship is physical in a way that few people here could ever understand. In the west we associate love and the development of character with words, but this has never been the case in Asia. For them it less about arousal than a complete need for the other person. By making their bodies one and achieving mutual pleasure they each achieve ultimate knowledge. Language is an afterthought.In fact, I would almost recommend watching Ai no Corida without subtitles. The plain naturalism of the spoken Japanese achieves a kind of unintended camp when put into English text. This aspect is not aided by Argos video's TERRIBLE translation, which feels like it was written+ by a cheap dimestore erotic novelist who has fallen full prey to orientalism. The bare intensity of the performances is spoiled. Words are exaggerated and are in some cases just plain wrong. *spoiler* Even worse, they did not translate the Kanji which is written on Kichizo's body at the end and the way it features prominently into the shot leads me to believe something important has been missed. * end spoiler* Until a better translation is available, you might be better off knowing Japanese before watching this. I have no doubt that many people's anger over this movie is an unintended bi-product of these misguided efforts.Oshima looks on in compassion as the obsession of this couple begins to grow in strange and potentially dangerous ways. Again contrary to what most people have said about the movie, I do not believe it is intended as a morality play. In the west it seems to me that any art which features explicit sex must be seen as a condemnation of that act in order to be accepted. I think Ai no Corrida has something different on its mind. There is a quick but essential scene in which the two discuss their parents Kichizo's mother died when he was very young and Sada was orphaned before she was 3. Here we get a brief glimpse at the pathos beneath their relationship. They are afraid. To let up for even a second is oblivion.To me it seemed as though Sada's final acts were not accidental. I feel there was a mutual acknowledgement of where their relationship was headed and they were both ready for it. These two human beings were already destroyed. They found a brief escape from pain in eachother and enjoyed that escape to its fullest extent, with the knowledge that nothing lasts forever. Though there are moments of madness and cruelty during the escalation of their acts, the ending seems almost matter of fact. It is not performed in the heat of passion but slowly, with an air of regretful inevability, underscored by the use of closeups and Minoru Miki's haunting music.Again, Oshima's gift the ability to find humanity in the strangest of places. Ai no Corrida is not a film which condemns or exploits. Instead it is a profoundly sad, uncathartic evocation of deep loneliness. These two people needed eachother so much that they would rather be consumed by that need than continue normal life in a normal world. Disturbing? Yes, but isn't everything? "},{"Title":"A powerful artistic film about 'the love of love'.","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  These two people representing the extreme examples of the masculine and feminine psyche lovingly devour each other into a downward spiral. The film gives you a voyeuristic look at love, and a couple controlled by it. From the beginning to the end, Oshima paints the emotional, sensually charged roller coaster decent into hell visually without the brakes. The further they pave their sexual adventures the further they travel into the point of no turning back.Both forces essentially fighting till the death or at least holding on for dear life. This film is basically taking love and putting it on heroin. It is showing us the dependency, the loneliness, the pain, the absurdities, the withdrawal, the addiction of it. The film works at desensitizing the senses. This film is forcing us to give our definition of love.The film demands us to look past the themes of the average love story. While the censors are busy looking for their scissors, the film nudges the viewer to begin questioning the definition of love/sex. The director tries to answer with rhetorical questions about the event. What could possess a couple to have sex for a whole week for it only to lead up to a severed penis? How did they get to that point? Wouldn't it have gotten kind of boring after awhile? The actual sex acts shock the average viewer at first yet the longer we stay along for the ride the less we pay attention to it. Is sex about love or is love about sex? Both. Yet I wouldn't call this pornography, nor would I call Hollywood love stories 'love stories'. Pornography implies the act of sex without feelings. This film fails to live up to that definition by showing us more than a small share of emotion behind all the grunts and moans. Sex is merely the background vehicle to this Japanese monster truck of a journey. Oshima wants you to walk away without any doubts at what happened during that week.Getting over the skin of the fruit and right to the juice of it you will find that after digesting it, that this film is essentially a commentary about the bounds of love. Probably tasting something like durian.  "},{"Title":"Erotic movie examines its society","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" With his landmark film The Ceremony, Nagisa Oshima became one of Japanese filmdom's leading social critics as he dissected the logic behind ritual suicide, arranged marriages and other activities considered acceptable 'traditional' behavior. Here he examines the story behind a famous Japanese scandal - a prostitute was found wandering the streets of Tokyo out of her mind following the death of her lover by erotic asphyxiation - in terms of what is considered 'acceptable' Japanese social behavior. The principals engage in obsessive sexual activity, and allow the addictive and dangerous aspects of their relationship to get out of hand precisely BECAUSE it was considered so unhealthy and immoral by Japanese standards. In a society in which all sexual activity is viewed as shameful, shame no longer mediates behavior. Limits become meaningless. The film itself is colorfully made, with excellent period detail and production design, and the actors are attractive. The structure is that of an erotic novel, as game playing, obsession and danger escalate to a fitting point-of-no-return climax. It is much better and more socially relevant than similar American films such as Nine 1/2 Weeks. "},{"Title":"An obsessive tale of love based on a true story","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" ''Ai no corrida'' is a polemic movie that was banned and also censored by many different countries, including the Japan itself, where strict censorship laws would not allow the film to be completed properly, so the the undeveloped footage was shipped to France for processing and editing. The movie is based on a true story that happened in the 30's, where Sada Abe erotically asphyxiated her lover, Kichizo Ishida, during sex, and them cut it out his penis and testicles to walk on streets of Tokyo with his organs in her hand. Many of the sexual scenes between the actors are real, by the way.The plot Abe Sada works as a maid in a hotel. She is an ex prostitute. When Abe meets the hotel owner Kichizo, they begin to have an intense affair, and while the time passes, Abe starts to have an obsessive behavior towards Kichizo to the point that she even threatens to kill him. The things between them are going to reach tragical consequences near the end. "},{"Title":"A Movie That Is Beyond Words.","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In the realm of senses is quite simply a movie like no other. There are simply no words to describe what the movie was like.Without giving away the details, I can say that this movie is about a very obsessive sexual relationship between a man and his servant. So obsessive that they actually don't give a darn about anything that happens. Where their obsession takes them in the end is basically the story of the film. Although the premise seems rather off-beat, the story was handled very well by the director Nagisa Oshima and the actors did a very good job. The art was good and the music was effective enough.The deeper you go into the movie, the deeper the characters go into their sexual unhealthy obsession and the more concerned you become about their fate. This movie is, in NO WAY, a PORNO. You can call it naked art if you want. And yes, the sex was not dry. But who would watch an entire 100 minutes of a movie like this by only focusing on the story? The sex scenes were pretty explicit and real(as in UN-simulated). Still, all of them had their part in the story-telling.Also, one very important point to be considered while trying to interpret this film, if one would want to, is that the story is completely character-driven. Looking at the movie in this perspective helps in a better viewing. The movie goes beyond it's NC-17 rating, but more importantly, the movie goes beyond the day-to-day reality and shows something that is so shocking, so disturbing and so depressing that in the end, you will be left utterly speechless. It is indeed, beyond the realm of senses, showing how related yet far-away, love and sex are.I watched this movie three days ago and it still hasn't left me, quite literally. If not for anything else, watch it for the guts it shows in handling such a daring taboo-breaking subject very well and being very artistic without becoming sleazy and filthy for even one moment.A horribly under-rated masterpiece which only demands an open mind from the user to perform in its fullest. A truly UN-forgettable experience. "},{"Title":"Sublime erotica","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I have just recently rediscovered this film after about ten years and I don't really know why I haven't thought to do so before. In the Realm of The Senses has everything I love about films--hardcore sex, violence, perversion, beauty, and power. It's a simple story, but the characters are complex. It's about love and sex, but it's also about obsession--it's about a dark place inside us that is thirsty for more than what our bodies can perceive. This is a film which is strong enough, I believe, to prove that pornography can be art--although the pornography in question is absolutely tame by today's standards yet there is still some impressive stuff for the jaded.At the heart of In The Realm of the Senses is a bizarre romance. A young servant (Sada) to a wealthy man (Kichizo) seduces him away from his new wife with her stunning youthful beauty and insatiable appetite for constant sex. The two become almost inseparable. Kichi lives to satisfy Sada and her voracious sexual appetite. Sada lives to make Kichi prove his devotion to her in ways that become more extreme as time passes. Her desire turns to outward aggression and domination. Pain mingled with pleasure is something they both toy with, with Kichi receiving more than his fair share of pain. The question in my mind is Is he a masochist? Or is he just that intent on pleasing Sada? This is atypical cinema. Do not expect to come away knowing how you feel about what you just saw. In The Realm... is brilliant though--often disturbing and graphic, sometimes touching, and absolutely sincere throughout. Seeing this is knowing what it feels like to be transported by a film--9/10. "},{"Title":"The best and most intelligent exploration of over the top D&S sexuality between heterosexuals ever made.","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This beautifully made film is a searching, intelligent and artistic exploration of sexual infatuation and then deep erotic love -- but always on the sole plane of sexual union, to the increasing exclusion of all other family and human bonds.This is a powerfully erotic movie.  But it's real power is in its exploration of the nature and power of erotic obsession or at least one major side of it.  (No unrequited love leading to great sacrifice, distant yearning for an ideally beautiful lover ultimately achieved or not, or cold sexual manipulation here.)  The film's erotic power is despite the fact that neither of the lovers is extraordinarily beautiful, although both are quite attractive.  Yes this film is suffused with beautiful images. But it is overwhelming a film about ideas -- but not in the remote, abstract fashion of some Euro-pics, especially of the 70's and 80's variety.  It's a most dramatic and sexually graphic tale.  It can be enjoyed strictly on that level -- though I doubt most Americans who aren't college graduate material would much like it.  Those who are, and are sexually adventurous are likely to truly love it.  It explores deep sexual intensity as being ultimately about control over and surrender to the subject of desire (aka dominance and submission) -- which first the male, and then both, and then the female partner lead in dominating.  All is pursued fearlessly and with abandon -- yet with ultimately gentile hearts.  There is no violence in this movie, and no sadistic or uncaring manipulation. The goal of their mutual control is never anything outside their relationship, its always more of their relationship. In this she leads in selfless abandon -- and he finds it so seductive, he follows.  It's all about mutuality and increasing unification. (The one apparent act of violence at the end, a shocking one, really isn't an act of violence -- and only occurs after one of the lovers is accidentally killed by the other.)  This is all very unusual stuff, on any sustained basis, in a movie from any country.Part of what makes this film fascinating is that it is completely outside of Judeo-Christian notions of sexual sin, limitation, and boundary violation.  However, that doesn't mean it occurs in a society without effective rules on the relations between the sexes and about sexuality.  In many ways there were obviously many more such rules, although different ones, than the West had at that time -- and they governed men as well. The film is set in early 20th century Japan, in many ways still a late medieval society in the traditional Japanese country gentry setting in which this film is set (though the female lover has a big city bad girl origin).. Certainly there is less sexual equality in exterior social relations than the West knew even by that time (not to speak of today).  In the end though this movie shows there was more traditional limitation to male dominance within the family than I for one had expected.  Geishas for example were invited to traditional gentry homes, and expected to stroke male egos by privately performing song and dance and generally deferring to men in intimate settings in ways that settled wives actually would not -- but were expected to not go beyond flattery and teasing -- and certainly not to have intercourse, which might e.g. lead to children.  Men could pretend to have concubines, and be flattered as though they did, but respectable ones weren't expected to consummate the pretense.It is especially interesting that when the protagonist lovers break loose of their tightly rule bound and male dominated society to recklessly follow where erotic control games might lead them, with intensifying their mutual erotic pleasure their driving guide, they don't end up in an even more male dominated union than the society they came from.  Rather they transcend that world into a radically mutual, equal and control swapping culture of two.  Its dangerous and it's too consuming, but though it starts with her calling him master and devoting herself to his pleasure -- which she never abandons -- it ends with him doing the same thing.Of course in the universal tradition of such rule breaking romances, it has to end tragically.  But the inevitability of this tragedy doesn't seem to be that some socially suppressed devil of instinctual evil gets released from the darkness after the lid of social suppression is worked free.  Rather it's that these reckless lovers traveled to uncharted waters, without a map or play book.  And so an exciting game turned out to be far more dangerous and deadly than they really knew.  Not because of inherent evil unleashed -- as is the usual Judeo-Christian theme in such situations.  But rather because they needed to learn some rules for a new territory -- some of which are taught by this movie. SPOILER.Or more prosaically re the tragic ending  -- yes strangling games may work really well as a super sex Viagra drug for the already high performing -- but the moment of peak pleasure in that particular game is truly right at the edge of deadly effect.  "},{"Title":"You Will Feel Unease Whether You Appreciate The Film Or Not","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Of all the categories of film ones depicting open sex are the most controversial. Trick people, steal their identities, wealth or children, make war, drop bombs or annihilate planets and it is all fine. Show two humans have sex for pleasure and millions will revolt. Although few deny that sex is exciting many assert it is not proper or art. Making the audience feel unsettled, uncomfortable and flinch is part of the intention here. Written and directed by Japan's Nagisa Ôshima's, 1976's In The Realm of Senses (Ai No Korida or 'love's/lover's bullfight') clinches the title as a risqué and explicit art film conceived to break taboos. Here is a film with full sexuality, nudity, penetration, S&M and more whose mission, for starters, is to push the boundaries, promote free speech and deconstruct obscenity. It is pornographic, but directed to be the opposite. Given the imagery and subject matter the film could easily be labelled pornography; however, the presence of respectable/mainstream/traditional cast, crew, studio and production values &#x96; not to mention anti-pornographic (pink eiga) film techniques - renders it enough of a something else to confuse most and push the boundary well back. Nagisa Ôshima saw obscenity and censorship as anathema to progress and indeed believed Japan has taken many steps backwards since the days of pleasure quarters, open prostitution in brothels, openness and individuality. His distaste for what he saw as the society's backward march, group-think and suppression of free speech is the driving force behind the feature. Indeed the old geisha who at one point entertains the main characters of this film, when the younger ones ended up refusing to return, proclaims that's natural for a woman to constantly have sex with a man. Oshima's statement in this regard sheds light on his intent. The concept of obscenity is tested when we dare to look at something that we desire to see but have forbidden ourselves to look at. When we feel that everything has been revealed, obscenity disappears&#x85; He needed his powers of articulation because &#x96; and not for the first time &#x96; he would land in court in Japan defending his art. He would live to tell the tale, but to this day the film is only seen in Japan cut, censored and pixelated. The film unequivocally depicts one X-rated sexual act and thought after another. On a mission to make obscenity disappear one sees complete nudity, sex, an extramarital affair, S&M inclusive of pain inflicted with or without foreign objects (Kichizo it hurts but feels good), exhibitionism, ingestion, prostitution, promiscuity/free sex, exposure of children and sex with the elderly. Having scratched items off its list the viewer is still ill prepared for the mutilation that follows. Such is the conviction of the writer/director and the ensemble around him. The film does not stop there. Caught in its crosshairs are Japan's pre-World War II militarization, Japanese traditional respect for one's seniors and tradition, male dominance in sex and pornography and crucially man's greater sexual appetite compared to a woman's. Any and all of these concepts would horrify the busybodies that constitute any society anywhere, but even more so in the Japan of 1976 with its induced promotion of group harmony and conformity. Based on a real story dating back to 1936 In The Realm Of Senses retells the story of Sada Abe (played by newcomer Eiko Matsuda) who bedded with her master (Kichizo Ishida played by Tatsuya Fuji) with their ending up stealing away from their lives in a Tokyo inn in Nakano while abandoning his wife. Scandal ensues when their indulgence intensifies amidst everything described above and more. The lovers completely give of themselves. Coincidentally, I had recently watched Akarui Mirai with Tatsuya Fuji who has had an acting career in Japan before and after this feature. It is worth noting this because In The Realm Of Senses features a range of established Japanese talent. Anywhere else in the world and this movie would not have attracted any takers. Apparently, many women had come to audition for a cinematic role, which involves full penetration. The same could not be said about the male talent. The director recounts many were worried about their phallus size or being able to perform on camera. Nonetheless, first there is Oshima's wife, the actress Akiko Koyama. She had volunteered to play Sada, although some speculate it was done to spur other actresses. She plays a geisha here. The old geisha is Kanae Kobayashi. She plays her actual real-life age. She was an established actress notable for the Zatoichi films. The old vagabond is Taiji Tonoyama whose over 200 credits include the brilliant Ningen No Joken (The Human Condition I). The innkeeper is played by established actress Aoi Nakajima herself the daughter of Masayuki Mori known for classics of cinema like Ugetsu or Rashomon. The crew was also an established team working in Kyoto on the set of many a Mizoguchi or Kurosawa film. It is an extraordinarily uninhibited and ground-breaking film. Yet, there are beautiful images of old-style Japanese rooms and decor, traditional outfits, melodies of the shamisen and muted but vivid colours throughout the film which is largely restricted to the indoors. The fox (kitsune) masks of the festival, the kites of the Children's festival and the bird dancer (mimicking the actual bird of earlier) colour the film Japanese further. Nonetheless, these are mere interludes amidst the subversive and often difficult viewing. Amazingly Oshima had sought out the real-life Sada Abe (Sada meaning 'chaste' in Japanese - although her name and the adjective have different Kanji) and obtained her permission to film In The Realm Of Senses. By this time she was ensconced in a Buddhist monastery. Whether one enjoys In The Realm Of Senses or not one has to tip his hat at the courageous and spirited Argos Films, the cast, crew, director, producer and Criterion video. "}{"Title":"A shocking tale of love and obsession","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In the Realm of the Senses is a film that has divided opinions among those that have seen it (a number that is not too big thanks to the film being banned in many countries across the globe), but love it or hate it; you have to admit that In the Realm of the Senses is certainly very interesting. The plot is allegedly (according to the epilogue) based on a true story, although I would describe it as a more hardcore version of the 1969 Pinku film 'Blind Beast'; although In the Realm of the Senses is a really different experience and could not in any way be considered a copy of the earlier film. The plot primarily focuses on love and obsession, and we get two central characters. They are Kichizo and Sada and the pair meet and fall in love rather quickly. It's not long before they are spending every waking minute together; and most of the time they spend is naked, engaging in sex all the time. Sada soon becomes infatuated with Kichizo and as their relationship becomes more and more intimate, things begin to spiral out of control.This film is somewhat unique for the fact that it's both Japanese and features gratuitous, full-on nudity. The film really doesn't hold back either, and one of the most shocking things about is how seeing the two central characters naked for most of the film doesn't seem like anything out of the ordinary. There's some hardcore and explicit sex scenes too, with blow jobs, anal etc featuring often. The film is sometimes passed off as merely pornography, but it's not a fair statement to make about the film. While it certainly is very pornographic, it's clear that director Nagisa Oshima valued telling a story over shocking his audience and the gratuitous nudity exists to further the point that the film is trying to make. The film is very well made; the cinematography is beautiful and all the performers do well; Eiko Matsuda in particular is excellent as the obsessive leading lady. It's clear that the film is building up to something and while the conclusion is hinted at early on; it's still shocking enough once it arrives. Overall, this is a fantastic film and a must see for cult fans. "},{"Title":"You should see this film if you're interseted in sex and good movies","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this film the first time in the movies in holland about 78; I was sitting next to a nice girl wiht her boyfriend and felt terribly upset. I knew this was very real. Not romantic at all. It shows what sex can do to people and although in the ending the dramatics are overdone to my taste; this is a classical tragedy. The acting is incredible; i think the one big problem making movies showing real sex that the actors can't cope with it. These actors could. Everybody who can't see through the pornografic explicities is sexually unfree and morally limited. This film isn't a happy one and doesn't show us the freedom that sex can bring us; it shows the slavery which sex can bring about; it's problably the best film ever about sex addiction there is. It's a problem that is hardly publicly debated; or if in the hands of Christian crusaders, who want to take us all the fun. In other critics you read about th Art question  is this Art? Not an important question, but for me it is; it has learnt me very much about the human condition and how we cope with it. "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT And Intense Mix Of Hardcore Sex And Strong Storyline...","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Porn? Art? WHO CARES???? EMPIRE OF THE SENSES is an extremely strong, honest, sexy, shocking, touching, troubling film that really defies explanation. A beautifully shot film that some will call smut - others will call art...personally - I say it's brilliant.Ishida begins an affair with Sada which turns from hot to obsessive very quickly. The story (which was based on true events) is told mainly through explicit (and I mean pretty damn explicit) glimpses into the couple's sexual liaisons. As the sexual and emotional obsession escalates, things spiral out of control until the shocking conclusion...EMPIRE OF THE SENSES is one of the strangest and most refreshing films I've seen in a long time. Not only did I LOVE the fact that the sex and nudity was SO explicit (which is virtually NEVER seen from an all Japanese cast) - but the themes of the story were handled so competently by the actors involved, that although practically the whole film is told while the two lovers are having various sexual encounters - the audience really feels the progression from passion to total obsession. As far as the sexual content - there are several choice scenes in this one - including several explicit blow-jobs (including some cum-dribbling action), several male and female full-frontal shots, some dildo-play, egg insertion, and some straight sex too (though these scenes aren't as graphic as the others). EMPIRE OF THE SENSES is not going to be a film for all tastes - but for discriminating viewers who don't mind (or prefer) a healthy dose explicit sex in their viewing material - this one will be an absolute winner...10/10 "},{"Title":"terrifying","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  IN THE REALM OF THE SENSES explores sexual obsession and the extremes to which it drives the characters. I saw the uncut version,readily available at the Cleveland Public Library. It was indeed sexually graphic,reaching a point where the act seems to be driven by a kind of symbiosis that can only culminate in one way. The ending is one of the most horrifying things I've ever seen in a movie. Do not confusethis movie with the vastly inferior IN THE REALM OF PASSION.  "},{"Title":"Glorious!","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A passionate telling of the story of Sada Abe, a woman whose affair with her master led to a sexual obsession which then came to a violent end.This film is easy to dismiss as glorified porn or something of that nature. Indeed, it tends to go beyond what we call soft-core... there is no hiding the male anatomy and some acts are rather explicit. And yet, I never really felt like the film was dirty or gratuitous.There is something to be said about love, sex, obsession and the life of a geisha. Certainly in western society we find it hard to believe a prostitute or porn star could have a meaningful relationship or be in love. What of the Japanese, who view prostitution somewhat differently? This is an interesting exploration. "},{"Title":"In the Realm of the Senses (1976)","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Nagisa Oshima liked to make aggressive and challenging films, but no other work of his was as controversial as In the Realm of the Senses, which was banned in several countries after its release, the uncut version still being banned in Japan. The movie was made with French money because no Japanese producer would dare touch it because of censorship laws. The film was filmed in Japan, but the footage was shipped to France so it could be processed.In the Realm of the Senses is one of five (!) biographical films made about Sada Abe and Kichizo Ishida, the real life '30s couple whose affair ended disastrously; Sada castrated Kichizo and went around with his penis in her handbag around Tokyo for days afterwards. The story gathered controversy and media attention, and so did the film. The hype to see this film at the Cannes film festival was so high that 13 screenings were arranged. In Portugal, Archbishop of Braga D. Eurico Dias Nogueira has said that he 'had learned more in 10 minutes of the film than in his entire life'.The movie contains unsimulated sex between the two actors Tatsuya Fuji and Eiko Matsuda, among others. Plus, many scenes celebrate sex or present it in a titillating manner, so technically this movie is art-house pornography, but if it is, then it's really, really emotionally intense and compelling as far as porn goes. The film depicts a relationship free of all weights and responsibilities, where hedonistic sexual obsession in itself becomes the source of satisfaction for the couple, and how such an approach to life can lead to disaster.The film is very confrontational and doubtless as to what it wants to show. Almost every possible sex act finds its way into the runtime, it's as if sex scenes are the primary tool Oshima uses to tell the story. The movie is so sexually charged that not only do characters get laid, but also an egg does (ba-dum tsss). By Sada. So it gets really grotesque and bizarre at several turns. It's also the third Japanese film I've seen so far where kakurenbo (hide and seek) is played, only this time I'm left wondering what the point of the scene was.The color cinematography is beautiful, amazing. Continuing the artistic heritage from traditional erotic woodblock prints (shunga), multicolored kimonos (one of which has Triforces) and flashy indoor decor are soaked in inviting warm shades of red and orange, with snow falling just outside. This contrast echoes the rising of cold militarism outside, while Sada and Kichizo get all comfy and warm indoors in their privacy. The traditional music is also very memorable and amplifies the mood of the film perfectly. It's hard to imagine it without its soundtrack. "},{"Title":"100 minutes of beautiful boning","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" For better or for worse, there aren't a lot of movies out there like In the Realm of the Senses. Well, there's porn, but this isn't really porn -- it lets the ugliness as well as the beauty of sex shine through, and through all the cinematographic haze it seems considerably more real than depictions of sex in even regular movies.There's a narrative here, told through the slowly-unfolding patterns of debauchery, one of a terrifying spiral of hedonism. In the end, despite all of its explicitness, it's more of a conservative cautionary tale than anything else.What makes In The Realm of the Senses work as well as it does is the beautiful images and almost mystical pacing of director Oshima. I won't lie and say that there aren't times when the film is tedious and even dull, or that its final conclusion is extremely profound. But it's one hell of an experience, and a disgusting gonzo film that needed to be made. It's one of those films that you don't watch, you live through. "},{"Title":"A good reason why not to get involved with a nymphomaniac. She may cut your d*ck off while you are sleeping.","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Perverted eroticism or work of art? This will be a long debate. To be honest I saw this film after seeing The Gray man (2007), Marian Dora's Cannibal (2006), and Albert Fish In Sin He found Salvation (2007), Dahmer (2002), The Secret Life Jeffrey Dahmer (1993), To Catch a Killer (TV 1992).The above films I have mentioned all contain a theme sex oriented killings due to an unfulfilled sexual fantasy.This film proves what sex beyond the limits can lead to. Sex should be done lovingly, with romance and understanding between the couple. Both should be deeply in love with one another and be satisfied with that. A wife is NOT A PROSTITUTE, she is YOUR COMPANION FOR THE REST OF YOUR LIFE. You are her shield and protector and to think of another woman is committing a grave sin. Sex with another woman while you are married to a faithful wife is adultery and you are only cheating yourself. If your wife fails to take an interest in sex, there are sex therapists available and counseling as well. You could even go on a vacation and re-ignite your love life. Also you could try out new sex positions you have never explored. There are DVD's which teach advanced lovemaking techniques. THIS FILM IS BASED ON A TRUE STORY. This is the most HORRIFYING aspect of the film. THAT IT REALLY OCCURRED AS PORTRAYED IN THE FILM.Plot Kichizo Ishida a married man falls in love with a woman called Sada Abe. Ishida is unsatisfied with his own wife due to his abnormally high libido. Sada Aba appears to be what we now call a nymphomaniac who cannot be satisfied by a normal man. This chance meeting leads to an explosion of unrestricted sex between the two which goes out of control towards the climax of the film, where Sada strangles and kills Ishida (only after he gives her his full consent to do it). Later she severs his penis.Director Noboru Tanaka's film A Woman Called Sada Abe is another more sexually oriented film of the same story. Many critics have written that the film is also an exploration of how eroticism in Japanese culture is often morbid or death-obsessed. The film's director Nagisa Ôshima was also criticized for using explicit sex to draw attention to the film, but the director has stated that the explicitness is an integral part of the movie's design.Controversy Strict censorship laws would not have allowed the film to be completed as per Oshima's vision in Japan. To get around this, the production was officially listed as a French enterprise, and the undeveloped footage was shipped to France for processing and editing. At its première in Japan, the sexual activity was optically censored.In the US, the film was initially banned upon its première at the 1976 New York Film Festival, but later screened uncut; a similar fate awaited the film when it was released in Germany. The film was not available on home video until 1990.The British Board of Film Censors, at the time of its first limited screenings in the UK, recommended it be shown under private 'cinema club' conditions to avoid the need for cuts to be made, but only after the Obscene Publications Act had been extended to films (in 1977) to avoid potential legal problems. More recently the BBFC has granted the film an 18 certificate (suitable for adults only), leaving all of the adult sexual activity intact, but ordered that a shot showing a prepubescent boy having his penis pulled as punishment be optically reframed so that the act itself was not shown.The film has been made available, however, in completely uncut form in France, the United States (including the current The Criterion Collection DVD), the Netherlands, and several other territories.In Canada, when originally submitted to the provincial film boards in the 1970s, the film was rejected in all jurisdictions except Quebec. It was not until 1991 that individual provinces approved the film and gave it a certificate. However, in the Maritimes the film was rejected again as the policies followed in the 1970s were still enforced.You can watch Noboru Tanaka's film after this one. Also L'amant (1992) a.k.a. The Lover is another good film to see. Basic Instinct (1992) is another film that immediately springs to mind, as well as Fatal Attraction (1987).If you are a film lover and want recommendations. Email me Viveknaru45@yahoo.com.Thanks for reading. "},{"Title":"I Did Not Like this Film","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I found myself confused about what the film maker was trying to convey. It is true that there are graphic sex scenes that caused me to press the forward button. I felt the movie was about a woman's toxic obsession and the man's willing to do whatever it took to fulfill her insatiable desires. I must say that the director and actors were daring to be willing to take part telling this true story, which I Googled after watching the movie. I would say to watch the movie for yourself and decide what you think. I found it interesting that the story seemed to be told without judgment of the characters. It was just a frank narrative of a tragic story of a twisted love affair. This movie is not for the faint at heart. "},{"Title":"they did a bad-bad thing... or rather, she did, or maybe both of them","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Nagisa Oshima is a brave filmmaker, but not because he went over the line with making the first film in Japan that was considered pornographic and not a Pink film (which, ironically, has all genitalia blurred out). It's because he takes on his subject without flinching, without going for an easy route in depicting this relationship between two people whose extreme lust discombobulates their actual love for one another. The way you know In the Realm of the Senses is not a porno is simple if you're watching it, and you're getting off, then either the film didn't connect with its actual character development and acting and moments of real behavior, or you weren't watching it for it as a movie in the first place. Oshima wants his film to be respected as a real film, if not the best art in Japan, and he achieves that respect by giving us characters who are whole and go on this self-destructive path in the midst of a country in militaristic upheaval. They're people, warts and all, not simple sex machines.The only real comparison that could be made to a porno is, perhaps, that if one is watching this movie, and one's mother or father walks in the room, the reaction would be similar to that of porn. Some of the acts that Kichizo and Sada go through, sado-masochism, choking, sex with someone else right in front of the other, might even given your grandmother a heart attack. But there are other scenes, too, tender ones, revealing the behavior of characters who first connected sensually, when Sada worked for Master Kichizo and screwed like rabbits. But we also see this bond that is very rare in movies, and too classy for your common XXX picture. There's just little things Oshima has his actors do, their attitudes. Take one moment when Sado is giving fellatio to Kichizo, and the focus is not on that, on the contrary to Kichizo's lack of interest, carefully smoking a cigarette, savoring this sight of pleasure like it's an out-of-body experience.The theme is obsession, and this is expressed in such a way that is all-encompassing for the characters. We see two people who we do actually care about- remember make love not war, this is that to a whole other level, emphasized even more in that brief but critical scene where Kichizo walks opposite the marching soldiers in the street- who can do nothing but take things to one level and then another level. I'm almost reminded of Cronenberg's Crash where the characters' initial connection gets twisted more and more with each new encounter, and in this case Oshima's bright lighting and small sets emphasizes the ironic lack of freedom that these two people have with one another. Adding to this the acting is very intense and interesting (if, most critically, sometimes repetitive due to the nature of the script such as bits with the knife), especially from Tatsuya Fuji who seems to make his character harder to peg than his lady.Oh, it is not a masterpiece, at least in my estimation. A few scenes here or there could have been trimmed, such as that bizarre wedding scene with that orgy occurring and the man playing singing in the background. Perhaps it's being from the West and not understanding all of the customs shown, if maybe that's part of Oshima's point to twist things just that much further than would be realistic. But when Oshima has his eye on there two flawed bodies who want nothing more than one another at all costs, it's extremely exciting and intriguing to see where it will go next. Flesh and genitalia are bared, and there is full on penetration and fluids seen et all, but it's the subconscious cracked open that makes things most interesting. It's a real film, take it or leave it. 8.5/10 "}{"Title":"sensual sex as a microcosm of the state of Japan","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Most reviews miss the point to me. This traditional couple in 30's Japan spirals into a sexual affair of more and more addiction to the Bliss that never arrives to satisfy their craving, set to a backdrop of the military buildup of the Japanese invasion of Korea and China in the mid thirties.That the affair ends with the man's death, while attempting the ultimate orgasm as she pulls a cord tightly around his neck, is so obvious a comment on Japanese history that I wonder how anyone can call this an erotic film. True, there are crafted and beautiful scenes of uncensored sex, but these only draw us into their deeper world, ( by our own voyeurism and curiosity) before their demise and that of Japan are finally delivered in the final scenes. Interestly the film was financed in France and not released in Japan in the seventies.It was not given a certificate in England , and was shown at a cinema where, for legal reasons, the audience had to join a film club to see it. It was the most sexually explicit film commercially shown outside of the porn industry in 1977.A landmark film "},{"Title":"Pushing the Limits of What Man and Audience Can Bear","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie freaked me out the first time I saw it. I couldn't even look at a hard-boiled egg for weeks afterward. It's taken me more than a decade to come back to see it a second time. It's almost a dare from director to audience--how much can you bear to watch, eh? How much sex could the man bear to take? How far gone was Abe Sada's mind? The second time through, I was ready for the hard-boiled egg. I wasn't ready to notice the scene where--in a dream, of course--Ms. Abe molests a child.On a lighter note, when I went to Japan in 1996, I found mentioning Abe Sada's name elicited a humorous reaction even then. At the time, it was similar to saying Lorena Bobbitt. Hands went unconsciously to protect the, er, toys. "},{"Title":"Do not die without seeing this film!","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Probably one of the most erotic films ever made, In the Realm of the Senses is a masterful portrait of obsession.   So powerful and disturbing that it was banned at it's premiere at the New York Film Festival in 1976.  Based on a legendary true story, in 1936 two Japanese lovers, mad with an unyielding desire for each other, drive themselves into passionate oblivion.  In the Realm... is beautifully explicit, and painfully, heart-wrenchingly engaging. Do not die without seeing this film.  "},{"Title":"Pudendal Space","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The Japanese notion of space is highly developed abstract but visceral, refined but applicable to a daily, graceful life. That notion, and the philosophy of beauty through balance ('katachi') is what makes the Japanese sense of architecture worth incorporating into one's life. Many good Japanese filmmakers are architects first in this way, both in the matter they present and the manner in which they present it. Kurosawa of course, but Oshima as well.This film is a case of asymmetry by overbalance of sexual passion becoming an obsession and losing its selfcorrecting force. It is marvelously constructed and one of the most engaging dramas I know the viewer is drawn in by the voluptuousness and richness of the production until we realize that we ourselves have entered into a parallel trance of sense. One example of how the narrative center literally enters the action an observer of the randy coupling is captured and made to put a representation of a bird in herself. The next shot is an actor acting the part of that bird for the lovers. In one simple motion, we have seen ourselves as viewers captured by the scene and folded into it, literally entering Sada.Yes, there is explicit sex on the part of the actors, neither pornographic or erotic, simply a natural consequence of honest storytelling. That honesty allows the sort of folding noted above, which builds and places us within an architectural garden of balanced/unbalanced passion.I contrast this with other films of a similar type who -- for various reasons -- cannot be as honest. I can think of three exemplars of types of impediments'Wild at Heart' is perverse where this is not. It is wholly set in sex, but each sex scene has a carefully placed sheet. Who places the sheet? It is as if our eye changes the world to not offend, and damages the whole effect of the film.'Elvira Madigan' is a similar tale of sexual obsession which escalates to tragedy. Some beautiful visions and music, but a wild dissonance between the abstract world we see (even in the act of vomiting) and the sweaty sharing that underlies it.'Breaking the Waves' has much the same thrust as 'realm,' with even more raw commitment on the part of the actress. But still it shies away from many of the commonest visions of coupling in existence. Odd, that. And from artists too. 'Wild' has the impediment of the eye, 'Elvira' of the abstraction and 'Waves' of the actress herself. 'Realm' suffers from none of these.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"blurs the line between art and porn","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  this is not an easy movie to watch. the fact that the two main leads are actually having sex throughout the movie instead of simulating it really makes this story of obsessive tendencies in a romance hit home. i've talked with various people who have seem this movie, asking them if they thought it was just a porno film trying to be a legitimate film or a legitimate art film that just happened to have actual sex in it. most people seemed to be split. for the most part i feel it is a legitimate film, but the only instances where i felt it slid too far into the porn realm was during the scenes in which she performed oral sex on the male lead. these were just a bit too much in respect to the restraint showed during the other parts of the film.either way, it is slow and pretentious, but well acted. basically, if you ever wondered what would happen it they actually attached a good plot to a porn film, than the result would be this movie.rating7 "},{"Title":"A totally different realm, where dark obsession rules","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Warning this film contains the most graphically depicted scene of castration I've ever seen, and it was certainly a shock as having never anticipated it. Such a sexual obsession is scary, where a sexy female servant, Sada, who was prostituting herself too, in this Asian house of ill repute, falls for the husband of the Madam, running the bordello. To think this was based on a true story, what was even more shocking after the castration, was bizarre, like that woman tourist who was beheaded two years back, leaving a shopping centre. Never has a more overwhelming obsession, occupied the screen, where Sada moves in with the madam's husband, an what ensues are long days of sex, food gorging, and not much cleansing, a little humour too, within the dialogue, like in one dark pornographic scene. There are a couple of repulsive moments, excluding the earlier one mentioned, like an old, off the street guy, who's body is putrid, along with his.... and also it's one hell of a sexy ride, till that arresting finale, ITROTS, isn't a film I'd watch wholily again, or approach it, the same way I did originally. Although it had been banned in some places, it really doesn't warrant bad status. It's just one of those more shocking and notorious films, but is quite beautifully told and shot too. You be the judge. "},{"Title":"Japan porn at it's best, a film that pushes the erotic and sexual limits to obsession and even raw brutality.","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Of late I've became a big fan of Asian and Japanese erotic films especially since I admire and find oriental females attractive. Anyway this hard core very erotic and push the limits sex passion film from 1976 In the Realm of the Senses did indeed entertain. It's a visual delight a pleasure to view as the passion and sex scenes push the limit they are clearly hard core and over the top as the film has never been viewed in it's native of Japan. It's really a film of sex and more sex as director Nagisa Oshima wanted to show that sex can be an obsession and become a passion that's dangerous and brutal passing love even leading to death! Anyway the film still does have somewhat of a story and plot it's set in the 1930's around the time of ever on going imperialism and governmental control, it revolves around a house of Japanese servants all ladies for a man and soon he falls in love with one of his new girls as the love is all consuming but destructive as both this man and woman(Tatsuya Fuji and Eiko Matsuda)with be split up and carved up! Based on a true story this film to me is real pornography that's graphic it makes a real visual statement this is one erotic gem that pushed sex and passion to the visual limits! "},{"Title":"In the Realm of the Senses","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This French-Japanese film, also known as Ai No Corrida, I knew was listed in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, but then I found out that it featured real sexual intercourse, oral and various other intimate acts, so I had to see if a good story fit with it as well. Basically in 1936, Tokyo, former prostitute Sada Abe (Eiko Matsuda) works now as a maid in a hotel, and she is molested by the owner of the hotel Kichizo Ishida (Tatsuya Fuji), but she is not offended by it and the two of them begin an intense affair. They make love passionately with all kinds of sexual experimentation, drinking and other various forms of self-indulgence, and they do not seem to be bothered with people walking in on them, and to pursue his affair with her Ishida leaves his wife and family. As time passes Abe for some reason becomes jealous of Ishida, probably in terms of receiving pleasure, and she also becomes very possessive, but all he ever wants to do is make her happy, whether it means more intense experimental sex. They become so obsessed with their escalating attempts to achieve the ultimate love making experience and orgasm that he allows her to engage in sadomasochism, this mostly involves her strangling during lovemaking. Eventually it comes to the point when Ishida is killed by Abe strangling him to death, but she is not completely phased by his death, in fact she goes as far to cut off his penis and testicles, and with his blood write the words Sada Kichi the two of us forever on his chest. Being based on a true event the real woman was arrested for the crime of murder, but in fact many people who heard about the story were empathetic towards her because of the passionate love she had for the man. Also starring Aoi Nakajima as Toku, Meika Seri as Maid Matsuko and Taiji Tonoyama as Old Beggar. I will be honest and say first that I was most intrigued to see real lovemaking on screen, and it is not something I have seen often in a foreign film regarded by critics, but then I remembered seeing a clip of the controversial ending on a programme, very hard to watch, it is a very interesting insight into how extreme passion can sometimes go too far, a most watchable erotic drama based on a true story. It was number 28 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments. Very good! "},{"Title":"Extremely good","Date":"6 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Nagisa Merry Christmas, Mr Lawrence Oshima's most notorious film culminates with a truly shocking ending, encapsulating the sheer force of self-destructive passion between Kichi (Tatsuya Fuji) and Sada (Eiko Matsuda). It's an apt, inevitable climax.The film sees a master, Kichi, take a servant, Sada, as his concubine. The balance of power quickly shifts, however, as Kichi struggles to come to terms with Sada's insatiable, and increasingly dangerous, sensual appetite. Together they push away a prudish world that would label them perverts; with the help of a carefully inserted boiled egg, they even mock the institution of procreation.Though notions of class are touched upon (Sada, drawn from prostitution and servitude, refers to her desire to be respectable when with Kichi as well as a particularly paternal client), really this is a film about sex and death. You certainly can't fault it for scope of ambition, and yet its narrow - nay blinkered - focus on its deliriously conflicted protagonists is perhaps its greatest strength. After the opening scenes, Kichi and Sada dominate every last coital frame.I've found the film becomes sadder, more poignant, with repeated viewings. The addiction is palpable, the self-annihilation agonising - not only in the characters' actions but in their changing faces the terrible anxiety that what they share is transient; the haunting knowledge that death at the zenith is preferable to a slow decline.I'll paddle into the art versus porn debate by saying that those looking for titillation from this film will probably find it - but they will also find a heartfelt, insightful and ultimately devastating portrait of extreme human desire. "},{"Title":"Fine exploration of sexual jealousy with good erotica and crime elements","Date":"18 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Doing modules on Japanese culture at university I watched this tonight assuming it was an art-house film; it isn't. The film making is most likely standard by Japanese terms i.e. more explicit violence and erotica than most Western films, but no particularly 'arty' film techniques.Nevertheless, it's a good thought provoking look at the issue of sexual jealousy with good characters and plot. Obviously it's not for the faint hearted due to the use of an unusual style of murder and endless sex (which includes the fetish for urine and erotic strangulation which can be a shock to see if you're not turned on by those kinds of things) although despite the shock these may cause to some people, they are necessary devices to convey the plot and theme.As other reviews have noted, the 70s pushed the boundaries of sex and violence in film globally and there is an ambiguity for film reviewers and scholars on whether films like these are just part of the grindhouse phenomenon or actually artistic. In all honesty the amount of crime and sex in this would make it a suitable film for the purpose of crime film viewing or pornography. However it is subtily directed and made to make it look less cheap than some grindhouse movies. I'd recommended it as a starting film (as it was for me) for anyone interested in Japanese cinema. "}{"Title":"haunting movie","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I missed the big screen showing years ago, when it played for several weeks at a local art movie house. Let's just say, I'm sorry I missed the big screen (color and sound) but on the otherhand, I'm not sorry I was able to view this with my partner and without the sea of humanity in the theatre. To know this was based on a true story makes the movie even more engagingly haunting. The cultural differences makes the movie a must see alone; it has moments of hard core porn, and is definitely not for the squeamish or those with easily offended mindsets. In fact, one scene, with blatant kiddie porn, could not be filmed today. The movie does, however, capture the reality of a relationship where the bonds of physical intimacy become united in a world few would dare to tread. If I have negative views, I never once suspended my disbelief--the actors and actresses appeared to be giving cardboard performances, and I couldn't get into the love relationship. Could be cultural, could be that I was reading subtitles. "},{"Title":"Obsessive about obsession","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a film about obsession, and the director chose as his method to portray and communicate that obsession to simply obsessively document it. This has its upsides and downsides. The positive is that it does a far better job of getting across the feeling and sense of a sexually obsessive affair than any other film I've ever encountered. The negative is that other peoples obsessions aren't always that interesting to external observers. The film can feel like it is repetitive, or dragging, when in reality it is developing the central character of the story - Sada's sexual obsession that will eventually consume her. Without this time spent in the minutiae of the affair the ending would feel limp, contrived, and unjustified. It is a matter of whether the viewer is prepared to sit through the necessary tedium.  "},{"Title":"The most graphic film I have seen","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film really does push the boundary between pornography and art. I was both shocked but at the same time, could not pull myself away. surprising in the least. must be seen, not your average american film. I guess I have seen the un-cut version of the film "},{"Title":"Explicit Eroti-Drama","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  In The Realm of The Senses, a Japanese import, is SO sexual frank and graphic that it will turn many viewers off, as it combines true sex, graphic nudity, and weird story angles.  A former prostitute takes up a sexual relationship with her boss and soon they marry.  They become obsessed with sex and spend all of their time engaged in it.  The woman tells her husband not to sleep with another woman or she'll kill him.  The end of their relationship is ultimately tragic and depressing.In The Realm of The Senses is Rated NC-17 for VERY EXTREME STRONG GRAPHIC SEXUALITY, acres of nudity, graphic violence and some gore.NOTE  This film is not for children as it contains actual scenes of oral sex and penetration shots. "},{"Title":"more than pornography or sadomasochism","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I only really understood this movie after reading Bernard J. Taylor's novel, The House of Correction. When I first saw the movie I, like some other reviewers, regarded the final outcome as an act of sadomasochism carried to the ultimate degree through pure sexual frenzy. But, like Taylor's novel, it is ultimately a profound love story that may be pornographic in its graphic representation of extreme sexual activity, but it remains undeniably a work of art in the way it explores the extremes of love and the insecurity that can attend it (an insecurity some people may label as jealousy, but which I think is much more than that). What I missed the first time was that the man's act of allowing himself to be dismembered by his mistress was more than the act of a submissive going to the extremes of submission. It was the only way he could assuage the terrible insecurity of his mistress and prove his love for her once and for all. But of course, once he is dead there is nowhere left for her to go, so she must die too. "},{"Title":"Eggcelent  Movie","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In the Realm of the Senses is a movie I heard about that was said to be incredibly sexual. One of the most, explicit, well made films to be made. And when I found out that it was Japanese I jumped at the chance to check this baby out. Reason being I have yellow fever. Anyways, it turned out to be as good as it was promoted. I was expecting a serious film with that dealt with sex in an extremely adult manner. This certainly did. This movie is full of sex. Almost every scene involves sex in some way. But it's not just you watching people have sex. There are thought provoking conversations during these scenes so you're not just watching some boobs or butt flail around. The dialogue felt very natural between the two actors (maybe due to the fact that they were actually screwing), which made everything very believable. The two actors did a great job. And the dubbing is also fantastic. The voice-over for the male star is awesome. It's a mix of Zap Brannigan from Futurama and Will Ferrell from Anchorman. Some of the lines are fantastic. Here's one...The only rest I get for my penis is when I pee. And there are many other great lines. Overall the movie delivers with great sex, a simple but great story line, great chemistry between the leading stars and a fantastic ending. Have fun with this one. 8.5 outta 10 "},{"Title":"Good film, but shock might over shadow finer points","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The general outline of the movie 5 minutes of sex. 40 seconds of no sex. 5 minutes of sex. 30 seconds of no sex. 10 minutes of sex. 40 seconds of no sex. 5 minutes of sex. 20 seconds of no sex. 10 minutes of sex. Etc, etc, etc. And no, I'm not exaggerating, that is literally how it is.Oh my goodness! This definitely has to be the most graphic movie I have ever seen. This film was banned for over 20 years, and while I do not agree with censorship, I can certainly see why it was banned. This has to been some of the rawest, brutality honest and just plain bona fide scenes of sex ever captured on film. The plot centres on a young Japanese geisha, Sada Abe, and her boss, Kichizo. He takes a shine to her and they spend quite a lot of time together, and decide to get married. And the film is pretty much just them having sex. Lots and lots and lots and lots and lots of sex. Did I mention they have sex a lot?Kichizo seems to be a sex addict. In fact, it's pretty much the only thing he does and talks about. I was interested to find out this movie is based on a real-life story, so in a way I feel the sex is justified if this all actually happened.If you're the type of person offended by breasts, DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE! This movie is so graphic I was happy for a reprieve of just breasts. In fact this film is so graphic breasts shouldn't be defined as nudity here. And I can tell you I'll never eat eggs again!You might think I'm talking too much about the sex, but really there's not much else to discuss. Being liberal I'd say the film is about 85% sex. But the scenes that do not contain any sex (about 4 minutes, I'd say) are quite beautiful. Japan is such a beautiful place, not only the landscape but also the architecture. It's disappointing that these elements were not utilised more. I think in retrospect there is much more to this film than just the sex. However I feel as if I was so taken aback by the sex that the film's finer points may have passed me by. Certainly, the film gets better as it progresses and continues until it reaches it's shocking but surprisingly beautiful ending.This really isn't a bad film. Technically it is very good and the significance it had on Japanese film culture and world censorship needs to be explored. I feel as if I can't recommend it, but as the credits went up I didn't feel as though I'd wasted my time. If you don't see this movie you're not really missing out on anything. However, if you think you can handle a lot of extremely candid sex scenes and are quite interested in the real-life story or film culture from around the world, then, with extreme caution, I'd say the film is worth it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I mean...wow! This movie makes its own genre of a serious movie, which considers sex as natural as eating or walking. I am not talking about Boise Moi, which is a pornographic movie with some story thrown in; this is a very artistic movie about the love, passion and ultimately obsession developing in a sexual relationship. The sex scenes are complete with nothing left to imagination and the picturization offers no apology for the raw sexuality ¡Kand this movie was made in 1976!! It must have run into problems, as this experiment has not been repeated. See it, with patience and without company. "},{"Title":"One of the most beautiful and important films ever made.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Supporters of this amazing picture err (understandably) in  minimising its sexual aspects when praising its formal beauty, philosophical rigour, political anger and gender analysis. All of these things are here.  Even before his final payoff, Oshima has revealed and depicted the timeless labyrinthine hell of repressive Japanese society.  The lovers' realm is the rebellion to this, an exploration of truths and emotions severely denied in their culture, even if this is, eventually just as formal.  The portrayal of sex is probably the most beautiful and honest in the history of cinema.  Just as important is the treatment of voyeurism (like Foucault's panopticon, no-one is free from the controlling spying of others) and the privileged subjectivity of the female lead, which, consisting of dreams and imagination, is as powerful a weopon against tyranny as the sex. "},{"Title":"Puzzling and a little boring","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Given that this is a film about sexual obsession I expected a frank and honest depiction of sexual acts. And that's not the problem here. In fact I disagree most vehemently with those labeling it as pornographic. There was nothing of the cold, loveless, rote sex in porn movies in this film. It was filled with overwhelming passion and the kind of sexual hunger seldom seen on celluloid. Unfortunately it was so ever-present and overwhelming it deteriorated into boring. Once I reached the halfway mark I began to use the fast-forward button more and more. Moreover we were given no clue as to the motives that led the protagonists into an ultimately destructive passion. This was no routine love affair but an all-consuming, relentless, escalating bodily abuse by way of their sexual organs. And we don't know why it happened. In my view that's the film's Achilles heel. "}{"Title":"Is There a Line to Be Drawn?","Date":"20 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This was disturbing to watch. First of all, one needs to buy into its cultural me milieu. Then we need to begin to accept the two fundamental characters and how they meld into that setting. This is a story of unbridled sensualism. It's soft one moment and hideous the next. The movie is incredibly graphic and I'm sure the release frightened and confused its patrons. I have to admit, I never really fell under its spell. As a matter of fact, I think I felt that I was invading a sick kind of world. Was I seeing people or monsters? There is great effort at times to prevent it from moving into the next level. The performances aren't really sexual as much as sadistic. This is proved out. "},{"Title":"Sexually explicit","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A former prostitute, Sada, starts working as a maid at a hotel and is assaulted by the owner, Kichizo, and the two soon begin a torrid affair with many sado masochistic aspects to the relationship. Kichizo leaves his wife and family to please his demanding lover. He becomes obsessively jealous of his insatiable soul mate. The lovemaking becomes more and more violent until Kichizo requests that Sada strangle him while they are engaged in the act. In the realm of the senses is an extremely graphic film for a main stream movie, so if you are offended by explicit sex and gory violence, stay away from this and rent a Disney feature instead. "},{"Title":"A Man Pays Dearly for Failing to Enforce Personal Boundaries","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" An adulterer's favorite partner's obsessions continually worsen, unchecked. The extreme results of this true story inspired the making of 'In the Realm of the Senses'.Not everyone will appreciate the straightforward telling of this story. You must be okay with viewing graphic nudity, explicit sex acts and consensual violence. Most countries limit viewing to adults. Some have outlawed it entirely.No English audio exists &#x96; just subtitles.Pros include 1. The uncensored escalation of risks accepted by an over-trusting man. 2. Contextual foundations leading to each scene. This is not director-fantasy pornography. 3. Good acting, cinematography and flow of events.Cons include 1. The storyline is too narrow. Although sex was exclusively what led to the events, such focus belongs in a documentary format rather than in a traditional movie. 2. Way too visual for today's free audiences. For most people, it likely evokes either abhorrence or sexual arousal, leaving less of the viewer's attention on the story itself (for those who care).OVERALL 6/10 'In the Realm of the Senses' is A FAIR MOVIE FOR WATCHING ALONE or with like-minded people either a) as porn; or b) for analytical comparisons with crime or religion or psychology. As general entertainment, though, it is of VERY LOW VALUE. "},{"Title":"Wow. Pretty Shocking Stuff. I Thought I'd Seen It All.","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" whoa. i have to admit this movie did make me blush. i've seen Pasolni, i've seen 'Last Tango', i've seen 'Pink Flamingos', i thought that very little would shock me, but this did.i didn't rate this because in many of my reviews i have professed Christianity and i'm not sure i don't have a problem with this. but even though i think Christians should be modest(very few are), i don't think it suits anybody to be a prude. but i have to admit since i was born again some twenty years ago, i do feel my limitations being tested. i thought i was cool and tough, but i was just trying to hang with the rest of society.look i know being a Christian doesn't make you pure or perfect. i mean the BTK killer was a church deacon, and the creepo who molested Elizabeth Smart was a professed Christian. so saying you are a Christian is not enough to make me trust you and wanna get in a car with ya. let's face it. so far most Christians don't have a very good track record.i'm not going to get all down on this film because it was carnal. but i believe that the spirit is more important than the flesh because the body grows old. flesh dies. it rots. unless someone can prove otherwise, i don't know. maybe there's a Dorian Grey out there somewhere. in this wacky packy world who knows.i thought this film was definitely pornographic, and i just don't really like pornography. it's so messy. but this was pornography of a high order no doubt. the acting and the dialouge were excellent, and the ending, though repellent, was thought provoking.how a Christian should view this should be up to the individual Christian. we all have different viewpoints only some lie and pretend to think what others are thinking. since i never do what the herd or group is doing, i don't give two figs what people think. well not totally.i only rented this because i love Asian cinema and i've heard so much about this film for decades. but i guess i didn't hear enough or wasn't really listening, because i was a little jolted by what i saw.all i can really say is, i wasn't bored, i thought it a helluva lot more intense than most films i've ever seen. and as usual, Criterion put out a beautifully restored and remastered print of this. keep up the good work with those classics Criterion, you rule.however, i don't ever want to hear the saying,which came first? the hen or the egg?, EVER AGAIN. "},{"Title":"Profane and Beautiful","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" There are few films that have the ability to show such graphic sexual scenes and be nothing about sex. This film is not pornographic. It's profane. It's a film about how our desires can withdraw us from society, reality, or even out own consciousness. We become so obsessed with life, material things, people, and our obsessions can kill us. We become voyeurs when watching this film. The director constantly challenges us to look and to see how the two main characters see each other. The film is a commentary on Japanese society, as we see a woman dominate a man sexually. He withdraws from his position in society and from the military dictatorship that runs Japan. It's truly a beautiful film that succeeds in arousing our mind and our body, and then it challenges us to look deeper into our own place in society, how we withdraw from it, how we escape, and what our escape says about how we view society. "},{"Title":"Not porn, not art - Obsessive Love","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Without any doubt In the Realm of Senses is not a porn nor is it art, it is instead a look into the depths of love that has become completely obsessive with no rules, and no boundaries. There have been many movies about obsessive love, but none of them compares to this one, maybe in part because this is a true story. The character Sada is holds the movie as the obsessive lover. The movie is beautiful in its presentation; yet harsh in its way of presenting. I heard of the rumored ending; yet had to watch it to believe it. Beware, this movie is not for the faint of heart. Regardless, it is still a very good movie. Recommended with highest praise. "},{"Title":"A quite beautiful film","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I find it a shame that so many people do not have open minds to be able to differentiate such a beautiful, passionate and powerful film from pornography. It is very graphic and explicit, but not 'for the purpose of sexual enjoyment' (the definition of pornography given in my dictionary).  In this film, the sex between the two main characters is vital in showing the deeply passionate but ultimately destructive feelings they have for each other - he just wants to please her, and will do anything to do so, even if it means him losing his life.I watched this a few days ago, and it has stayed with me since. It was beautifully filmed. One of the scenes that really stuck in my mind was when the couple were outside in the courtyard, intertwined with her sitting on his lap. The whole courtyard was grey and dour, but she was wearing a rich red robe, which I felt emphasised their passion.I would urge anyone with an interest in cinema to watch this, though obviously you need to be rather open minded to see beyond what most of the people who have posted on here with limited minds were able to see. Why should all sex be smutty or filthy? Sex is a wonderful thing, and this film shows it in a beautiful, powerful and moving way. Although it was ultimately a destructive relationship, the passion between the couple is what most people would only wish to experience in their lives. It was superbly acted, and I really felt like there was something rather special between them. "},{"Title":"Not your average movie","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is definately not your average tale this one.  A story of two lovers sexually obsession.  Very graphic, but not in an arousing way for the viewer (ok, not for me but i can't speak for everyone).  The main character Sada is a seriously disturbed individual, her obsession with her lover amazing. As for her lover, would you let a woman who put a knife to your throat & threaten to remove your genitals if you sleep with another woman strangle you for erotic pleasure?  Think this story is in the realm of the imagination, it not.  This was a true story.  Worth a look.  Not for those easily disturbed or offended by images on film "},{"Title":"Review for In the Realm of the Senses","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"      This beautiful and disturbing film by Nagisa Oshima (Merry Christmas, Mr.  Lawrence (1983)) is set in pre-war Japan and based on a true tale.  A man falls  in love with one of his servants and enters into a deeply obsessive affair.  They  search for the pinnacles of sexual ecstasy through constant love makinginterspersed with dominance, sadism and auto-erotic asphyxiation.  Heprostitutes her in order to earn the money that will keep them locked away in a  hotel room for days of unending sex while she takes a knife to his throat and to  his crotch reminding him of what will happens if he ever thinks to put his dick in  another woman.  The high points of the movie come from Eiko Matsuda'sportrayal of the 16 year old nymphomaniac servant.  She delivers a sense ofsensuality, sexuality and obscene obsession that is both moving and touching. "},{"Title":"Obsessive sexuality on a symbolic level","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie surprised me. I went to see it on a whim, because it was showing in the same theatre with a screening of the director's cut of Blade Runner. I didn't know what to expect, and I liked it better than Blade Runner. The sexuality is incredibly graphic, but in some ways, that almost normalizes sex. It is so much better and more interesting than pornography, but it shows what pornography shows. The couple is constantly having sex, but that didn't strike me as abnormal. They do whatever they want regardless of who might be around or watching--a sense of shame and sexual repression is completely absent. There's a dreamy, lazy intensity to their obsession with each other. The end of the movie strikes me as highly symbolic--in that respect, it indicates that sexiness and sexuality is primarily psychological, despite the way they relish each other's bodies.  I'd highly recommend it to anyone who liked Sex, Lies and Videotape or High Art. They have a similar psychological intensity.  "}{"Title":"most powerful film ever made!!!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  this was notorious film in japan 1976. many japanese couldn't take this hardcore pornography. but this work of oshima who made political movies has great power to goverment that pressed many japanese movie free will. and this movie shows director's real brave. must-see movie!!!  "},{"Title":"Truly unique","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Many who have seen this movie say its pornographic. It's all about sex -- and more. Pornography is SEX for SEX itself with no other substance. But this movie deals with sex and  the other emotions that accompany  it. I found myself more interested in what the characters were saying to each other rather than what they were doing. After the final scene I strangely understood why Sada did the ghastly act. This movie is a brave attempt on the theme of sexual obsession. 9 1/2 weeks is Hollywood's lame attempt at the same theme. "},{"Title":"sex and death and cain't get enough in olde Japan","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Have you had enough?  No, no, no... Enough yet?  No, no, I need to play with your weiner and sleep with it and eat it and never ever ever let it go.  You smirk at me.  You are a Japanese male.  I am obsessed and very high-voiced.  I am Japanese female.  Why did you rape the old Geisha woman?  She was rolled up like an anchovy around a caper, your caper, your tiny little Japanese male caper.  Can I borrow your penis again?  Now!  AGain.  Can't get enough of that overbearing stuff.  I won't let you up, ever.  Ever.  Yum.  Yum.  I walk the streets holding you in my hands and I weep for what to do with you, what dogs I attract, what vermin trail after me.  My Lord is dead, but I keep him alive in my memory.  The code of Bushido.  There is no dishonor in death, only in non-devotion, and I am devoted to your body, your penis, eating you forever, and when I am become death, I am totally devoted to you (Olivia Newton Japanese John).  Oh, why do my eyelids not have creases? "},{"Title":"Not just art, not just porn--its both!","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I has all the trappings of an art film  lavishly photographed, well acted, virtually plotless film, where people prattle on interminably about their feelings--although it is related to the plot.  The up side is that they do it while having a lot (!) of sometimes explicit, sometimes kinky sex--Including some very graphic violence.   Other than supposedly recounting a true love story, there is not much else to this film.This is a chick flick that guys can get into as well!This film is not for the easily offended or squeamish! "},{"Title":"Pornography or Art?","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Well, after seeing this film, which I had on tape for a while but never watched until last night, I understand the reasons why I stayed away from this one. In no way can I legitimately call this film art and keep a straight face. Seeing as I'm always curious about films and am NOT a prude, I thought I owed it to myself to give this one a chance. I was being way too kind. I thought, based on everything I've read about this film and what others who've seen it said, I thought that the ending would shock me (I refuse to spoil that for those who haven't seen this film yet), it did not, much to my surprise. The sex scenes although graphic, moved me only slightly, but as with all porno flicks, I grew quickly bored. Frankly, I've seen a hell of a lot better. The scenes weren't really all that erotic. If I was to give a theme for this one, I'd have to say that it shows what can happen when a physical relationship is carried too far. But I still haven't any explanation for the ending. I'm so tempted to give it away in order to discuss this thing, but I really shouldn't. I'll leave that experience up to you. I wish those that had seen it, hadn't spoiled the ending for me, as I knew what to expect so I wasn't either moved or shocked by it. Prudes need not bother with this film but if you're an adventrous movie watcher, I'd definitely seek this one out. I recommend the unrated version, since the R-rated one is virtually unwatchable.  "},{"Title":"Erotic obsession","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a film that was unavailable in the UK for a long time. It has now appeared again here, being shown recently on the subscription channel Film Four. It has a NC-17 rating in the USA. It is about sexual obsession. It's very erotic. The desire of the man and the woman involved is inherently strong. They make love a lot in this film. Some of the scenes are graphic. The film is very well made. The desire grows forever stronger, until it reaches problematic and tragic consequences. The conclusion of the film is quite disturbing and will stay with you. "},{"Title":"Obsession, quite a bit of sex, and the UK censors...","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Here in the UK, we poor repressed Brits have to make do with crusty old laws which are interpreted as saying that hardcore pornography is illegal. But there is an allowance for artistic merit, and it was under these auspices that In The Realm Of The Senses was finally awarded a cinema certificate in 1991. Even then, however, a scene of a small boy having his willy yanked had to be optically reframed!Although a video release is apparently under discussion now, the cinema is the only place where this film can be seen in the UK, unless you're brave enough to try importing a copy on video or DVD (UK customs will seize it if they open the package!). So is it worth the trouble of tracking down an arthouse cinema which is showing it?Well, whilst it's certainly a good film, I cannot wholeheartedly condone going to such trouble to see it. It is the story of a servant and her master, who engage in an intense affair which eventually proves to be their downfall. Oshima would return to the theme of destructive relationships two years after In The Realm Of The Senses with it's companion piece, Empire of Passion, but Senses places this in a domestic and urban context, where Passion is largely set rurally.As the relationship continues, we see the couple gradually become totally absorbed in one another, much to the disgust of those around them, until the final, terrible (especially for male viewers!) climax.Although nicely shot, I can't help but wonder whether In The Realm Of The Senses has too thin a premise to sustain a full-length film. By the end, I was left not caring particularly much about the fate of either of the protagonists, whose self-indulgent sexual antics had begun to wear thin.I guess I didn't really care, since they were entirely responsible for their own messy downfall. As a study in obsessive and destructive relationships, this certainly makes Fatal Attraction look like Bambi. The only conclusion I could reach is that the pair had become consumed with each other at the expense of the outside world, and that the outside world (in the form of myself, the viewer) similarly decided to shun the couple!As for the sex, it is indeed still a novelty to see such explicit depictions on screen in the UK, although even that may be about to change with the recent adoption of European Human Rights legislation....!See it whilst it's still naughty, and decide for yourself on the art or pornography debate. Perhaps more importantly, decide also whether it's serious cinema or pretentious pap!  "},{"Title":"Nothing but bizarre porn","Date":"27 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" To put it simply, this film is most definitely not art, and I'm surprised that so many people think it is. Simply having some nice sets or costumes does not make a film artistic. This film has absolutely no plot, as much as it tries to. There is not one scene in the film in which the characters are not engaging in some sort of bizarre sexual activity - as the movie progresses, these sex scenes just become stranger and stranger.Stringing together a bunch of explicit scenes does NOT tell a story - it's simply impossible to make an artistic film this way. I am at a loss as to how a film can possibly be art if 99% of it is only sex. Let's put it this way - if a person disguised themselves as, say a duck, then one would clearly be able to see that the creature in question was a human masquerading as a duck. It doesn't mean that they actually are one! Similarly, this film masquerades as art, making a lot of people fail to see what it really is - which is quite simply, dull, bizarre pornography.Art can have explicit sex. A whole bunch of explicit sex scenes do not make art.1/10 "},{"Title":"A girl like you can stab a man's heart without a knife, huh?","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This Japanese pink film is no video nastie, as it lacks any sort of a story other than a prostitute wanting continual sex with a married man. Of course, he will take it from anyone he can, and she will leave him to make money, but the rest of the film, over 80% is the two of them engaging in numerous bouts of sex and perversion - sado/masochism, food perversions, whatever, until the story gets so boring she has no other choice but to end it permanently. It is a dark film about sexual obsession with lots of obsessive sex. Art or porn? That debate will go on forever.There was just nothing erotic about this film. It's value is only as a curiosity. "},{"Title":"Not appropriate","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It's true that the film is extremely graphic in its portrayal of sex, however the only part that I couldn't get past is the scene with the two children. There is a young boy and girl (maybe 8-9 yrs old) who are running around naked while the main female character does laundry. Then she grabs the genitals of the young boy, which makes him stop playing, of course. Then the scene ends. I don't believe that children (nude or clothed) have a place in a graphic movie like this, and I don't believe that the scene adds anything to the character development of the main woman. Whatever sexual energy this film might have had, was throughly destroyed by this scene... I know that one shouldn't judge an entire film by one scene, however I just have a hard time justifying the director due to the inclusion of children in such a way... I found it gross. "}{"Title":"Deserves masterpiece status","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I disagree with the previous reviewer - Ai No Corrida isn't even remotely pornographic!  The sole purpose and effect of the (admittedly explicit) sex is to focus your attention on two things; the lovers' descent from tenderness to madness, and the incredible beauty of the human form when viewed against simple architecture.  The film is a tour de force of performance and visual design -- when you're not holding your breath at the sheer beauty on screen, you're anchored in the story going on behind Sada and Kichizo's eyes...I loved it - and yes I saw the **uncut** version; it has just been re-released in Australia.  I would recommend it to anyone with an open mind and the ability to look beyond the sex component.  The sex acts depicted are fairly tame by today's standards - there is nothing here which would not be familiar to (or practised by) most fifteen-year-olds.  However the R rating is definitely warranted because the psychological and emotional oppression depicted (very accurately IMHO) is certainly disturbing.My mother saw the cut version of this in 1976 -- and for all my adult life she has urged me to seek it out as the best and most disturbing erotic film in existence.  And you know what? she wasn't wrong!I loved it. 10/10; a real masterpiece.  Eiko Matsuda gives one of the most powerful performances I have ever seen. She makes you *believe*. "},{"Title":"Bloodsport&mind games","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It was quite unusual,though not shocking,to view this film aired on a stately owned channel.Appearantly it would have been more appropriate to see it on a channel exclusively dedicated to hardcore adult productions.I repeat apparently,because,in spite of its strong sexual content,it is too both too deep and often even too nonsexual,even too repulsive if compared to porn.Repulsive?Well certainly not always comfortable to watch,but while you are not shocked anymore,once you have overcome certain restrains,this film turns out worth your time and (yes,precisely)intellectual effort.The first impression that this film left,from the very first scenes,were the immense amounts not only of full nudity but also explicit sexual intercourse.Considering that this film was made in 1976,even the most unconventional European art cinema is relatively mild if compared to this.Even earlier European directors like Ken Russell or Pasolini included some nudity in their best works and even some quite daring hints to the sexual act,but only to be surpassed by far trough films like this. In fact,some scenes were so realistic and so arousing,that it was difficult not to get turned on.But besides the obvious sexual aspects,this film will spark many controversies for years ahead.The controversy whether it is an art film or porn is not idiotic and useless in this case.Actually it combines beyond any doubts strong elements of both and is open to many interpretations. Without being prude,I don't think that less explicit sexual acts would have deprived this film of its art film qualities and wouldn't also have made the storyline less logical and organized.As if one would say that deep inside you know or guess that it would be an art film and therefore would be able to overlook some slightly hardcore subtext.About the meaning of the title-I was surprised to find out that the the word Corrida does not exist in Japanese and is used in the very familiar sense similar to bullfight.An artistic way to say that love and even more,sex,are a cruel,often violent and ruthless sport or game. This is not supposed to demonetize love,however the romantic,pleasurable face of sexuality are merely side-effects of a natural process which isn't necessarily painful or humiliating,however essentially amoral,wild,basic.Like a game of high stakes and high risk,it can very easily destroy the ones involved and this fascination with danger doesn't make it less appealing.Basically like corrida,it is a strange combination between a bloodsport(and involving also other body fluids)and a mind game,where brute force are mingled with unleashed fantasy and calculating shrewdness.In fact,apart from the sexual interest,the characters keep you haunted and curious like watching an intricate game of chess or pokertension is gradually rising and you eagerly await to be puzzled and overwhelmed by the next move,much more than you were by the previous.Speaking of tension,one is gradually directed,forced to anticipate a violent and chilling outcome.The characters behave increasingly unbalanced so that one guesses long before anything happens that they will unleash disaster,like in Ettore Scola's Pizza Triangle or Russell's Women in Love one grasps the gradual turn of eccentricities and unbalanced minds into sheer horror.And like in Happy Tree Friends,after an apparently nonviolent opening begins a barbaric spree of bloodshed.Unlike the cartoons mentioned above,the mood is neurotically timeless and ghastly,like in Russells The Devils Fellini-Satyricon sets,colors etc. preparing the viewer with the entrance in a doomed and savage universe where every step might be the last.About the endingit was so realistically done,with violently colored bloodstreams in horror film style that I wondered if the actor was permanently harmed.Let's not for get that also in 1976 the film La denier femme saw an also unbalanced Depardieu undergoing the same treatment,while the lethal intercourse of this haunting,violent couple is almost certainly a source of inspiration for the intense,both destructive and triumphant sexual act in Arau'sComo l'Agua para chocolatefrom 1991,where even the sexual position used by the characters,their expression,as much as their physical appearance mirrors this film with a strange deja-vu effect.Additionally this film might have also influenced,besides Arau,the not less controversial Jeux d'Enfants,both in the violent ending and sexuality as a game(as corrida).The actions of Sada left me,eventually,more disappointed than fascinated/puzzled.In her extreme jealousy,unbalanced behavior she acts more like a contemporary post-modern teeny girl than a Japanese,like the contemporary every-day female as seen in women's and teenager's magazines,popular culture,fashion,in mainstream porn,soap-operas or music videos.She acts so violently not out of lacking self-control,but more due to animal selfishness and a shallow,unintelligent pursuit of pleasures.Inspite of her untypical desires and feelings she is mainly an unimaginative,selfish bitch,incapable of originality in spite of unusual sexuality.What I liked about this film was how it destroyed several popular myths like the crimes of passions as something exclusively non-existent in heterosexual couples and also the way it resembles Oriental storytelling in its disrupted plot-line,including,much like in the erotic stories of the Arabian Nights,subplots,alternative plots,frame-stories and a surprising twist in conclusion,ending it with a saying,a quote or other forms of Oriental wisdom.Irrespective of its shocking side,this film is still a somewhat flawed,uneven yet also meaningful,intellectual almost-masterpiece,an obvious example of daring experimental forms of (alternative)cinematic art;however,a more cynical view might reveal the extreme use of sexuality and violence as a marketing strategy to attract the most common mainstream Western Audience,which snobbishly and superficially creates the appearance of a non-violent and non-sexual,prude one but is seduced almost instantly by well marketed sex and violence,even if they keep up an artificially respectable appearance.Of course one couldn't see such a film come out of Hollywood,nor the contemporary Hollywood-stars engaging in such violence and real,unrestrained and bizarre sex(though they would if the studios would ask them to&it would sell),but as long as such productions are non-American,they are viewed as exotic curiosities,which mainstream audience would be occasionally allowed to watch but mainstream cinema never allowed to make. "},{"Title":"Holy Cow","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is no masterpiece, but it has a great distinction amongst the world of film. One can never go beyond this one in audacity. Never. If I described some of the stuff that you will only ever find here, this review would never be posted. They went so far a couple of times that I had to clap. Some of it is just so great.Besides its audacity, the two leads are very good. Even though the movie consists of very little besides the sex scenes (and what little it does is not worth it; the weakest part of the film is its script), the main characters are pretty complex. But if you're looking to see something which is erotic and beautiful, stay away and rent one of my all time favorites, Last Tango in Paris. In the Realm of the Senses is surely erotic, but it is not beautiful. It's main function is to disturb.   8/10 "},{"Title":"Poor dialog, poorly done sex scenes, poor movie!!!!","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie was almost, almost as bad as The Brown Bunny. I have seen hard core porn with more of a plot than this crap! I was expecting more of a psychological thriller or a twisted love tale, being that they were suppose to have a sexual obsession for each other and it was based off of a true story.Spoiler Warning!!!!!!!!!! Granted, she was a nymphomaniac, but he acted like he wasn't remotely interested half of the time. Case in point, when she's servicing him and he lights up a cigarette, what? I kept trying to see something in his face, some sign of life; but it was not there. Not until she still went out tricking.So I understand that is important to the film, neither one of them really could function in society. He was strange, and didn't like his wife, and raped the maid; that kind of thing. And she wasn't adjusted well, she liked to fight, had an obsession with knives apparently and S & M. But when they got together, they still didn't have anything else between them but sex. All of their dialog with each other revolved around it.The part that confused me most, is if she was so in love with him and wanted him in her always, why did she kill him? It didn't look like an accident to me, nor did she act like; she went outside and started mastubating. Then she castrated him. Well maybe it's just me, but it works much better if it's still attached to a living person.All in all, this movie had no plot, horrible dialog, and no build up. 5 minutes into the film until the last frame was no stop sex and half the time, I didn't know why. Maybe if the characters were more developed, or if there was a little background, I could feel sorry for them. I understand why it's gotten so much attention. I just think it could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Embarrassingly bad.","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I felt compelled to write a comment in response to the stupid amount of this is not porn it is beautiful art, if you don't like it you're just prudish comments I just sifted through.This is not beautiful, it is not art. It looked cheap and nasty. It looked as if it had the production values of an amateur porn session, lit by whatever broken desk lamps found in your average erotic dungeon. The fake snow looked like fake snow. The kids throwing snow at the old man's exposed privates made me want to punch the director for trying to make the rest of the movie anything but a comedy.To top its woeful aesthetics off, the absolute drivel that came out of these character's mouths was nauseating. Every single time they'd have sex, which would be 85% of the film, the woman would say the same banal, generic you inside me is beyond words without fail. There are some movies that are so bad that they become entertaining. Like Plan 9 from Outer Space. This was not entertaining. It was mind-numbingly boring. film. If you thought this was any good I recommend you re evaluate your life. Because something is very wrong. Probably a lot of things are very wrong. "},{"Title":"It's not Porn; it's Art Film (?)","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I've tried and failed to find the words to properly describe my sentiments regarding Nagisa Oshima's Ai no korīda. Fortunately, as it turns out, a fictional character from a popular American TV- series sums up my sentiments exactly STAN MARSH Dude, this is some ****ed up s*** right here! I couldn't agree more with Mr. Marsh.I am quite frankly incapable of understanding how anyone anywhere could fail to recognize Oshima's film as a piece of pornography. I do not believe that this opinion makes me a prude; when an over-whelming majority (around 4 of every 5) of the scenes in the film depict graphic non-simulated sex, that means that it is a pornographic motion picture, regardless of how well-shot it is.I consider the film atrocious, and cannot recommend it to anyone anywhere at any time. "},{"Title":"A bad combination of sick eroticism and weak drama","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" 1- Drama and porn are two completely distinct genres of cinema that should not be combined. If you want to show love-making, you have to simulate it and not to dive into details, because it diverts audience's attention and corrupts the logical conjunction of scenes. 2- The romantic(?) relationship shown in this film, as the characters confess, is an obsession, not a true love. This kind of passion was disgusting to me. Love is supposed to adorn our lives. Acts like oral sex or inserting a dildo or an egg(!) into a vagina are not arisen from a healthy mind. They are just sadistic and non-appropriate for drama. 3- The scene depicting nude children was questionable. What was director's purpose? It just slowed down the progress of plot, because it had no relation to the story. Also, there is a general rule Do not use children in erotic scenes. It's meaningless. 4- The rain scene was childish. Why would someone be afraid of an umbrella and think it is a ghost?! Is this funny? Does it help the audience to strengthen their emotional relationships with the characters? I don't think so. 5- The ending is ambiguous. What happens to Saba after being arrested for murdering her lover? The narrator should have been explained it. "},{"Title":"Love & Cascrate","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In the Realm of the Senses aroused MUCH controversy in 70's and it's a kind of movie which only could be made in that decade. Even a lot of controversial flicks in 70's(like last tango in Paris) could be easily rated PG in comparison with this one!Love & Cascrate as the motif , is explicitly illustrated in the most shocking scenes & it's difficult to watch for a general viewer. honestly i never understood what is it all about, but tough buffs of this movie(& they are many) believe in Oshmia's perfect use of mise en scene in describing a mentally-disturbed female character. no wonder that it's the most favorite movie of Catherine Breillat.( top ten choosing in Sight n Sound 2002) "},{"Title":"Audacity","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This was a brilliantly acted drama about love and obsession in feudal Japan. Having lived in Japan for many years, I can say it's much revered here. Oshima made a masterpiece for sure.But...Yeah, you already know. It's the sex. The hardcore, graphic, no holds barred SEX that got all the attention. Banned for years, it's now available in Tokyo.The thing is, it's a very well acted Oriental tragedy. And the way in unfolds was engrossing. The romance that became an obsession. The sex itself was vital to the story and not just there for titillation, though it does do that too.I won't mention the end. See it for yourself. But this film is one of Japan's best. Bank on it. "},{"Title":"Art or porn? A pointless debate","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film contains probably the most graphical sexual content of any mainstream movie. Understandably this shocks some people - as indeed it was intended to do. You can call it art or you can call it porn - at the end of the day it will come down to way you define words. Semantic issues like this are rarely solved by debate as any participants are likely to come with their minds already made up. For what it's worth I think that this is the most impressive film about sexual passion and the ( linked ) liberating and destructive elements that this brings with it. It is also a beautiful Japanese film in the dying tradition of Mizoguchi or Kwaidan - an aesthetic blend of colours and music not seen in western cinema. Thrill seekers should be warned that it not particularly erotic and certainly not arousing. I think that much of the dislike it engenders is from men who feel uncomfortable with on-screen male nudity. Incidentally the version I saw is the currently sanctioned BBFC version which is uncut but has some digital editing on one scene. Anybody who has seen the film will know the scene and while I can understand why it is necessary it does seem to undercut Oshima's point about how the lovers self absorbtion leads them to transgress societal norms. "}{"Title":"Not a first date film","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The only theatre in my small town was an art filmhouse, so that's where I took N. on our first date, to see a film described as an interesting film about love and strong women.  Needless to say, I was mortified! After 10 minutes of watching a woman give oral sex and castrate a dead guy, I said, We don't have to stay. Fortunately he didn't hold it against me (we married some years later). ;~)  I've never seen the film in it's entirety.  Given the rave comments here, I just might see it someday.   "},{"Title":"Over-rated, but with some good parts","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I think this is a movie that sometimes manages to show how sexual obsession can take over your life, and eventually how it can throw you into the realms of death. However; it is too dull, and sometimes the endless sex-scenes are just boring, and that is the Numero Uno porn-film-cliché. But Ai No Corrida contains creative sexuality as well, and if you don't know how a hard-boiled egg can be utilized during intercourse before you see this movie, you sure will know it afterwards. "},{"Title":"A moving tale of infatuated love, betrayal and jealousy.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A moving tale of infatuated love, betrayal and jealousy.  Sex is shown as an everyday fact of life in this often moving, often funny tale, of the relationship between a master and his servant.  Their relationship grows at a startling pace.  The climax is enough to stop any man straying from their jealous wives.  Highly recommended, but not for the kids.  "},{"Title":"Art-house or Porn It was meant to be erotic. (spoilers)","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I once thought that the character of Bernado Bertolucci's 'Dreamers' were the most useless people to comprise a narrative; the twin siblings and their American friend who idle in an apartment entertaining one another in sexual desire and meanwhile there is political strife ongoing in the streets just below their window. But that was until I saw 'In the Realm of the Senses' in which, probably fulfilling the teenage boy's dream of a man who forever spends his day getting laid by a fervent, if not psychotic (I guess in some passionate way) prostitute who never seems to relent in sexual gratification for herself and her Master. (Why didn't the woman just surgically attach her face to his penis?) But, this, in remarkably explicit detail (considering this was not intended as a production relegated to the porn industry) is all that fills the time from beginning to end. On the one hand, this effectively captures the ecstatic relationship among the two (the master's wife is almost invisible throughout the film), although towards the end, she seems more caught up in the ecstasy than he (and why not, she's willing all the time to the point of boredom on the part of her partner). But on the other hand, there is nothing else that occurs in this film. The film is quite simply an experimentation in sexual behavior, it seems, it doesn't matter whether you label it art-house or porn, the purpose is to arouse the viewers (and shock them too, as the moments of pleasure are also minced with moments of pain once you get to the finale).This film is, as the final narration reveals, based on the true story of a prostitute who found wandering around in 1936 with the dismembered member of her master following his asphyxiation from their experimentations with sex and strangulation. But, rather than aghast, she surprisingly became a sympathetic character and I suppose her story, legendary (this I can't figure out except for the symbol of the man that she carried with him probably as a sign of devotion). It was consequently banned at the opening of the New York film festival in which is premiered and years later, was finally released in Britian and the United States. "},{"Title":"Wonderful castration scene","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This was my first porno movie (1977) and I still remember the story like yesterday. I especially remember the final castration scene. It still haunts me today. I think the director Nagisa Oshima has made a brilliant movie about love and sex. I say only Domo arigato to this movie. "},{"Title":"Controversial Only for Hypocrites","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The events on which the story of AI NO CORRIDA (a.k.a. IN THE REALM OF THE SENSES) are that of a Japanese prostitute who was found wandering the streets of Tokyo as she held the severed penis of her dead lover and what lead her to this state. Stuff that some might find shocking, unless your name happens to be Lorena Bobbitt and you were planning on re-creating the last scene of this film unto your abusive husband. Then it becomes quasi-feminism in reaction to male abuse.Sada is a nymphomaniac who is about to awaken to even more extreme forms of erotic gratification once she moves into an inn owned by Kichizo and his wife. An affair between them takes place and grows more intense once she demands that he not make love to his wife. In a moment of fantasy violence that precludes the events which become the result of extreme kink, Sada sees herself as a voyeur who interrupts Kichizo and his wife's orgasm by stabbing her in the neck and reveling in her blood.Sada and Kichizo's affair becomes so torrid that it even shocks the other geishas and literally kills an older lady who Sada has Kichizo have sex with. An encounter with an ex-teacher has Sada then awaken to sado-masochism as she suddenly asks the man to slap her as hard as he can. To her surprise, once she relates this to Kichizo, he also asks her to slap him, and from them on, all they can do is push the limits of kink and self-immolation in order to make their sexual encounters as gratifying as possible.I've seen this classified as an erotic drama but it is not. Erotica as a storytelling medium, while it employs sex as a large part of the plot, also has character development, atmosphere, and is not as sexually explicit (although this is debatable as the concept of what is erotic evolves). AI NO CORRIDA, a story that is from start to finish about sex as a non-stop activity, doesn't allow for any other development sex, gratification, the little death, this is all that seems to be on the two main characters' minds. While this on paper reads well, it doesn't translate itself to screen. There needs to be a little more psychology entrenched within the characters. Plus, the very explicitness of the sex, while meant to shock on purpose, does the very opposite it desensitizes. All we see is sex, sex, and more sex. Yes, maybe this is how it happened, but it's showed in one non-stop assault on the senses and due to that, it becomes almost laughable. Until the final scene.AI NO CORRIDA is a film that should be seen, but the approach has to be on a cerebral plane. It's very disquieting nature suggests that it be done this way. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably Boring","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is beautifully shot, beautifully directed; full of great costumes, locations and period detail; and the dullest thing I have ever seen.  The pace of this film is very slow indeed.  Slow is not necessarily the same as boring (see *Ride With The Devil*), but it doesn't help.  The much-talked-about sex scenes are devoid of passion, a major handicap for a study of sexual obsession.  Like most of its French-Arthouse-Movies-With-Hardcore-Sex-Scenes cousins (it's a Japanese/French co-production), it is not remotely erotic, and has nothing very interesting to say about sex and relationships.  If you want to be aroused, watch a good porno (believe it or not, they do exist). If you want a good Japanese period drama, you have dozens to choose from. If you suffer from insomnia, watch this. "},{"Title":"not a watchable movie its a highly xxx movie CHILDREN BE AWARE!!!!!","Date":"27 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" ALERT ALERT ALERT!!!!! WARNING HIGHLYI unexpectedly watched this type of movie without even knowing whatkind of movies... i don't encourage this type of movies for THE CHILDREN YOUTH AND ALL this is not a Worth watchable movie except for the ones who are PORN LOVERSSSS... Please make sure don,t give this type of movies a rating.. and help others to not to fall in this kind of uglier movies. please make sure not to watch it .. Don't let your children watch this i have seen 20 minutes of the movie and its full of _____ and enjoyment by the male character...!!!!!!THESE KIND OF MOVIE TITLES ARE TO BE MARKED IN THE RED BOLD LETTERS WHICH WILL MAKE OTHERS TO IDENTIFY EASILY. "},{"Title":"Sex is over-rated","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Most people I know thought that it was too much. Me personally, I was not all that impressed. Where others thought it was heavy, I thought it was unbearingly light. If this film was meant to shock in some way or other, it failed to do so with me. Sex does not need to go according the book that social convention offers us. What goes on between the sheets of lovers, especially intimate ones is their business, their own religion. And here we are allowed to take a peak at a particularly interesting far out couple. I asked myself if this film was Art imitating porn or porn imitating Art. And when she finally chops off his penis, was that supposed to be the climax? Im not sure what was I meant to be experiencing here. This film basically did not strike any new chords with me, even if I believe the director was doing his utmost to create some cutting edge stuff. "},{"Title":"Now THIS is a weird one!","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I'm not entirely sure what to say about this movie. I suppose it succeeded at what to do--which was to disturb the viewer at how far sexual fetishes can go, or something. But then again, Ernest Goes To Camp probably succeeded at what it wanted also; but you don't see me giving it a rave review. In The Realm Of The Senses, at it's core, is essentially nonstop depraved porn for a few hours (in fact, I think it has more sex scenes then any other movie I've ever seen in my entire life). It poses as art, and some will hail it as such, but it's really just porn (and BIZARRE porn at that, you wouldn't believe some of the crap in this thing!). But, on the plus side, it never bored me, and if you're into this kind of freakish goo, you should check it out. And possibly see a shrink afterward. "}{"Title":"Neither art nor pornography.","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film masquerades as art bordering on pornography. I've seen pornography that was more artistic and art which was more pornographic. The only thing that may be of interest is that the  film is Japanese (exotic) and purportedly true. "},{"Title":"The fail experience","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I cant call Ai no Corrida (Als known as In the Realms of Senses in English or El Imperio de los Sentidos in Spanish) as a successful film. My expectations fall terribly, and is not about what i expect, it was about the film try, and fail.Ai no Corrida told us the story of a woman (Eiko Matsuda) called Sada who work for a man (Tatsuya Fuji) called Kichizo. Sada falls in love with Kichizo. Then, they apart in a house and begin to have sex. Sada finds an irreplaceable feeling, and begin to be addicted to it. Kichizo is not her slave, both are dominating for flesh, sex and lust. They begin to find pleasure then in pain, and becomes to be in an obsession of every day.Ai no Corrida have a clear intention, which is about the human necessity of each human been of pleasure. When a person surrenders to other finding love and pleasure. But one thing is the intention and other is get it. Ai no Corrida don't get it. The film becomes to bring the message in some strange even boring forms, i mean, i sometimes yawn watching the same thing, and if this is the way that the characters are developed, i think that there is another forms to do it. The film is fill with somethings that can be shown in other manners, but here much times begin to go to the extreme, for example, if they want to show the evolution of they sex addiction, they can showed gradually, but they shown us the same thing, again and again and again. Obviously, much things happen inside them, but as i say before, the film don't show this good. And if you can hold the egg scene, Can you get when Sada play with two naked children's, and then her grabs the penis of one the them? I mean, it seems to be sick, annoying and disrespectful. The kid complains, is obviously real. I don't think that this is the way of show the addiction of Sada, at least, if they want to show a kind of pedophilia about her desire, but that is not the reason for no respect. This make that the film even go to the extreme. And there is the end, where Sada completes one of their promises. So he never go apart of her, and he don't be unfaithful to her, he cut his penis. OK, the idea for demonstrate Sada obsession is good, but how is shown here is terribly disgusting. Of course that can be showed for more realism an more impact, but the film shown this situation terribly. And if i can tell then if that scene is powerful? Yes, of course, but is not excuse for be shown so viscerally. Of course that performances are good, as its beautiful scenario and image, because after all, the film have a beautiful photography, but that is not enough to save it.You can watch Ai no Corrida then, as a film about passion, sex and obsession... but saying what I'm saying, i only can see Ai no Corrida as a failed film, that in time of fulfill its intention, go to the extreme.*Sorry for the mistakes...well, if there any. "},{"Title":"Flat and weak to be based on a true-life story","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Nagisa Oshima's Ai no corrida (1976) was based on a controversial true story in which a former geisha mutilated her lover's penis and was arrested wandering on the streets with it. Usually, true-story-based movies are dramatized to make the plot more intriguing and interesting.Ai no corrida is a weakly-constructed story located on 1930's Japan in which a sexual - servant girl Sada (Eiko Matsuda) involves madly with her master Kichi-zo (Tatsuya Fuji) to the point where love-making becomes violent and dangerous.The movie is interesting at first because it doesn't stop where erotica movies often do (you get really, I mean really explicit images of sex), but fails later on in making the experience interesting (you don't get touched or aroused like you may do with Jean-Jacques Annaud's  L'Amant(1991)). After you get familiar with all the explicit visuals, the story doesn't get any better because all that happens is uninspiring, tediously-told sex.  Ai no corrida's photography and art are nice though. Acting is great, specially on the really explicit sexual scenes where actors really make love and go all the way. But generally, everything is slow and flat. Many people got out from the theatre when I watched it, I don't know if it was the dullness or the explicit content.As for the art or porn debate, I wouldn't call Ai no corrida a porn flick. A porn movie is usually low budget and usually made with strict commercial purposes. Nagisa Oshima took the time to construct a story  (not a very structured one in my opinion but he did write a story) based on real-life facts and made a movie with it making statements on the way.Even if the story is a little dull, you  must watch it for its cult-movie status and because it is interesting to see that sex, even though carried out by other cultures, can turn into a dangerous obsession. "},{"Title":"Porn by any other name is still porn.","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I'm not a prude, but, what I object to about this film is that it pretends to be art when it is pure and simple porn, distasteful porn at that. I watched it when it appeared on British movie channel Film Four having over the years heard so much about it, however it was more explicit than I had realised, but, after a while it became, like most other hard core porn quite repetative and boring and I barely made it to the end hoping it might improve but came away knowing that I couldn't sit through it again.  Every situation was just another excuse to show people having graphic sex, but in it are two scenes that show it for the filth it is, firstly is the scene showing two older geishas raping a younger one, who is obviously a virgin, with some kind of object, I was so disturbed I had to say I looked away.  Secondly and extremely disturbing was a scene showing the ex prostitute with two young children running naked around her, they are perhaps 5 years old, in the version I saw the scene is cut, but what happens is plain, in the uncut version I've been told you see her actually sexually assaulting the little boy, morally this is reprehensible and the pathetic excuse of the film maker is that it is done to prove that she not of sound mind, personally that accusation can be levelled at the writer/director himself. All in all from it's start to nasty ending it is over rated rubbish that I personally wished I'd never seen.  I wouldn't stop anyone else from watching it, but, I certainly wouldn't recommend it either.  Art? I don't think so.  Over rated porn is nearer the mark. "},{"Title":"Art, Porn, Whatever... It's not very good!","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Director Nagisa Oshima's sexually explicit film would like to think it was saying something of real importance about sexual politics of the class struggle, but it isn't saying anything at all. The film is a very pornographic look at a highly sexual (but never loving or emotional) relationship between a rich Japanese man and his young Geisha servant. When I say the film is pornographic I really mean that as an overstatement, most porn would never show anything this strong. Others have commented on how the issue of art verses porn has sullied the reputation of the film, overshadowing the merits of the film, but it is really just too hard to pay attention to the plot with all this disturbingly realistic sex going on. I found the film just dull, trying to pepper up its story with lashings of unbelievably explicit sex and violence, which makes the film impossible to enjoy on any level. Whatever take you have on the morals the film, Art, Porn, whatever... You cannot hail Ai no Corrida as anything more than a bland, shallow, pretentious failure. "},{"Title":"slow moving","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In Australia this movie was banned for a very long time and when it was released in its uncut form, i had to see this after hearing all the controversy it has raised over the years. after now seeing it i was very disappointed.i like when movies explore sex; as not many movies do it, and not that great. at first the sex scenes were confronting, but when they were having sex every scene, it became so tedious that it became boring to watch. you could see that they loved each other, but showing them constantly having sex all the time is abit over the top.with other erotic drama movies, its better when they show one or two sex scenes, as it more intimate and is more hard hitting. What dragged this down was as that there was only sex in it. there was no real story line, the story line presented was so thin that if the sex scenes were cut out, the movie would be so short and pointless.after now seeing it, i don't feel that it is as controversial as i once thought. "},{"Title":"porn for eggheads","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Some people like the inevitable windbag Lacan consider this one of the most intense movies ever made.But let's be honest 104 minutes of intercourse and b*-jobs are a little bit boring, though setting them in traditional Japanese houses may add some exotic flavor for Western spectators. But marvelous Japanese cinematography you can also get from Ozu, Kurosawa and Mizoguchi and they present some more interesting subjects. (6/10) "},{"Title":"One note, over and over again.","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie tries to shock, but ultimately it is meaningless. The characters have no depth. The story is one dimensional. The historical background is completely absent. Perhaps that is supposed to be the point. That the sexual relationship between these people became the only thing in their lives that mattered. I guess my question is, why should anyone else care? I was not offended by the graphic depictions of sex, nor was I shocked at the graphic violence at the end of the movie. I was mostly bored and frustrated by what was supposed to be such a ground-breaking movie. The story depicted in this film could have been interesting. A film about sexual obsession in Japan just prior to WWII certainly could have been riveting. This film, simply put, IS NOT.  "},{"Title":"Pushing the NC-17 limits","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I'm someone who is totally against censorship..but I have to be honest when I say that some of the scenes in this film were shocking even to me. I just didn't think NC-17 allowed this sort of thing. Personally, I think this is very over-rated - the actress playing Sada is brilliant but the sex just goes on and on. The end was very intense, as one of the other reviewers wrote..watching this will provide a deterrent for any philandering hubbies out there. "},{"Title":"This isn't Art, this is Porn...","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Having studied Art for a good deal of time I can tell you that it is supposed to be a meaningful and/or personal expression on the part of the artist, it's supposed to say something to people that they will react to. Well I reacted to Ai no Corrida, but that's where the definition of art ends. Ai no Corrida (In the Realm of the Senses) goes so far with its sexual explicitness that there is no meaning, all the Director Nagisa Oshima wants to do is shock, and he has succeeded. Now I'm not a prude, I've enjoyed films like The Idiots, The Fourth Man and (one of my personal favourites) Breaking the Waves immensely, and each of them contained strong graphic sex scenes, but they never seemed too explicit, they seemed like the natural reaction those characters should have. With this film however, it just seemed pornographic. I agree with others though, this is a very well acted film, and should be watched if you're serious about movies, but if you want a beautiful story of undying love then watch Breaking the Waves, and avoid this high brow slice of Porn.    "}{"Title":"Was it worth it?  Not for me.","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  So the UK censorship laws have finally relaxed enough for Ai No Corrida to be shown on TV.  On FilmFour, that is - a subscription-only cable and digital channel.  So was it worth watching?  In my opinion, no, it wasn't.  Much has been made of the artistic treatment of sex in this film and how it makes reference to repressive Japanese society.  Sorry, but I just couldn't see that at all. All I saw was frequent and rather tawdry coupling, a totally inane plot and no characterisation at all. I've seen adult films with a better plot and less pornographic films of much greater eroticism (compare the lumpen use of an egg in Ai No Corrida with the raw egg scene in Tampopo, for example).  At least films classified as pornographic rather than artistic have the virtue of honesty.  This film was, in my view, self indulgent claptrap.  Having said all that, I applaud the decision of FilmFour to show it. "},{"Title":"Get some real actors next time","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  If this is porn, then the story parts between the sex scenes are too long. If it's more than porn, the acting requires some credibility. Especially Eiko Matsuda's lines sound as though she were a porn actress who struggling to do some real acting, and failing. None of the other actors in this movie fare much better though.  "},{"Title":"I honestly wish it was still banned","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is one of the most disgusting, amoral pieces of filmmaking I have ever seen. Normally I am against screen censorship in any form, but In this case I made an exception.The film was egocentric, and deeply boring. At the film society where I saw it we had a record number of walkouts - over 1/2 of the audience left, many of them citing how distasteful it all was, the rest through sheer boredom, but I saw it out, mainly as I was the House Manager that night.It was basically showed all aspects of Human sexuality. I have no objection to this, although watching people parade around naked is quite dull.  What I do object to is the scene which clearly suggests paedophilia. It was cut to show, and I quote, 'The intention but not the act'. The intention is too much. I wish the censor had either cut the scene totally or refused a release. I was physically repulsed.A lot of people accused this of being 'Erotic Art'. If you want erotic art see 'The Pillow Book', its infinitely superior, and a hell of a lot more erotic. If you want porn go and buy something from the top shelf of the local newsagents. Whatever you do, don't see this film.  "}]