[{"Title":"The reason that I got into films in the first place!!!","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"316 out of 393 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"   In film school it is not cool to say you like David Lynch. Film students claim he is just a poor mans version of Luis Bunuel. Yes, I would say that Bunuel is more talented and is the king of surrealism. But Lynch is very good and his films do challenge the viewer. I actually have a deep affection for his films. When his films work, they really work! However, when they do not work, for example, Twin Peaks, Fire, Walk with Me or Lost Highway then they quickly launch themselves into self parody. Many people claim his material is too inconsistent and indulgent to be really liked very much.   What I find strange is that one reviewer here states that he feel duped by Lynch. Duped? Why? The films all have a story. They just have a narrative that works differently to conventional film making. If you look hard at the film and try to understand the subtext then you will pick up  on what the film is about. I saw this when I was 16. I knew nothing about films or film making then. A friend and I were bored so we decided to see a movie at capitol cinema. Capitol cinema used to be a cinema that played arty or small independent films. They used to play midnight showings of eraserhead. There was always someone smoking a joint in that place. However, you don't need drugs for this film. Lynch is drugs. This film just buzzes you out. I had no idea what Eraserhead was about. I had never heard of Lynch and knew nothing about surrealism. I went in and was just totally blown away! Before this I had only really seen commercial blockbuster movies. Lynch gave me a whole knew perspective on what cinema is capable of. Eraserhead is the stuff of dreams. Lynch believes that watching a film is entering a dream state. Both my friend and I did not know what the hell was going on. I was fascinated...    Later I would learn this is a film about Lynch's own obsessions. His hatred of Philadelphia. His fear and anxiety at being a father. The film is just full of a kind of a compulsive, paranoid neurosis. It is a waking nightmare. He also seems to parody the nuclear family. 'Did you have sexual intercourse with my daughter?' Meanwhile that weird blond woman in his radiator seems to represent his escape. A way to transcend from his grim world. What I also find bizarre is that people then accuse him of having no sense of humor! What? There are always funny moments in his films. 'Did you have sexual intercourse with my daughter?'Jack Nance is also very good as the main character. He seems to be playing the director and he gives a performance that is distant, spaced out and yet emotionally vulnerable. A really strange mix.   The imagery is just brilliant. Black and white in an industrial wasteland. There is smoke here of course. It wouid not be a Lynch film without smoke!  It also has a cool, grating industrial soundtrack that sets your nerves on edge. This is perfectly effective for the bleak tone of the film. It is so visually striking that the viewer will not forget the imagery quickly. There is a reason that this is a cult film. The other distinctive feature of this film is the long lingering shots. This reminds me of Jim Jarmusch and his movies like Dead Man and Ghost Dog. The length of the shots seems to have the effect of immersing the viewer in this strange industrial wasteland.I have my own copy that I lend to friends. They then normally give it back to me saying that they only got through the first half hour. They also normally tell me that I am a weirdo for liking it. I think what frustrates people most about Lynch is that he will not give any explanations of what the film is about. So any interpretation is as good as any other. People want the film to be explained so they can understand it. Who said films must be understood or comprehensible? Why can't a film be abstract piece of art like a painting? Lynch's films are like an acid trip. To quote the great gonzo, Hunter S Thompson, 'buy the ticket, take the ride and if it gets a little heavier than what you  had in mind, then put it down to forced consciousness expansion.'  So in other words, relax, stick it on and just run with it. Travel into someone else's nightmare for a change...    "},{"Title":"Ask six people exactly what Eraserhead is about, and you will get six different answers","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"230 out of 294 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I sometimes dream of waking to a completely dark world, a world with no sunlight and minimal artificial light. My vision is blurred, but there is nothing to see. The streets are virtually empty, and my friends and family are lifeless; sitting, standing or even walking, but with nothing to do or say, and nowhere to go. No questions are asked because there is nothing to learn, nothing is discussed because nothing is interesting. And it is this dismal reality I am faced with, only partially aware that there is anything better.The existence I dream of is somewhat reminiscent of the world of Henry Spencer, the main character in Eraserhead, who becomes father to a hideously deformed baby. That's what the film is about at face value, but the very style in which it is portrayed is the real beauty of it. The setting and scenery makes the film one of the most desperately depressing I have ever seen. And although Henry seems to be devoid of any spark of personality, we can't help but sympathise with him throughout the film.Similar to my dream, the only form of light is artificial, the streets are virtually empty, and the only person in the entire film who has any personality is the father-in-law, and the only thing he has to talk about is his poor health. He also seems to be the only one with any link to better times. (I've watched this city turn from pastures to the hell-hole it is now.) The city they live in is completely industrialized, and the only plant life seen is dead, and in a pile of soil on Henry's bedside table.Some have suggested it is based after a nuclear holocaust, but nothing is explained to any conclusion. One of the beauties of this film is that it practically begs the viewer to decide for themselves what any of it means, and there are many theories. I warn you not to read the message board of Eraserhead before you see the film, as it is so much more powerful and chilling to experience it first-hand.The first time I saw Eraserhead, I was completely confused. It is possible that David Lynch just put a load of random imagery together and called it a film. Maybe he wanted the viewers to put it all together and make their own sense of it (or not). On the other hand, there might actually be a set formula behind it and only the very open-minded and discerning audience can properly decipher it.One viewing of Eraserhead is enough to raise about a dozen questions, and to leave you gasping for answers. Two viewings are probably enough to give you theories about some of the cryptic depictions hauntingly portrayed. Three viewings might be enough to give you a completely different set of theories, battling persistently against your previous conceptions, but still leaving just a few details that don't quite seem to fit in. The truth is that there may be parts that don't make sense in one interpretation, but fit in perfectly to another. You could probably watch Eraserhead several times, and each time see a slightly different story. Or if you were to ask six different people exactly what Eraserhead is about, you would get six different answers, each equally correct in their own right, and each equally confused.That being said, this definitely isn't a film for everyone. This is the first Lynch film I have seen, and it certainly won't be the last. But there will no doubt be many who see this purely as a lot of clever mind tricks and special effects (for its time, anyway.) There will be those who don't like much to think about, and want it all explained bit by bit in perfect detail. Well, Eraserhead is an epitome of everything such moviegoers will hate. I will say this for certain If your favourite films are 'Love Actually' or 'Dude, Where's My Car?', you probably won't get much out of Eraserhead. But for those who like their concepts challenged once in a while, this film will probably be one to watch again and again until you understand. This is also not a film to be forgotten easily. Love it or hate it, Eraserhead will stay with you for a very long time. "},{"Title":"Cinematic genius, but definitely NOT a date movie.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"176 out of 225 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can think of very few films that have sound as their most commendable feature. The Exorcist is one, a film that, aside from infrequent strains of `Tubular Bells', adopts minimal incidental music. This is laudable in a horror genre where shocks are clearly signposted &#150; and predicted &#150; by overgenerous musical stings. The Exorcist may be flawed, but its avoidance of this field cliché is worthy of praise.Eraserhead is the other film that excels in sound. A frankly disturbing concoction of industrial score and white noise with undercurrents of musical hall and sonorous church organ, it is almost an extra character in the film, and easily it's most prominent factor. Yet Eraserhead is to be recommended for more than its incidentals. An impenetrable and gloomy work, what is it actually about? Who is the credited `man in the planet' who pulls levers that control giant spermatozoa? Many questions like this permeate a film which perhaps has to be seen several times to get over the initial shock of it's avant gardism. Lynch extracts the everyday and supplants it with the exceptionally bizarre. The experience of meeting a girlfriend's parents for the first time is never worse than here, where the parents in question gyrate spasmodically to the animated legs of a blood-spitting chicken. It's these scenes &#150; along with the deformed mutant baby &#150; that could lend the film the air of an abortion debate. Birth and repressed sexuality thrive throughout the film, from suckling puppies to the seductive appeal of the `beautiful girl across the hall' and a mother-in-law that gets too close for comfort. I guess the entire film could be a man's mental breakdown when faced with the premature responsibilities of marriage and fatherhood. Though to be honest I couldn't even begin to imagine what it's really all about.Encroaching blackness fills every scene, where lights are intermittent at best, and at worse fail completely. Often sets &#150; particularly the bedroom when `Mary X' is feeding the child &#150; are like prison cells. Two of the most eerie segments involve a title-explaining dream (?) where Henry's (Nance's) head is carved into pencil rubbers and an unsettling musical number from the `lady in the radiator'. This is the same lady with two candyfloss-like lumps on her cheeks that alternates her stage appearances between stamping on giant sperm to singing with religious convictions.Direction and cinematography are brilliant throughout, though the climax is the ultimate extension of a film that borders on darker, extremely unpleasant aspects of reality. I took a girl to see this film once, where the conclusion formed the final straw in what could be seen as a cycle of repellent imagery. I wonder why I never saw her again?  "},{"Title":"Not really a movie in the classic sense...","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"246 out of 369 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've watched Eraserhead countless times. In theaters. Off of the infamous Japanese-subtitled VCR copy. Off of the recent Lynch re-release. From around the late 70s onward. Yes, that long.I have friends who won't let me recommend movies to them any more.Anyway, the capsule summary, Can't be summarized, is pretty close.First, it is not a movie. It is not a film.It is a piece of art.All of the comments I read that attempt to describe it as a movie fail for precisely that reason. If you read the ones that can handle it, they handle it as an art review.So don't even think of it as a movie. Don't recommend it as a movie. It doesn't work.I'll also admit that I sat in a haze for decades, absorbed in the imagery. In awe of the impressions. And finally, an image crystallized, an image of what this was a portrait of. (And, of course, I expect this image may change with repeated viewings...) And as I watch it, with this in mind, a continuity appears.We are living in hell, we just don't realize it.  "},{"Title":"The twisted world of David Lynch","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"146 out of 213 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm always a bit worried when I'm about to express my love towards this movie by the genius director David Lynch... I figure it's the perfect indicator for psychiatrists to claim that you're completely nuts ) But what the heck, they're a lot of nutballs on this website, so I can speak my mind freely. Indeed, I love this movie...although 'love' may be a wrong term to describe my feelings towards it. This movie 'fascinates' me is a much better saying. Usually, a movie is something in which you can live yourself in...in order to escape the stress of real life. Eraserhead is the exact opposite of that ! When watching this film, you can only hope that you'll never awake in the wold like Lynch shows it here. The horrible noises, the colorless and tasteless locations and the insensible characters...you all hate to love it. Eraserhead takes a walk with your emotions, you don't know whether to be disgusted or intrigued by it. So you'll feel uncomfortable when watching it and that's a wonderful experience for a cinema freak !Eraserhead is the ultimate cult film in my opinion and a must see for every fan of this delicious genre. In fact, I would go so far to say you can't call yourself a cult-freak if you haven't seen it yet.David Lynch begins his highly impressive career with this one and it still lives on. Eraserhead isn't his best film at all ( certainly not when it comes to storyline ) but it's his most deep and personal tale. 25 years old and still the weirdest film ever. That's an achievement, certainly with all this artistic filmmakers lately...or, at least, they try to be...)I want to encourage as much people as possible to see this one, but it's for the best that some groups of people avoid it. Surely not recommended if you're depressed or suicidal...The image of Jack Nance and the rest of the cast could even put you more down, I think. The tagline of this movie - In heaven, everything looks fine - could become a stimulus, I'm afraid. Pregnant women and young couples in love should beware as well !! This film is the ultimate nightmare for that what should be the greatest miracle of life...The hideous but yet harmless baby ( I really don't know how I should call it, actually )is the purest form of horror that ever occurred on the screen.You must have respect for director David Lynch. If you imagine how hard it must have been to create and finance this production. But it worked...hell, even comedy legend Mel Brooks was deeply impressed. Based on this film, he decided to let Lynch direct The Elephant Man a few years later. By that, David's career was launched and of course he made a masterpiece out of it. For me personally, his highlights were the 80's with terrific movies like Blue Velvet, Dune ( very underrated, in my opinion) and Wild at Heart at the end of the decade. And let's not forget the best TV-series ever made Twin Peaks.Please, watch this movie !! Three times in a row if possible. I know a lot of people who just stopped watching it after half and hour ( or less ) and yelled What the f*** is this ???. Real shame, if you ask me. It's an insight to a great mind and a unique event. If you really don't see the magic of it, at least try to admire the very stylish haircut of the main character. I'm thinking of doing the same thing with mine... "},{"Title":"Open your eyes, if you dare","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"131 out of 194 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" How frightening. How unnerving. What a spectacular piece of film-making. I saw the film for the first time with a tiresome former colleague who kept turning to me and whispering  Please exhale Are you breathing? Please breathe or Please stop breathing I wanted to run away but I couldn't I was glued, stacked, hooked. The world of David Lynch is made of kindly horrors, normal monsters, poetic nightmares. I wonder what planet is he from. I think it would important to know so we can all avoid it. That's what any average Joe may say because every average Joe, me included, finds something familiar in this fascinating, peculiar, horrifying vision of the world. You want to close your eyes, but you can't. Even if you could, you still can hear. the whimpering of the thing, the child, the figment of David Lynch's imagination. How can you recommend a nightmare to a friend? Well you must, if friendship involves sharing every possible experience. Earserhead will put you to the test in a way no other film has ever done. Go! I dare you. "},{"Title":"A dark dream of disturbing things...","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"70 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, let me say that Eraserhead is not a film for everyone.  Many people will find themselves confused by the strange atmosphere, surreal imagery, and signature David Lynch sense of purposefully awkward pacing.That out of the way, I would have to say that this is possibly one of my most personal favorite films.  It is dark, tense, atmospheric, and filled with sounds and images that will send chills up your spine.  It is a film that takes more than one viewing to truly begin to comprehend, but is quite a ride nontheless.  There are moments in this movie that will literally scare you, so much so that one could almost call this eerie surreal art-film a deconstructed domestic horror movie.  This film, along with the original black and white Night of the Living dead, are two of the only films in existance that still scare me to this day. (Side note Also, I reccomend that you see Luis Bunuel's movie Un Chien Andalou to see where strange art-films like this originated from.)Anyway, the film's plot while initially incomprehensible to most, can be broken down into the tragic tale of a man named Henry Spencer (Jack Nance) stuck in a dark decaying city overrun by industry.  During the film, he is forced to deal with the prospect of taking care of an illegitimate premature child birthed by his girlfriend, Mary X. (Charlotte Stewart)  However, he is consumed by his guilt, and begins to comprehend suicide as a way out.  But the story is told through such a swirling mixture of dreamlike imagery that this is not always readily apparent.However, in order to better understand and appreciate the film, one must figure out what each of the images mean.  Here's a short cliff notes guidline to some of the more common recurring images in the movie***THE FOLLOWING CONTAINS SPOILERS***Worm = sin. These creatures appear all throughout the movie.  Henry even tries to hide his little sin from Mary at one point, only to have a nightmare where Mary is consumed by worms.  Henry's room is also filled with piles dirt and dead plants as one might notice, which makes his room a breeding ground for worms.The Baby = The product of sin. You might have noticed that the baby looks an awful lot like a worm. Futhermore, the baby is a part of Henry, and later during the dream sequence, we discover that Henry IS the baby.  When Henry kills the baby, he kills himself.Eraser = Memories. Henry feels that his memories, or his brain with his bad memories, is like an eraser that needs to be rubbed out.  In his dream sequence, he sees himself losing his head, and having his brains turned into eraser bits to be rubbed out and blown into dust on the wind.The lady in the radiator = Death. Death looks grotesque, yet strangely appealing to poor Henry.  The radiator gives off warmth and seems to become a stage where death performs for Henry, promising to stamp out his sins (worms) and telling him that in heaven, everything is fine.  At the end of the movie, Henry embraces the lady in the radiator before blackness falls.The man in the planet = God. In addition to disposing of Henry's cofessed sins at the beginning of the movie (the worm coming out of Henry's mouth) the scarred man in the planet appears to prevent Henry from opting for suicide during his dream sequence. He silently reminds Henry of his sacrifice (the bleeding tree) though it is in vain as Henry shows God what he really is underneith.  (the baby)The last is a theme that occurs in all Lynch moviesElectricity and electrical lighting = The presence of good. Darkness = The presence of evil.There are other aspects of the film that keep popping up, such as the reocurrence of the unlucky number thirteen.  Henry waits thirteen seconds for the elevator to open up, the lady across the hall takes thirteen seconds to appear, Henry's apartment numbers add up to the number thriteen, etc. Also, there are many other images which I will let you figure out on your own.***END OF SPOILERS***All in all, the movie is quite an experience.  This is a film that you will either love or utterly hate.  For myself, I managed to click with the movie from the first time I saw it and have enjoyed it since.  Repeated viewings only add to the enjoyment of the film, as you begin to notice more and more that you never saw before.  All in all, I say that it is an excellent and extremely layered film.With that, I give you some fun facts about the movie-The pencil eraser machine actually worked.  It was put together by Lynch and a friend of his.-To this day, Lynch will still not disclose how he constructed the amazingly convincing baby creature, though he claims is was created with substance/objects that anyone could find around the house.-Jack Nance's hair was incredibly malleable.  Literally, all it took was a little bit of trimming on either side of his head and some combing to get it to stand upright.-In order to get a better sense of textures for the film (possibly for the organs of the baby) Lynch dissected a dead cat.-When driving around town with the Henry hair Jack Nance would sit in the center seat while Lynch and someone else would sit on either side to keep his gravity-defying hair from being seen. "},{"Title":"The most original film ever made -- a masterpiece!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"168 out of 288 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let's say it right here and now David Lynch is a genius.  I don't care if you love him or hate him, you can't take away that simple fact. Eraserhead is his masterpiece -- the most original and personal film ever created by any film maker.  It's as far from the forgettable fluff of mainstream Hollywood as you can get, and as weird as it is, it strikes a chord deep in the human psyche. I don't think anyone could experience this film without being deeply moved. This beautiful, industrial nightmare comes as close to depicting a fever dream as any film ever could, or ever will! David Lynch pulled out all the stops to make Eraserhead as perfect as any film can be, and it shows. It is a great work of art in its own right. The characters and setting are unforgettable, and are as strange as they are familiar.  The story is slow-moving, but steadily builds with the fury of a small hurricane. The film walks a tightrope somewhere between the reality of the world we know, and someplace else.  Where that is, only David Lynch knows for sure.  Lynch is a fine example of a film maker who isn't afraid to take huge risks. That's how masterpieces are made.  Eraserhead is the proof. "},{"Title":"Amazing masterpiece of filmmaking!","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"112 out of 190 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You have to dissect it, watch it more than once, eat, breathe it and live it before you can get it. There are lots of explanations for all of the things that make no sense... it's art in it's purest form - you take away from it what you want! You can see Henry struggling with suddenly being thrust into the role of father and husband, his sin, his temptation, his life, his death, his dreams... too much symbolism to even get into here... anyone who dismisses this film as junk that makes no sense will never get it, and that's OK. But for the rest of us, it's on our Top Ten Films of All Time list. Brilliant and beautiful and horrifying! Makes you think for weeks... YEARS. I love it. Highly recommended to those who are open-minded! AMAZING FILM!! "},{"Title":"Best Possible Example of Film as an Abstract Art","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"40 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When on the hunt for cult films, this one should not be overlooked. Filmed over the course of five years (1972-1977), this film is the very first full-length masterpiece of artist David Lynch. I say artist because he began not as a director, but an art student. Finding canvas too confining, he moved on celluloid, eventually moving on to AFI to fund his script 'Eraserhead'. According to Lynch, the film was inspired largely by his stay in Philadelphia. To know how he views it, the film must be seen.The script itself was only 21 pages long, so it was assumed to be roughly a 21 minute movie; most people wouldn't expect that the film would be a living, breathing piece of art.The elements of the film cannot even be understood by film scholars. Lynch himself has said that in the 25 or more years it has been out that no critic or viewer has given an interpretation that is in line with his own. There appear to be prevalent themes of sexuality and conception, not to mention claustrophobia and physical discomfort in simply living. The film is definitely very affecting on a visceral level in certain scenes where Lynch appears to deconstruct the simplicity of family life and bring to the surface the inherent disgusting nature of feeding. Near the end, simple curiosity gets the best of the main character, played extraordinarily well-reserved by Jack Nance, and his mistake ends up causing his world to fall apart. Overall, the film logic seems to be one of a nightmare, an open-ended metaphor dealing with one man's fear of fatherhood.Put simply, there is no other film like it. Not even Lynch's later work can compare. This is on the must-see list for any film student, however, it may be annoying and make absolutely no sense to the casual viewer. "}{"Title":"how weird can you get?","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I needed to read all the other reviews here before I was game to make a comment. I'm a great fan of Lynch's Wild at Heart having seen it four times, and recently loved Lost Highway. But this one left me baffled. I'd heard of it for years, but can make little sense of it. It certainly didn't bore me, in fact I was fascinated to see where the plot led. Tried to analyse it in terms of symbolism, but decided that if I have to do that the film isn't really speaking to me. The dark broodiness is impressive, the squishiness repulsive, and Henry's hairdo is unforgettable!  "},{"Title":"I wasted time from my life on Eraserhead; maybe I can save you from the same mistake.","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Friends raved, a local band sang of it, people in line praised it-- I not only found it boring, nauseating non-sense, but very disappointing; I went in ready love it. I love black and white film, and I look for good story, some sort of plot, ANYTHING to like-- but I couldn't find anything (but the last shot of the film-- the only image I had seen before the movie.)Obviously, some people like this film. Maybe they like to be grossed out. Maybe they have a lot of time on their hands. Maybe this film is like the Emperor's New Clothes-- nobody sees anything there but they are afraid to admit it. Maybe I'm just too dumb to get it (but being a veteran of over two to three thousand films in 46 years, I doubt it.)Okay-- if you love experimental film, David Lynch's work or your movies don't have to make any sense, maybe you'll love Eraserhead.  But if you consider time irreplaceable, there are thousands of films listed on this database that would be time better spent.  May the Force be with you when you decide what to watch.  "},{"Title":"This is a movie that REALLY stands out. A little too much.","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I couldn't help but think one thing while watching this movie so... this is where Tim Burton got his influence. I've seen all kinds of movies, some I thought were brilliant, some overly pretentious. Eraserhead, though brilliantly directed, lacks a lot of support and relevance, and overtly attempts to be deeply symbolic. I remember when I enjoyed creepy characters and random disturbing scenes, but this film seemingly dumbs down the audience in an almost conscious manner.The story centers around Henry Spencer (Jack Nence) who lives in a world that either resembles a nightmare or a different dimension. His days revolve around walking around his industrial town, and sitting in his small quiet apartment suspiciously observing every angle as if he's never been there. He's told that his girlfriend (?) awaits him at her house for dinner, and with hesitation he joins her, again, in an awkward suspicious way. The girlfriend, named Mary X (Charlotte Stewart) lives with her parents and grandmother who follow lifestyles of some impulsive serial killers. After Henry finds out that he and girlfriend Mary X have a premature baby, he falls head first into a world of mayhem, delusion, and sexual provisions. His girlfriend gives birth to a mutant baby, and leaves him to take care of it by himself.Eraserhead is really unique, but over-stylized and pretentiously dangerous. In the world we live in today, an audience will fall in love with any movie that has some level of cult status. While I'll agree that the directing is superb, especially on such a low budget, the story itself lacks any drive. Albeit the movie has a massive creepy feel to it, from the subtle build up of bizarre sound effects to the sinister-like score, it leaves you empty and cold asking yourself what you had just seen. I've never been one to hold a good deep screenplay that leaves you thinking for hours against the movie, but in this case there's just way too much false instinctiveness.The mutant baby is a motif that the movie attempts to force in order for us to feel scared and shocked. And in the center of it all, the baby looks more like a dinosaur than a disfigured, dream-like figure. Then there's the creepy girl who sings a song about life in heaven, which Henry listens to for comfort. Her presence is almost unnecessary and oblique, making you tilt your head back more asking why? is this a film that observes the life of one man? Did he suffer from a traumatic experience? We don't know, and director-writer David Lynch seems to think we don't care. The movie opens up with a scene of what seems to be an asteroid and an overlapping image of Henry floating around. He then wakes up on the road and sets out in Chaplin-like posture, passing and dismissing anything out of the ordinary. In one scene, he invites his next door neighbor in and lets her seduce him into sleeping with her. They then end up in Henry's bed, falling deep into what seems to be water. A pretentious goof might say it's an excellent way of showing sexual desire and an atmosphere that seems to give Henry the relaxing feeling he's always wanted. I say it's the first thing that popped into Lynch's head.Half way through, I looked at my watch asking if it'll be over soon. Really, you don't have to watch the rest to get the basic idea of the whole thing. However I stuck around for the beautiful cinematography and excellent underrated directing. Lynch uses his camera and works with it like an Axe murderer would with a good victim. He separates reality with non-diegetic sound that the main character can actually hear, and really knows how to handle the framing in each shot.I watched the extra features and David Lynch put into words what I thought was a true representation of this film I have no idea how the idea came to me, or when it came to me. How could you? It's completely random and spontaneous. It also suffers from a weak ending, Henry gives up and murders his baby only to see the little asteroid -- or his shell of life -- burst and explode, leaving him to go into heaven with the strange butt-face girl who sings in his radiator. Well, problem solved, kill the itch and join peace for eternity. I think that's the idea the movie was conveying. As for the title itself, it's really pretty interesting. Eraserhead refers to the term 'erase your head,' which means to get rid of any awareness or consciousness of what you're doing. Something Lynch must have done when he was writing the script. "},{"Title":"plays out like a nightmare, but who chooses to watch their nightmares?","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"59 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" i sometimes wonder if people like lynch make movies with complete random crap in them just to see how many people they can convince that its art, or a masterpiece.i can imagine lynch sitting in a room reading all the praise for eraserhead and laughing at how many pretentious people buy it as a serious piece of film-making.that aside, before a hundred more 'open minded' sorts bash me for missing the point, i'd like to think i understand why other people like it.I hate this movie. I'm surprised i lasted the full running time. i don't think there's a film out there that i've seen, that has made me want to pierce my eyes and ears more than when i watched eraserhead (ok, 'love, actually'). And maybe its designed to make you feel uncomfortable, maybe that's part of its 'power', but to me that doesn't make it a good film.as far as i know, there are very few people who would actually take pleasure in wanting to stab themselves in the eye.To its credit, its a film open to interpretation, but all the people i know who enjoyed it are annoying film students who like to over analyse movies (but if he puts his hand there, what does that mean???... er nothing) and look as if their cultured and have a grasp of film language.Watch it if you like, you may take something away from it that i missed or ignored, but don't say i didn't warn you if you find your eye on the end of a fork. "},{"Title":"artsy freaks, attend..","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For the rest of us, don't bother.  This movie definitely has points about it that some would consider 'good', and other points which make this movie the most boring 1.5 hours of my life.There are probably less than 50 lines in the whole movie.  I wouldn't say that there is good 'imagery', but you get hung up on it because there are no words.  The sound effects were INTERESTING, though not necessary good.Some say it's ahead of it's time, not sure why.  I've never seen anything like it since...  Maybe it's 'time' is yet to come?  Some say it doesn't have a plot- it does; it's just that it can be explained in 10 words or less.This movie is definitely DIFFERENT- not because Lynch is a genius, but because no one has the time or energy to create such a piece of crap.  I regretfully say that I think I could take 3 nightmares, randomly mix them together, and get a similar 'masterpiece'.   "},{"Title":"Yep. Henry Spencer Is Having Himself A Very Bad Hair Day","Date":"12 May 2014","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Is Eraserhead weird? Yes, it is.Is Eraserhead out there? Most Definitely.Does Eraserhead's story even come close to promoting sharp thinking or inspiring bright ideas? Nope, it does not. It numbs and paralyzes any clear, lucid thought like the dull thud of a sledgehammer-blow applied directly to the skull.If you're seriously looking for a movie that actually induces brain-freeze (without the aid of drugs), then look no further than Eraserhead.Here's a movie that probably contains more WTF? moments than any other mainstream film in existence. But, of course, when it comes to these particular moments, the major problem here is that they just stack up way too high, leaving the viewer quite frustrated, annoyed and often gasping for a breath of honest-to-goodness fresh air after being suffocated (literally) by a non-stop barrage of irritating and nonsensical situations.The way I look at it, if it's considered hip and cool to be one of the chosen elite who love to gush and heap praise upon Eraserhead, then I can't begin to tell you how much it pleases me to know that I am looked upon as being an outcast and certified square.Due to a truly terrible sense of storytelling (which starts from out of nowhere and ends in the very same spot), I view Eraserhead as being something of an idiot's jigsaw puzzle where none of the ill-fitting pieces were ever intended to fit together into a coherent and satisfyingly entertaining whole, at all.I personally place full blame for Eraserhead's countless flaws and irksome short-comings directly on the shoulders of writer/director David Lynch. On top of being a total wiener-head, I think that Lynch is a frickin' pseudo-intellectual snob of the highest order.To me, Eraserhead was a film that wasn't made by someone who wanted to share any special or meaningful insights with his audience, at all. No. This was a film made by someone who was clearly looking down his long nose at his audience and saying, loud & clear - Ponder this, you stupid, low-life peasants! As far as I'm concerned, the only appealing and noteworthy aspect about Eraserhead was its (sometimes) startling b&w camera-work. But, since this film's story (more often than not) nearly put me off to sleep, it only earns for itself a 3-star rating. "},{"Title":"85 minutes that left me with a headache.......","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here are 85 minutes i can not get back in my life. I am not a film student or a person who looks at movies except for pure entertainment. I have read that you don't need drugs to watch this movie but I wanted to know if Lynch was on drugs while making it. My husband and I could not stop watching it because it was the weirdest thing we have ever seen on TV. I wish someone had warned us.....there should be a disclaimer at the beginning of the movie about how messed up it is. People say it's art and that it is abstract. Well, I don't get art either....so sue me. My husband thinks he is brain dead now after watching it. My head hurts and i am not sure there is enough Advil in the world to fix it. Unless you like art and can understand what abstract stuff is...STAY AWAY..... "},{"Title":"I can't believe how popular this movie is...","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm all for surrealism, hidden messages, and hidden meanings in films but, when your film's ONLY meaning is the hidden meaning and viewing it any other way is just a jumble of nonsensical scenes with an incoherent narrative, I have a problem. Especially when you (or rather David Lynch) refuses to even remotely explain the movie. I guess that sense of mystery and interpretation may have some appeal to others but, to me, this is hands down the worst film I have ever seen. I don't mean I dislike it. I mean it is LITERALLY at the bottom of the list of movies I've seen. To elaborate a bit, I've looked up several interpretations of the film and not a single one of them made the movie any better for me. "},{"Title":"Landmark Worst Film Ever Made.","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It would not be possible for most people to see Eraserhead now, thirty-five years after it's release, without the advent of the Internet and thousand-channel cable TV. It had steadily drained from pop culture like the contents of a boil, and only existed in the hidden collections of a very, very few devotees for many years, like the most repugnant fetish porn.This would be a great loss. Eraserhead is the worst film ever made,and as such it provides the baseline for all film - including adhesive tape, pond scum and the stuff on the tile in the shower rooms of abandoned prisons. All filmmakers since 1977 have been liberated and emboldened by the knowledge that nothing they produce can be called the worst - not The Weatherman, not even Machete.Mathematically, it proves that the concept of worst is finite - that alone is noteworthy.Just as importantly, it proves that no matter how bad something is, there will always be people that try so hard to be different that they will claim to like it. Once you have come to terms with that kid who had to have a tarantula when everybody else wanted a puppy, you will have come to terms with Eraserhead. "},{"Title":"Way overrated (spoilers)...","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, first to give you an idea, I do love many of Mr. Lynch's works, *especially* his stranger ones. I admire Lost Highway and Fire Walk with Me, I liked very much The Straight Story, Twin Peaks and Elephant Man, and I found Blue Velvet interesting.I've also seen Eraserhead three times in theatre, and own it on DVD. I've made a virtual HTML simulation of Twin Peaks' Black Lodge, and plan to include parts of Eraserhead in it.But Eraserhead, as much as one may like it, is just not as deep, or artistical, or surreal a movie. It is, like Kafka's Metamorphosis, a one-sided view from a pathologic mind, of a very banal situation.What's the plot ? A schizophrenic man discovers he made a child to a girl he spent some time with. Forced by her parents to marry her and to take care of the baby, he just can't cope with it because of his mental pattern, and therefore kills it in the end.That's it.The only original thing about this is that it's seen from the main character's point of view. But, like with The Metamorphosis this leads to 1) Weird scenes that makes sense only for the author and aren't meant to be communicated to an audience. It can make big suggestions to your subconscious, and therefore lead you to a dreamy mood, but many MTV music clips can do that as well. It *isn't* surrealism.2) Gory, barely justified gooey effects.3) One-dimensional atmosphere, in the case of Eraserhead, a grey, dirty, greasy, industrial one that's not artistically justified - there goes the art side of the movie. It's quite well handled and interesting if you're into visual art as I am, but it's also boring because, well, one scene looks exactly like the other.4) (Nearly the worst)  one-dimensional characters. Since they're seen from a schizoid point of view, they're all weird, ridiculous, unpredictable and potentially hostile, in short, a nuisance (schizos like to be left alone). No character depth like in Fire Walk with Me, for example. This simplification includes the baby, seen as a monstrous thing that looks like what it probably was on set  a dead animal covered with glue so that it wouldn't rot too soon.5) Passive main character. He's just not doing anything, except in the end (?). It makes the movie all the more, well, inept, action-wise.6) The worst  obvious meanings. Yes, Eraserhead fans, you read me. Henry (the main character) can't sleep with his pretty neighbour because of the baby ? The baby laughs. Henry is afraid to make his wife pregnant again ? We have a looooong scene of him pulling giant spermatozoids out of her vagina. Henry's mind is vanishing because of the baby ? The baby's head pops out of his body, and his brain is used to industrially make pencil erasers - hence the title. Gee, what may this all mean ?!So, all in all, what we have here are either symbols that mean something for Lynch alone (many of those themes, like the show scene with curtains, the zigzag floor, or the blinking lights, are by the way found in his other feature films, which are all better), or that are painfully shallow (examples above).So, in short, just a bad film in itself, which is quite normal for a first feature-length film which took five years to direct with no money. Still, it may interest you if you like Lynch, or visual art (flawed works are often more interesting to analyse than successful ones) - or it could just lead you to quite an interesting mood if you're not the dreamy type all by yourself, and like to be forced to dream instead of being gently suggested to do so. "}{"Title":"An invitation to David Lynch's World...","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"25 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As an admirer of David Lynch's work I think that Eraserhead is the most  fitting introduction to this man's World as you are likely to get.It was on the strength of this film that Mel Brooks chose David to direct  Elephant Man. Having said that can't you see the similarities in style and  content? Saying Lynch is weird is like saying the Beatles wrote good pop music. Lynch's  weirdness can effect one on a very profound, almost spiritual level, eg  Blue Velvet, Twin Peaks.Eraserhead is a hard film to enjoy but it's well worth the effort, if only  for Jack Nance's superb visual performance, and a deeper appreciation of  Lynch's mis-en-scene. "},{"Title":"Images you will take with you to your grave...","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I sincerely believe that repeated viewings of David Lynch's Eraserhead will cause permanent brain damage.  It's one of the few movies I've ever seen that should be accompanied by serious warnings.  I may have a few mental health issues here and there, but Mr. Lynch, while obviously a genius, is also deeply disturbed, so deeply disturbed, that I could spend every waking moment the rest of my life trying to come up with images like Lynch's and not even approach five seconds of this film.  If you are strong of heart, see it once and then stop.  Please, I'm begging you! "},{"Title":"Unlike anything I have ever seen, a disturbing experience","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I rated this an 8 simply because I felt something watching Eraserhead, I don't quite know what it was but I felt something and for that the film is great in my eyes, its the only film where it ended and I had nothing to say, completely speechless.I think its in our nature to try and explain the unexplainable. When we see a magic trick, our brains scramble for an explanation before shutting down metaphorically and thats where the amazement comes from, it comes from not being able to find an explanation for what you just saw. Eraserhead is a magic trick, you watch it and, while you maybe have a small idea of what was going, your brain just goes blank and you accept what you have just seen cannot be explainedYes, just like everyone else, I have my own 2 or 3 theories on what the film is about but I see no point in telling them to you. You will watch the film and you will have your own ideas. The film isn't even a film, its an experience, like viewing a painting. There is no story to a painting, the viewer simply constructs a story, a meaning to go along with the painting, their own little interpretation of what it means. Exactly like Eraserhead. Eraserhead is a magic trick, a painting and an experience. "},{"Title":"Art doesn't make a great movie","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The reason why I wanted to see this is because it's a David Lynch. But in the end I'm very disappointed. I thought it was the most boring movie I've ever seen. I know I also said this about Life As A House but I hereby take that back. This was boring from the beginning to the end.Don't take me wrong, I like Lynch's stuff. But this early experiment just can't entertain me. And that just what a movie has to do. It's one of the basic principles of a movie. A lot of other IMDb users say that it's a work of art. Well maybe that the problem with it. This movie is art and therefor should be in a museum. There are others films that are art but still fun to watch like Waking Dream and Requiem For A Dream.Because Eraserhead has no plot (well almost), one dimension acting, simple, dull set, looooong pauses the viewer isn't sucked into the movie. Once you get to the end of it, it feels like a complete waste of time. I wanted to screamPlease give me the last hour and a half of my live back!!I don't know much about art, I like movies. And I don't think it's can be classified as a movie "},{"Title":"This won't spoil the movie for you, but it may spoil the fun of trying to figure it out yourself...","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now I'm not going to pretend that this is going to be a very well thought out analysis of the film Eraserhead, as I have only just finished watching it for the second time, and I'm still shuffling some ideas around in my hopefully not eraser worthy brain.I'll try to be coherent The true story of this movie is not of a couple living in a post-apocalyptic world, with a mutant baby, as I have seen it described, but the internal decay of the main character Henry. From the beginning through to the very end, the surreal imagery is all relative to Henry's mental condition. Now it doesn't have to get this specific, but you can rationalize it down to the fact that Henry has a mental tumour or growth that is causing his grip on reality to fracture and decay and is slowly killing him.Everywhere Henry goes, we see destruction. It's in all things, -the barren dug up earthen fields he walks, the house with a hole in the roof and cracked windows in which sits the charred man pulling the levers, to his apartment which gives new meaning to the decorative term earthy. Lynch uses the mounds of earth as a symbol for decay, much the way Dali does with ants in his paintings and short film Un Chien Andalou. A recurring image of Henry's interior decay is light bulbs dimming or burning out altogether when he's around...and we take this as a figurative illustration of the sort of erratic synaptic firings that are happening inside the ol' Eraserhead.Now there may or may not be a Mary X and a Family X, it could all be part of Henry's dissilusions, but their roles are less important than that of the baby...the fact that the Doctors aren't even sure if it is a baby about sums it up. Lynch couldn't have made it more ambiguous...it's not a proper baby, it's not a mutant...it's a growth. It's a manifestation of Henry's tumour or whatever disease it is that is eating him from the inside. Once Henry is left alone (it's all relative to who actually exists or not) with it, it suddenly starts decaying hideously. Henry's condition worsens. The only redemption he can find from his terrifying insanity is in a vision of a lady in his radiator inviting him to heaven through the radiator bars as if they were the pearly gates themself, telling him that there everything is fine. The woman herself is deformed as well, as Henry's projection of his sickness pervades everything around him. Yet the woman is his redemptor as she crushes the little wormly fetuses, helping soothe the spread of the tumour within. Henry's tumour manifests itself in a couple of other ways as well, one is the man in the house with the hole in the roof. The house is a cage, it's his skull, and it's got a severe deformity if it has a hole in the top, letting out all sanity. The man is charred, burned and twitchy, he's in decay, yet he's the one pulling the levers for Henry's brain. His tumour is a malignant, destructive thing, yet it is what is in control. It is what releases the worm like babies....it's sending itself elsewhere to create further decay. Henry's apartment is like himself...it's in decay, and the piles of earth do more than just remind of us that in a passive way...Henry's pet worm that he finds in his mail box tunnels through the earth gorging itself on it. That is what worms do, they eat their way through earth, and as a metaphor they are a physical representation of the destructive force of Henry's tumour, which is eating itself through his brain. Now I wish I could watch the movie again before I wrap this up, but I'll do my best with what my memory gives me. A couple of tangents...Henry fantasizes about his beautiful next door neighbour, but as she enters his world, he doesn't want her to see his growth...ie the baby, he doesn't want her to recognize his problem, but as they make love she can't help but notice, while all the while being sucked down into the void of Henry's psyche. The next thing that happens is that Henry's brain is being probed and drilled into, again highlighting the sensations and pains Henry must be receiving from this malignant growth. The next time Henry sees his neighbour, (in reality), he imagines she looks at him and sees only his decay, ie the head of the baby. This is when we come to the final destruction, the final decay, the final seizure or anneurysm.... The baby, the growth is only very precariously being held together by its bandages...as Henry's sanity is also dangling very precariously. Henry decides to stop fighting, and let the baby, let his sickness loose, to grow and overtake him, which it does, the insides of the baby swell and overflow and the baby's head increases in size 10 times, and the rest of the apartment self destructs, the power outlets spark, the lights go into epileptic fit, and the sound effects, which I have failed to mention but play an important psychological role all through, come to an excruciating head. Henry is left facing what it was we saw in the opening scene...what looked like a planet but what is actually his tumour, exploding towards him, and then it's all over and he's in the arms of the Lady from the Radiator, holding her, letting go of the pain and the trouble, and ready for his good thing. It's a very obtuse film, but very sad and beautiful and troubling all at once. It'll never leave you. -Ed "},{"Title":"What is Taken Away","Date":"23 April 2010","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It puzzles me that anyone would rely on the term surrealism. I suppose that one could say that everything that is not real is surreal, but what is the value in this? Annoyingly, newspaper critics toss the Quay Brothers, Bunuel, Jodorowsky, even early Cronenberg in the same bucket as Lynch and call that that.All art is surreal. If an artist is worth your investment, it is because she has something unique to offer. I'm not all that crazy about Bunuel, but his gift was how he could seamlessly merge the sense of things we know with those we lose control over. The Quays astound me with worlds invested in object views. Jodorowsky's stitching into the familiar is via worthy comment on theatrical tropes.Lynch is different, wholly different. A whole different experience.There are a number of ways to get from the world each viewer believes is real to the world of the film. That world by itself is less valuable than the connections that are maintained between the two worlds by the process of pulling them apart. These are what the artist can pull in changing your soul.Cronenberg for example does this by adding to certain elements of the ordinary and blowing them into crystalline forces. Many artists do this in a general sense. Cronenberg selects the most uncomfortable obsessive seeds to grow from. Madden from worried elements of memory.Why Lynch is so vitally important to your viewing journey is that he abstracts into his worlds by taking away rather than adding or expanding. I imagine his legendary bible verse, the one he says that explains this is a verse in the New Testament clearly not there and taken away, erased. Though Lynch is hardly a good authority on himself, this matters.This whole thing's value &#x97; and his much more mature Inland Empire &#x97; is about what he takes away. Lynch did not start as a filmmaker. Like Greenaway, he started as a painter. Painters understand this notion of showing by removing. He made extended studies of dessication with animal remains for years before entering the AFI program. One of them is here, the decayed hollow of some pet animal that Henry plays with via an attached wire and his shoe. Memories are made of what is omitted. The gift of birth is as much about the unmakings and undone as anything.Some of what Lynch does here fails I think because in spite of it all he could not escape some desire for overt obviousnessess. The business about the sperm- embryo- brainstem props is simply juvenile and gives stoners something to chortle about. He abandoned that stuff later. Really, Empire is where you need to be, with its erasures structured according to a polish tradition &#x97; which just happens to coincide with that missing bible passage.Lynch's God here should be taught in school, next to Joseph Smith's gently healthy patriarch.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Pure Lynch, without compromise! Still one of the strangest movies ever made...","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Eraserhead', David Lynch's feature length debut, is the directors purest movie. A disturbing slice of surreal black comedy that is one of the most uncompromising movies ever made, and still one of the strangest. It's very much a love it or hate it kind of picture, and even viewers who enjoy many of Lynch's subsequent movies may find it difficult viewing. I'm not sure whether like is the best word to describe how I feel about it, but I admire it, and watch it every couple of years, and every time I watch it I am still astonished by it. Jack Nance stars as Henry, an average Joe living in a decidedly non-average world! Lynch used Nance in most of his movies after this, but for many he will always be remembered for 'Eraserhead', just like Jeffrey Combs will forever be associated with 'Re-Animator' and Bruce Campbell with 'The Evil Dead'. The plot of the film in many ways is very simple (Henry's girlfriend Mary gets pregnant, and the couple marry), but it gives absolutely NO indication of what a bizarre experience this movie is going to be! Anyone who has never seen it will be in for a shock, even if they are familiar with Lynch's other movies. Lynch's most recent picture, the grossly overrated 'Mulholland Dr.', had many people bending over backwards to explain and solve it as if it were a puzzle or game. 'Eraserhead' shows how futile it is to do that with Lynch's work. He is essentially an American surrealistic who delights in presenting weird and unexplained images to the viewer. 'Eraserhead' is full of them, but unlike 'Mulholland Dr.' (in my opinion), there is some kind of internal dreamlike logic, which while it may not make sense feels right. I would say the same thing about 'Lost Highway', his unfairly maligned movie, which to me ranks with 'Blue Velvet' as his most satisfying work to date. 'Mulholland Dr.' ultimately felt like a con job on the audience, 'Eraserhead' doesn't. That still doesn't mean it's easy to digest. It isn't. But it seems pure and real and doesn't appear to be playing cynical games with the viewer. 'Eraserhead', whether you truly enjoy it or not, is an important movie and is highly recommended to every movie fan. You may not want to watch it twice, but you really should see it at least once! There's nothing quite like it... "},{"Title":"A recounting of the worst acid trip in human history","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the better arguments I've heard against all David Lynch movies is that all the artsy fartsy explanations are empty because despite over intellectualizing the movie at their core really are plottless and that no one understands them because David Lynch is f**kin crazy! It can be then stated that if people watch something they don't understand and like it anyway then that can mean they can be watching any images on the screen and it wouldn't matter. It's like putting a baby in front of the TV, the baby isn't so intrested in what's actually on the screen as much as it's intrested in the fact that anything is on the screen at all. It's all just fodder for dumb monkeys with Nikes. This theory seems pretty airtight to me because admittedly I don't have any idea what's going on most of the time in David Lynch movies. This one I think I have a pretty good idea. I often hear the word nightmare mentioned along side Eraserhead. Most of the time the word as used as a generic term without much thought. But if you think about nighmares or dreams in general you might think of times where you've had dreams that you just don't understand because nothing makes sense in them. For instance you might have a dream that seems allmost perfectly rational, but always there will be one or two elements that don't quite fit in. Like you're having a dream where your having sex with your best friend's kid sister in her room, but then she asks you about your eye color and suddenly her room is your third grade class and your covered in ants. Doesn't make two bits of sense and is so non-linear that it's beyond comprehension. So instead of the term nightmarish being generically used, it actually is acurately applied. All that aside you can start think about this movie on drugs. Anyone who as ever done acid can claim two things. One, is that under the world of drugs nothing makes two much sense in the immediate sense, only the overall reality is understood, if at all. Two, we've all heard the stories of somebody's bad trip. Usually something along the lines of, he thought the couch was trying to eat him so he attacked it with my uncle's set of ginsu's. Well put these two idea's together and a thought forms. How little sense does the world make to someone on a bad trip of acid, let alone the WORST TRIP EVER!!!!!!?  I think you hear me knocking. This movie began production around 1972, right around the end Woodstock generation and the heyday of LSD consumption. It's not all that unlikely that this is either Lynch recounting his own acid trip which would explain his subsequeent insanity, or a tale Lynch might have heard from a friend of a friend.PS Show this movie to your twelve year old child after having explained how great the wonders of hallucinogens are, and that they're all like this. Chances are you kid will never touch the stuff. "},{"Title":"Harrowing Nightmare","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"19 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a post-apocalyptic society, Henry Spencer (John Nance) works in a factory and has a girlfriend, Mary (Charlotte Stewart). When she gets pregnant, she moves to his apartment and delivers a mutant baby, who cries all the time. She can not bear the screams of the child, living Henry, who is on vacation, taking care of the newborn child and driving him insane.Eraserhead gives the unique uncomfortable sensation of watching a harrowing nightmare. The bizarre characters, a trademark of David Lynch, together with an unbearable sound of machines working in a nasty environment of destruction give an amazing view of a possible pessimist future of mankind. The original cinematographic language of David Lynch in his first movie gives a magnificent sample of the future work of this great director, one of the best and more creative in the contemporary cinema industry. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Not Available "},{"Title":"Eraserhead","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, so Eraserhead is basically a disturbing mix of surreal imagery and industrial sound design and it's hands down the most bizarre movie that I've ever seen and probably ever will see (and I've seen Synecdoche, New York and many other bizarre, surreal films, including the others from David Lynch - but trust me, this one takes the cake). Most of the film is very ambiguous, so this is going to be basically what I got from the film on my first viewing rather than an actual review, but let me just say, I wholeheartedly recommend that you watch this one if you're into film and especially if you enjoy art-house, or even if you just want to watch something that is entirely original. The film uses a perfect combination of make up, set design, editing, industrial sound design, costume design, lighting (or rather lack thereof), black and white grainy cinematography, acting and long, uncomfortable takes to create terrifying imagery that sticks with you long after you'be finished watching. It also creates one of the most oppressive, bleak, and absolutely nightmarish or dreamlike atmospheres, even though there were even parts that I chuckled at, and it's worth watching just for that completely unique experience, but I do believe there is a hidden meaning behind most of this film. Again, keep in mind that this is a very, VERY ambiguous movie and this is just my interpretation.So this film takes place almost entirely in Henry Spencer's mind. The film starts with a shot of what seems to be an isolated planet with a dirty man on it whose only purpose is to pull levers. Then once he pulls the lever a worm-like thing that strongly resembles the baby in this film comes out of Henry's mouth. Now I believe that the man on the planet pulling levers is what henry fears he is A small worker who's a sole purpose is to reproduce and have a rather small role in a larger company. This idea is reinforced by the following shot which shows Henry looking scared and then quickly walking further and further into the background, growing smaller and smaller until he escapes behind a wall. He then goes ton his girlfriend(?)'s place where he meets her mother, who plays her role by supporting her mother, helping her play her role by helping out with the food, even after it seems she may be brain dead. The father is a hard working middle class plumber who works a lot with his hands. This reinforces Henry's fear that he may be only an insignificant cog in a much, much larger machine. He gets the news that he has a son, and I'm and the mother very much do not want it. But of course they feel pressured to take care of it, so they bring it to Henry's apartment. It's worth noting that before they even bring it there, it seems the apartment begins to become a sort of nest like habitat, showing that Henry is worrying about his singular place in the world before he needs to start caring for this baby. The baby itself is disgusting looking and horrible sounding, and this is to start how that to Henry and his girlfriend, this baby is a very ugly burden, not a wonderful blessing. The girlfriend starts to get more and more anxious about this baby, and eventually just leaves. Eventually, the beautiful woman he sees at the beginning of the film seduces him, and it seems he sees this woman as a way out from the dreaded responsibility of having to deal with this child. The film then shows a woman in a dream that has two tumor like things on her face on a stage, and we've seen this woman before stepping on these worm like things that look very similar to the baby. This time she sings a song to Henry, saying that everything will be better in heaven. I believe this woman represents a way out of his anxiety, especially when juxtaposed with the beautiful woman. However, when she says heaven she obviously means death, and Henry then has a terrifying vision that maybe even after his death, the baby will live on as the only part of him left on the earth and he will still just be used as a tool in the machine and no one will remember him. He decides he needs to use the beautiful woman as his way out instead. However, next time he tries to meet with her, he sees another man with her and she sees him and he fears she can only think of the baby that has been dominating his life and driving him insane. Now it seems the baby is laughing at him rather than crying, and he decides that the only thing he can do is murder this baby. He does that, and whether he kills himself after or not, it seems he's escaped this vision of himself considering it shows the planet that the dirty worker from the beginning was on blowing up and the lady in the radiator kissing himSo, in short, I believe the film is about the fear of growing insignificant or unimportant in a society more and more heavily reliant on machines, the fear that you have only one purpose in this world and the fear of parenting and marriage and all responsibility that comes with it. Those are basically my raw thoughts on the film after my first viewing, and there is obviously a lot that I skipped out on because I didn't understand it. And you know what? That's OK. I don't think I'll ever COMPLETELY understand this film, but that only makes it more rewarding with each viewing really, and that's hard to come by in a film. "}{"Title":"The pinnacle of disturbing surrealism","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Story- There isn't much in terms of story, but the little that is given, is brilliantly ambiguous. It's truly a testament to your intellect while you attempt to deduce what the hell is going on. The clear story we get, however, is very interesting, dark, and simplistic.Characters- The characters, like the story, are difficult to figure out. Each one is a mystery, and they are all vastly interesting. Henry (the protagonist) is somewhat normal (by David Lynch standards), making him very relatable, forcing us to ponder what we'd do in his situation. The rest of the characters are all so delightfully strange and twisted. Many of their actions are so alien to us, that it's actually somewhat surreal. It feels like they're all small puzzles that the audience is supposed to figure out, and needless to say, each one is immensely entertaining to watch and analyze. Meaning/Themes- The meaning of Eraserhead is by no means clear. In fact, it took me hours of research to get a grasp on the basic themes of it- and that's where the real fun comes in; analyzing, researching, and theorizing. A great movie is clearly supposed to make you think, but Eraserhead takes that to another level. Imagery- The imagery is incredible. It's disturbing, surreal, and heavily relies on it's brilliant nightmarish atmosphere. It's both amazing and difficult to look at.Tone/Atmosphere- It feels like a nightmare. It has a very dream like atmosphere, and its surreal tone instills a constant feeling of uneasiness in the audience, because you know anything can happen. Flaws- It is very difficult to critique such a unique film. I can't compare it to anything else (if you do, you will hate it), so I have to judge it in its own realm- which is extremely difficult, because only it exists there. I cannot find a blatant flaw, and if there is one, it's become hidden in the brilliant surrealism.In conclusion, Eraserhead is well worth a watch. It's thought provoking, surreal, terrifying, and surprisingly entertaining. If you aren't a fan of David Lynch, or surrealism in general, you won't like this movie. If you are, or you're open to new forms of art, I strongly recommend at least one viewing. "},{"Title":"One of the most terrifying and atmospheric films ever.","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch is one of the most experimental and well loved filmmakers of all time. He has career that ranges from slow family friendly dramas to dark surreal horror films. Yes their are few directors that are as skilled and innovative as David Lynch. With a career as vast and impressive as his, you have to wonder where he started. Was he someone like Akira Kurosawa whose earlier films are almost entirely forgotten, or was he someone like Orson Welles who came out of the gate swinging. Well luckily for the world David Lynch falls into the second category.Eraserhead is a small, low budget, minimalist, surrealist, atmospheric, horror film. And it's plot is, well open to interpretation. It's difficult to make out exactly what happened in the film, (especially on your first viewing.) but the things you will pick up on are basically what follows; there is a guy with a weird haircut called Henry Spencer who lives in a nearly empty apartment building. Henry's life is filled with many strange things like a seductive neighbor, a large pile of dirt on his dresser, and a strange fascination with his furnace. Henry then gets invited to dinner by his girlfriend, Mary X, who he hasn't seen in a few months. At this dinner many bizarre things happen, but the main point of the scene is that Henry got Mary X pregnant a while back and she has now given birth. But Henry points out that she couldn't possibly have't oven birth yet, Mary X tells him that it's premature and the doctors aren't even sure if it's a baby. After this it slowly becomes more and more difficult to figure out what's going on as Eraserhead dives deep into the mind of its protagonist, penetrating his deepest thoughts and darkest fears. Eraserhead is one of those films that is open to interpretation, basically meaning that there is no one objective thing that the film is trying to portray or mean. This simply means that the film is going to mean different things to different people. David Lynch crafted a surrealist film that called back to the creator of the surrealist film genre, Un Chein Andalou. Both films contain macabre images that were ripped strait out of the directors minds and then put to film. Many of David Lynch's early short films were supposed to be almost adaptations of his paintings, and that's what it feels like in Eraserhead. (I'll talk more about the imagery later but I'd like to get back to the Un Chein Andalou comparison.) The one major difference between the two grotesque sets of images is that, Luis Buñuel said that you could play each moment in Un Chein Andalou in any order and it wouldn't make any difference. But Eraserhead definitely needs its order and structure. In Eraserhead it's not just random things that are shown completely unconnected, which is what Un Chein Andalou is, a lot of the horror and tension comes from the slow build up to the really horrifying parts. Eraserhead would not be nearly as memorable if it just 90 mins of intense random horror.Eraserhead is a film that has complete mastery over both its visuals and sounds. The cinematography, first done by Herbert Cardwell and then by Frederick Elmes after the first died, can only be described as creepy. And when it's matched with David Lynch's flawless inventive production design, it's able to give the film a thick an unnerving atmosphere. The way Lynch lingers on each shot for so long, letting the audience slide into his disturbed world. Not to mention the way each scene is lit, I mean it really is just one of the most atmospheric films I have ever seen. And the excellent sound design and score, both done by Lynch himself, are incredible. In each scene their are so many layers of the sound that all come together, and it somehow never feels muddled or weighed down by all of the layers, in fact it only adds to the experience. Eraserhead was basically produced in purgatory. David Lynch made the film while he was studying at AFI (American film institute) and he was given full access to their studios. However they under estimated what Lynch was cable of, the script he turned in was 21 pages long, so they predicted that the film would be 20-30 mins long. And when they found out how long the film actually was several members of the AFI tried to reject it. So the film spent nearly seven years in production. Jack Nance who played Henry Spencer and his wife Sissy Spacek, helped fund the film through its difficult production and I have to say I'm very grateful of that. Eraserhead is a landmark in surrealist filmmaking, inspiring people everywhere to make films no matter how small or insignificant they seem. Eraserhead forever changed not only the way films are made, but the way their watched.9.7/10 "},{"Title":"An Entirely One of a Kind Experience","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I would provide you with a plot summary, but I feel that it is best that you enter completely ignorant of its elements, instead i will give to you a few words on my love of this film... Never in my life have i experienced a film that has made me feel in the slightest the way Eraserhead makes me feel. I say experienced because that is exactly what this film is, an experience.This film is the sort of experience that drops your jaw and keeps it there for its duration. Every single moment is ingrained in my mind merely upon the first viewing. David Lynch is a director famed for his bizarre and challenging films and his first feature, Eraserhead is no different. I hope you will love this film as much as I do. "},{"Title":"Eraserhead (1977) is an undeniable horror classic","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead (1977) is a cult classic horror movie from David Lynch. I recently watched this movie two times. The first time I saw this movie was in my film class. I had no idea what to think of it. This is because the movie simply blew my mind. A friend and I had a discussion after watching the film. I said I had no idea how to interpret it. He said that this was his second time watching it. He said that I would like the movie a lot more if I watched it again. After watching this movie for the second time, I have learned to appreciate and love this film. It is pure surrealist art on film. It never explains itself because it doesn't need to. My favorite part of the movie was undeniably the visuals. Absolutely gorgeous. They blew me away. The movie definitely warrants multiple viewings. The ending scene honestly scared the hell out of me. This movie is definitely over the top, which is one of my only problems with it. The whole movie scares and engrosses you at the same time. This has become one of my favorite horror movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Unsettling, Yet Beautiful","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch is one of the greatest of all filmmakers, and definitely a filmmaker whose work is for a very specific audience. Personally, I love Lynch's style, and Eraserhead may be his greatest effort!Theory after theory, fans try to dissect films pointlessly, but Eraserhead is a film that fans can dissect point-fully. The film was made to spark conversation about what it means. What does this visual mean? What is Lynch trying to tell us? It is an excellent film that the viewer can talk about afterwords, creating a much more interesting experience that will make you want to watch it again and again just to see what you've noticed or what you've interpreted differently.And even if you don't want to interpret the film, you can still have a good time! You can still appreciate the atmosphere, visuals, and creativity.Lynch is a great filmmaker, and this is a great film! "},{"Title":"A Bizarre Blend Of Surrealism & Experimental Filmmaking","Date":"6 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch's feature film debut is a bizarre cinema filled with bizarre elements & features a bizarre set of characters spearheaded by the one sporting a bizarre hairdo. A very abstract, surreal & hallucinatory meditation on the fear of fatherhood & a few more things I happen to be unsure of, Eraserhead is one of the creepiest films I've sat through and I still don't know what to make of it.Eraserhead tells the story of Henry Spender, a hapless factory worker who is on vacation & is invited to dinner by his girlfriend at her parent's place where he learns that he's the father of a grossly deformed child. As the two start living together in Spencer's small apartment in an industrial landscape, the unbearable screams of their offspring drives both of them near to the point of insanity.Written, produced, directed, edited & co-scored by David Lynch, Eraserhead opens with a strange, dream-like segment before its main plot surfaces. Every frame of it is jam-packed with symbolism & much of its black-n-white imagery makes no sense at all. While the story left me sort of cold & frustrated, I was indeed amazed by few of its technical wizardry & its influence on later films.The set pieces have a simple, minimal design but Lynch ends up using every bit of it in the final print. The greyscale photography is raw, unrefined & eccentric but the use of lighting & shadows is truly admirable. Editing paces the film accordingly but it also makes me wonder if Eraserhead would've sufficed as a short film. Sound design is definitely its major highlight for it makes its odd surrounding all the more unnerving & dreamlike.On an overall scale, Eraserhead is one of those art house flicks that viewers will either reject outright or embrace it wholeheartedly over the course of multiple viewings. And since Lynch wanted each viewer to come up with their own interpretations, pretentious garbage is just as valid an opinion as timeless masterpiece. Strange, peculiar, unsettling, unconventional & outlandish yet intriguing & amusing in bits n pieces, this queer combination of surrealism & experimental filmmaking is more or less a check mark for me than anything else and I've no plans of returning to it anytime soon. "},{"Title":"One of the weirdest films I've ever seen","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is definitely one of the most weirdest films I've ever seen. Despite its weirdness though, I actually found it to be thoroughly entertaining and I even got a few chuckles out of it due to its weirdness.Henry, our protagonist, faces a number of bizarre and horrifying obstacles before meeting someone of the opposite sex and her family.This film sure does have a lot of weird events which go on in it. However, I feel that every event which goes on in it has a purpose. Also, I felt that none of the events were there just to be there. None of them felt forced and many of them caused different reactions out of me. Some of them unnerved me while some actually got a few chuckles out of me due to how bizarre they were. It was an odd reaction I got out of it but it did make the movie more entertaining.This film may not make much sense to some but it's art. Art has multiple interpretations to it. Many people have their own interpretation to the film. I've seen many of them. My interpretation of the film is that it takes place on another planet and all the weird things which go on are alien-like. They seem weird to us but it feels normal to all the people who live there. There are a few other valid interpretations I've seen brought up but this one makes the most sense to me.Also, the visuals are amazing. Despite being almost 40 years old, they still look very disturbing and that's pretty impressive especially when you consider other films around the time period. Also, I really liked the sound design. It is well-done as well and it also adds much more to the disturbing graphics. It works well with the visuals.In conclusion, this movie is amazing. I think that this film is an outstanding masterpiece. This is a superb work of art. It leaves a lot of room for interpretation and it is never too complicated as well. If you want to see one of the most weirdest movies out there then make sure you watch this. It is not only weird but it is also well-written. "},{"Title":"You will see things you cannot un-see","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ah, what can you say about Eraserhead that hasn't already been said? You will see things you cannot un-see. Not so much a horror movie or a drama, Eraserhead is a fever dream of indelible visuals and unsettling ambient noise swirling around our harried (and frizz-hairy) protagonist. Lynch deftly crafts a world at once vaguely familiar and lived-in, yet cold, uncaring, and utterly alien, populated by characters as bizarre and off-putting as the world they inhabit. Eraserhead doesn't try to make sense; it tries to make an impression. Love it, hate it, or grudgingly appreciate it (as I do) - you will not soon forget it. "},{"Title":"I either need to attend film school or see a therapist","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of all the films I've seen, this has to be the 2nd most surreal of all. Only L'Age d'or can surpass it. While that movie was sublimely subversive, especially in its closing scene, Eraserhead can only hint at such greatness.Reviewing a movie like this is nearly impossible. How can one honestly enjoy the macabre and disturbing imagery? How can one definitively pinpoint the narrative or intention when the creator has said nary a word on the subject in 30 years? Most of David Lynch's work has been moderately accessible if you're willing to work at it. He's been equally successful with a straight-forward narrative (The Elephant Man, Straight Story) as he has with the bizarre (almost everything else). But after watching this movie, I feel like I either need to attend film school or see a therapist. "},{"Title":"I always wanted to see it and now that I have, not sure what I watched","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had always heard about this movie...about how it was very strange and it is hard to figure out what exactly is going on. By golly, it is very strange and hard to figure out. I watched this film and when it ended I was pretty much like, What did I just watch? A surreal type film where it seems Lynch is taking us to a world that is similar to ours in many ways, but vastly different than ours in very disturbing ways. A place where life is just as normal and dull as a day in our own lives, but at times is an utter nightmare so horrid that those who live within it just wish for death to escape it. Still, one wonders what it all means as this film kept becoming more and more bizarre as it progressed. A very disturbing film that had odd bits of humor here and there and periods where one felt uncomfortable to watch.The story has a man named Henry. He is apparently on vacation and his girlfriend apparently wants him over for dinner. He goes to this dinner only to learn that not only is Mary's family very strange, but also that Mary has had a child...or perhaps something else as Mary herself said that they were not even sure it was a baby. Well, Henry becomes a father unexpectedly and soon his girlfriend leaves him with said child. He becomes frustrated and wants the neighbor across the hall, but is also drawn to the mysterious girl within the radiator who sings of heaven.At times, I have no idea what is going on, but at other I feel almost as if I do. When Henry goes to meet his girlfriend's parents it almost seems to me that Henry suffers from social anxiety disorder. That everything is being blown out of proportion by his condition. Suffering from this condition when I come upon things I am not used to and being around people I am unfamiliar everything seems to go wrong in my mind and the most awkward situations keep popping up. Like how he gets roped into carving the chicken which promptly bleeds and the mother runs out of the room screaming and then the father tries to have a conversation with Henry who is very uncomfortable at the moment. Then other parts of the film are just so strange that I am unable to figure out what is going on except Henry is becoming increasingly unhappy and frustrated. However, he seems to find relief at the end as the last shot of him embracing the girl in the radiator shows him having an expression of pure relief.So, this film was well done and is something that is up for interpretation. I do not find it pretentious as I feel a more pretentious film shows imagery that tries to make it look like it is showing something really deep, but in reality means absolutely nothing. Here, I do get a sense that there is something behind what is being presented. Lynch did an excellent job of presenting this strange world and I would almost like to see more of it as it is such a strange and horrific place. Henry's story ended, but perhaps another viewpoint could have been done at one point of this nightmarish realm that so mirrors our world, but at the same time has deep cracks in it. "}{"Title":"A nightmare of the most horrific, harrowing proportions","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead has a reputation amongst directors, ranking as Stanley Kubrick's films. It's easy to see why, given that David Lynch created a cult classic on a pittance of a budget, showing off some masterful direction and producing a piece of work that is not so much a film as it is a piece of art.Henry (Jack Nance) lives in a run-down suburb in a nameless city. His life takes a turn for the worse when his girlfriend gives birth to a mutant child. Unable to cope, she leaves Henry with the baby where slowly his sanity starts to break down. While Eraserhead may have a plot, the story is unimportant; it's about the atmosphere and the feelings and emotions it conveys. Dialogue is sparse, but expressionism is rife, much like the old silent films. Moreover, the line between reality and surrealism is blurred, with the film often being punctuated with classic Lynchian dream sequences.It is important to realise that Eraserhead is not meant to be entertainment. In his debut, Lynch creates a nightmare, one that is disturbing, eerie and haunting. Eccentricity pulses through it, whether it be Henry's hairstyle or the fact that it is filmed in black and white, detaching it from the real world even further. As a film in technical terms, especially considering that it was made in the 70s over the course of five years, Eraserhead is flawless. While one can argue that it has dated and that it may look cheap, it hasn't at all, retaining the same effect that it did thirty years ago. The mystique and horror does not fade, and it remains as hard-hitting as ever, influencing later classics such as the Elephant Man (also Lynch).A truly timeless film; accomplished, beautiful, pure and horrific. The most Lynchian David Lynch film. "},{"Title":"absurd art at its finest","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After watching this movie.. and keep in mind that i have always considered myself to be open minded and of sorts, a surrealist, i am positive that David Lynch has one of the most brilliant and in-your-face directing technique that i have had the pleasure to witness. His usage of insanity to the point where I felt absurd instead of thinking that the movie itself was absurd is genius. Thank you David Lynch for letting me know where i stand. Expressing the art is the important element.. not the meaning behind it.. Also.. i live in the Houston area and am looking for fellow surrealists who would like to get together, view movies and such and discussion. Anyone in the area please email me atieatwurmz@hotmail.com "},{"Title":"Circular, Industrial Logic","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Concept  'Caligari' meets 'Catch-22' meets '2001'Films are such an diverse medium.  For example compare this to Ron Howard's 'Grinch'.  Both have interesting art direction, but Howard focuses on the story sanitation while Lynch thinks visually--and to heck with mainstream coherence.  Mild Spoiler, if you can call it such.Here is Lynch's major attempt at surrealism.  Like Scott, he is constantly misunderstood by studios and audiences.  Actually, we understand Lynch better than Scott because we always assume Lynch gives us something weird.  With 'Dune' the studio wanted 'Star Wars', he wanted '2001',We have some interesting points here and I'm not just talking about the baby.  Consider--We have the photographer of 'Hulk'.  Considering Mr. Elmes has worked with Lynch up 'till 'Wild at Heart', I'd say he learned more than any of Spielberg's photographers have since 'Jaws'.  Elmes has now passed the torch to Ang Lee.--Notice how many roles Lynch takes on, this is his 'El Mariachi.'  His only other major collaborator here is Alan Splet.  Judging from his later work, I think the exhaustion from making the final sound mix is what drained Splet of ideas.--This, like 'Fast Times', uses the guilt-baby motif.  The finale is Snowden's secret spilled all over again.  Since Lynch isn't concerned with making sense, you're either in on the gag or not.Lynch would recycle his themes with 'Elephant', all of them in a Good Samaritan wrapper similar to 'Straight Story.'  So we accept it as feel-good material and accepting his weirdness as drama. If film is meant to express a tone or mood, Lynch goes one further by sending ideas in sound.  Everything either displays experimentation or give the impression of it.  Skittish meditation.  Kubrick tried this method in 'Shining', but missed the effect.  Sonnenfeld would have us think this was funny.This deserves at least one viewing. "},{"Title":"A very disturbing film.","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i'm not sure what to make of this film, I don't understand what it's about. I really have no idea if it's good or bad. But if it's meant to make you uncomfortable I'd give it a 10. It's good that films like these are made, so we won't drown in mainstream productions. I like films that confuses me.  "},{"Title":"You can judge people by their reaction to this film","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very dark film but the enjoyment is in never really understanding what it is about. It is full of religious, mystical imagery and  symbolism and guilt-ridden, obsessive behaviour. It is so odd that many people dismiss it. It represents a side of of all our lives that we can ignore if we want to but to explore it widens understanding.You could read all sorts of allegorical interpretations into the film but it's not that simple.The film is meticulously put together down to every disturbing detail - all aimed at challenging any comfortable views of the world. It has many layers. The industrial setting and sound effects add to the depressing ambience and somehow weirdly fit with other worldly dreamy sequences.If someone can discuss this film with an open mind it tells me something about them.My advice is to enjoy the many dimensions present without too much evaluation or analysis. "},{"Title":"is that a baby or a salamander?","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i was a late-comer to Lynch's work.  i saw the elephant man, scratched my head thru dune, marveled at blue velvet.  then came twin peaks, which was wonderful for a season or two.  rode the wild pony of wild at heart, even saw some redeeming value in fire walk with me.  but i had never seen eraserhead. i just knew that i needed to. well, i've seen it.  and now i'm thinking that maybe i need to see it again. HELLO, SYMBOLISM THAT I DON'T UNDERSTAND AT ALL.  i really want to like it but i don't know if i can. what does it all mean?  should i even try to figure it out?  the lady in the radiator, the worm in the drawer, the mounds of dirt, the amphibian-baby....HUH?!?  i have read that it's a nightmare about parenthood.  but throw us a bone once in a while, mr. lynch.  it's like he doesn't want to let us in on his joke.   "},{"Title":"Strange hodgepodge of BW images.","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is a strange hodgepodge of black and white imagery. It is less coherent than a dream. David Lynch's first feature length film that consisted of 21 pages of script and was stretched out to 1 hour and 48 minutes of indulgent strangeness. I rented this so I can see what else the creator of Blue Velvet had done earlier. What I found was obviously an experimental piece that has less plot than a Kafka story. To say that one scene to the next is discontinuous is to be very generous. It is a nightmare more than a movie; a collection of scenes and fantasies thrown together under one roof for no apparent reason other than to see what it is like. It's like 20 different ideas juxtaposed in a collage with none leading to any conclusion or explanation. Interesting but why? If you like strangeness for the strange itself, I could see where it might be worth it if you had a joint or something with it. Unfortunately, I gave that up on the 70's. "},{"Title":"Don't believe the hype","Date":"12 November 2014","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like to think I have an open mind and look at movies or art objectively, which is why I gave Eraserhead a fair go. And I'm happy with horror or any movie going back to the silent era. I have a complete open mind.Unfortunately I did not enjoy Eraserhead at all and I was happy when it was over. Why so critical of one of David Lynch's acclaimed early work you may rightly ask? Well nothing really happens in it. For most part of the film centres in one room and on two things the main protagonist and a very unusual looking baby. There is little dialogue, no plot or story or character development. My imagination was put into overdrive working out the scenes, any metaphors, whether the story took place in the past, future, some parallel universe or the warped mind of the protagonist of the film. Not a lot is given away. Eraserhead is abstract art in black & white. This may have worked in 1977 but now it feels very dated, not the least bit frightening, way too long and I am afraid boring. "},{"Title":"Can't get Eraserhead out of my mind","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this with a friend who, sadly, is no longer with us. He loved the eccentric, the unusual. Every time I watch or think about the movie Eraserhead, I can hear him saying This is going to just blow your mind! And that it did. I can not compare this movie to anything else out there. Sure, I have seen some art movies that drag you into some strange territory never brought by regular Hollywood movies, but this... this was so different. Are you supposed to be watching a story with a beginning and an end, or is this just a day or two of the life of a man? Is he crazy, or is everyone else? Does the word crazy even apply here, and if not, what does? A regular review cannot suffice in even attempting to describe the story. Surly, there have been several sites online that have gone through pages of attempting to describe what goes on.I can tell you that Henry gets his girlfriend pregnant, and that the baby is the scariest looking creature ever to come out of a human body. But if I tell you about the lady that lives in the radiator, the (what I call) floating man, & the creepy parents, we are going to disagree in what we think we see. For example, I saw a world where nothing was working out for Henry, and that Earth, if that is the planet he is on, hates him. Stepping in a puddle, having an elevator disagree with his presence, and generally being the cause of everyone's trouble gives me the feeling that poor Henry has bad karma issues. Someone else will see a nightmare. Or perhaps Henry is in hell, custom made for him. But is it really depressing? Or is that just the way I was seeing it? It's worth detaching yourself a bit and feel the movie's dreamy state set in your brain for a while. Rather then analyzing everything, allow it to seep in and haunt you for the rest of your life.I can continue telling you all kinds of things that happen, or I think happened, such as adultery, murder, & suicide, but you probably won't find all of these things in the movie. You may find that adultery is just a fantasy, murder is actually love, and suicide is an awakening. Or none of these things. Or something different.Regardless, you must see Eraserhead. It's a film that begs conversation after you see it, but that's just what I thought. To someone else, this may be over-indulgence, egotism by David Lynch, a weird movie that must be forgotten to others, and to a select few, the most imaginative, visually stunning work of art on film. "},{"Title":"One of the best films to date","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw eraserhead a week ago and from that point i saw it again 3 times to better understand the multiple meanings that lynch tried to communicate thru this work of art and every time i discovered something else. This is possibly the best film made by David lynch, the way it is shot the editing, the weird factor goes thru the roof, incredible acting by all the actors they played their roles to perfection making us feel that we were there right next to them in that industrial nightmare filled with strange noises and the feeling of anxiety at every step. The sound deserves a special note because it is one of the best scores i've ever heard in a movie. It's haunting, never stopping for a second never giving the viewer any time to recuperate and it contributes a lot to the general feeling of the movie along with the many themes and ideas that are hidden beneath the surface from alienation, abortion to the deep study of human psyche, ideas that pop out at every corner. Thsi movie is not for the occasional movie watcher that wants to see things blown up and stuff like that but if you want a movie that makes you think long after it is finished then find Eraserhead at all costs. "}{"Title":"An Avant-Garde Masterpiece","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1929, Salvador Dali and Louis Bunuel made the famed short film Un Chien Andalou, which proved to be a great blend of Avant-Garde and Surrealism. A very disturbing film in it's own way, films like this have allowed directors like Lynch to carry on a tradition of macabre surrealism. David Lynch knows how to blend these elements and make them work. Eraserhead is surely one of the finest blends of surrealism and Avant-Garde to be seen.Every time I see this film, I always wonder what an expecting mother must think about the possibility of the pregnancy turning for the worst. One thing is certain when watching this film you will feel more frightened than watching a slasher flick.This can be a hard DVD/Video to find, but that's why we have the fantastic ebay! THere are plenty of copies to be found there. "},{"Title":"Hot throbbing torturous nightmare never lets you go","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watching this movie is just like having a nightmare.You know that hot, uncomfortable, throbbing feeling you get at two in the morning when you are seven years old and cannot sleep, and time seems to creep along like eternity unfolding in a bizarre gray world? Well, that is what you should expect from watching Eraserhead. And do not think that you will only watch it once, because, trust me, it will be playing over and over again in your mind's eye, and ear, for a long time to come. Yuck! I still cannot get this movie fully out of my head and it has had decades to recede.The dancing woman with the cauliflower cheeks torturing us with her singing, the baby's guts, the snake-like crunchy umbilical cords, the filthy, ancient, patterned floor, ...and, oh my God, that hair!But,you know, it is not really the images that make this nightmare jump off the screen, it is the *sound* that does it to you. Listen carefully. The audio track is what brings these gruesome and haunting (in the terrible sense of the word) images to life.This is brilliant film-making, no doubt about it. I am giving it high marks, too. But, I could not in a million years recommend that anyone loose this demon into their lives. So, don't complain that you were not warned. "},{"Title":"Dark, perhaps a little too dark for some.","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After watching this movie I felt physically drained. Not through boredom however, but through the pure emotional onslaught that one experiences whilst viewing this movie. The dark humor in this movie is relentless. I use the term 'humor' loosely as it will take several viewings to pick up any at all, and when you do see it you will probably not laugh at it. This is one of those rare movies that can be considered to be art in its purest form. If you can endure this movie from beginning to end you will probably feel some type of emotional response, which is more than can be said for some of the more traditional movies. After viewing this movie you will either see it for what it is an artistic vision or you'll miss what the point of this movie entirely, that there is no pre-defined point, it is up to the viewer to make of it what they will, and for that it is a true piece of art.10/10  "},{"Title":"I Don't Get It, But I Love It","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to admit that when reading the user comments of films I like, I only read the negative ones. I already like the film, so there's no real reason to read other people saying they liked it. I just want to know why people don't like the film. And there's a lot of people that don't like this film (particularly the guy who's written about seven paragraphs explaining why)Their argument seems to be that only pretentious, arty people with goatees enjoy this, and even then it's only because they feel they have to or they're not smart. Although that may be the case in some instances, I don't think it applies to everyone. I don't get this movie, but I love it. It's mesmerising.David Lynch himself often says that his movies have no deeper meanings. That's a bit of a lie. There are infinite deeper meanings, so everyone can end up with a completely different interpretation of what they've seen. Just because something means nothing to one person, it could explain the essence of the whole film to another one.But the real reason for writing this review is to say why I loved Eraserhead. I love it because I find it hypnotising. It probably helps if you like the art of H.R.Giger (the designer on Alien), or the strange pictures inside early R.E.M. albums, because this film appeals largely on a visual and aural basis. The world in this film is a very dark and despairing place, all derelict buildings and industrial noises. It's like a horrible nightmare to begin with, but then you see the baby...Essentially, I think you already know if you're going to like this film or not. If you've taken the trouble to actually search for Eraserhead and read reviews before you've seen it, then it's worth a look. If you've accidentally stumbled onto this while searching for Eraser, then don't bother. It really is the ultimate love it or hate it film, as you can probably tell from the reviews that are all calling it the best or worst film ever made. So I'll nail my colours to the mast and sayTHIS IS ONE OF THE BEST MOVIES EVER.   "},{"Title":"coherance...","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  initially, i rated this a perfect ten out of ten...faultless, disturbing, creepy...all you have to do is empathise with henry spencer...(i know that empathy comes hard to some people if at all)then i saw mulholland drive...and for a time my patience with david lynch was lost...it's not that i didn't get it (in a linear, logical sense - not that anyone does anyway)...but that he'd gone and pushed us all off the deep end...laughing at us as we went down - those that didn't get it, and hated him for it, and those that did get it, or thought they did, and kneeled before him kissing his boots for it. i concluded that he was a sadist, and/or a very poor storyteller (you don't really need to hide your inability for narrative, when all you're doing is making fun of everyone). i don't even know if that's the entire story...i didn't like mulholland drive all that much...the acting and dialogue was hackneyed and corny, and overripe...and that much of it was a dream, meant i could have just taken a nap...and felt a whole lot better afterwards - in my refreshed state, i could even have gone to an art gallery and experienced some visual beauty in real time. so, anyway, i started to find fault with all his work...or at least, viewed it with a different perspective...eraserhead suffered least for this...it slipped back to eight...there was no rationale...the same things i like about david lynch, i could just as easily dislike...i'm a logical creature...i crave logic, as i crave a good plot and a decent movie...but i'm also a constant (lucid) dreamer...i can appreciate symbolism, mood, shifting identities...being a dreamer, i thus crave logic in order to maintain sanity...mulholland drive was too much nothing, in which i could only see the various leads, and the spiralling plot...it was plain frustrating, on top of being weak in all the important film technicalities (as far as i was concerned)...but eraserhead is coherant...in light of reading what others have to say about mulholland drive, i felt my initial appraisal of this movie was justified...even though i can no longer find it flawless...david lynch now infuriates as much as intrigues...and i think what people have to say about his work is just as important, just as interesting, as his work itself.9/10 "},{"Title":"I Don't Feel So Well","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" By sheer will power I forced myself to sit through this movie. It's too crazy to really describe without seeing it for yourself. I know there are all sort of theories out there on this one. But no amount of explaining can make me appreciate this work. I do like macabre at times and other, off-the-wall contexts, but this is just too much. The acting is actually quite good. The cinematography is fine. I like that it was shot in black and white. But it just doesn't flow and seems incomplete. At the same time, some of the elements are just too bizarre to make any sense. Do not watch this movie while ingesting any hallucinogens, alcohol and like. You may be really screwed up by the end of it. "},{"Title":"Macabre Visions of Propaganda","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tennessee Williams, apparently antagonistic towards some Christian orthodoxy, contrived scenarios that refuted the justness of legalistic morality. Who can be sympathetic to a bigoted, wife beating husband, and unsympathetic to his victimized wife who falls for the decency of a vagabond with whom she eventually commits adultery?(Orpheus Descending). A presumed moral paradox is established, but, even the more sanctimonious should accept her infidelity. It has been written that we should. So it is with Eraserhead. Are there valid reasons for infanticide? For abortion? Perhaps. But Lynch's gun is loaded with William's ammunition A contrived depiction of a very bleak reality. God is presented, grinding the wheel of random predetermination, Mother Nature is transfigured into beautiful grotesqueness, and life itself is shown as a hideously deformed baby, perhaps half worm, half human. Who cares? Existence is so coldly stark in Lynch's eyes that any deformation would allow itself. Perhaps the worm unnervingly gives light to his attitude towards humanity. "},{"Title":"still likely the Strangest film I Have Ever Seen","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch's Eraserhead makes Being John Malkovich, Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Lost Highway (another Lynch flick) combined look like they are chicken feed. And years later, having immersed myself in all of Lynch's work (minus Twin Peaks), going through numerous other cult and nightmarish films, and even recognizing the slower bits in the film, it still holds up for me as one of the filmmaker's masterpieces. Believe me, you will rarely see a stranger and more terrifying film in your lifetime until you see this. The plot (which if you can find you win a prize in your mind I think) has a weird zombie-like man (with a Al Sharpton like hair-do) who accidentally gets his spastic girlfriend pregnant and what comes out is a creature that is probably the unwanted child of an alien and a gasoline can. For most of the film though are images and scenes of macabre and fright that are authentic in their own way; abstractions that sometimes are humorous (the best being the highly uncomfortable and classic scene at dinner with the chickens) and sometimes purely out-of-this world. Lynch, while artistically might be by this work as mentally balanced as The Monster in Frankenstein, can make a film so weird, evil-feeling, yet compelling as all hell, that it boggles the mind. Very low budget, this is definitely one of the top 10 best debut films ever. "},{"Title":"Quite boring film","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some says its the best movie they ever seen. I don't believe them. It will make your ears hurt , it will make your eyes close. If you can avoid this film, do it.Its supposed to be another film you have to think to understand. Well its not. Even Un chien andalou is more enjoyable than this. Mr. Lynch is the only one who can tell you why he made this film and what he wanted to say by it.Maybe I just didn't see it coming , I mean the geniality of the film. Maybe I am just too stupid to understand it. Maybe its just really bad film. "},{"Title":"What a baby, what a night.","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoiler, perhaps, so be careful. And if you haven't seen this movie, you shouldn't be reading reviews. it needs a first-hand experience.Before I say anything else, I must say that was the most awkward dinner I've experienced in my entire life.What a nightmare. What a freakishly beautiful piece of absolute terror. Th night after I first watched Eraserhead my dreams were plagued with devilish, mutant fetuses with terrible laughs. I couldn't get the eerie song 'In heaven, everything is fine' out of my head for months. I slept barely, fearing I'd wake up in an alternate reality with dead, twitching chickens, evil babies, crazy seductive mother-in-laws and a consistency of visually disturbing hallucinations.But how awesome. This film is based around it's own world that you have to take at face value. I tried reading into it deeply, but I found myself far more confused trying to think of a real point, instead of just believing some poor fellow who sees things go stuck with a mutant child that seems to enjoy driving him mad.I've read reviews saying that... thing... was harmless but disgusting, but I have to disagree. It seemed like the whole movie centered around it driving him more crazy than he had been before. It's sickening laugh, horrible cry, the way it started crying every time he tried to leave the room, was like it was just trying to keep him in that tiny, windowless (the window on th wall had brick built in... what's the point of even building the window?) room with only his own insanity to keep him company. After a series of disturbing dreams and it started cackling... I don't know how anyone can perceive that as harmless.But, for the record, people say it's no a date movie, but I would be extremely impressed if a guy took me to see this movie at a theater. It's so beautiful terrifying that I think it's one of the best horror art films I've ever seen. Once a teacher told me a great movie is one that changes you life. Does it count if you're afraid of pregnant woman suddenly? "}{"Title":"Not my favorite Lynch movie...","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch is an artist who, while being brilliant and avant garde, can also be a little too full of David Lynch. To be honest, Eraserhead is not my fave. I feel that Mr. Lynch has done better than this...bearing in mind that this is a VERY early production, and noting that he has since honed his skills and craft. In this case, I feel that he was so busy striving to make a social statement, so busy being artistic, so busy trying to prove his worth as an artist outside of the mainstream, that he was rather self-absorbed in imparting his vision. Yeah, I get what he is trying to say. I just think that he could have said it better. Less fartsy, less artsy, less with the metaphorical imagery (which was about as subtle as a freight train rolling through cross-town traffic))... In the end it comes off as a college project, and not a very good one. I give him an 'A' for the cloudy, moody, pensive imagery. But I have to give him a 'D' for making me sit through his cloudy, moody, pensive imagery. I will now go cleanse the acidic taste of patronization from my palette with some Stanley Kubrick, maybe a little Pekinpah--or a later Lynch film. "},{"Title":"maybe art, but not a narrative","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before the advent of film and radio and television, elders told stories to their juniors. Some started with the phrase, 'Once upon a time...' and others started, 'A long time ago in a land far away...' What they had in common was that they were narratives; they told a story with a beginning and end; the stories went somewhere. 'Eraserhead' goes nowhere, which is okay as long as the viewer knows what to expect. If I go to an art gallery I don't expect all the paintings or photos to work together to tell a story, but when I see a movie, I do. 'Eraserhead' is like a disjointed dream, where events happen without reason or rationale and immune to the ordinary rules of genetics. I think Lynch is very creative and imaginative and a talented cinematographer, but he is no story-teller in this effort. I liked the B/W treatment and I thought the movie has terrific visual impact, but very poor narrative. It's almost as if Lynch had been given 10 different story elements to put in a single story but couldn't tie them all together. Who is The Man in the Planet and what do the broken windows, levers, sores and twitches represent? What does the burned-meatball-of-a-planet mean? No one seems to want to discuss these items. Does it mean anything or is it all part of a inexplicable nightmare? I recommend the movie for its visuals and quirkiness but it's a bust as anything else.I have read the 'fear of parenthood' theories and the 'fear of aging' theories and the 'fear of intimacy' theories, but none of those make sense to me in the movie's context. And maybe Lynch wanted to make a movie that wasn't sensible or logical. If so, mission accomplished! "},{"Title":"A successful experiment","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is David Lynch's one and truly most unique film. It's not so much a film as it is a work of free hand painting, in which David Lynch just lets his innermost feelings fly across the screen. In this case, he explores the pressures of fatherhood, in the most disturbing and bleak way as possible. This premise makes Eraserhead a true horror movie, one that can be related to as well. The film is not flawless, however. Sometimes David Lynch can just put completely bizarre and meaningless scenes on the screen, which try to be symbolic, but are more weird. Still, if you are in the mood to be freaked out, rent out Eraserhead.PLOT 8 SCRIPT 5 DIRECTION 9 ACTING 9 CINEMATOGRAPHY 9OVERALL 8 "},{"Title":"A jaw-dropping nightmare","Date":"24 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch's feature film debut is a genuinely spine-chilling, black-and-white, surrealistic nightmare. All common traits and recurring themes of his films are already present here, from repressed fears and sexuality to mental and physical disfiguration, from split personality to blurring lines between real and unreal / conscious and subconscious, from the use of slow, sinister panning and zooming to the use of otherworldly music and an eerie, unnerving soundscape. The latter, consisting mainly of low-frequency hum and other background noises, will definitely haunt you for a long time.It is grotesque and repulsive, and although it does have a bizarre story, it lacks a real narrative thread. Yet, at the same time, it pulls the viewer into the black pit of the subconscious with an irresistible force. I must admit, I couldn't really remember any of the story even right after I saw the film. I just sat there dumbfounded, mouth hanging open.It is the least accessible movie in Lynch's catalogue, but it is probably the most powerful, and certainly the most terrifying one. One of the scariest films I have ever seen. It doesn't belong to the horror genre any more than Bunuel's surrealist vision Un Chien Andalou, but it is more frightening than 99% of any horror films ever produced. "},{"Title":"Easily the Weirdest Movie I Have Ever Seen","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is easily the strangest cinematic work I have ever seen and that's coming from someone who is always made fun of for his love of strange movies. Comparable art-house films such as Dr, Strangelove or Pi were easier to dissect and follow. This film is incredible in its imagery and its meaning attaches to reality below the basement floor of the subconscious. I would need to watch it several more times to try & unpack the symbolism to its full extent, but if I'm following Lynch I think its a visualization of a nightmare, or his deep impressions of what oppresses him in life. The movie is commendable for its originality, its creepy atmospheric soundtrack, its imagery & its ability to capture that same inescapable doomy feeling you have in a nightmare. The reason this won't won't go on my favorites list is because the lingering impression I have makes me feel yucky inside. My favorite artsy movies are ones that leave me feeling inspired & hopeful, not like Eraserhead which makes wake up out of this nightmare. "},{"Title":"A film of deep and disturbing things...","Date":"6 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The person who lent me the DVD of this film claimed it to be their 'favourite film of all time'. I have trouble understanding why someone could ever hold this as their fave but I can see it was something very personal to director David Lynch who strove five years to make this 85-minute film.For the film is not just gibberish as many critics stated on its release, it plays out in the forced perspective of Henry Spencer 's heightened realities a father's fear of having to care for a hideous newborn-child alone and of what his actions may be if it's ceaseless wailing continues ; a boys awkward tendencies upon meeting his girlfriend's parents and the weirdness he perceives of them; the doom-n-gloom of our protagonist's cityscape and residence are heightened to fit into Eraserhead's towering vision of horrors.I say horrors but there are actually two minds through which to watch Eraserhead, one as a surreal horror and the other as an absurdist comedy. The horror is so repulsive you may literally look away the whole time while the comedy is so hilarious your tears may blur your vision. Lynch deserves some credit from the all-too-ready-to-criticise critics as this is a really special thing for a director to attain. This dream language Eraserhead's images speak is impossible to translate into realism and requires adherence to dream logic on the part of the viewer. One skill Lynch certainly has is capturing the language and flow of dreamscapes. Most of Lynch's film forced my mind to wander to the corners of the wall of my bedroom as I found it similar to being told of a friend's dream -exciting for them to tell but boring for me. "},{"Title":"Genius or Just Plain Strange?","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was scanning through the other commentaries on this film and I noticed that most of them used either the word genius or the phrase work of art in reference to Mr. Lynch's work. If we define genius as an unusually powerful capacity for doing original, inventive work, then we must decide whether or not this film meets that criteria. It is unusual, there's no denying that. If by powerful you mean that it stirs the emotions, and we are discussing a piece of work in an art form and the measurement of whether or not something is a work of art is if it affects the emotions, then yes, it is powerful. Emotions can be affected in a positive or a negative manner by a work of art. The imagery in this film is dark and disturbing. It is an experimental film, which tends to make one think of it as original and inventive. It could easily be said that it is not, in that dark, spooky films about grotesques have been made almost from the beginning of movies. But just because a certain type of film has been made before doesn't detract from the quality of the film under discussion. The real issue here is whether or not Mr. Lynch's work can stand as an organic whole. This is where I think it begins to get into trouble. Mr. Lynch has filled the film with images that probably mean something to him. However he doesn't communicate that meaning to his audience except for an overall feeling of repugnance and dread. If we go back to the concept that a work of art's primary function is to communicate an emotion, that perhaps that is enough. However, a film, and this one is no exception, is a narrative. Narratives are supposed to communicate ideas. They tell stories. This film tells a story, but the characters are doing things, and events are happening that don't make any sense. Mr. Lynch probably knows what's going on but he doesn't share that knowledge with the audience. The film is filled with powerful images but they don't coalesce into a coherent story. There is no why and wherefore. I'm sure many people will say that a work of genius doesn't have to explain itself. It just is. That's a point of view, but most people require some sort of meaning in order to derive enjoyment from a film. Is mood enough of a meaning to make people want to sit through a movie? "},{"Title":"WARNING could cause serious disturbance","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  seriously... i consider myself to be a reasonably sane person with a fair dose of intellect and imagination. i remember being gridlocked after exiting the theater in the middle of the night. this film really bothered me i could not speak for half an hour... nor could my company. any comment would be superfluous but being silent and looking disturbed was something we wanted to break. but changing the subject was impossible. scary. the atmosphere in eraserhead followed us out and clung to us like body odour can annoying, undesirable but part of what life is about. what a great movie. i saw A LOT of people exiting the theater throughout the film. i can fully understand it when reviewers underrate this movie they can't deal with it, nor 'rationalize it into a corner'. as i couldn't. this is the horror of life in a weird jacket. you have to be strong to watch this OR abort and give it a bad review. which makes it simply fantastic. i mean it when i say that it should be rated ages 40 and over. "},{"Title":"Either you like or you dislike it","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched the movie with a friend of mine. After half of the film he stood up and went away. He didn't like the film, he found it too boring, not exciting and it was just too weird for him. That's what I want to say, Eraserhead is no entertaining movie, it is not funny (apart from one scene) and it is not very thrilling. If you are the kind of a guy who just loves entertaining, amusing motion pictures, don't watch Eraserhead because you ain't gonna like it.But if you are a guy who likes movies that make him think, movies that are impressive, movies that have plenty of emotional clever shots ... then you'll probably like Eraserhead. This film doesn't tell a straight story, it rather catches the viewer. There are no obvious scenes, all the pictures that you see are wrapped in mystery. You have to decode the impressions and the shots to get a message out of the film. But of course there is not a sole message, there are plenty of messages dependent on what kind of point of view you try to decode the impressions the movie gave you.Just enjoy the movie and let the pictures affect you. "},{"Title":"Most intense and yet at the same time coolest movie you'll ever see","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me start by admitting, like many others, I have no idea whats happening in this movie. To this day it remains to me the most bizarre, intense, scary and at times hilarious mystery of a movie i have ever seen. That really sums it up for me as the movie the whole way through terrified yet at the same time compelled me. Every twisted image made me cower in fright and yet at the same time compel to exclaim, damn that looks cool! What really makes the movie amazing is David Lynch's extraordinary ability to recreate the same sense of confused fear we would have in a dream. The movie genuinely doesn't have a beginning or an end. The whole movie seems completely other-wordly but seems to make sense. The world portrayed here is absolutely insane but inside, to it's inhabitants, seems normal. This means the audience can appreciate both the artistry of this world created and our complete inability to grasp and understand it, which in my opinion sounds a bit like heaven.  "}{"Title":"Uh, yeah","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some groovy stuff manhead aches butt hurts eyes wanderconfusion feels goodI have an extraordinary tolerance for boredom; i usually revel in it.  But Eraserhead was just too much, or perhaps not enough, for me.  I watched this movie in pieces, a few weeks apart.  but at the end, I'm glad i saw it, because knowing the full vision (not that i necessarily understood it) i enjoyed.  Hey, maybe i did understand it. I'll give it an odd 9/10. "},{"Title":"sure, ill take a stab at it","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i bought the dvd from the lynch site so i have the lynch interview to go with the movie. two things he talks about is how highly personal eraserhead is and his love and curiosity of disecting and studying organic things. so, basically henry (i think the main character is called )is pretty much lynch. the little curiosity henry has being a seemingly shy individual gets him in trouble. having sex with his girl brings the unexpected baby, cheating on her with the neighbor and disecting his baby. obviously the baby is weird looking, perhaps an excuse to show a man curious about disecting his baby, and also looks alot cooler and brings another life to the movie. he wants to disect it.  Like in dreams and reality we sometimes do little things that we think wont be of consequence because its just paranoya, but sure enough we get curious and bad stuff happens. i have two examples,,,when i was about 5 I threw my moms cherrished earings down the sink,,,why? i could not tell you why, because i could. maybe to see what happens even though i kinda know whats gonna happen. you just do it hoping for the best but the worst always happens. throughout the movie i felt that henry was just treding on thin thin ice the whole way through. One wrong move and its disasterous,lynch style.  In the outtakes scene it seems he cant even walk down the street without getting his leg caught up in a hanger with a dead cat attached to it( the same dead cat lynch disected in real life out of curiousity) i think lynch played a mortician in another movie a while back also,,,i see a theme here and it seems to be that people with little wild obsessions get paranoid and one wrong move and kablamo all over the place. but hey, according to lynch im sure im wrong,,,,,,,yeah right. "},{"Title":"Emotional rather than literal film","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Generally, movies are like novels they follow a distinct plot line in which characters grow or don't grow and in which said characters' actions have definite causes and logical effects. This sort of connect-the-dots approach to film has almost always been the tack taken by moviemakers since the beginning of motion pictures (except for the earliest films that were simple exercises rather than planned-out pieces of either art or crap). It's unsurprising, because of the common nature of novelish movies, that when a film breaks from that format, it's met with disregard or contempt.Eraserhead seems to be one of those divisive films that one either thinks brilliant or ridiculous. Those who see it as ridiculous are those who expect films to follow clear plot lines and can't handle a series of provocative images that aren't necessarily cogently connected.Those who find it brilliant are more open-minded about the possibilities of film they realize that a major part of the significance of film as art is the emotional impact that sequenced images can deliver (this being why tear-jerkers are so popular). Eraserhead functions on a emotional rather than cognitive level--it is a nightmare, as Lynch calls it, and as such it doesn't present any thematic element above the emotions it brings out in the audience (assuming the audience experiences emotions other than outrage). In this sense it is much more akin to poetry than to prose, and it shares poetry's value as an investigation of human experience through emotion rather than reason.Eraserhead, much like the rest of Lynch's work, is sort of like impressionist painting, which was derided by critics when it was first introduced to the art world. Those critics who voiced disgust with the work of Monet and his contemporaries were those who expected painting to be about the arbitrary subjects in a picture. Monet painted light, not objects, and this new approach to art confused many. In much the same way, Lynch makes movies about one's reactions to images rather than about the arbitrary subjects of a given film, and because of this he may well go down in history as one of the true geniuses of the medium. "},{"Title":"pregnant women abstain","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is by far the weirdest Lynch movie I have ever seen, and Iguess that that also makes it the most interesting.  I'm sure Kafkawould have enjoyed this immensely.Eraserhead is an intriguing movie to say the least.  It has a lot ofelements that will later appear in Lynch's movies (the checkeredfloor, freaks, that stage-backroom, etc.), so there is that familiarity. However, whereas later movies have sex and violence, this haswormy things that tend to be pretty gross.  It doesn't ruin the movieat all, but I wouldn't advise pregnant women to watch it.The music, as always in Lynch movies, is neurotic and soothing. The lighting gets too dark at points sometimes and making out theaction can be hard.  It is, however, definitely worth watching, anddefinitely worth watching more than once. "},{"Title":"Analysis fails here","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unlike some of Lynch's more recent works (Mullholland Drive and Lost Highway for example) Eraserhead is a film that doesn't benefit from being figured out.The film left me with several strong emotional impressions, mainly having to do with the hell of a forced marriage and the burden of caring for an unwanted child. In spite of truly bizarre occurances (Roast chickens start kicking and oozing blood at the dinner table while Mom has a seziure apparently unnoticed by everybody else; grandma seems catatonic, but mom still gets her to toss the salad, etc., etc., etc...), Mary comes from a rigidly traditional family, completely crass in it's need to know if Henry had sex with Mary, what Henry does for a living, and it's assumption that he will marry Mary after presenting him with flimsy evidence that they've had a child together. The values that force Henry and Mary to marry are shown to be as much a part of the machine that has created the industrial hell in which they live as any other force.Their universe seems post-appocalyptic in its desolation; not a wisp of vegetation anywhere, and almost no clues about time of day. I suspect a rational explanation for the setting of Eraserhead might include some alien takeover; Henry and Mary's premature baby doesn't really look human, and it's introduction to their lives is more than a little suspect. Not to mention the worms that keep appearing everywhere,looking like dissected human central nerve chords.While I firmly believe there is no one way to interpret Eraserhead, itdoes touch on a number themes that fall into the social commentary bin. Isolation deepening simultaneously with physical connection (pipes)as a metaphor for sex that alienates, marriage forced by  circumstance, etc. It manages to get the viewer (at least this one) thinking about these issues in an abstract way. I don't know that I really enjoyed the film (although Harry's dream where his brian gets turned into eraserheads was humorous) but I didn't find it worthless. As an image and soundscape, it was truly brilliant.The intentional mix of plot and diversion succeeds in tempting and then thwarting analysis, like a painting or a sculpture. As such, this film is guaranteed to alienate a large audience. Some of Lynch's more recent films (Mulholland Drive, for example) are puzzleboxes that start the viewer out in this state of confusion, but actually make a lot more sense once the puzzle is figured out. Eraserhead deliberately induces confusion, and intentionally maintains confusion throughout, with no resolution intended. As such, it is typical student work, untainted by the need to be palatable to large numbers of people, unencumbered by the idea that many will lose interest because they do not see value in maintaining states of confusion (it's called developing an attention span). As with all things, it's a matter of taste. "},{"Title":"EraserheadAn original and refreshing look at Christianity","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although at first glance Eraserhead may seem like a strange and non-sensicle film I think it is a great masterpiece. The theological ideas behind it, Lynch's view on organised religion and its effect on people is terriffic. Because of its ambiguity it definitely needs to be watched more than once but nevertheless it is still a fabulous look at one man's decent into guilt as he is consumed by his sins. A film not to be underestimated. "},{"Title":"Everyone should see this movie once a virtual nightmare caught on film.","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"      What can you say about this movie? It seems that almost all films are made to satisfy a target audience and then deteriorate with time, making their once topical plot points and jokes very dated. Then comes along a film that seems to have been made on another planet, or some other dimension. Eraserhead is that kind of film. A month after watching this film your brain will be unable to digest the visuals as just a movie and may interpret its bizarreness as a nightmare that you once had. I rented this for my wife one night and while it was playing she complained through most of it that she just wanted to go to sleep. It took a lot of shoulder tapping to keep her awake, and although at the end she said why didn't you just let me sleep through it, the next day she made a complete 180 and was very grateful that she had seen it (there was a similar sequence of events when I showed her Carnival of Souls - the Eraserhead of the 60's) I suppose this movie is the most surreal, drug induced experience you can have without physically poisoning your body. If film is Art (like paintings) then Eraserhead belongs at the top of the heap, because whereas almost all films are made like hotel wall art (visually pleasing to its audience,) this film is so avant garde and non-commercial that it may be one of the most personal movies ever made.  "},{"Title":"I don't know much of anything!","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Black clouds of cosmic dust circulate around the planet; it's surfaced cracked and peeled like the face of a burns victim.  It's outer shell of rock and granite masking the bony, toothless freak that sits beside a window, frantically pulling at shafts and gears, in some madcap attempt to stop the whole thing erupting or exploding into shards of broken crust and pebbles.This is Eraserhead, a film that represents the wounded, soulless day-to-day grind of our society.  A world in which parental responsibility is enough to enslave you in a four-walled-cell, where ants mindlessly collect dirt in your underwear drawer, homeless people fight in the street below, and a hamster cheeked lady in your radiator promises you that in haven everything will be fine.  This is the cinematic equivalent of a Radiohead album.  Exploding onto our screens in a barrage of mind-boggling images, throbbing with cinematic experimentation and structural metamorphosis.  What is Eraserhead anyway? Is it a black comedy, or some kind of overtly pretentious student film?  Perhaps we're dealing with a social satire?  We can never be certain.  Eraserhead is all of these things and more, representing David Lynch's second greatest filmic achievement and perhaps his most purely realised vision of hell.For our protagonist Henry Spencer... this is a hell on earth -- if we can call it earth.  Henry is a shy man, imprisoned in a uniform of grey-flannel-suits, pocket protectors and half-mast trousers.  His hair stands on end like some sick mockery of a cartoon character, as if some instance in his young life terrified him so much that his hair shot up and refused to come down.  Everything surrounding Henry practically oozes foreboding.  Even dinner with his girlfriend Mary ends with bleeding chickens, spasmodic fits and the news of an unwanted pregnancy.  And with Mary's mother chewing and salivating all over Henry's face, is it any wonder that he prefers to sit alone on the end of his bed, listening to the strange carnival music that pulsates from some far-off corner of his psyche.  Not really.This is Lynch's darkest vision.  A film filled with despair, longing, and an oppressive atmosphere that damn near chokes us.  We're searching for an escape route from Henry's shoe box apartment long before Laurel Near arrives to tell us how we've got her good thing, and she's got ours.  No matter how much slapstick humour Lynch throws into the mix it can't silence the screaming chickens and almost constant industrial hum that fills the soundtrack throughout, dragging us along with Henry, kicking and screaming to the brink on insanity.  We can turn the tape off, we can walk out... we can escape the tempting lure of hamster-face and her lull of sweet insanity... Henry is incapable of this.  The over-the-top performance by Jack Nance as Henry simply adds to the film's overall surrealism... whilst the black and white photography and exceptional use of sound-design effectively create a world like no other.  The film grows stranger and stranger with each scene, as copulating couples disappear into the flowing, milky liquid that pours out of the bed, whilst mutated babies laugh at their father's social weaknesses, resulting in death, destruction and metal collapse.  This is one of the strongest films you'll ever see, a vision of bleakest, blackest life, a snarling monster of a film that massages our brains before pulverising them with a pair of scissors.  The black blood flows as the planet explodes and lightness invades the screen.  Sure this isn't a film for everyone, it isn't supposed to be.  Nothing is ever explained here, some things need no explanation, and thus we are free to feel Henry's confusion...  No, this is a film for those unafraid to stare into the darkness in the corner of the room, a true landmark in experimental cinema, and in the art of filmmaking as a whole.  5/5   "},{"Title":"Odd, opaque, outstanding","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Long before the coffee and cherry pie approach of Twin Peaks, the controversy of Blue Velvet or even the life and times of John Merrick came Eraserhead. An afterthought of the hippy era, a reflection on parenthood or the strangest nervous breakdown ever to be recorded on celluloid, Eraserhead could be all of these and possibly, none of them. So is the Lynchian nightmare.Shot in stark black and white, Eraserhead focuses on Henry (Jack Nance) who lives alone in an empty industrial estate with only his fantasies of a woman living in his radiator to keep him company. Recently discovering his girlfriend has given birth, Henry becomes more unhappy and introverted. Posing many questions concerning tolerance, loneliness and of course, parenthood, Eraserhead is certainly one which film students could spend sleepless nights puzzling over. However anybody can enjoy it, if they approach it with an open mind.Like Blue Velevet, Lynch uses a relatively simple narrative to communicate his themes and ideas. The viewer is presented with many, slightly uncomfortable scenarios and images which could be either social commentary or a confession of a troubled mind (Lynch or Henry). The lack of dialogue makes the film even more startling as does the lack of interaction Henry experiences between other people giving an impression of extreme melancholy. Nance is wonderfully distant as the central character and is given a truly spectacular hairstyle as a reward for his performance.If you are expecting The Straight Story or even The Elephant Man, you should stay away. Eraserhead is disturbing, challenging and hugely rewarding. Superb.   "},{"Title":"post partum shock !","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  clearly this film is about the dark side of new parenthood for mother and father alike ... Having just had my second child and having gone through this period of shock and awe, this film has taken on even more meaning for me personally.   I believe that in an interview with David Lynch of recent he stated or alluded to the fact that Eraserhead was in fact based upon or inspired by his experiences living with a pregnant woman and all the hormonal flux and neuroses that accompany. Anyone that's had children can certainly relate to this aspect of the film . The warping of reality as a result of the baby crying frequently and being woken up at all hours of day and night is something else that I could have never imagined prior to having children. My wife currently suffers from post partum depression/psychosis and I intend on screening this film for her.   It should be interesting. This should be required viewing for all new parents no matter how dark or weirded out it may appear on the surface . "}{"Title":"Brilliant Lynchian nightmare","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a brilliant movie. It makes no sense at all, but it still gives you this strange feeling only a lynch movie can give you. I say it makes no sense but actually it does. I watch most Lynch movies as a dream. You watch it without much thinking and let the images work on you, and then you watch it again, trying to understand it. But since everything is in a dream you can't explain it with normal logic. You have to use dream logic, going from one scene to another without an obvious link. But unconsciously Lynch has a link between the scenes so it's up to the viewer to find that (or another own interpretation) link between the scenes.And if you watch all of Lynch's movies like this you don't have to explain the weird stuff (like the switch of bodies in Lost Highway or Mulholland Drive)but they make sense in a dream-like way once you find a link between before and after the weird stuff. What's different  about this movie(when compared with Lost Highway, Blue Velvet, Mulholland Drive, Dune, ...) is that here Lynch uses actual dreams and reality together, although reality seems to be the nightmare. And the dreams of a (not that much) better place (like the song about heaven) make sense when living in this nightmare.So when you watch this (or any other Lynch poetry) just let the images talk to you, let it get you in the mood of the movie and try to link things with each other, but don't try to explain it, that's impossible. I loved this movie and every frame of it will be in my mind for several weeks (maybe months) and that's exactly what this movie wanted to accomplish. I give it a 9/10. "},{"Title":"watch this at 1230am and just TRY to get to sleep afterward","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (there might be some SPOILERS within this gibberish, but I'm not completely sure)That's what I did, and I can say I regret it, but I don't; I can say that it was a mistake, but it wasn't.  I was trying to clear my mind of the overwhelming hype surrounding the film, but some of it lingered as I watched the fair-quality VHS bootleg.  I was prepared to call the movie slow and pretentious, but now the right word is DELIBERATE.  The events which conspire are are less confusing and more NIGHTMARISH.  As the integrity of film as an art form deteriorated and gave way to formula and committee thinking, it's hard to find films that not only have certifiable integrity, but also prompt you to think.  Eraserhead is an ideal example (Videodrome and Fight Club are others), a movie whose bleak exterior is nothing compared to the emotional and psychological reactions it brings.  Like Cronenberg, Lynch is a perpetual trickster, a court jester with an ace up his sleeve, wrapping a narrative around the viewer's mind like a hit of Ecstasy, to the point where nothing you see or feel seems real for a long time afterward.  I wondered how much of Henry Spencer is inside me?  What began as a hideous, deformed, wormlike creature has given way to the creature that is now typing this.  Is there a difference?  An elevator that hesitates before closing, a mailbox with nothing in it, two halves of a ripped picture, a hideous mutant baby.  A lot of what I saw seemed to be making a point--or implying at least--self-conscious behavior in everyday life--the intimidation of cutting a miniature chicken whose thighs thrust and whose rectum oozes blood; the nervousness of a man being interrogated about SEXUAL INTERCOURSE; the baby that cries only when its father leaves, and its sudden outbreak in odd boils.  A brick wall outside a window.  A man pulling a lever, the sound of a train outside the window.  Comments on fidelity as Henry sleeps with the seductress across the hall, the production number by the 'lady in the radiator' with sagging, 'genital' cheeks as she squishes sperm with an unflinching grin, the wiping away of eraser-dust.  As with Blue Velvet (Roy Orbison's 'In Dreams') and Mulholland Drive (Club Silencio), Eraserhead possesses a similarly simple musical number (a song about heaven) that seems to symbolize the characters and events--SUMMARIZE, I mean, but the connections remain vague unless you devote time to studying it closely.  I regret now calling Lynch's mindbending films pretentious (although honestly a few ARE)--Eraserhead and the more recent Mulholland Drive symbolize a dying breed of cinematic artist, who assembles half of a jigsaw and allows the viewer to exercise the power of reason to figure the other half, but playing fair and keeping the challenge equal.  Even after watching Videodrome recently, I wasn't met with the same awake-with-nervous-jitters feeling that Eraserhead has given me--it's a distorted, perverse view of our own reality (even though it looks anything but) and reveals how self-consciously bizarre bland, everyday routines, sex, sharing a bed with a member of the opposite sex, and childbirth really are.  As the clock approaches 4, Eraserhead has branded me with a red-hot cattle prod, a mosaic of images that endure and are complicated in the mind after the actual film ends.7/10 "},{"Title":"X Rating?","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why was this film originally given an x rating. There's no graphic sex or nudity, no strong language, and no real violence.  It can't just be because of it's incessant weirdness can it?  I have watched it a few times thinking I must have missed something, but i didn't. "},{"Title":"The Language of Lynch","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First and foremost, it is not David Lynch's responsibility as an artist to make the meaning of Eraserhead (and by extension, the rest of his films), if indeed there is one, easily apparent. To hate the film because one does not understand it speaks to the viewer's laziness. Most American studio films of the last twenty years or so are easy to understand because they are marketed to teenage boys. Lynch makes films for himself. He does not pander. Furthermore, I appreciate that he does not condescend to the lowest common denominator, but rather puts it all out there for us, as the viewers, to make of his vision what we will.Lynch follows Shakespeare's advice and holds a mirror up to nature, but the mirror is decidedly Lynch's. If you've done any research at all on Lynch, including simply watching a making of of one his films, then you soon realize that Lynch, blessedly, does not see the world in a conventional fashion. That being so, it is important for anyone who enjoys his work to see this film, if for no other reason than to gain a rudimentary understanding of Lynch's visual palate and the collection of themes that he is continuing to explore to this day.For example, I recently purchased the Eraserhead DVD which, incidentally, is gorgeously produced and worth every penny. After watching it, I was struck by how many details of camera angles, sound, scenic design, thematic elements, editing, and so on, ad infinitum, appear in his later work. In order to confirm this thought, I watched Blue Velvet again and was astounded by the number of parallels*Laura Dern's entrance in Blue Velvet/The Beautiful Girl Across the Hall's entrance*The passage of the camera (i.e. - the viewers eye) through holes (or portals) to alternate worlds (e.g. - the hole in the planet and the hole in the roof of the shack in Eraserhead and the ear in Blue Velvet)*The camera's movement over the planet in Eraserhead and the camera's movement through the grass in Blue Velvet*Henry as a stand-in for Lynch in Eraserhead and Jeffrey as a stand-in for Lynch in Blue Velvet*Redemptionand so on....Eraserhead is the key to Lynch's work, but like Lynch, nothing is terribly clear and things are often askew. Possessing the key is not a promise of clarity but it does make getting through to portal to his alternate worlds a bit easier. "},{"Title":"revisited","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw Eraserhead at a small arthouse cinema tucked away in a rather dodgy area of Manchester. Then I was totally blown away and became a lifelong Lynch fan. Now, watching it again on DVD, I realise why. Certainly the weirdest film I have ever seen (Fellini's 81/2 came pretty close) and one that still leaves unpleasant and disturbing images on the brain. I've given up trying to find a meaning in there...I can only suppose that it is the innermost workings of a man's mind when confronted with a dismal, awful realism of a life without purpose. Of a child and a wife he doesn't want. An escapism into an often terrible otherworld. Truly disturbing movie, but one that which is essential when watching Lynch's other films. The industrial noises that are so apparent in Dune, the stage, the velvet curtains that reappear in  Twin Peaks and more recently in Mulholland Drive. This is a director flexing his muscles...preparing us for what was to come. Stunning movie that has never let me look at a chicken in the same way again "},{"Title":"Not your regular chicken.","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A very slow, dark film that some how manages to float about in a vacuum of intense foreboding. Sitting some where between film noir, surrealism and an unforgettable nightmare this would have to be one of the most strangest films ever to crawl over the silver screen.The genius of David Lynch manages to repeatedly slip this incarnation proudly  above the perception of its audience, promoting opinions and discussion that would ultimately propel Lynch's name into master director status. A film you will love or hate depending on how much you enjoy having you comprehension toyed about with.9/10 "},{"Title":"Holy S**t!","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well what can I say I was very disturbed by this movie especially the evil offspring. The industrial noise that goes through the whole movie is especially disturbing.You are none the wiser for watching the movie but it does the trick in making the viewer feel uncomfortable. Brilliant and shocking "},{"Title":"Haunting, Inspiring, Genius","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Lynch's Eraserhead is a film that stands alone.  This is a film that you  will never forget--either because you hate it so much and can't believe you just  wasted 2 hours of your time, or because you are forever struck by the haunting  genius that this film is--as I was.  I have never been more terrified than I was  while watching this film, and although I saw it some time ago, some of theimages from this film won't escape my head.  This film is like a creepynightmare, crawling with anxiety.  You never know what's going to happen next,  and you want to cover your eyes and never set your eyes on any scene from the  film again, but the lighting and grainy contrasts of the gorgeous black and white  cinematography, along with the fantastic acting force you to keep on watching.  I  highly recommend this film to all those who love the surreal, experimentation,  the world of the bizarre, and film.........yet for those of you that love The Matrix  and Pearl Harbor, and heard about this movie from a friend--my advice is to  stay far away.  Leave this territory to the intellectuals.  Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"About f#&*ing time!","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I say that in the one line summary because this film is harder than hard to find.  I finally found it in a video store that had rare cult movies.  If you live in N.C. and want to see it I found it in Boone at Fat Cats video store.  There's not much point in persuading someone to watch it, but if you want to watch it here are some guidelines. 1) You have to accept the fact that the movie will (most likely) scare you, depress you, weird you out, and CONFUSE you.  Might bore you. 2) Don't try to understand the movie.  You won't!  Even if you've never been confused before in your life you won't understand this movie!  I don't think David Lynch even really understands all of this movie. 3) This isn't essential but it helps if you sympathize with Henry.4) Be prepared for a slow movie with some images and sounds you've never seen or heard. 5) Remember it's just a movie. 6) Laugh or smile at the parts that are funny. 7) If it's getting to you too much stop the tape.  It's not essential to life. 8) Don't watch it if at the time you are already depressed. 9) Unexpected things happen all through the movie. 10) Read the other user comments of Eraserhead. 11) You will either love or hate it. Overall a great movie!  I hear that people that watch Eraserhead are trying to be artsy or intellectual or even refer to us a psuedo-intellectuals. We aren't, and to the people that think that please let's just leave it at the fact that we liked Eraserhead and not hold any hard feelings toward each other.  This movie is the weirdest but probably not the best of David Lynch. I like Blue Velvet more.  You won't really know what to make of the movie as and after you watch it.  The sound in the movie is to die for and the baby is... well... hard to describe but scary, weird, gross, animal-like, etc. You have to watch this movie more than once to get the movie.  The sperm scene was probably the scariest part of the movie.  The beginning is fantastic.  It gets weirder as it goes along.  I think David really just wanted to evoke a response from the viewer more than he wanted to entertain but it did both to me.  I don't really know what else to say except it will change the way you look at chicken forever.  "},{"Title":"A True Horror","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a movie, I saw the film a few days ago and I'm still not able to write a descent review about it. But here we go, first of all if you are planning to see this movie, please don't eat while watching it, which was my first mistake, not because it was a bad film but because of some images that it contains.  The acting was good, and the plot was .... different but not bad at all.  For fans of Lynch that haven't seem this classic, please do so right away.  If you are not a fan please see Blue Velvet, Lost Highway or Mulholland Dr as your first choice, these are Lynch's films that resemble the type of movies that he is more famous for.  Eraserhead is the kind of movie that is not for everyone, and I'm happy by just seeing it once.  For most people once will be enough, but if you are planning to psychoanalyze the film and find its true meaning, I think you should see it many times.  My first thought while finishing the movie was that this guy had problems coping with parenthood but that's only my first impression, and it might change as I give more thought to the film.  The movie was really intelligent and well thought-of; it was a true horror but not the kind that has that much suspense in it, which is really hard to come by these days.  It was a good film and I will recommend it to any one that had seeing at least one of Lynch's movie, this film could be like a double dose that could be too strong for the weak minded. "}{"Title":"Probably the weirdest movie I've ever seen","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"        ***There might be spoilers in the following summary*** Eraserhead is the weirdest movie I have ever seen (like that hasn't been said before). It is David Lynch's first film, and it really showed the world what this controversial filmmaker would be creating throughout his career. Now, when I say it is the weirdest movie I've ever seen, I do not mean weird in a negative sense. It is strange, but it is also intelligent, challenging, experimental, thought-provoking, and breathtakingly ambitious (especially when you consider this was Lynch's first major film). The film contains maybe 8 characters (some of whom are more implied than actually seen), but the film really revolves around Jack Nance, a truly likable screen presence with a malleable face who, despite his wicked-vertical hair-do, is probably one of the best everyman in film history. Eraserhead shows how Nance's character, who seems to be an ok guy, has his life tipped-turned upside down and right-side up again. He accidentally gets his girlfriend, Mary, pregnant. That is bad enough, but it gets even worse when the child turns out to be a horribly mutated accident of nature. The rest of the movie takes place over one night and shows how this offspring effects his life. My opinion is that the film is a nightmarish vision of a possible apocalyptic future we are headed toward-but that is just my interpretation and should not be taken as fact. I could go on and on, but there is a 1,000 word limit to these things. So let me just say that Eraserhead is a truly unforgettable film full of images, ideas, and thought. It is one of the great art films, and possibly one of the great films, of all time. "},{"Title":"Lynch is pleading to have this film pyschoanalyzed","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The frazzled haired yet always put together lead character, Henry Spencer, played by John Nace, is a perfect visual explanation of this cult classic film. David Lynch's, Eraserhead, follows a road full of unusual twists and turns much like the unkempt hair of Henry. In a brilliant and unexpected way, Lynch depicts all of this oddity with great form and order, just like the orderly outfit displayed by the un-orderly Henry. Eraserhead takes viewers on a journey through a demented world full of oddity and unrest. With Henry as the connecting character, viewers learn that his put together appearance is nothing like his unusual life. His sinful deeds of premarital sex with co- star, Charlotte Stewart, playing Mary, has resulted in a mutated baby, lacking arms, legs and hair.Lynch's five-year process of filming the movie seemed to be a waste of an extra four years and six months. The dialogue amounted to about a page of words and the shading was so blurry at times that scenes were hard to make out. If such a huge process is going to be made out of filming, then make the best of it, for the viewers' sake. On top of Henry's sinful deed and the resulting being, he goes through a process of coming and going and shares his bed with several ladies. With scenes filled with unexplainable items falling from the ceiling, and a mutated dancer singing, `In heaven everything is fine,' this movie, screams to be psychoanalyzed. Due to the lack of dialogue, Lynch calls viewers to interpret the background noises as if they are spoken words. Without actual words to rely on, and with a huge lack of clear visual images, background screeches and wails fill the scenes of this sci-fi esque film. The imagination is allowed to run wild through the wild haired Henry's life, as it twists and turns with every screech. Lynch's brilliance remains unseen to the untrained eye in his first movie, Eraserhead Due to a lack of dialogue, scenes with major shading problems, and a plot line as crazy as the hair of the lead character, the film requires a degree in psychology in order to understand a thing. Although masterfully arranged and complied, the common person will be left confused and wanting a refund on their money.  "},{"Title":"Weird and disterbing","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All i have to say is                  ***this may be spoiling for you**What the F^$%ng hell just happend to me in the last hour of watching this film i feel disturbed after watching it.  very strange indeed.  couldnt figure out what it was mainly about past the second radiatior scene and his head popped off and they made rubbers for pencils with it hhhhmmmmmmmmmm definitely weird but good film 9/10 "},{"Title":"You have to see it to believe it","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ever go to bed shortly after a meal of hot, spicy food (for example, Thai or Indian curry)?  You probably had difficulty sleeping soundly, and maybe some strange dreams.  Lying there in the dark, in that half-awake, half-asleep state, is the closest thing in real life to Eraserhead.This dark, nightmarish piece of work is surreal, like the early work of Luis Bunuel (e.g., An Andalousian Dog).  The plot, if it can be called that, seems to have been drawn from someone's subconcious mind.  It almost seems to have been dictated by someone under hypnosis.Eraserhead can be interpreted many different ways.  And while David Lynch has made a number of other films (each one rather bizarre), none have attained the cult status of this one.  That's because of its unique, dreamlike quality.  You can watch it over and over, and each time get something new out of it.  Some of the imagery is very disturbing, and not for the squeamish.  You have to see it to believe it.  For best effect, watch it alone, late at night, after at least several drinks. "},{"Title":"Puts the cult in difficult.","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most movies are prosaic (which is not necessarily a bad thing) this one is pure poetry. It belongs in a category with 2001 A Space Odyssey, parts of Fantasia, and maybe Barton Fink. Of course, it has very little, if anything, in common with those movies, but that's part of my point. Lynch mixes ordinary, workaday human experiences (being kept awake by a crying baby, having a guest for dinner, listening to a record, etc.) with the utterly bizarre and inexplicable. This is done, for lack of a better word, convincingly and without the heavy-handed irony and self-conscious weirdness of his later films and television shows (watch Blue Velvet if you don't know what I mean). My only complaint about this film is that its cinematography (which is, here more than in an average film, integral to its artistic message) is very hazy and low-contrast, making it very difficult to tell what is happening in some scenes. Watch this in a darkened room, write down your questions, and then sleep with the lights on and your mom on call. "},{"Title":"Messed up.... but in a good way.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Eraserhead is by far the most f@#$ed up movie I have ever seen.  Being a huge fan of Mr. Lynch, I had always heard that this was his stangest film and it definitly was.  The plot is hard to follow because there are so many other weird things happening at the same time.  The characters in this film are so bizzarre, and the things that they do are hard to understand just like the rest of this film. Don't get me wrong, I thought this movie was one of the best films to be made in history, it's dark, confusing, funny, scary and messed up, all the things a good films needs.   So, rent this movie if you can find it, it's worth it. *****/out of 5 "},{"Title":"Unique... simply an amazing movie! **** stars out of 4","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My dad recommended this movie for me. Which explains my family in a few words. WEIRD!!!!! The fist time I saw this movie I was terrified of the sounds and the deformed baby. To this day if I think bout the movie I can just picture that baby whining and spitting up siliva. This movie  has amazing lighting techniques and visuals. Eraserhead is of course one of my favorite movies of all time. It scares you not in a sence of horror but in a sence of what the hell just happened, everything is just so weird. I highly recommend it for you David Lynch fans and artsy people. "},{"Title":"Nobody does it like Lynch.","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the most impressive pieces of surrealist cinema ever, David Lynch's Eraserhead is a 90-minute filmed nightmare that everyone should see once.  Even if you don't get Lynch's vision, there is still no denying the power of his ideas and imagery.  Its interesting that Lynch dislikes the idea of applying psychoanalysis to his work as this is some kind of Freudian archetype spilled on to celluloid, with many sexual and psychological avenues explored and depicted.  Profoundly disturbing (especially the final scenes) and surprisingly funny at times as well. Topping it all off is the eccentric presence of the late Jack Nance in his definitive role.And remember folks In heaven, everything is fine....  "},{"Title":"love it or hate it, there's nothing quite like it.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ironic that someone would recommend Pi over this, since Pi would be a completely different film were it not for Eraserhead.Yes, it's very slow, yes, it may even be boring, and yes, it may not make complete sense, but at least Lynch was daring enough to do something different rather than jump on some bandwagon like so many other directors.People have a tendency to think that people who watch films like this are trying to be really intellectual.  While there is some intellectual insight to be gained from this and many of Lynch's other films, part of the appeal is also quite the opposite.  Lynch is really quite childlike, he's playing with ideas and images, and part of the appeal is the way he abandons conventional narrative and just has fun with the medium.  Although you could hardly call this film fun.  Lynch is also a painter, and really his films are more like moving paintings, it's about the images, and the sounds. People watch films, and really they're not looking at the pictures of listening to the sounds.People are also unaware that his films are meant to be funny.  I've seen people laugh nervously at this film, presumably because they thought it was unintentionally funny, but that's not true, one of Lynch's major style points is to have scenes which are both sick and hilarious.Whether you love it or hate it, this film should be seen, and seen all the way through, even if it seems very boring at first.  It's probably even better to watch it more than once.  In my opinion, I'd rather watch a film that's different but I don't like, than some paint-by-numbers hollywood junk that offers nothing different and wastes two hours of my life.  There's far more experience to gain from the former, and if you don't at least try something different, how do you know you don't like it? "},{"Title":"Disturbing, yet Amazing...","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you haven't seen Eraserhead, you should prepare yourself for an adventure, an insane adventure.  To start out, you shouldn't try to make sense of the film (there's no point in trying to make sense of any Lynch's films).  Eraserhead makes you think that you know what is going on(at least in the first half of the film, then it flips and you are struggling to find a meaning).  Finally, you realize that there isn't a meaning. When the very weird girl comes on singing In heaven, everything is fine, the film seems go in an opposite direction.  You see her, and realize that everything you've thought so far is a complete lie.  And there is nothing left to understand. Do not watch this film if you are looking for answeres.  They are not there.  Watch this film for cinematic beauty.  That's the only way you'll appreciate it.  D. Lynch redefines the boundries of film.  Appreciate it... "}{"Title":"ignore everyone","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  flicking through this comment index I think its safe to say opinion is well and truly divided. I don't know why people say this is slow and boring, the pace suits the mood perfectly. the film is totally absorbing, and despite comments to the contrary I don?t find it at all complicated or hard to understand. this is a film where you can take as little or as much as you like from it, even on the simplest narrative level it still makes some sense, I really don't understand how anyone can not follow the basic plot, even if some parts are slightly more challenging.  frankly it is impossible to recommend to anyone because any reaction to it tends to be deeply personal and varies wildly from person to person.personally I love this film to bits and I think the only other lynch films that are up to this standard are 'wild at heart' and 'blue velvet'.in conclusion draw your own conclusions because everyone else's are meaningless. ignore anyone who gives you a hard-line opinion, you have to judge for yourself  "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lots of the reviews of Eraserhead are vastly different from each other, both reviews from users on imdb, and from movie critics of today and of 1977.For example, many critics describe Eraserhead as a horror movie, while some reviewers strongly insist that this is a misinterpretation of the movie.I think that a lot of the negative feelings about Eraserhead come about because of preconceived ideas that people have had.  For example, some people have the idea that everything in the film is from the viewpoint of Henry.In my opinion, and only an opinion, this is a one-sided way of analysing the film.  Such a reading would explain that the film's imagery is the hallucinations of a mentally abnormal person.  This would be disappointing, because it would destroy the idea of the 'world' in which Henry lives.I see Henry as a character living in a particular world, the world which is the movie and in which the movie takes place.  Henry is mostly passive - we see the world he lives in, and what happens to him, but he doesn't actually get much done.  Henry does some things that we don't understand, and his reactions to things are sometimes unexplained.  It is all part of the movie, and part of the world in which Eraserhead takes place.Not everything in this world relates in an expected way, or a way that would be possible in our world.  I think that David Lynch loves to do this and does it very interestingly.  It is not just in this movie in which a world is created that doesn't quite fit together.  Some things are familiar, yet behave in unfamiliar ways.  Some things are extremely bizarre.  This seems to be something that Henry has accepted as a result of the world he lives in.I think that if a person reads all of the unexplained events and images as being in the mind of Henry, they end up trying to figure out what is happening in reality - separating this 'reality' from the events that are supposedly 'imaginary'.  This may lead to the idea that all of the 'imagined' events are due to an explained mental condition, and are all a result of unexplained things that are happening in the 'real' world (these being the 'story').  Nothing, of course, is explained, and thus a lot of people who see the film in this way complain that none of the 'story' makes sense.The idea that Eraserhead is a world in itself, where normal rules don't apply, I think allows for a more 'free' viewing of the film.  We can see the images of the film and experience them in our own way, and we aren't limited to thinking that they must somehow explain Henry's condition or what's really happening.  It is hard to explain how this affects me and it probably affects everybody differently.My opinion of the film?  I enjoy the film.  I think the sound design is particularly interesting.  I really like a lot of the moments in the film. "},{"Title":"Absolutely amazing!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I won't try to explain this film or point out the obvious. It takes place in a haunting dream world that will stick with you forever. Never have I seen a film that captures such a unique perception. Gritty, desolate and spooky.The use of sound is pure genius. It's a constant foreboding wall that only further establishes the anguish perpetuated in the film. ... yet the characters remain so resolved. Henry, the main character, always has a look on his face like he's just given in to everything that surrounds him. A confused innocence. This applies to most characters in the film, except for the seductress.The most unsettling character in the film, ironically, is the monstrous new born in his apartment. To say anything more about it would be lame. Just see this movie if you haven't already.Oh yes. The song, 'In Heaven' is amazing. Short, but sweet. A film moment that'll forever be in my little brain. "},{"Title":" Not for every viewer","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A surprising number of reviewers here howl at length about how bored they were by this movie. No surprise. I doubt David Lynch intended to entertain the viewer of Eraserhead. He intended to invoke a response, to be sure, but amusement was not it. There is not a single word nor phrase I can use to convey the response this movie brought out in me. Fascinated depression, appalled sympathy, and an ever present feeling of gratitude that although I was present in this bleak, inhuman, industrial, possibly toxic world, it was just a dream and I would be away from it eventually, unlike Henry Nance.The events draw you along in morbid curiosity as Henry goes about his business, fate not being very kind to him at any particular point. The pacing is slow enough that one has time to muse on the meaning of what transpires while the dank grim surroundings press down on oneself as they do on Henry.Should be watched in the evening with darkened lights. It is a trip, if you are willing to take it.Those who are bored should not watch it. They should rent 'Rambo', or perhaps 'Smokey and the Bandit'. "},{"Title":"blink blink","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Okay, I had read many, many reviews of this film before seeing it (originally hearing of it on the box of Tetsuo The Iron Man, also a good film) , and it seems to live up to the 'hype,' so to speak. I had read that it was nightmare-inducing, heavy on symbolism, and just weird overall. I had decided that I MUST see this film. Despite the format I saw it on being pretty low-quality (a DivX .avi file), the sound was in tact (oh, was it ever), and it was watchable overall. Now, allow me to describe the experience While watching the film, it didn't have much of an effect on me. Sure, I thought some scenes were a bit creepy or weird, but it wasn't until after it ended that I understood the people that claimed it gave them nightmares and haunted them in general. I would find myself singing In Heaven, and couldn't help think of scenes, especially one in particular.Possible Spoiler--Scroll Down to skipThe scene around where Henry decides to kill the baby, the one where the lights flicker, and you see a giant baby head flickering around the room, as the lights come on and off. When I was watching it, I thought, Hmm, this is kinda weird, but the special effects aren't that great, it looks like papier-mache. Despite that fact, that night, when awake late at night and getting a snack, I couldn't help but think of it. I couldn't make it go away easily. I also showed my friend that scene and only that scene, to show him the creepiness. He, in turn, was also equally creeped-out by it, and when trying to sleep at a 'movie night' of ours, we both couldn't stop thinking of it. Other scenes were haunting, but this one got to me the most; I can't explain any better than I have. You'll have to see it yourself.End Possible SpoilerOverall, this movie was as deep and haunting as I had read it would be, and I can't wait for the rumored DVD release. After seeing Eraserhead, I went on to see other Lynch works, such as the pilot for Twin Peaks and The Elephant Man, and they were also great, especially The Elephant Man. Either way, I highly recommend Eraserhead to those seeking the unusual, and to fans of 'cult' film. Just try to watch it alone, at night. I dare you. "},{"Title":"Dreams explode inside","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you come to this film after a steady diet of truly plotless characterless special effects movies or the usual gutless Merchant Ivory soap operas you will be disappointed, if not repulsed.Eraserhead is the absolute best mimic of dream logic and progression I have ever seen.  It may be the only feature length film for which that claim can be made.There is a plot.  But it is wholly subservient to the mood and the mood is not just grim but troubling.  There is so little dialogue because good films tell their stories with pictures.  The real story here is about submerged sexual desires and how they surface as very dark urges.Reading a bit of Freud (which is not against the law or harmful in any way) may lend some insight for those whose repertoire of film review ranges from boring to awesome.There are explosions.  They come later, in your sleep. "},{"Title":"died and going to heaven","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  seems that the symbolism runs heavy enough that definitely one can arrive at equally vallid dispate conclusions. first off, lynch's entire approach to this film is practically entirely unique, although there's an outter limits episode with a weird eye that is intriguingly similar on some levels. the droning sound effects and surreal images give the impression of a tool video made into a movie. is it all a dream or is lynch exaggerating reality to offer up a profound analysis(not statement)on a post-atomic world? the mutant baby could well be an obvious connection as far as that second possibility goes. it would seem to me that this movie(a dark comedy in my estimation)may well be saying that the dream is gone, and all that's left is a nightmare. alright, but a nightmare signifying? perhaps a world forever changed by the invention of the atom bomb. I'd say that's nightmarish indeed. Just check out that atom bomb explosion picture on the wall, hung like some unceasing albatross that you can't shake from the back of your mind. Sleep seems the only salvation, an escape from the nightmare that has become reality. eraserhead comes off, to me, as the fears of one man amplified to the point of all emotions are layed bare for him to confront. A cleansing. there's nothing to fear but fear itself, of course. your own fear. symbolic death via a stripping away through cold-hard self realization. everything's fine... "},{"Title":"Most Bizarre Film Ever!!!!!","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Eraserhead is a one of a kind movie that only David Lynch could make. The imagery has diferent meanings for everyone who sees it. Apart from being bizarre, its extremely disturbing with those eerie sound effects, gruesome baby creature, bleak dirty locations, freaky dreams and that scene with the bleeding chicken is very unsettling. Theres even a little dark humour especially the dream about Henry's head being turned into pencil rubbers. The ending is mind-blowing!!!!!!!!In heaven, everything is fine -That sends chills down my spine! "},{"Title":"REALLY WEIRD FILM","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has got to be the most bizarre thing ever recorded on film.  Was Eraserhead a movie or a nightmare recorded on film?  I cannot even begin to explain it.  When I first saw the film on video, I got nauseous after the first 20 minutes, then quit watching it.  The only way that I could see the film in its entirety was by playing 20 additional minutes a day during the next several days, yet my mind has blanked out a lot of it.  This is probably the only movie that I ever saw that gave me nightmares; it kind of plays on your psyche.   Eraserhead makes cult films like The Rocky Horror Picture Show and Phantasm look rather mundane.  I wonder if the film has a curse to it?  I heard that the lead actor in it was found murdered in his home a few years ago.  David Lynch is either a genius or a nut?  I would rather watch his more tamer films, like Blue Velvet.  "},{"Title":"Gawk now, sleep later.","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw this bizarre film, I was a gawking teenaged Syracuse University film major at a midnight movie fest in 1978. I couldn't believe the images being put before me. That baby. The Cornish hen dinner. The fat-cheeked dancing girl squishing the gunk-filled  worms. I couldn't believe my ears either. There were sound effects that I'll never forget. The squeaky sound while rubbing the eyes. The baby constantly crying and gurgling. And of course the Thomas Fats Waller soundtrack, an eerie, echoing jazz organ from another world that ever since converted me into a Fats Waller freak. There were plenty of other thrills in this movie;  the sheer ugliness of it all was such over-kill,> it provoked sick laughter.But alas, I rented the film almost 20 years later, a freaked-out couch potato film fanatic, all psyched up to relive the madness... and fell asleep.  "}{"Title":"Eraserhead is an experience.","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  People love to say that Eraserhead is surrealist, but it really is abstract. Watching Eraserhead is like listening to Radiohead. You have a theory about the meaning of each scene/song, but you aren't sure that you're correct. This doesn't mean you can't enjoy either of them. Both are completely unique experiences filled with beauty and horror that get better with each viewing/listen.I also want to say that Eraserhead's baby is the greatest single image I have ever seen in a movie or any other piece of art. "},{"Title":"The last movie on earth","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS**Henry Spencer walks through a massive wasteland of human excistance, on his way to his girlfriends house. When he gets there her father says to him We're having chicken tonight. Little damn things, smaller than my fist, but they're new! That line pretty much folds out the concepts of Eraserhead for us. Bizzare, meaningful, senseless, symbollic, all depending on who's watching. To most, Eraserhead is the ultimate example of disgusting drivil, making the audience turn their heads and stop watching. To others, that is the ones who'll rightfully give any movie a chance, will no doubt find Eraserhead one of the most fascinating movies of all time.We follow Henry, and basically only Henry, as he operates in his grey coloured world. He is both innocent and confused throughout his daily life, forced into situations beyond his control, much like our own suburban mishaps (meeting your girlfriends parents and embarrassing yourself). Henry's life can be viewed as a complete mockary of our own. His problems are our problems, only given some LSD and thrown off a cliff. He slowly drives himself over the edge as he stares at the angel in his radiator and contemplates suicide. When Henry reaches dinner at his girlfriend Mary's house, we learn that he has impregnated her, thus giving in to the most primitive of human temptations, lust. That is Henry's sin, and his punishment from God (The Man in the Planet, possibly) is a deformed baby. And when i say deformed, I mean DEFORMED. Henry and Mary are soon both living in Henry's closet-esque apartment, but in contending with the screeching baby, Mary leaves Henry alone to deal with it. And rightfully so, since it's his punishment. The baby cries through the night, but once it stops Henry tries to leave the apartment. The baby cries louder as Henry tries to run, escape if you will, so basically they are both stuck together. Henry later destroys his sin, and thus is free to live with the angel (the lady in the radiator) in heaven (the radiator). He faced his punishment and ended it himself, becoming free from it. That is Eraserhead from the mind of a 15 year old. Go see it and tell me what you think. Hopefully it will be totally different. "},{"Title":"bliss, interpretation","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was very hesitant to see this movie for fear that it would ruin my high regard for Mr. Lynch. Gladly, my anxieties were unwarranted. I'd have to rank this movie as Lynch's second most thought out - and therefore second best according to me - behind 'Lost Highway.' If you are a fan of Lynch, enjoyed running the 'Lost Highway' maze, or enjoy symbolism and artistic imaging, you would definitely enjoy this movie. But, sadly it will probably be hard to find. I ended up driving a total of 3 hours in renting this movie, but found it to be completely worth the effort.I have a 3 page interpretation of this movie for anyone interested. I think I've taken account for everything (It should be recognized that everything plays its part in the film. Some scenes may appear long and lacking dialogue, but it is done like this for a purpose. There are enough prompts to thought that you will not be bored unless you find thinking boring.) and it all fits together into a general theme.    "},{"Title":"A Fascinating journey into the subconscience!","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The pace of this film reminds me so much much of 2001 A Space Odyssey. There is no more than two lines in the first 15 minutes of the film. Then as people start talking you wonder WHERE DO THESE PEOPLE COME FROM?! My first viewing of this film was most mesmerizing. C.G. Jung would be very proud of this masterpiece! Stanley Kubrick also said this was his favorite film and he saw over 30 times. It is a tale of confusion, solitude, and alienation. This film isn't for everyone, but i think it the most original work of art in cinematic history. Lynch was way ahead of his time in making this. People these days are more used to seeing this sort of metaphysical and strange material. I can imagine how hard it would be back then to even think Eraserhead had any realistic quality at all. But like most of Lynch's film's, it takes the audience 5-10 years to except his film for their greatness since they are so far out there. Lynch still hasn't made as perfect film as Eraserhead to this day. "},{"Title":"Using one's own mind!","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Lynch's Eraserhead is what true art should be; an artistic expression that is interpreted by one's own mind into a final product.  Lynch provides the canvas and the colors, and we, the viewers, complete the masterpiece with the contents of our very being.  What I get from this movie will most likely not be the same for some one else.  It is purely subjective, and it is brilliant!  Who we are in life, what we strive to be and what we are passionate about, are the main ingredients to which this movie succeeds brilliantly.  Eraserhead forces us to delve deeply into our inner selves, and demands us to be individuals...to come to our own conclusions.  And This is why David Lynch refuses to state for the record what Eraserhead is all about.  It's not about the whole, it's about the individual...and what lies within our own minds.  And this is what art is all about!Jason (L13) "},{"Title":"It's just like going to an art museum!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, there are many pretentious arty-farty films out there that I loathe.  Why?  Some directors are too self-indulgent and beat around their own bush, they forgot that they have audiences to manipulate.  I have no idea why I fell asleep watching Fellini's movies, but upon watching Eraserhead, man ... I was riveted from the beginning until the very end.  Although this movie has no plot whatsoever, it has to be one of the most disturbing film I have ever seen.  Every scene is a bleak depiction of horrible nightmares, and there is nothing the main character can do about escaping it.  Feelings of uneasiness came to me when I saw the baby and the psychological torture it plays on my head.  Whatever it was, I feel what the main character feels.  David Lynch has managed to string up a series of powerful images, which I really appreciated.  A very, very uncanny film, very surreal, very mysterious, and no, it's NOT very strange at all! "},{"Title":"Lynch's Infamous classic","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When i first watched this film, all i could say was, WOW! Dark, ambient music, haunting visuals and a story that has to been seen numerous times to believe. If you are reading this comment than you must be looking for this film. Contact me for leads on this classic!!! "},{"Title":"The Most Fascinating Movie......","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ......was probably Rashomon, Citizen Kane, or the Killing.  This falls under the category of OVERRATTED! OK wow.........where to start.  First of all watching this movie from the start causes incredible headaches as you waste 20 minutes of your life watching mindless images and endless silent scenes with no purpose to the movie.  Next you see somewhat of a plot building as actors present horrible dialog in rediculous situations.  A chicken comes to life as it is cut.  A mom freaks out for no reason.  The daughter goes histerical.  The dad just sits and smiles while spitting out stupid small talk.  Then the mom comes on to the main character.  Why?  Is this another example of David Lynch expression.  Or was he laughing as he made this film, knowing that people who take themselves too seriously would find this pointless piece of crap a work of art.  I look at this movie the same way I look at the painting in the museum of modern art that looks like a four year old made with finger paint or the sculpture of the bicycle with a water faucet on it. Im not denying David Lynch's directing ability.  But I'm pointing out that anybody can make something really bad and call it art or an expression today and people will buy it.    "},{"Title":"A Sensory Barrage!","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  More than any film I've ever seen, Eraserhead overwhelms the senses of the audience.  With spine tingling sound effects and visually aggressive contrasts of light and dark, David Lynch creates a fantastic sense of emotions ranging from discomfort to fear to bewilderment to humor to nausea to ......  the list goes on.Aside from Blue Velvet, which I suppose is more mainstream as far as David Lynch goes, this is the first of his films that I've seen.  Although the story line is somewhat ambiguous, that seems to be the point.  It isn't important what happens in the story, but rather the audience's reception is the important facet of the film. The character of Henry is perfect!  From the first time he appears, he instills the audience with a sense of uncertain sympathy.  This continues throughout the film and adds to the overall emotional and sensory roller coaster the audience feels.A must see for anyone truly interested in film.  However, if you are looking for a movie to watch with your friends this is probably not the one.  You need absolute silence and attention so that you can fully absorb the world of horror created by Lynch.***1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"This will keep you up nights","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My God...what a brilliant film.  It's REALLY hard to find, but if you appreciate the other films David Lynch has done, THIS IS THE ULTIMATE FILM. It has so many subtexts and ambiguously addresses so many issues.  I'm not very good at reviewing things, and only write when I feel REALLY STRONGLY about a film, and this is the film I feel strongest about.  There's just one thing I can't figure out (POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERT) What significance is it that Henry is a printer, yet they make his head into an eraser?  I've got most of it pinned down, but I just can't quite coherently grasp what this means.  This film fascinates me.  See it. "}{"Title":"The Citizen Kane of Surrealism!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film way back in the 1980's at the Waverly cinema in New York City. Half the audience walked out during the film, and the critics were screaming that Lynch was either an incredible genius and the newest god of cinema or a raving psychopath and candidate for a pre-frontal lobotomy.This film MUST be re-released in the USA on DVD! There is no other film like it, nor will there ever be. It is as if someone crawled into someone's brain and filmed their dream. The black and white stock, the threadbare budget, the odd atmospheric sounds, and the organ music all combine to form a strange, strange work. You will either love it or loathe it. There simply is no middle ground!Henry Spencer (the title character, when you see the film you'll find out why, and it's not because of his hair) is forced into marriage with his girlfriend, Mary X, after she gives birth to their (horribly mutated) child. After she abandons both of them, Henry goes into a reflective mode in which he sees a woman performing on a stage behind his apartment's radiator, and wanders off into a series of hallucinations, dreams, and visions. The film is loaded with psycho-sexual imagery (Freud would have loved this film!), and has been dissected by critics looking for meanings to every nuance.If you get a chance to see this, it may answer many questions you have about the film-maker's other works. Where is David Lynch coming from? Watch this and you may find out!  "},{"Title":"Do you cut them up like regular chickens?...","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What about this movie? The most people I showed it to were rather bored than impressed. For them Lynch's Debut wasn't more than one of these horror movies only understood by a freakish elite of weird dudes spending more time in their cellar watching old 70's suspense films than going outside.But it is a total different thing with Eraserhead. There is nothing that has to be understood in this movie. This movie is a trip, nothing more... the only thing on celluloid coming near to a bad dream than anything else I have ever seen. But despite of that the protagonist Henry is a sad character, there are lots of emotions in the movie, but the most people don't realize it, because they only think of it as some weird piece of dark-minded art.Eraserhead is undoubtable one of the (I will not say best, cause this is a matter of taste I think) important movies ever made. I have never seen anything that could be compared to it.Stanley Kubrik didn't name Eraserhead as his favourite movie by random. "},{"Title":"Surreal film with a very real impact","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film absolutely floored me.  I can't think of another film in recent memory that has so chillingly and effectively addressed the issues of sexual relationships and accidental parenthood in such a dark manner.  Quite simply, this is a film for and about men; it is a nightmare so chillingly familiar that is almost imbedded in the collective unconscious. Thematic points aside, there are a few technical aspects of this film that potential viewers should be aware of.  First, there is very little dialogue in the movie; Lynch prefers visual to auditory communication.  Second, it cannot be stressed enough that this film is indeed what could be called surreal and thus is not very keen on ideas such as linear narrative structure or objective reality.  However, once one gets past these elements, one can appreciate the way in which they add to the dreamlike feel of this film. "},{"Title":"VERY WEIRD....IN A GOOD SORT OF WAY...","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  People these days are trying too hard to be weird...its become trendy; But this is not trendy...its the REAL thing;My Uncle used to run this as a midnight movie in his theater when I was growing up. I could swear that there was a scene, now  gone from the Japanese LD that I have, that  had Jack going into the girl-across-the-halls room and she was bound and gagged to her  bed...and he exits nervously. Am I crazy? "},{"Title":"Powerful look at a bleak vision","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Eraserhead stands out because of it's artistry. The black and white gives it a noir feel. It is a extremely weird movie but it is one that will stay with you for awhile. The hero is a man who has weird dreams that deal with his gorgeous neighbor and a puffy faced angel in the ventilator. Henry's girlfriend turns up pregnant and Henry has to deal with her and her family. The baby comes out as a mutant and drives Henry insane. Many hidden meanings are found in this film. David Lynch has crafted a brilliant picture. **** out of **** "},{"Title":"creepy, original, thought-provoking","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a film that has to be viewed again and again to even begin to understand what the film is about. I've read many interpretations of the film, though i've found them interesting i've never really been satisfied with any of them. I'm not sure if David Lynch had a direct meaning behind the film but i'm pretty sure he wanted people to make up their own interpretation. What i love about this film is the imagery, it's so dark and bleak but really beautiful as well. The fact the film was made in black and white makes it all the better because you couldn't put a date on the film, it could be from 20 years ago or 20 years in the future. You can't even figure out if it's reality or a dream most of the time or is it on another planet? The sound (created by David Lynch) is pretty amazing on this film as well, it's like the first ever ambient industrial noise music and it fits the film perfectly. Overall, a creepy, original, thought-provoking, scary film that will stick with you for a long time, it's also my favourite David Lynch film "},{"Title":"oppressive","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A lonely, disturbed man exists in an Orwellian nightmare. Elements of horror, sci-fi, drama and social commentary make this film difficult to categorize.  The minimal budget, script and acting are more than balanced by subtle direction and a unique story. (Rating B+) "},{"Title":"Does anyone else find this film beautiful?","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most of the comments I have read define this film as darkly disturbing or something to that end.  I may be the only person on the planet who found it disturbing, and beautiful at the same time.  I didn't try to make much sense of it, rather I let it consume me.  I think I watched it in the best way possible, other than the theatre.  I sat about a foot away from a 12 inch TV, with a pair of headphones plugged into it and the lights off in my room at 130 in the morning.  It was a tape of the laserdisk that was released in Japan, and the Japanese subtitles served to add to the surreality.The reason it was beautiful lies in the sound, the shot composition, the timing (particularly the elevator ride), the dream sequence the dog, and the embrace of the radiator lady with the dust dancing and the blinding, warm light.More disturbing than this film is the amount of people who post messages describing how much they disliked it, and the amount of people who posted what they thought to be the obvious meaning behind it.  There is no definite meaning, you find your own which is relevant to you, and you recognize that it is not the one true meaning.  In this aspect, I am reminded by the film of Poe's The Raven.   "},{"Title":"A horrific, unsettling, unique masterpiece with no comparison.","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not a movie.This is a download direct from David Lynch's troubled mind.This is an impossible film to describe, it has no comparison that I've ever seen except perhaps Un Chien Andalou. Eraserhead is an extremely disturbing experience that holds your attention with a horrific fascination, even though you know you don't like what you see. There are things that happen in this film that make no sense until you begin to recall your own dreams, and then you wish you hadn't made sense of it because now you won't be able to get the images out of your head. There are moments of very, very black humour ( the chicken dinner comes to mind )and moments of very strange sexuality but the overall feeling is of alienation and cruelty. The final part of this nightmare, if you make it that far, is so tragically cruel that those not in possesion of a strong stomach may find themselves feeling disturbed, queasy and almost certainly angry. It has been said that David Lynch made this movie as a reaction to his child being born with a deformed foot. If that's true then he has succeeded in making us share in his pain and suffering with Eraserhead. See this film because it truly is a unique experience but be warned, it really is a disturbing experience that will stay in your head for a long, long time.  "},{"Title":"Subliminal imagery","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A few minutes from the beginning of Eraserhead is a single image which unlocks the whole film - a nearly abstract shot from above the radiator, with a sock drying between the third and fourth coils.  The first two radiator coils form an `H'.  The sock's placement suggests the letter `O', and the remaining verticals complete a jolting likeness of the famous sign in the Hollywood hills.  Henry's walk home, the puddle, and the wet sock are simply a `deus ex machina' leading to this shot.It turns out that the radiator plays a major role &#150; it is home to the only semblance of entertainment in the whole movie.  (In a way it takes the place of a television set in the apartment.)  In its next appearance the radiator opens onto a stage, and later a dolled-up girl comes onstage to sing and dance.  The song is a caricature of Hollywood  `In Heaven, everything is fine!/You've got your good things, and I've got mine.'  Eventually this becomes  `...you've got mine,' pointing to Hollywood's seductive use of glamour.The indication is that Eraserhead is about Lynch's struggle with Hollywood. Like Henry, the director is an outsider (with respect to Hollywood at this point in his career), and the baby seems to represent his movie. "}{"Title":"Strangest film ever made","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"       David Lynch made his debut with this midnight movie classic no-brainer over a five year period with no paid staff and living in dire poverty while filming. The film is set in a deserted town, probably Pennsylvania or Ohio, where industry is rampant and there is a constant thunder of machinery and whistles. The films main character, Henry Spencer, is a depressed and totally passive supergeek who lives in a retro 1920's style apartment and generally has no life to speak of. He receives a  phone call from his girlfriend to come have supper with her and her family, also very dysfunctional. There is constant tension brimming between him and her mother and she reveals that there is a baby, and that they are to marry. The baby is a totally mutant offspring that looks like a baby ET. Henry's girlfriend deserts him and he is trapped with the child, begining his descent of hallucinations of a chubby cheeked woman in white and sex with his prostitute neighbor across the hall. I won't give the rest of it away. I bought a used copy of it in the late 1980's after seeing it as a midnight film. Apparently, the video version hasn't been produced in years and is rather inferior, as it was made in black and white and is very dark. Even by Lynch standards, this is one weird movie. Just to name a few things Henry has a bowl of water in his dresser and plops a coin in it for no apparent reason, Mary's grandmother is seated in the kitchen and catatonic, there's 2 different ovens in the kitchen, a clock with only one hand, no automobiles, etc. Recommend for cult film buffs only "},{"Title":"The Ultimate.........","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Without a doubt, my favorite Lynch film. They don't make no more of these thats for sure! ERASERHEAD is the ultimate visionary film. One that won't ever be forgotten. Check this out..I believe this movie had the BEST sound effects i ever heard in a film! At some points you get the idea that the machinery and the atmosphere is alive, waiting to swallow Henry up. Yet, this movie also deals with natural fears and responsabilites that we go through. The fear of becoming a father and the fear of marriage. And to top it off, being plauged by worms?!?!All i got to say is if you want to see somethin' original and HELLA different,     Here ya go! "},{"Title":"Thank You David!","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watching this film has been one of the most straining experience of my life. The plot is completely absurd, but I couldn't take my eyes off the screen. Visually fantastic in a very fine black and white, with its almost total lack of dialogue, it's the most original, unique movie I've ever seen. Above all I enjoyed the man of the mechanical chicken, who immediately entered my inner life and often came to visit my dreams. Thank You David! "},{"Title":"I'm 26. This film is exceptional.","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  13-01-2000  This movie really impressed me very much. There are various possible interpretations but i certainly prefer to think that 95% of this movie is real in the sense that the main character lives in a real world (although different by ours) and real things happens to him. It's a deformed world but he lives in it. Other people prefer to say that it's all fantasy or , on the opposite , it's all real but caused by aliens. A scene really scared me but all the movie is really visually impressive , very original and felt by the author.Very Good "},{"Title":"Weird, bizarre, and brilliant","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Eraserhead is, without a doubt, the weirdest film I have ever seen. This was David Lynch's first serious film. It's set in some sterile, dark city which may or may not be in the post- apocalypse future.I first heard about Eraserhead five years ago when I saw an article about it in the newspaper. The news that Eraserhead had just been released on video. What really caught my attention was the photo of Henry Spencer (Jack Nance) looking like he was in a trance, his hair sticking up wildly.The story (if story is an appropriate word) follows the fortunes of Henry Spencer, a solitary, reticent printer. One night he visits his girlfriend Mary and meets the rest of her family. Mary's mother then drops a bombshell. Henry is a father. Normally, a man might be overjoyed by such news. But the child Henry has is no normal child...Eraserhead is sometimes very hard to watch. Paradoxically, you can't take your eyes off it either. You can't always tell when Henry is awake or dreaming, and this can be disorienting. In the background there is the constant noise of machinery. Organ music adds an extra layer of strangeness. I didn't find Eraserhead as disturbing as I expected. Sometimes it made me laugh. My parents hated it. I love anything with a touch of the bizarre, and Eraserhead is, in all sense of the word, bizarre.You may need a bit of patience to appreciate this film. There are long gaps between dialogue, characters take ages to go into action. But the film is a worthwhile experience. "},{"Title":"Walking with KAFKA in Prague, singing extremely beautiful lyrics","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some people maintain that Eraserhead is just a dream or nightmare, well I think that is too easy.  Lynch does more than just telling a dream he had. He gives a new definition of reality.  Looking inside of his brains, he found a 'new reality' and wanted to show that.  He told us the way we are living is just one single way, it is like telling us don't stick to your safe warm and cosy feeling of realism, go and seek the other ones!So you can only appreciate ERASERHEAD if you try to think in a absurd-logic way.  However, if you do, you'll love this film.On the other hand, artists create beauty.  Although I haven't seen the film in quite some time, I can still remember and enjoy some specific scenes. These scenes often wander in my mind and make my day.  Imagine this walking during a cold rainy winter day in a grey anonymous city while singing 'In heaven, everything is fine'.  ERASERHEAD has become a part of my life, that's why I think this is a piece of art.  "},{"Title":"Completely unique","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A few years ago, two critics whose names escape me created a list called the Disturbo 13 of the 13 most disturbing films of all time.  That Eraserhead would be listed in the notorious company of Cannibal Holocaust and Combat Shock was quite surprising, and initially I felt nonplussed that such an obviously serious and artistic statement was listed alongside bottom-of-the-barrel exploitation trash like Man Behind the Sun (although, to be fair, Pasolini's Salo and In a Glass Cage were also on the list -- these are films I personally detest, but they do at least have artistic value).  However, I was hard pressed to find a reason why Eraserhead wouldn't qualify for this list.  It is certainly the most convincing portrayal of a nightmare ever put on film.  Like a nightmare, it has its own logic, which doesn't seem open to question while the film is playing itself out.  Afterwards, like the afterimage of a nightmare, one doesn't fully understand what transpired, but knows that it made sense while inside of it.  And that, to me, is what lifts Eraserhead above the pretentious hackwork that many claim it is.  Unlike Lynch's Lost Highway, this one doesn't break its own rules.I don't believe that this film holds any answers whatsoever, but that its meaning is whatever you choose to make it.  Because the film is completely nonlinear, any assertion made about its symbolism could be inverted -- the opposite could also be true.  Although I still don't know what to make of those man-made chickens......As a postscript  I don't want to start any little wars here, but to smugly proclaim your interpretation of the film to be the correct one and to accuse anyone who didn't like the film of utter ignorance is no more intelligent than claiming the film was stupid in a review where half the words are misspelled. "},{"Title":"a surrealist masterpiece","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Lynch came to a film with a background in painting, and here he reveals a stunning visual imagination to depict the surreally nightmaresque existence of Henry, a lonely factory worker and father of a deformed, amphibian-like monster with whom he lives. In the meantime, the monster's mother, Mary, has returned to the bizarre circumstances of her freakish family, and Henry, in turn, sits within his dark, squalid apartment, contemplating the specter of the strange, grinning puffy cheeked lady in the radiator and feeling hapless about the child. Yet, a brief description of the key elements of this great film fails to do justice to Lynch's mesmerizing vision, arguably the greatest piece of cinematic surrealism since Dali and Bunuel's shorter Un Chien Andaleu. Wildly funny and mind-blowingly original, Eraserhead is fully deserving of its status as a movie masterpiece. Rating = 10/10 "},{"Title":"...In Heaven everything's fine...","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I believe that Eraserhead is a masterpiece , one that is frequently misunderstood . Let me explain  Henry committed a sin ( a child before marriage , a sin not recognized as one in today's society though ) . The worms (and the baby) are constant reminders of his sin that haunt his life and dreams . The girl in the radiator is DEATH , killing the sin and mistakes in Henry's life . Hen his head is made into erasers it symbolically means that through death all problems (and sin) will be erased . Throughout the film there is constant depth and symbolism , but it's more meaningful if you find it yourself . Look past the gross confusion to the true meaning . Hopefully people will eventually view it as the art that it is .  "},{"Title":"Distilled Lynch","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lynch is one of those directors that seems to latch onto a theme and go with it for his entire career.  His theme appears to be that of masculine responsibility (and the fears that this can evoke).  Lynch climbs into the souls of men and tries to explain what we are (this is sometimes interpreted as misogyny) and why we do the things that we do.  He tends to deal with men in crisis and to show us what our reactions are to these crises, on  a very abstract level.  Eraserhead is about the ultimate male responsibility, that of a man to his child (although we are never really sure if the baby is Henry's, he assumes responsibility).  As Henry tries to work out his anxieties and fears through dreams, imaginings and actions, we are taken along.  Ultimately, Henry fails and we see the consequences of his actions (the world blows up), but this is not meant to be taken literally, it is meant to be viewed as a metaphor about how men feel about responsibility.  Lynch always portrays strong male characters, who often fail or get into situations that are over their heads, but try to cope with them regardless.  Eraserhead is simply the outline for all of Lynch's later works. "}{"Title":"The thinking man's movie. An exploration of life and death and more!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have been looking around for a copy of Eraserhead for as long as I can remember. I just recently started a job and I mentioned to a guy at work that I really wanted to see Eraserhead but could never find it. He just happened to own a copy and I just watched it tonite. I was so nervous that I'd hate the movie but I LOVED IT!Just a warning to those of you who haven't seen this Lynch masterpiece yet. Don't watch it unless you are ready for a horrific and mind blowing experience. This movie makes you think and I feel that anyone who would dismiss this film as 'garbage' or 'dumb' doesn't care to put on their thinking caps while watching a flick. I guess some people just want to watch movies in which they don't have to think and everything is layed out for them on the screen. I pity them.First of all I want to say that the cinematography was excellent in this film and so was the acting by Jack Nance. Lynch's use of the industrial noise soundtrack I think was brilliant and made the world this film is set in much more bleak and horrific.Eraserhead is a film of symbolism and thats why I dig it so much. Henry's wife, the baby, the woman across the hall, the woman in the radiator and the things she steps on, the brick wall view, the elevator........all symbolize something. What do they symbolize? That's for each of us to decide. Lynch just didn't put these images on our screens for his own enjoyment. He wanted us to think. He wanted us to ask, what the hell am I watching? why does the baby look like that? who is the woman in the radiator? what is wrong with Henry's girlfriend and her parents? why is the film called Eraserhead? what happened in the end? Maybe David Lynch knows the answers to these questions. But his answers are his answers only. If Lynch wanted us to know what the symbolism meant to him he would have just explained it to us. He would've laid it all out on the screen. But he didn't. I think that Lynch wants all of us to come up with our own answers. Otherwise, why wouldn't he have told us his?Like Kubrick's 2001, Eraserhead will not be liked by all who see it nor has it been. I feel however that if you keep an open mind, and are ready to use your mind and decipher the nightmare-ish imagery in the film you will probably like it. Don't get me wrong though. Even if you love it you will not watch it again right away. I loved it and I don't plan on rewatching it for a while. Besides having to endure disturbing scenes all over again (the wife rubbing her eye, the final act of Henry with his baby and the after effects, the dinner at his in-laws), I don't think the human mind could handle seeing Eraserhead more than once in a day! Or even in a week! So in ending my rambling If you haven't seen Eraserhead see it! And if you have seen it and didn't like it, rewatch it with an open mind. And if you have seen it and did like it, recooperate a bit and then watch it again. I'm sure you'll pick up on some more things on the second go around. And remember...In heaven everything is fine...Cut them up like regular chickens? "},{"Title":"The surreal nightmare of Henry Spencer","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Being a huge fan of David Lynch and all his films does help me to describe this piece of work, his first feature. It is probably the closest you can get to being enveloped in a nightmare. I have recently purchased the video which is digitally remixed in Dolby surround sound and it deeply enhances the film. It is up there with Das Boot in the sound stakes and makes the film even better with the volume very loud. The soundtrack is superb, with the dark, dreary industrial sounds and the steaming radiator, and the eerie fairground style music when the lady behind the radiator dances. But it's the images what make the film what it is, from our first encounter with Henry wandering around the barren landscape, the mutant baby, the window with a brick wall for a view, the plant, the clock with one hand and the slow elevator. There is a lot of symbolism going on in this film, but it's all very nourishing for the mind, and I find it captivating and absorbing. It is a classic surreal masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Moving and beautiful","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Another element of this movie that people seem to not pick up on is the sound. The industrial sounds really set the films mood and tempo and he also uses silence really well. For me this film reminds of a UK movie called Bleak Moments. I did not see Eraserhead as a horror movie but more of an essay on the distance that can exist between people, how we all create our own reality.Moving and beautiful "},{"Title":"You've got your good things...","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'd never put Eraserhead down as one of the hundred best films of all time, but it remains a personal favourite, since I first encountered it (happily, on a big screen) about 12 years ago.I can accept that the film is a personal statement by Lynch, reflecting his own distress at accidental parenthood, but this matters less to me than the film's unique atmosphere. Certainly, it's hard to watch in places (Laurel Near's facial deformity is particularly repugnant, as is the sequence where Charlotte Stewart rubs her eye), but the rawness of the images make it compulsive viewing. How sad that Lynch couldn't match this in anything he's done subsequently (Twin Peaks, which I simply adore, still can't come up to the same standard).Here's an interesting thing to try go and get a recording - any one - of Shostakovich's Fourth Symphony, and listen to it all the way through. Then tell me that doesn't make you think of this film. Honestly, try it.Just cut them up like regular chickens... "},{"Title":"A good Vs. Evil Film","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Film Has a lot of hidden Meaning a very good story line.it's all about a Man who is afraid of being a father.Very good show. Hard to Follow but well worth the outcome.  "},{"Title":"Incredibly achieved...","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It was simply incredible. I'd heard about this film ever since I know about David Lynch, but never had the chance to watch it. I think I was very lucky to watch it for the first time on the big screen. WOW. The way he represents his view on life at that moment in time when either you were extremely liberal or conservative. The way he represents urban life as an endless industrial noise, dark, gross; How sex was still considered by some, a terrible sin; Death (suicide) as a wonderful escape from everyday problems.Film making is an art, when you see it as a means of expression for a person. There are many kinds of art but when it really makes you FEEL, it's definitely good. The artist told you something. You don't need a lot of dialogue or direct imagery to express ideas and feelings. David Lynch has mastered this in his films, since you will notice very scarce dialogue and a dense symbolism in all of them. "},{"Title":"Once more, with feeling...","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw this film, it was a showing on the campus of the University of Michigan, where I was a student. Consequently, let's just say I was somewhat chemically impaired while I watched the story, such as it is. That was when the movie was only a year old. Already it had formed a strong cult following (in the Ann Arbor area, anyway). And while the movie didn't (and in many ways, still doesn't) make sense to me, I still retain strong impressions of events in the film--especially the lady behind the radiator and her special little dance (squish, two, three, four...) At any rate, having read ALL the comments posted here so far, I'm now convinced I need to find this flick and check it out one more time. Especially now, as a parent myself, I think it might be a whole new experience--without the controlled substance enhancements this time! ;-)  "},{"Title":"Symbolically horrific masterpiece","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw this film I thought all it was trying to do was create an uncomfortable atmosphere, but after a friend explained the imagery, David Lynch's genius became clear to me. These are the most important symbols. The worms represent sin. The baby represents the result of a sin. The radiator represents suicide. The girl behind the radiator represents death (she crushes the worms/sins) A thinking man's horror flick! "},{"Title":"For the experimental mind in you...","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok...this is DEFINITELY one of those films that is not for everyone. I struggled and made it through Lost Highway, but I was not sure if I could last the journey of Eraserhead. While you need a powerful attention span for this movie, you also need a sick sense of humour or you must be able to approach one. This movie was disgusting but cool as hell... "},{"Title":"A wide-awake nightmare.","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I dreamed I dreamed a dream, only to awake and find I was still dreaming. From the beginning, this movie was hard to watch, until I just let it happen. I stopped thinking, and entered into the nightmare.This film is not for everyone, but if anyone has seen a David Lynch movie and liked it, should see this. "}{"Title":"Lynch's tour-de-force debut. Art-house at its finest.","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Lynch suffering from depression, and the confusing emotions that a new parent suffers, on finding out that their new-born has a deformity (a clubfoot in this case), formulated these feelings into one of the most startling works of cinematic art. Filmed in low-budget, grainy black and white. With a pulsating and throbbing industrial noise soundtrack. The film starts as it means to go on, throwing image after surreal image at the viewer, for the viewer to interpret as they wish. Lynch knows the score, he knows how personal art like this is. It is not for the film-maker to tell his audience what he thinks it's about, it's up to the audience to work on it themselves. In this way Eraserhead can be seen on so many different levels. I personally felt the emotions of the confused X - beautifully played by Lynch regular Jack Nance. I saw the world, for eighty minutes through his eyes, his scared young eyes. Nothing makes sense to the put upon young father anymore. He was emotionally stunted to begin with, but is now presented with a world that is unrelatable, paranoid and lonely. Every character in the film has a problem communicating, whether it be the crazed mother-in-law, who attempts to molest 'X' after dinner; or the mysterious 'woman across the corridor', who cuts a perfect picture of loneliness. Ultimately it is 'X' rapid decline into fantasy, as seen in the running dream of 'the lady in the radiator', and his doomed affair with the 'woman across the corridor', that brings the sexual and emotional repression to a head. The 'baby' then becomes a hate object, a thing so hideous that it cannot be touched. It also acts as a mirror to the young 'X' as he see's it's repugnance, as a further sign of his own irredeemable awfulness. Not since 'Stroszek', has a film captured what it means to be genuinely alone in the world. For such a bleak film, full of inventive imagery, the one image that always stands out in my mind, is that very first shot of the young 'X' walking through the desolate wastelands of an industrial hell. That in itself captured the very essence of modern urban life. A brilliant, but flawed movie. In years to come I'm sure it will feature more and more as an item of study.  "},{"Title":"Like someone opened your head and put itching powder in your brain.","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a film you should watch if you a) like weird stuff, b) know and care about terms such as mise-en-scene, or c) appreciate that film can be art.This is a film you should not watch if you a) don't like weird stuff, b) know that you watch a film, not read a film, or c) think that eating popcorn is essential to any film-watching experience.You might love it or you might loathe it, or possibly both at the same time, but if you can stick with it to the end, it will at least leave an impression if nothing else. Personally, I haven't a clue if I like it or not, but at least I think about it occasionally, even months after I saw it for the first (and only) time... it's that sort of film. "},{"Title":"WEIRD,VERY WEIRD...","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Eraserhead is a film that demands more than one viewing, it's images are powerful, weird, funny, and often confusing. Lynch certainly understands his audience and wants us to use are head. Don't go into this film expecting an easy ride, as it is dark and disturbing and not at all comforting. Plus it is probably the weirdest film Lynch has ever made. "},{"Title":"The most powerful cinema experience I've ever had.","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw Eraserhead (the remastered version) in a theater where half the viewers were laughing almost all through the film, and still it was the most powerful cinema experience I've ever had. Unlike what most people believe, it's not such a strange film. What makes it look strange is the preconceptions inside the viewers' heads about what an ordinary film should look like. I see Eraserhead as Lynch's Citizen Kane, for the following two reasons it's his first feature film as well as the best film he has ever made (although some of his next ones came pretty close) and it was made with total disregard to the storytelling rules of the mainstream. It borrows from genres such as German Expressionism and the Avant-Garde, but combines them to create a masterfully structured new approach that remains faithful to its inner logic. I would have to go back to the silent films in the beginning of the century in order to find a movie that has such a strong feeling of trying to figure out what cinema is capable of. In my mind the strangest thing about Eraserhead is how can people burst into laughter while watcing Henry and the baby at the ending? It felt like being inside a David Lynch film. "},{"Title":"No, the film does not make sense--and it isn't supposed to","Date":"13 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I noticed that one of the negative reviews for Eraserhead referred to it as a nightmare. That, rather ironically, is correct. David Lynch has successfully managed to take a bad dream--or perhaps a series of them--and commit it to cinema Remember that dreams are evanescent --they don't exist in real time, are fleeting, and we generally don't recall the details of them. But I think Lynch, as soon as waking up from one, wrote down its particulars.Maybe in a diary that he kept (talk about a labor of love). I can just picture him telling people Wow. What a whacked-out dream I had last night. There was a grossly deformed woman living inside my radiator, dancing on a stage where fetuses were dropping on the floor. She would use the heel of her shoe to crush them. Yikes. There was another commentator on this site who said that the film has a dated look to it. ????? It features nothing that one would associate with the mid-to-late 70s. There is no Disco, or its accompanying fashion(s)--certainly not the clothes and hairstyles among any of its characters. There aren't even automobiles,graffiti- ridden subway cars, etc, that allow you to identify the time period. In short, you really have no way of knowing that this film is nearly four decades old. And people are still talking about it.In sum, it's like Rob Zombie said in an interview a little while back. He noted that it is over forty years later, and people to this very day continue to debate/interpret this motion picture, Night of the Living Dead,and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. Is there anybody out there who is still discussing The English Patient? "},{"Title":"Okay, my first David Lynch movie! This should be fun!","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, this was the first David Lynch movie I saw (actually, kind of ironic since it was his first film). Honestly, I don't know what to say. It was, well...eh...eh...eh...whatever it was! It was very weird and its probably the mother of all weird movies. While it was very, very, very, very weird (honestly, I don't think I know what happened), it was kind of awesome. I mean, it was well-filmed. It had good sets, good acting, writing, directing. It was very interesting because, it wasn't really scary, but in the same time, it was. I can't explain it, honestly I don't think anyone can! But in the end, it was pretty well made and awesome movie, I highly recommend it to people who like surreal films. I will give it a score of 8/10! "},{"Title":"In Heaven, everything is fine.","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jack Nance plays Henry Spencer, a timid, tall haired man living in an oppressive industrial environment. He must deal with not only a temperamental girlfriend, Mary X (Charlotte Stewart), but the supposed offspring of their union a worm-like mutant child whose incessant wailing drives the mother mad. It looks like Henry desperately needs some sort of reprieve from his overwhelming existence.Filmed in beautifully stark black & white by cinematographers Herbert Cardwell and Frederick Elmes, Eraserhead marked the arrival of filmmaker David Lynch in a major way. This debut has a potent and nightmarish quality which drew this viewer in from the beginning. The sometimes disturbing and gross visuals are telling the story just as much as any narrative. In fact, there isn't much of a narrative here, but a series of images tying together that film buffs can have fun trying to analyze.The atmosphere is bleak but lovely right from the start. The acting is just right in all of the major roles. Lynch favourite Nance is a striking lead. Allen Joseph adds some offbeat (than again, what about this film *isn't* offbeat?) humour as Mary's father. Jeanne Bates, Judith Roberts, and Laurel Near co-star; Lynchs' daughter Jennifer has a small role, and that's Darwin Joston of Assault on Precinct 13 fame as the front desk man at the pencil factory.The use of music is haunting, but what really got to this viewer is the sound design, by Lynch and Alan Splet. In fact, Lynch wore a lot of hats on this show director, writer, producer, editor, production designer, and art director. Catherine E. Coulson, the future Log Lady of 'Twin Peaks', was Lynchs' assistant director and assistant camera person. Listed among the special thanks are Sissy Spacek and her husband, veteran art director Jack Fisk; Fisk has an acting role here.Both unforgettable and unpredictable, Eraserhead truly got under this viewers' skin.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"A film that haunts and interests you at the same time.","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I would like to start by saying that this film is not for everyone. It is filled with strange and surreal imagery that could very easily put you off. Henry Spencer (Jack Nance) is a man living in a dystopia of a city in the future United States. His angry girlfriend Mary X (Charlotte Stewart) has recently given birth to a strange deformed mutant baby, that cries constantly to the point where Mary is driven insane. She leaves and Henry is left to take care of it. I won't say anything else because from then on is just strange imagery everywhere. There's a scene where Henry's head falls from the sky, a child finds it on the ground, takes it to a pencil factory, and it is made into erasers. This scene could have been left out of the movie and nothing about the plot would change. If David Lynch wanted to make a story he could have gone without 40 or more minutes of this. But making a story wasn't Lynch's only goal. You can see that he wanted to make a surreal and engrossing film. I'll have to watch this again many times before I learn what it's trying to say. But I'll have good time when that happens because this is a great movie. If you can take strange and deranged cinematography then you'll probably be able to take this. "},{"Title":"Off your head!","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead finished at 12 'O clock last night for me. It was my first time experiencing the film and being a huge fan of David Lynch (my new favourite director) you can only imagine how excited I was. It's now half past eleven in the morning and Eraserhead is still whirling around in my very own head. The film is extraordinary. I've seen my fair share of weird films, from Jan Svankmajer's Conspirators of Pleasure to Lynch's very own Inland Empire, but somehow Eraserhead manages to surpass them both in the weirdness department. Indeed, Eraserhead is probably the weirdest film I have ever seen. It's pure Lynch and pure art. It's a film which you could not put into words; it's something you have to experience for yourself.When the film was over, my sister and I sat there in silence as the credits rolled up. My heart was thumping quickly and loudly. I felt utterly horrified by what I had just watched. I was drained and could hardly walk in a straight line afterwards. I don't get scared very often at all, but Eraserhead actually did frighten me. Its atmosphere is choking, unsettling and disturbing. The images are stuff you wouldn't even be able to find in nightmares.Your enjoyment of Eraserhead is partly down to how you view it. If you watch it in broad daylight with kids running around and not paying too much attention to it, then you're not going to like it. You're going to think it's the biggest pile of shitake you've ever seen and I wouldn't blame you for saying that! To fully experience Eraserhead (and with every other David Lynch film) you must immerse yourself in it. Watch it alone, in the dark, with the sound turned up and an open mind then you will experience something truly unique.The film is virtually plot-less. Or at least it seems that way when you first see it, but I'm convinced that if you dig underneath all the bizarre symbolism then you will find something quite rich and astonishing. It resembles a feature length version of one of David's shorts, especially The Grandmother and it's all the more better for it. I didn't feel like I was watching a film at all, rather I felt like I was having a nightmare. It didn't even feel like I was watching a nightmare. It felt like I was literally having a nightmare! Eraserhead is scene after scene of bizarre and incredibly frightening imagery. It's enough to make a person go insane.David Lynch's directing here is as amazing as it has ever been. He creates a chilling atmosphere with the use of a droning industrial soundtrack which is excruciating to listen to at times. He also makes incredible use of a slow pace and startling black and white photography which has an eerie beauty about it. It's a seriously depressing atmosphere and it's one which will stay with you for a long time after seeing it. The dream-like quality of the film is astonishing. When the lady in the radiator started singing I felt disturbed, bewildered and transfixed all at the same time. I could not take my eyes off the screen for the duration of the film.It also feels like it's on for an eternity when you're watching it and I don't mean that in a bad way. It enhances the nightmarish quality as when you have a dream it feels like you're there forever, but when you wake up you can only remember bits. Eraserhead is exactly like this. It's a nightmare captured on film and confirms David Lynch as a master of cinema. His films are unlike any other and they manage to affect me in such a deep manner. I was shaken when Eraserhead had finished and it brought back memories of when I saw Inland Empire for the first time.Having said all this, Eraserhead is not a film for a mainstream audience. Not everyone will 'get it' and I wouldn't blame you if you hated it. Strange doesn't even begin to describe Eraserhead. All I know is that it's a masterpiece. It's a piece of timeless art that was way ahead of its time and still very much is. You'll see the world in a different way when you've finished watching it and every other film will seem dull and conventional. Eraserhead will stay with me for an extremely long time and is an experience I will never ever forget. Roll on Blue Velvet! "},{"Title":"By far one of the most boring movies I've ever seen","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I heard this movie was fantastic. Other reviewers give such high scores. I thought it was an 1hr an 30 of constant weirdness. The only weird parts are Henry's dreams. The rest is his incredibly slow boring and uneventful life. I think the girls mother coming onto him was more for laughs. The girls father was great. I rented the 2002 clean and remastered version. There were too many scenes of just no talking or just nothing happening. Jack Nance when he spoke was great. Other than that he took so long to respond to people. I will watch elephant man. I loved dune so. I loved the lady in he radiator song. I think the opening shot, the baby as a snake type creature overlapping Henry was I bet a reference to sperm "}{"Title":"Fun for the whole family","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Henry takes a vacation from his boring job at a printing factory to relax. He meets up with his old girlfriend and finally has to meet her wacky family! It's a hoot. Better than Meet the Fockers, really. Henry finds out he's a new daddy during the whole ordeal too. Great special effects, good family orientated humor, a movie for the kids AND parents. The acting is great, the characters are deep and well rounded. This movie is a laugh riot. Will Henry snap under the pressure of being a new dad and dealing with the pressure from his shaky relationship and in- laws? I vote this for the feel good movie of '77. Really top notch work by David Lynch. 8 Stars and two big thumbs up. "},{"Title":"A dream of dark and troubling things","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As the taglines imply, this movie will keep you floating in a weird & troubling dream-like state of mind. It's dark - technically and thematically speaking. It requires an open mind, a desire to watch something new or challenging, and rapt attention for the viewer to fully appreciate it. Eraserhead is the kind of film where you can analyze it for years and still you wouldn't be 100% sure. Watch it with ten of your friends and you'll get different opinions and interpetations. First few minutes, I was reminded of Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey. The long, lingering shots. The seemingly random images or sequence. The unsettling sound. It takes you out of your movietime comfort zone. And I liked it. So I continued watching. Eraserhead is terrifying in such a way that it takes you in, unsettles you, includes you in Henry's nightmarish world, and fascinates you with it's striking visuals and camera shots, unnerves you with the grating almost mechanical musical score, and keeps you intrigued with its two lead stars Henry and the baby. I sat and watched, fascinated & unnerved at the same time, not wanting to see the ugliness of it all and yet I know for sure that I will watch this again as soon as possible. And therein lies this film's beauty. Really not for everybody.... But I suggest you watch it if only to see Jack Nance's enigmatic facial expressions and cool hairstyle. That's one movie character I will never forget. And this is one movie that I will continue to re-watch for reasons pretty much like why people keep on looking at works of art, as if there's a secret hidden in it. "},{"Title":"I locked myself out of my apartment......and it's so late.","Date":"29 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Made over a period of five years, Eraserhead was director David Lynch's debut feature film. Up until this point he had made several short art films that had a heavy surrealist influence. Eraserhead is also an art film too. Its imagery and audio are intense, while its plot-line is pretty seriously far removed from any conventional ideas of traditional cinematic story-telling. In order to appreciate it, you need to be able to connect more with the rhythm and feel of the film, rather than try to understand its logical meaning. It's because audiences are unconsciously trained to expect the latter when watching films that many feel alienated from this movie. It's understandable of course as this is not an easy film in any sense. Not only is it not easy to interpret but its pacing is very deliberate and slow with a tone that is quite disturbingly down-beat. It probably doesn't really need to be said but Eraserhead is certainly not a film for everyone.The protagonist is a man called Henry (played by Lynch regular Jack Nance) who lives in an unspecified, bleak dystopian world. He and his girlfriend have a baby who is hideously freakish. We observe the nightmarish world that surrounds the passive Henry.In the world of Eraserhead things continually aren't what they seem, even if on the surface they look quite normal. Ordinary items such as radiators have the power to disturb. Lynch seems to have a skill in presenting everyday items in such a way that they take on a sinister veneer. It's a feature of his films overall but it was here where it was first so evident. In the logic of Eraserhead worlds exist within worlds and behind the radiator in Henry's room lives a grotesque character called simply the Lady in the Radiator. She performs on a small stage and sings about how 'in heaven everything is fine'. It's sort of like the type of strange worlds that little children wilfully invent to amuse themselves &#x96; but it takes a confident artist to bring such an abstract idea to the screen is so committed a fashion.While Eraserhead's fantasy world was not one Lynch would immerse himself in so fully ever again, there were many aspects of this film that he would never abandon. The chief being the specific way in which he interlinks the visual with the aural. The sound design is just as important as the images on screen; the audio assaults the viewer just as intensely - the constant wailing of the baby, the repetitive industrial noise outside and the low hum of the soundtrack. The dialogue, too, works in a similar way. It's very sparse and deliberate, even sometimes funny. In such an intense film Lynch does have strangely comical moments such as the squabbling pencil makers or the somewhat uncomfortable family dinner scene. Bizarre humour is after all another less commented upon feature of the director.Whatever you think of Eraserhead &#x96; and many will hate it &#x96; it has to be admitted that it's a one off. The product of a very unique mind. Many have interpreted it in various ways and while some ideas do make some sense such as it being a reflection of Lynch's fears of impending fatherhood, I think it's only fair to surmise that this is essentially a pretty impenetrable movie; one that has to be felt more than it should be understood. If you can get into its specific rhythms you could really appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Fear of fatherhood and and the father of all fear","Date":"11 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ERASERHEAD has as its main theme everyman's fear of fatherhood. Or at least, it symbolizes MY fear of fatherhood, and quite possibly, the fear of sexual congress itself. The many visual references to fertility and to the tortuous hideousness of the zygote/baby reek of a permanent aversion to parenting (and the process of procreating).At times the bleakness of these characters is straight out hilarious&#x97;more pregnant pauses (as it were, a bizarre pregnancy) than in any Pinter play. And who hasn't experienced this situation upon meeting the parents?!? The film's own ridiculous ludicrousness brushes against truthfulness and the essence of art&#x97;its pervasive preposterousness reveals the inner workings of appalling (yet genuine) feelings. As if darkness were turned outside in and downside up, the certain and utterly desolating and isolating consequences of toying with societies black holes are all-encompassing. This dearth of anything remotely healthy inexorably grounds these characters towards a fate as apprehensively unpredictable as it is inevitable&#x85;. If the film is shocking, so are the repressed thought-emotions that fuel its repulsiveness. Rather than simply concluding that such imagery and dialog is the result of some disgusting dream, it seems more accurate to say that ERASERHEAD can lead the viewer to a new state of awakening. The kind of waking up that forever precludes the blessed change to a sleepy and gentle state of mind. The kind of eternal awakeness that cannot be altered, understood, or endured. "},{"Title":"Not really my sort of thing","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I critique a film, I usually begin with a synopsis. That is where my problems start with David Lynch's Eraserhead what with not having a conventional narrative, it doesn't lend itself to being easily synopsised.So let me say that it appears to be about a strange man and matters and characters concerning his strange mutant offspring although any or all of it may be fantasy.I must say initially that I suspect that the movie is very close to showing on screen exactly what David Lynch intended I can't imagine these images or events being accidental or unintentional.I must then go on to say that I don't like it very much. Not just because it doesn't tell a conventional narrative in a conventional way, although that's part of it. But more because what it shows doesn't please me. The images are unpleasant and unappealing. The main character doesn't invite me to identify with him. I don't understand what Lynch is trying to do, as a result of which I can't engage with the movie on any level except visual and, on that level, Lynch seems to have set out to ply me with a disturbing visual experience which I didn't enjoy.So I have to say that while I admire Lynch's ability to capture something which is, at best odd and, at worst, twisted, it wasn't really my thing. "},{"Title":"Eraserhead (1977) *SPOILERS*","Date":"30 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There probably isn't too much to say about David Lynch's 'Eraserhead' that hasn't already been said. Up until about a month ago, I had never heard of this movie, but a friend recommended it, telling me that it was extremely f***ed up, which is typically what I go for. The soundtrack was the first thing that really tipped me off that 'Eraserhead' was going to be a different experience of a film. The harsh noisescapes permeating the background at nearly all times is cacophonous, and the black and white images make it seem like a really long music video for a modern day noise artist. David Lynch did the music himself, which I thought was really great.The film at times reminded me of the silent classic 'Nosferatu' with all those eerie shots of Jack Nance reminiscing Count Orlok. I read here on IMDb that Stanley Kubrick would make the cast of 'The Shining' view 'Eraserhead' in an attempt to get them in the right frame of mind that Kubrick wanted, and I can definitely see that.My initial thought interpreting the meaning of the film, and I use the word meaning lightly, was that the entire thing was just one long nightmare, but who can say for sure? All in all, 'Eraserhead' definitely demands multiple viewings. Highly recommended.ERASERHEAD ----- 9/10 "},{"Title":"Not a movie to be interpreted...","Date":"15 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'll keep this review short..The first film of David Lynch is his most bizarre. Eraserhead is simply an enactment of your worst nightmare on the screen. So, before watching this movie, keep this in your mind. Sit through the flick and enjoy the atmosphere, the weirdness of characters, the incidents and the raw bizarreness of Lynch's imagination. But DO NOT try to interpret it. Because you can interpret it in a hundred different ways.Lynch tells us that the art of cinema, like a fine painting, can be as surreal and abstract as Eraserhead.Finally, a piece of warning-this movie induces nightmares in you. Take this for granted.. P "},{"Title":"What I really Think","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My interpretation of the plot.The girlfriend was impregnated by an alien (the worm). The baby was a mutant because it was half sired by the aliens and half by him (Jack Nance). He (Jack Nance) saw the future and his baby(?) (the mutant?) on the stage with the stage lights on her as some sort of fairground freak and public exhibit. He saw her misery and tears. He returned to the present and cut open her swaddling clothes in order to kill her and save her from her future misery. Hence his name, Eraserhead. He was able to erase (rub out) her horrible future. This explains the camera work highlighting the silhouette of his head as a pencil head eraser with all the fibres blowing off as he rubs .... The rest of the stuff on the film is just atmosphere creating and comment on current and future society. That is self explanatory, e.g. the chickens spewing blood is a criticism of modern food being unpalatable and unnatural. "},{"Title":"Vision Quest.","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I came in late and left early on this one but I don't think it makes much difference. This poor guy whose head sticks up like the pink eraser on the end of a pencil (Jack Nance) lives a shabby life in an industrial setting. He has to put up with a shabby girl friend who takes up all the bed and leaves him on the edge with only a blanket full of holes. She clacks her teeth while sleeping and when she rubs her eye the sound is that of a finger rubbing an inflated balloon. He has to put up with a mutant baby with the ugliest tiny head since the monster's in Alien -- and when the infant gets sick, the head bursts out in pustules.But there's no real narrative line to describe and none for a viewer to lose. I think maybe what David Lynch was doing was pretty ambitious an attempt to create a Gesamtkunstwerk on a minuscule budget, a fusion of images and sounds and a trip through the time line that all need to be taken together, grasped and appreciated as a whole.I would judge that he succeeded on his own terms. That is, what Lynch has put on the screen is pretty much precisely what he wanted to. The least we can say about it is that it's consistent. Everything we see or hear is itchy or slimy. If Lynch wants to break off from what skeletal story there is and dissolve to a woman wearing an overblown blond wig, standing on a stark stage, and singing In Heaven, Everything's Alright, backed by shimmering dissonant organ chords, he does it. And if he wants to insert a shot of a drifting meteor, he does THAT. He doesn't ask anybody. He just goes ahead and DOES it.That's okay. A chaque a son gout. The problem is that Lynch's notion of what's interesting -- forget about beautiful -- may not correspond to that of anyone else. It certainly doesn't overlap with mine, although it seems to have struck a resonant chord in many others.I couldn't have more respect for a director than I do for David Lynch. I was an atmosphere person in Blue Velvet, which, to my surprise, turned out to be a great film in many ways, as was The Elephant Man. He was behind the camera for eighteen straight hours for one scene and looked wrecked. I doubt that commercial considerations occupy much of his life space.The impression I get here, though, is that Lynch was testing reality, asking himself and his producers just how far he could drop down the rabbit hole and get away with it. He got pretty far down.His later work was, in my judgment, an improvement -- still weird, still a cinematic tribute to textures -- but linked to a structure that we can grasp. A better balance between the formless and the rigid. People whose intentions and character we can empathize with. When Jack Nance begins to pull out these repugnant things from his girl friend's body, one placenta after another, and flings them away in disgust, why doesn't he get up and run like hell for the police? It's Lynch's vision and he gets all kinds of bonus points for originality. Nobody had ever done anything quite like this. The closest thing I can think of is slitting a goat's eyeball open with a razor in Un Chien Andalou and that was back in 1929 and Luis Bunuel had to drag in Salvador Dali.Actually, a movie like this would prompt me to wonder what, exactly, was going on in the writer/director's head. There is a rich hint of psychosis. Yet David Lynch himself, when he appears in interviews, is always dressed in a sports coat with a shirt buttoned up to the neck. When he speaks, he sounds perfectly reasonable, like a guy behind a drug store counter.Well -- if it helped him find his footing.... "},{"Title":"So you've decided to be a grad student","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What message David Lynch was bringing with this, we'll never know, if there even was one. His work just always seems complicated for the sake of being complicated, I mean what the hell was the second season of Twin Peaks about? Luckily there are still plenty of people with plenty of time left from harassing people at the video store for renting recent non-foreign stuff that give this stuff a healthy over-analysis. Crazy theories have been circling, a long time ago I've decided not to care. I don't know why all of this happens, and I don't know why nothing happens, but I'll accept it anyhow. People always need to understand things or they get frustrated, perhaps I'm just that passive, I'll deal with it, later. I couldn't follow the story because there was none, I couldn't understand the characters because they were not human, but if the goal was to freak people out, and it probably was, the mission has been accomplished as far as I'm concerned. Some of the most bearable (pre)Lynch material, quite a lot of genius in it. "}{"Title":"David Lynch's Bizarre Nightmare of Fatherhood","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This phantasmagorical David Lynch film is nearly suffocating in its ability to immerse its audience in a domestic nightmare. It's a fascinating film, but not one I can say I necessarily enjoyed watching.All of Lynch's fever dream movies are open to interpretation, so I can only say what I took from this film personally. To me it was entirely about the fear of responsibility and the potential stagnation that comes with domestic married life and fatherhood. The baby in this film is literally a creature from another planet; it's threatening not because it's evil or menacing itself but rather because it has needs and wants that it has no clear way of communicating and which its father doesn't entirely comprehend. The film manages to capture in images and sounds the kind of abstract thoughts and fears that lead men into mid-life crises.It's a difficult film to summarize or even describe, other than to say that it lingers in the brain and is amazingly unsettling to watch.Grade A "},{"Title":"Got patience?","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ah, what can be said about a movie that is confusing, slow, and yet followed by a rabid, obsessive fan base? Quite a lot, actually. I for one, did not appreciate this movie as others did. While it is black and white, the lighting is poor and at times I found myself asking, Is that the carpet, or something I should be looking at? or Why does he have a pile of dirt on his dresser? Spots of dialog are few and far between, and made very choppy by the actors reciting them. Many things in the movie remain unexplained, though I assume that over half of it is some form of bizarre imagery. Unless you are of a weak heart, this film won't scare you, though it may cause your stomach to churn from utter disgust as did mine. (Don't eat anything slimy or wet, anything at all during this movie. Believe me, you'll know when you watch it.) So my opinion is this Eraserhead is an adequate film, with an adequate (though confusing plot) and adequate acting. Its good for a laugh, simply because of the stereotypical character of the boss. Borrow it from a friend, don't bother to waste your money to rent or buy it. "},{"Title":"much ado about something that really means nothing anyway.","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a good film. What does that statement mean? Exactly how many films have been made in the course of the history of film? and what exactly makes one The greatest! neo/rocky/godcomplexities. Since the great train robbery? Since the kinetoscope? What is film's purpose? What does this have to do with eraserhead? Nothing. Everything. Something in between?A lot of synopses I have read attempt to explain what this film is or means. What it means is only as clear as the viewer's prejudice and subjective perception enables that viewer to see. I have studied film and literature and taught at University. What do I think that enables me to have? A more erudite subjectivity perhaps. Or a more westernized idea of what is going on. What seems to be going on is time moving circuitously collapsing on some sort of religious/industrial idea of linearity. A solipsist nightmare perhaps in that we are all solipsists because that is all we can know in the end. There are many ideas of dreams present in the film. Dreams being interspersed with waking realities give me the idea that there are similar functions as that of lost highway at work here. I read one comment that said this film was art and it must be looked at in that way. I do not know what exactly is meant by this differentiation of art from film, as if they are separate-as if oranges and fruit are divergent species. One is merely a subclassification. Like other visual arts however, if one looks at this film from different angles, as if it were a piece of sculpture perhaps, or rather, not concentrate on what are given to us as the main focal points i.e. henry, mary x and her x family, the baby, the landlady etc. other things seem to be going on. What importance these other things have is left up to the individual's own god complex to figure out. Or, more simply put, I think folks need to stop wondering what this and that means, as if it means anything at all. What if it doesn't? What if it never has or will? e.g. Kurtz's horror in conrad's heart of darkness. There is an idea of absurdity, as in ionesco's rhinoceros. What is this thing or that thing doing here? it normally does not appear here? yet we use only 6% of our brains. perhaps we were meant to eat other foods and just do not know it. There can be seen several symbols. And if one looks hard enough, one can even make some up that are not even there! Mary X-is she a virgin? Did henry and she have sexual intercourse as mary's mother asked? if they did not, how did the child come to be? View the pencil as if it is Henry himself. one end negates the other. Does this have meaning? why is there always the need for some great moral? answer? to prove, to hope even, that morals do indeed exist. but this is not my idea of what is going on in the movie. I do not think anything is actually going on or that it has any real meaning, as in g.g. marquez's magically realistic tales told to him by his grandfather. Again, this is just my own kick, get out of it what you will. "},{"Title":"Hard to swallow. One of a few.","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Certainly this makes it too much, quite unwatchable or unbearable, for a lot of people. Which is OK, as one should try to please everyone. Eraserhead is one of a pretty short list of movies that are very hard to swallow (I don't pretend to know all such movies, but judging from what I've seen, from a statistical point of view, this seems to be the case). There are several reasons for this, and I guess it all starts with the intentional lack of human touch and positive emotion. This alone gives it a sour, metallic taste. Add to this a mix of darkness, visceral and venereal horror, and that's it - if you think you're going to see a regular movie, you've got another thing coming. This movie has a very vague resemblance with Cronenberg's Videodrome (and Crash, why not). Lynch's movies refuse to explain themselves and leave one with the pleasure - or burden - to do so. I reckon Hollywood fans will be pretty mad because no one tells them what happened and how to feel about it. "},{"Title":"A visual, creative trip into a world we hope we'll never have to live in.","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is by far the most bizarre film you'll ever see. One time I asked my Dad what it was about and he said it's about everything except nothing. That's the best way you can define Eraserhead. Eraserhead was an experimental film by the genius director David Lynch. Everything about it is repulsive, horrifying, disturbing, and yet there is beauty in how it all works so well. This is a very hard film to write a review on. Eraserhead isn't anything a film critic could analyze. The film is the way you interpret it(Spoilers) The world in eraserhead is a place where a man inside a planet pulls levers and there are horribly repulsive noises. A world where a paranoid man named Henry lives alone in his apartment, across the hall from a beautiful girl, has a girlfriend who is part of the insensitive X family, is the father to a hideous mutant baby, and has a very strange looking lady lives inside a radiator. That's what the film is. There is no way anyone can possibly interpret what everything is really supposed to mean. The film is how you interpret it. You might absolutely love this film, you might be horrified by it, or you might absolutely hate it. Everyone experiences Eraserhead differently, I'd suggest finding someone who has the movie, as it is very rare, and experiencing it for yourself. "},{"Title":"One of the most profoundly paradoxical movies of all time","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" And that paradox is to how a movie as outwardly grotesque and macabre as this one should prove so enigmatic and alluring at the same time.Very recently, my brother and I decided to go out and rent 'Eraserhead', having been tipped off on numerous occasions that it was positively THE weirdest film we were ever going to see &#150; a film so mind-blowingly bizarre even by David Lynch standards that it makes his more recent workings (even 'Mulholland Dr') look like straightforward conventional films in comparison. Well, it had quite a reputation to live up to there, and I can safely say it lived up to it. It lived up to it and then some.'Eraserhead' isn't merely weird &#150; it's also chilling, ominous, dark, sinister and certainly not for the squeamish&#133;or at least anyone likely to be intimidated by the sight of miniature roast chickens that writhe and bleed, women with monstrously puffy cheeks, overgrown worms, umbilical cords, dodgy pencil factories, and 'premature babies' that come up in boils and resemble a misshapen hybrid of a rubbery human embryo and ET. It combines its assortment of creepy and fantastical elements in a way that steers clear of the run-of-the-mill trippy and focuses instead on capturing the actual feel of a string of nightmares. As our protagonist 'Henry' drifts in and out of sleep, he experiences a series of horrific visions which presumably embody his waking fears and concerns. But just what exactly are these fears and concerns? Is it death he's so afraid of, or just fatherhood? And just where in this film do the nightmares stop and reality begin? These are all questions which arise throughout the picture and, as we've long since come to expect with the wily David Lynch, go completely unanswered. As per usual it's up to us, the plucky viewers, to draw our own conclusions. I have my theories on a lot of it, but there's probably an infinite number of interpretations out there somewhere.Whatever you choose to make of it in the end, it can't be denied that 'Eraserhead' is a brilliantly-made film, and it's no surprise to me that it found its cult appreciation soon enough &#150; even the more intense moments where the imagery completely repulsed me, I found it impossible to turn away. What makes it so effective comes largely down to its meticulous scenery and camera-work &#150; a slick combination of b/w shooting and murky, run-down interior settings that produce a world so bleak and colourless that escape and revival seem totally impossible. Furthermore, Henry's stunted interaction with the rest of the cast can't help but drag you even closer in. Often when they're looking at him, thanks to the positioning of camera angles, they appear to be staring directly at the viewer, or just past them, grinning menacingly or chanting ominous phrases like In Heaven, everything is fine. We may never fully understand Henry as a character, but thanks to these technical aspects we're almost forced to feel an affinity with him.If you haven't yet seen 'Eraserhead', and think you can handle the unease and grotesquery, then I'd strongly recommend it. It's one of those films that you may not even necessarily like as such, but still have to acknowledge what a great piece of craftsmanship it is in a league of its own &#150; a technical masterpiece that makes the most of its budget and limitations, generating exactly the unsettling atmosphere it aims for, and one of the most unique and challenging viewing experiences I've ever come across. What are the odds that you'll ever see another movie even remotely like this one? Grade A "},{"Title":"Morbidly creative genius, an example of art in its purest, unaltered form","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was one of the best films that I have had the opportunity to watch. It makes you wonder and ponder the inner workings of the vastness of human creativity, the genius in dreams that comes from an artist's mind... It honestly felt like walking along a dreamscape path in David Lynch's mind.I sat in awe and felt relieved that there was thought and talent put into a film, and that I finally felt was not a waste of my time... Eraserhead is extremely far from any boundaries of norm, which is what people need these days, in escape from the mediocrity and tastelessness of most recent movie hits. If you want something to stretch and knead your brainbatter, Eraserhead is perfect. "},{"Title":"Not the Classic I was Expecting","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For 25 years many of my friends kept telling me what a classic this is. I like David Lynch. I was an avid Twin Peaks fan. So I finally saw Eraserhead last night. All I can say is what the hell was it? And don't give me the old you either get it or you don't argument. I can at least demand that the filmmaker give me credit for being an intelligent and thoughtful viewer who WANTS to like and understand the story. I know that David Lynch fools your senses with his unstructured style. It's one of the things I like about him. All I can say is that I wish someone had sat David Lynch down and said, David, it's garbled. You can do better. Because I know he could do much better. "},{"Title":"Another comment","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  We just started watching this,two of us and I was thinking Brief Encounter.It was making no sense and then the phone went.My friend had to go out. So I checked on here to see what the hell I was watching. And after reading words like boring and complicated I think I'll not bother watching any more. The soundtrack noises were interesting and all I can say is I have a David Lynch movie somewhere called Industrial Symphony,which I liked because Julee Cruise wears some great dresses.Though it makes little sense Otherwise I get the impression if I watched this I'd give my brain a hernia "},{"Title":"Once again Lynch robs me of time I'll never get back","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have tried so many times to like David Lynch. I like to think I have relatively good and wide-ranging taste in films, but I can never get over the strange sensation that Lynch's career is some modern equivalent of The Emperor's New Clothes. Finally, having seen the most recent complete waste of my time, his 1977 film Eraserhead (my fifth Lynch experience), I can conclude that the man needs to get a new day job.The reason I have tried to like him is that there are elements to his directorial style that I like. I like directors that put an emphasis on atmospheric sound/music, visual tension, surrealism, and for lack of a better term, trippy imagery. Lynch has all that, but he never fails to screw it up by going way overboard. His films, of which Eraserhead is probably the worst after the (unintentionally hilarious) abomination that was Dune, always give me the impression that I am watching the pretentious meanderings of a self-indulgent film student that some fool gave a few million dollars to.I have read criticisms of Jim Jarmusch which state that he is a Lynch wannabe, but in truth I think his film Dead Man exemplifies how to do right what Lynch always does wrong with his particular aesthetic tastes. Jarmusch is what Lynch would be if only he could reign himself in. I recommend Dead Man and Mystery Train for all those people that thought they might like Lynch but just couldn't sustain their enthusiasm. Almost structureless dull surrealism is how I would describe Eraserhead. Sound like fun you say? Not the way he does it. It largely reminded me of an almost impossibly boring acid trip. It had all the artistic merit of ten fat modern expressive dancers romping about on a stage dressed like McDonald's employees, to the sound of drilling noises. And it contained that level of logical progression too.Lynch has bounced his way through Hollywood like Forrest Gump on mescaline, with a bunch of deluded devotees -some of my good friends included- following behind, all probably arrogantly assuming that any detractors most likely enjoy Charles In Charge reruns. The sad truth is that given a choice between Charles In Charge and any more Lynch films, I would actually have to pick the former.I always feel like such a sucker when I go to see yet another of his excretions, but never again. DO NOT go anywhere near Eraserhead unless you believe that staring at jelly for long enough will eventually provide you with inner peace and satisfaction.  "}{"Title":"comes full circle to comedy","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i've seen this twice now. the first time it made me sick (all the blood, pus, cottage cheese, worms, warts, industrial wasteland). this time it made me laugh. it gets so perverse that you know lynch is screwing with you. when the boy brings the head into the shop, and the desk clerk rings the buzzer 21 times (exactly) before his boss storms out and shouts in his face, Okay, Paul!--that's the beginning of the zaniness, for me. shortly thereafter, we get a clear view of that photograph on henry's wall a mushroom cloud. this film is so bleak it becomes comical. but if lynch hadn't made me laugh a little, i'd think this was all indulgent melodrama. it's not. "},{"Title":"Erase this from YOUR head!","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are basically two major camps of reviewers for this sort of artsy fartsy film  those who say it's crap and those who say it's genius. Either way, it's definitely NOT entertainment!  It's dark, tediously slow, repetitive, and pointless to anyone who is not interested in Lynch's private impressions of his early married life in Philadelphia.  Let's sum it up in a few phrases (ironically, the same amount of dialog that's in the movie!) dreary existence in an industrial world; boring relationship that is turned permanent by an unwanted pregnancy; fantasizing about the girl next door; awkward time spent with the in-laws.  OK!  That's it!  I just saved you an hour and half of sheer boredom (assuming you could stay awake through it). And if you don't want the boredom to be exacerbated by disappointment, I'll clue you in  nothing happens, so don't make the same mistake I did by waiting for something to happen.  I wish I could be more kind to this movie, but frankly, it doesn't deserve it.  The only reason anyone would want to watch this movie in the first place is because it was made by Lynch, who subsequently made some excellent movies.  Oh, and another valid reason for watching Eraserhead is that it makes Mulholland Drive seem logical and seamless by comparison. "},{"Title":"There is only one Eraserhead!","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the one David Lynch will be remembered for -- the  incredible, bendable, masterpiece!  There isn't much I can say about this that hasn't already been said.  Lynch was at his creative peek during the making of this film, and doing a paper route to pay the bills while in production, no less. David is a painter and thinks like a true artist.  His films are like his paintings -- dark, mysterious, interpretive, funny.  There is true creative genius inherent in his work -- a jack-of-all-sprockets kind of guy, he puts his personal touch on nearly every aspect of the film.Others have tried to come close to this masterpiece, like the commercially released BARTON FINK (1991) or Paul Bunnell's THAT LITTLE MONSTER (1994) -- both recommended -- but there is only one ERASERHEAD!  See it if you haven't already! "},{"Title":"A heart-warming tale of the challenges and rewards of parenting.","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Above all, this movie is a comedy.  I suggest taking the family out for a refreshing Sunday movie after church and seeing this film.  Children of all ages can appreciate the comedic antics of the little baby, and adults can understand a mothers desire for what is best for her baby.  You may have to do a little digging, but I'm sure you can find this great out of print movie available online. "},{"Title":"A new opening in cinema.","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Horrifying, shocking, incomprehensible, boring . all have been  used by reviewers who've taken in David Lynch's first film, Eraserhead.  Many who have had difficulties with the film say it is confusing or boring, lacking plot. Well, plot is not necessarily a prerequisite of film. Getting emotion across is.--- POTENTIAL SPOILER ---Okay, I put that alert in to satisfy all, but you really cannot spoil the Eraserhead experience. Roughly Henry is a loner, living in a despoiled, unidentified, industrial city. He broke up with his girlfriend. Then, she calls him, inviting him to her parents house for dinner. During this time, she tells him there's been a baby. Henry objects that not enough time as passed for a baby. Well, they're not sure it IS a baby. If that doesn't get you weirded-out by this point, nothing will.--- END SPOILER ---Shot over a period of four years as money came available, Lynch still achieved a cohesive narrative of unease, tension & outright fear. The black & white palate, with light dropping off at the edges of the almost frame, make this eternally twilight world very disconcerting.  Note that sound is as important a character in this film as any of the actors. It rises, falls & takes over the entire theatre at times, all to huge effect. Note that other than people & I believe a dog, there are not any living creatures in this film. Even the plants Henry has on his nightstands are mere dead branches in dirt (there are no flowerpots; just dirt).  I've not read all 140+ reviews, but a good portion of them. None seem to point out something I noticed this is also a very funny movie. Some of the points Lynch gets into border on the horrific, but if one steps back, could be viewed as very deadpan humor. Brits out there will note the tongue-in-cheek use of the slang, eraserhead (nerd). Most movies out there are just filmed books. Beginning, middle, end, credits. Eat your popcorn & go home. Eraserhead, which I saw shortly after it was first released, was the first film in a long time which could be classified as CINEMA - a film that could exist in no other medium & carry the same impact. Other examples I'd give of pure cinema would be The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari, 2001 A Space Odyssey, Koyaanisqatsi. There aren't a lot of these, folks. But there are quite a few plain old movies. Eraserhead is not  just a movie. After seeing it, I felt that Lynch would go on to do some great things. I dragged a director friend to see it, and he HATED the movie. A few years later, after Elephant Man came out, he had to go back and watch Eraserhead again. He felt he did not give it it's due. I'm looking forward to Lynch getting the DVD version he is remastering out for the U.S. audience. Those who value landmarks in film will want a copy in their collection. I know I do  "},{"Title":"entertainment?","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why anyone would want to sit through this is beyond me. This has got to be the grimmest film I've ever seen. I see enough crap in real life and like to watch movies to escape or forget about the real world. Fair play Lynch probably achieves just what he wants with this, but I,m afraid I,d rather watch paint dry in real life than this. "},{"Title":"Surreal, more surreal, the most surreal, David Lynch, Eraserhead.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This legendary film by David Lynch is definitely one of the most disturbing and scary films of all time. It is amazing how David is able to make ordinary things and items from every day life look so scary and menacing. It is impossible to say there is just one way to see this film or other films by Lynch so what I'm going to write is just my opinion and interpretation. It would be more than interesting to discuss these things with the director himself..Eraserhead works for me mostly on the level of its imagery and effects to create such a nightmare as it is. The film is pure nightmare from which you can awake only to even more frightening real world whatever it in Lynch's world is! I would see Eraserhead as a paranoid study of something taken over humans and controlling them. The menace may be for example the development of technology, which has become the enemy for its creators. Humans can't control their creations anymore, because they are being used (the eraser scene at the factory) by their own work. Also, there is a theme of humanity being totally lost and people being destroyed as there are many mutants and abnormal characters as the baby itself and the attractive singer in the radiator.The sound effects, imagery, little details (which are dozens again) and totally irrational storytelling have created one of the most impressive cinematic nightmares (not dreams, nightmares!) I've ever witnessed and so this can be described as horror experience, even though this is not just a horror film. Eraserhead is very difficult film and will never unfold to mainstream audience, because the film is too much for even some film buffs who can't understand and appreciate it at all. David Lynch is one of the most important artist in this field, and his surreal and unique work must be experienced many times and every time they will unfold more and you'll understand new aspects in them. These films should definitely be seen in movie theater, but unfortunately it is not always possible, so the home viewing experience should be made as intense and peaceful as possible.Unmatchable cinema, 10 full stars for the great film maker's early achievement. "},{"Title":"A bizarre and disturbing world","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are several reasons I watch a movie - I want a good story, I want to have fun, or I want to go someplace that doesn't really exist. Eraserhead takes you to such a place, and what a strange, disturbing world David Lynch creates. For me, what Eraserhead does is to create a macabre, nightmarish world more effectively than any other movie I have seen. It is a trip to hell, and when it is over you feel completely disoriented. I have shown this movie to friends, and they all were wierded out by the experience. And that is what Lynch, I believe, really is trying to do. He wants to suck you into his bizarre fantasy, and he succeeds quite well.  The only movie that had the same effect on me was Adrian Lyne's 1990 film, Jacob's Ladder. That movie is also an emotional roller coaster, with some of the most disturbing imagery ever put on film. So if you decide to experience Eraserhead, don't try to analyze it too closely, just let it wash over you and take you planet Lynch.  "},{"Title":"The scan button is getting worn","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Never commented on a movie before this but this one deserved it. I am a HUGE fan of the mind puzzling 'Lost Highway' and the in depth psychological provoking 'Blue Velvet' but this movie surpassed even 'Mystery Men' in the worst movie I've seen. The only point I could come across is hope in times of bleakness but even that would be vague. It was slow, boring, not at all thought provoking yet not even entertaining. The movie is so slow it's amazing, but not just slow, boring slow, with nothing happening and no real thought plot or story to make you analyze. While I could understand this was not made to be a thought provoking movie, this movie wasn't made to entertain so we are left with a whole lot of nothing. This movie gets my 'whole bunch of dumb' award. Congrads.    "},{"Title":"Surrealist sensibilities...","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Lynch, whose roundabout route to filmmaking had its origins in surrealist painting, here crafts a contemporary classic. As with his two earlier efforts, the shorts THE ALPHABET and THE GRANDMOTHER, Lynch brings his surrealist sensibilities to bear- this time, on the Freudian tale of an average Joe named Henry. The imagery is often overstated (like the point-of-view trip through the birth canal seen very early in the film, in which we find ourselves emerging, as it were, into Henry's nightmare world), but Lynch can be forgiven these excesses. His is the imagery of the subconscious, his approach abstract. There's very little in the way of traditional storytelling going on here, which is why most people walk away from midnight showings looking as if they've been beaned with a hammer. As an exercize in the art of auteurism, ERASERHEAD ranks right up there with classics like VAMPYR.    "}{"Title":"It's an hour too long...","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is nothing about this movie that needed an hour and a half to accomplish other than bore me...David, if you aren't going to do anything, why waste our time (let alone film!).... better this was cut down to about half an hour and run as an interesting short film.There i've said it. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever Made","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is truly the worst movie ever made. I collect bad movies, especially Ed Wood films (eg Plan 9), and enjoy them - but Eraserhead is torture. Poor filming, poor sound, poor acting, poor effects... This was the only film I have ever seen that did not have one single redeeming feature - what an absolute waste of time. "},{"Title":"Annoying","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I watched this (only by my husband's insistence that I do) I was so annoyed by this movie.  It irritated me so much. I guess I expected this to make sense sooner or later.  So I watched it again and thought it was funny, in a weird sort of way.  This is one hideous picture to look at. I couldn't stop thinking that the girl in the radiator (or was it his girlfriend? I can't recall) looked like Madonna when she was going through her Who's That Girl phase.    I'm sure glad she didn't keep that look for long. "},{"Title":"Basically, David Lynch is crazy","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Lynch isn't a genius, he's crazy.  I'm not saying his films are bad or low quality, but they're not Citizen Kane.  They're inspired works that are extremely creative, but not genius.  I found Eraserhead to be amusing and interesting, but certainly not the best film of all time like I have heard some say.  "},{"Title":"A Head Shaker!","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Eraserhead is to Lynch, as the baby is to Nance  a deformed product!  I must say I was sullenly depressed and morbidly fascinated watching this thing.  The soundtrack was very intrusive, glad I wasn't doing acid, woulda run me wacko! Definitely an acquired taste; some say there is a lot of symbolism, even in the title, well yes, just look at the shape of Nance's hair and you'll realize that you can turn him upside down and erase anything you write about this movie. Glad I didn't watch Naked Lunch right after this one.  I only saw it once and that's enough, will probably never view it again, except maybe to impishly watch others reactions (will make sure I'm drunk, so I can laugh at their angst - can just hear their innards crying out, Existence is so pointless!)  Liked Lynch's Elephant Man and Wild At Heart much more.  As for Lost Highway, I admit I got lost with the confused Pullman somewhere on that winding road; and as for Blue Velvet, it was OK, perhaps a little overrated with Hopper playing his typicalcrazyself; my fave actor in that flick was Dean Stockwell, one strange dude! "},{"Title":"I. . .I. . .er. . .alright.","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, I've never exactly considered myself a fan of David Lynch films.  Of the ones I've seen, I've enjoyed THE ELEPHANT MAN the most, perhaps because of the excellent performances by Hopkins and Hurt.  Though I found the scenes involving Merrick's mother to be a bit out-of-place in that film (and especially the final space-flight shot.  Seems like a man in the Victorian era would have no concept of movement through a starfield.) Anyway, onto ERASERHEAD.  I watched it because people told me it was the most original film of all time, and some even said the best.  While I believe that BLUE VELVET is a grossly overrated film, I feel that Lynch really makes an accomplishment here.  I didn't dislike this picture, really, and in fact was very impressed, at least on the technical levels.  Some of the shots were excellent, and even the puppetry was good. But what about the film?  I don't know.  It really does evoke some of the horrors of being alive, if not in a bit of hyperbole, but it reminds me of something that I can't seem to remember.  Lynch's statements here are nebulous, but that's not a bad thing.  The only thing that really makes me not love this film is that it lacks something that I find to be important in art subtlety.  I mean, I'm used to the idea of the insane world, both internal and external, and I prefer to see it portrayed in more stealthy ways.  But for the fan of surrealism, of grotesque, and of utter cinematic psychological horror, this is a well-done film.  So basically, I feel this is an acheivement, if nothing else, of style and craftsmanship, but not something I'd rave about.  Quite insane, though, and I do enjoy a bit of gorgonzola. "},{"Title":"?A Masterpiece?","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great example of people not looking back and things and saying whatever comes to their head...I hear people call this guy a genuis...it doesn't take much of a genuis to make incredibly bazaar (sp?) things. I mean actually take a step back and lets think about the movie...it's just nonsense. A man trying to express art in the form of a movie. Is it even art? Or is it just a man who was high on drugs trying to make a reasonable movie but is obviously failed as that! I think all of you that think this man is some sort of genuis better step back into reality and get back your senses. "},{"Title":"Didn't Get It","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very strange and disturbing film.  It left me feeling very depressed.  I had no idea what Lynch was trying to say and am not sure I want to know. Perhaps if I saw it again - but then, I really couldn't bare it. "},{"Title":"Have you ever had a nightmare ?","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's like watching someone's dream on the silver-screen. Dis-jointed, unsettling, eerie etc with the feeling that you need to get out of there, but can't until it has run its course. Recommended for artsy-fartsy or hardline horror fans only. "},{"Title":"the most demented film you will ever see","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nothing in this film makes any sense at all, and it is not interestingly strange but more boring strange. You have to be very determined to sit through this movie because there are so many things happening that have no point whatsoever.  "}{"Title":"like looking at a painting","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  eraserhead is a very strange movie.it is definitely not for everyone, as it is not like any other movie ever made. It can be interpreted any way the viewer feels, which is why it is possible to watch it multiple times. Masterfully directed, originally conceived and deeply symbolic, Eraserhead is one of my favourites. To watch it is like staring at a piece of art, and draw from it whatever you can. "},{"Title":"DO NOT WASTE 1 1/2 HOURS OF YOUR LIFE ON THIS FILM!!!","Date":"21 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the worst film EVER!! No talent (except the effects which are  alright), no relation to reality, and bad, yes BAD, direction lead to an  almost unwatchably awful film. I only sat all the way through beacause I  was waiting for an explanation. No plot, no point, no mercy. Even the title 's rubbish. "},{"Title":"dark and disturbing masterpiece","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Few films are as nightmarish and horrifying.  You will watch it several  times, despite the fact you may hate it, just to reassure yourself that  what you just saw actually happened and was not some freak hallucination.   Rent it widescreen, get the laserdisc, or see it in an art-house theater if  possible, because the first impression is very hellish indeed. --The SurgeBot "},{"Title":"The Art of Noise","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unlike most directors, who want to eliminate background noise, David Lynch racks it up here to make it a key character. It's also the driving essence of the film - from the mechanical thrumm of the industry nearby, to the singing radiator and to the baby crying continuously.Against this aural assault, in the grimy black and white of Lynch's darkest psyche, lie layer upon layer of absurdities and creepy oddities. Setting the scene is the tiny, claustrophobic room that the weirdly- haircutted Henry Spence (Jack Nance) inhabits, along with all its creepy idiosyncrasies, like the radiator that sings to him.Henry's girlfriend, Mary X lives with him and Henry gives her a child. This creature, partly the alien coming out of John Hurt's stomach in 'Alien' and half 'Little Otik', the tree-based part baby, part log from the Czech semi-animated film of the same name, could compete as the ugliest single thing you've ever seen. And win, no question.It demands constant attention but Mary X is too emotionally drained to look after it and so leaves Henry with the little, VERY ugly mite. Then it gets some sort of disease which made it look ten times uglier and horrific. From then on, it just seemed to get more and more weird, with more and more disturbing images.From about a third way in, I was questioning not just whether I actually wanted to watch this film now, but at all. From two thirds on, one atrocious bit turned into another and like having an injection at the dentist, all I could do was to just hang on until it stopped. I certainly don't consider myself a wuss, or a prude and can watch almost anything but this endurance test was just a bit too much.I give three stars as it certainly is ground-breaking, very different and daring. And for a debut piece that had huge problems getting funding ($20,000 for only a 20 page script - that actually grossed $7,000,000 - not a bad return!) it has to be admired. I then deleted it from my TV service provider's box that I had recorded it from The Horror channel - as I never want to see it ever again! "},{"Title":"An existentialist masterpiece","Date":"20 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is David Lynch's first full length feature film, made over three years with only $10 000. This is quite a effort as this film is much cheaper than Clerks and in a way is far superior. This film also launched David Lynch's career and he went on to make The Elephant Man, Dune, and Twin Peaks.The movie is very bleak and the synopsis is very strange. Des Managan did not bother to describe it, while a cult movie book wrote only a single line talking about its bleakness. It is not that the movie is not worth talking about though, rather the incredible intricacies of this movie leave it to the viewer to make his or her own interpretation. Des Mangan speaks of pointy headed intellectuals who try to push across a view point and says that he chooses not to go into a deep analysis as everybody is to make of this movie what they can. I will give a brief description of what I got from the movie, though I will touch upon aspects of another interpretation. I have included a link to a more detailed interpretation. I will simply look at what I see as the various themes in the movie One of the major themes in this movie seems to deal with relationship. Relationships form a major foundation of a lot of movies, and existentialist movies, such as this, show how fragile, or even impossible, they are. The main character, Henry, is alone in the movie. The impression you get from the first scene where he enters his flat is that he has no friends, and no true relationship. He is forced into a relationship through a pregnancy but this marriage is cold and emotionless, quite quickly it collapses with the wife walking out. It is not the attitude of Henry that destroys the marriage, but rather the baby that was spawned from the pregnancy. The baby plays a very major part of the movie; in fact it is the object upon which the whole movie revolves.To me, the spawn that is the baby symbolises the lose morality that destroys relationships. Though Henry at first does not admit it, we assume that he had sex with Mary and it is from this that the baby came. This seems to be a reaction against the loose morals from the sixties. The baby is thus a result of the destruction of the sanctity marriage. It is a baby born out of wedlock and thus is a freak, as such people are considered &#x96; the term bastard comes to mind. The baby itself is not evil, but it does drive Mary and Henry apart. Mary cannot take any more of it so she leaves, thus thrusting the responsibility upon Henry.This is another reaction against what the lose morals has created. Unwanted pregnancies burden people with unwanted babies, but generally only one person lands up with the baby, and that is usually the woman. Here the woman walks out leaving Henry with the baby, a corruption of what this world brings. Henry is the passive partner here where as Mary is the active. The roles of men and women are changing bringing a shift in the social order, and this is another idea that comes through. In this movie, the shift is complete, whereas in the 70's, when the movie was made, the shift was only beginning.Time has no meaning within this movie. Linear time does not exist and all the important events, such as the marriage, are squeezed out. In this movie, marriage no longer has any meaning, as such the wedding is ignored. The vowels mean nothing because Mary easily breaks them. The movie itself is not linear as we travel to a point where the marriage collapses, but after the marriage is still together. Further into the movie, Henry dies, only later to be alive. As such, linear time is not an important point in the movie and we are not to see it as such, rather the movie flows along a line of events. The importance of each of the events are put in order and thus the collapse of the marriage takes an earlier important, where a scene that occurs within the marriage takes its importance later. Thus the movie is like a retrospect, Henry looks back over his life and pulls the events into this order.The movie is also about the balance, one that can easily be over turned. A simple act of sex destroys the life of Henry. While Henry removes the baby's bandages at the end to discover that he has destroyed the delicate balance that held the baby together. Inside the baby is a living chicken, the same chicken seen during the dinner party at Mary's house. There the chicken was touched and it began spewing endless streams of blood; a similar thing happens with the baby at the end.Thus the idea of deceptions, and things not being what they seem, appears. The chicken appears dead, but is alive. The girl singer appears to be a girl, but really is a hideous man. She sings of heaven, a place you go at death, being a fine place, but the tone is dry and bleak, as if she does not really believe what she sings. Death does not bring happiness to Henry, instead he becomes an eraser. The meaning of life is nothing, but at least he makes a good eraser. "},{"Title":"Some value as a curio... but that's it.","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plenty of differing opinions out there about 'Eraserhead'. My own explanation about its significant cult following is that a great many of its fans took their lead from very positive comments made by other directors. Now, it's easy to imagine why it appeals so much to other film-makers it is a supremely self-indulgent piece and appears to have been produced without any directorial limitations whatsoever. For better or worse, Lynch's vision is there in all its unadulterated completeness.Little wonder that other directors find the whole thing so attractive. However, a regular cinema-goer invariably approaches a film with no such envy and need give no particular credit for such 'individualism' (other than a bit of a nod for originality maybe).Personally, whilst I am always positive about original features in film, I thought that beyond the surrealism and bizarreness, 'Eraserhead' delivers very little. "},{"Title":"Regrets and Realization","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Perhaps from the summary title you may be thinking that this review is an opinion of what the film is about. Well, you're wrong. In fact if you want an interpretation, look elsewhere. I haven't one.I actually passed up watching this film years ago due to the fact that some of my pot smoking friends thought it to be a work of genius. My reasoning was that if THEY thought it to be genius then it must be crap. After all, these were the ones who laughed hardest at Americas Home Videos just because someone got hit in the nads. So, based on this prejudice, I avoided this so-called work of art.Fast forward x amount of years later and I decided to give it a look. First off, I'm glad I did. Second, I did miss something but NOT for the reasons most pretentious reviewers will lie about. For one, the movie is interesting. It is campy and off the wall which is why I regret missing it so many years ago. Outside of that, I find no meaning whatsoever in the film. As I understand it, this film took over five years to make, however it was not due to the depth of meaning but rather the shallowness of funding. And after viewing, and bearing in mind the context of the time I can see why no one wanted to back its production. It would have only been of interest to either pretentious film students or pot smoking friends such as mine.Now to the bread and butter. Yes, I did like it. I liked it for the camp and bizarre awkwardness of the characters and sickness displayed. As for art, meaning and genius...not so much. Why? Its not there. Not even Lynch can or will explain it. If there is any genius to this film it is in Lynch's vagueness about it that gives it an aura of depth that only a film student or critic can act like they get in order to promote the work. "},{"Title":"Weirdness Exmeplified","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is the first feature length film from writer/director David Lynch, who has brought us Blue Velvet and Mulholland Dr. While I have heard great things about both of those films and Mr. Lynch in general, this was the first of his movies that I took the time to watch. If I only had one word to describe this movie, it would be bizarre. One type of movie that I am always a huge fan of is bizarre, but this film took it way over the edge. It took the weirdness so far that it distracted from the plot which there was not much of anyway. David Lynch has gone on record as saying that no one has ever gotten the true meaning of the film and that he likes it that way.Jack Nance starred as Henry Spencer, a man living among many peculiar people, who must learn to survive after his child is born as a deformed mutant. In a very Stanley Kubrick manner, the first ten and a half minutes of the film were silent. Throughout the film, there were cut scenes of a woman with a deformed face singing and dancing. It was unclear whether this was a ploy to show Spencer's unraveling sanity or not; however, all I obtained from it was a very uncomfortable moment. To add to this, it has been reported that Lynch used a dead calf to portray Spencer's baby, making this movie all the more unsettling. It was shot entirely in black-and-white, causing it to appear much older than it really was.At the end of this film, I felt incredibly creeped out. It took disturbing to a whole new level but not in a good way. All of the characters had extremely strange mannerisms and some were just scary looking. This movie came out in 1976, so for the special effects to have spooked me is nothing short of impressive. If David Lynch was attempting to create a movie so weird and disconcerting that viewers do not understand the plot and get nothing out of the movie yet feel almost violated by the oddities, then he did a great job. When taking everything in the movie into consideration, it appears that maybe this was his goal. The black-and-white camera-work, the troubling storyline, the calf corpse, and the woman with the deformed and engorged cheeks singing all seem to come together solely to create the chills moving up your spine. After seeing this movie, George Lucas and Mel Brooks offered Lynch directorial positions, and Stanley Kubrick even named it as one of his favorite movies. Lynch turned down Lucas's offer of directing Return of the Jedi, and instead directed The Elephant Man, which Brooks had presented to him.In conclusion, all I can say is that I would not suggest this movie. At all. I respect Lynch's first attempt at a full length movie, and I saw several redeeming directorial attributes throughout. As I said above, his camera work and lack of dialogue remind one very much of Stanley Kubrick and cause you to focus much more on the character's actions and mannerisms. He also seemed to very successfully show you things without explaining them (i.e. the deformed woman singing), which is always useful in making a movie more thought provoking as it inspires the viewer to contemplate meanings behind visual sequences. So, if you are a fan of having to think very hard about what a movie means and being put off by some of the visuals, then this would be a great film for you to watch. Some would argue that it laid the stepping stones for some great psychological thrillers of this decade, such as The Machinist and Christopher Nolan's Memento. I will be completely willing to watch some of his other films, for instance Blue Velvet and Mulholland Drive as they have received much better reviews overall. Despite all of these things, this movie was much too strange for my taste. It looks as if I may be mostly alone in this deliberation though. "},{"Title":"I would hate to live in David Lynch's Head but visiting is OK","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just finished watching this movie for the first time. I have also seen his somewhat more conventional movie Blue Velvet several years ago. I have wanted to see this film Eraserhead for over 20 years. I first heard about it when it was making the art house circuit in Portland, Oregon where I was a graduate student. It surpasses even Ingmar Bergman for essential weirdness in some of his films. With Bergman one chalks it up to Scandinavian angst and depression perhaps. (What would you do if the winters were so long and dark and you had nothing to keep you warm except Calvinist theology?) Maybe I am depressed myself, maybe that is the reason I was willing to sit through it. I have a theory that people who like weird and depressing movies are themselves depressed. There is something cathartic about watching movies featuring individuals going through horrific experiences. You begin to realize you own life ain't that bad.I guess that is the nature of Art and the visual artist seldom will put into words what in the world he was thinking when he made this or that work of art. It would be the ultimate spoiler and perhaps he couldn't do so if he tried. Can we explain our own nightmares or dreams without doing them an injustice? This is what happened in the movie (or so it seemed to me) (the spoiler part)It opens with Jack Nance (whom I guessed was Eraserhead because of his unusual hair) a fattish young man with frizzy hair with his foot caught on a dead desiccated animal stuck on a wire. He goes home to his dark depressing apartment, decorated by a dead plant sitting in a pile of dirt on a nightstand. Bare fluorescent bulbs light the room. His girlfriend's parents have invited him to dinner. He wanders through a landscape of howling industrial noise and steam pipes. At dinner his girlfriend's mother prepares the dinner which appears to be Cornish game hens. He is served one but finds that it bleeds profusely when cut into, and kicks its legs. Meanwhile Grandma is in the kitchen, can't or won't move her arms, (apparently catatonic) but is still able to have a cigarette.He and his girlfriend live in the same apartment and have had a baby which looks like something out of Alien or E.T. It cries constantly. The girlfriend can't stand it and since Eraserhead is on vacation she leaves the baby with him. Eraserhead goes to sleep and has a dream in which he sees this blonde woman with huge lumpy cheeks dancing on a stage, taking care to squish these worm-like creatures slithering about. She sings a little song with the words In Heaven, everything is okay Eraserhead in the dream approaches the woman and his head pops off and lands in the middle of the stage. Blood gushes from his beheaded body and then the Alien head grows up out of it. Lying in a pool of blood, his head suddenly gets sucked through the floor and lands outside in the street upside down. A little boy sees it and runs up and grabs it and takes it to a little shop where the attendant rings for the manager, who shows up and yells at the attendant. They then go into a side room. At this point Eraserhead wakes up. The thing baby is swaddled tightly and only its long slimy neck and its head show. Eraserhead takes some scissors and cuts off the swaddling to reveal its internal organs. The baby's insides start sprouting oatmeal and we fade to black. "},{"Title":"A Real test of Patience!","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's accept the fact that this is one of the most notoriously bizarre, weird and idiotic films ever made, we cannot deny that it made an impact on experimental cinema. If we were to believe that this film is nothing more than psychedelic fodder for abnormal or curious minds then we are discarding it, perhaps exalting it to an avant gard status. Is it just random imagery shown for shock value sake? Was David Lynch some goof ball in his youth that he was just some fool who embarked on a five year project, which isn't anything better than someone showing weird people and weird things just to discover what the reaction would be? Likely. But I think it's a bit of that and more.Eraserhead, in itself, is often boring, engrossing, drab, quirky, freakish and grotesque. The real crime here is that it absolutely refuses to explain itself and leaves you impatient and angry, but awaiting anxiously what will happen next. It's not suspense. Because suspense will clue you in to what will happen. In Eraserhead, you have no idea what will happen at the next moment. And we are at the beginning of our frustration with this movie. It has virtually no plot, minimal dialogue and just seems to venture into its own indulgent surrealistic voyage with uncompromising willfulness.But it somehow works through its convoluted logic. Yes, Eraserhead is a movie that will spawn reactions, both positive and negative. But this movie is likely to give art students ideas. And strange minds will likely be attracted to it. I happen to admire it. I don't admire it for its result, but rather the effort put into it. Any film maker should remark that a lot of effort and work went into this production, regardless of the budget. Five years is a long time and quite a sacrifice to have such a modest payoff. Lynch took a gamble with this movie, and I praise him for that. It is evident that after watching it we come across some elaborate sets and special effects. I'm not here to defend the film, but rather the painstaking work of David Lynch for having dedicated himself to such a torrid and abominable piece of art. "}{"Title":"Yikes!","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't give this film all it deserves because I was completely unable to watch it all the way through. I made it up to the point when his woman walks out on him, leaving that horrible thing wailing in the dark. I have never felt so unclean in my life. I do give it credit for being the most hideous thing I've ever had to watch, and the cinematography is very good. I'm sure I will be forgiven for ripping the disc out of my player and sending back immediately. I do believe it's Art, and it deserves to be hailed as such, but I just can't watch it. I love horror and art films, but I guess this one hit way, way too close to something in me that I'd rather not know about. Rent it if you must, but don't say you weren't warned. "},{"Title":"Film of the 20th century","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch's first feature is a psychotic nightmare set in a dark, industrial world where the constant whirling and grinding of the ambiance is enough to drive you to the edge of sanity, let alone the screams of the protagonist's mutation of a child or the lady that lives inside of his radiator or, in one of the film's most memorable scenes, the loss of his head (before it is concentrated down to form pencil erasers. And if you think that that explains the title, you're only just getting there). David Lynch's world is like nothing before it, introducing, with Jodorowsky's El Topo, 'the Midnight Movie', and while it influenced established directors like Kubrick, nothing has been committed to colloid since that comes close to what Eraserhead achieved in 1977. But behind the glass, soot and dirt and underneath its dream-like ambiguity hides a very simple film, with one simple theme. The fear of parenthood. Perhaps.In what might be reality or nightmare (or both) Henry Spencer (played by Jack Nance, who would go on to act in most of Lynch's films until his death in 1996) makes brilliant use of the sparsely written screenplay, delivering a solid performance based on almost the use of facial expression alone. And while he carries most of the film on his back, that's not to say that the supporting cast don't do a brilliant job too, Allen Job as Mr. X in particular adds an extra level of eccentricity to the already bizarre script ('We've got chicken tonight. Strangest damn things. They're man made. Little damn things. Smaller than my fist. But they're new. Hi, I'm Bill.') while Charlotte Stewart managers to deliver perfectly the most disturbingly enigmatic line ever-uttered in cinema ('Mother, they're still not sure it is a baby!') upon Henry's discovery that he is a father. But the real star of Lynch's sick show must be the baby. For Eraserhead to work Lynch had to, with the very limited budget he had, create something that perfectly captured Henry's disdain and confusion towards his newfound responsibility that came with his child. Here Lynch does not only accomplish this but he creates something so disturbing in Henry's premature baby that it will stay with you long after the credits role. Shaped like what one can only assume an aborted ET would look like, Lynch has remained typed lipped about how he created it since the film's release, but strong rumours suggest it was an actual calf foetus, adding even more to the thick air of mystery already surrounding the film. It's a testament to Lynch's skills that the baby is still as shocking today as when the film was first released.While a lot of people may dismiss Eraserhead for its lack of coherent narrative, this would be foolish, as even though the film relies heavily on Dali/Bunuel imagery and dream logic, it is far from the puzzles Lynch would later create (Muholland Drive, Lost Highway and INLAND EMPIRE in particular) and, in my mind at least, runs in a linear manner, thus making the understanding of Henry's decent into murder a little easier to understand then the study of some other surrealists. That's not to say that the plot holds one single, definite meaning, to one person Lynch's story maybe a tale of a man's decent into suicide, to another it's a study of life and death and what happens in the space afterwards and to a third person, a story of an alien visitor, lost on an alien world. The last one, metaphorically, maybe the closest to the truth.Lynch's characterisation and direction is flawless and Henry's situation in life is reflected perfectly in the slow camera movement and symbolism, most notably when we are shown the view from his bedroom window &#150; a brick wall. Like the baby there are certain images in Eraserhead that will stay with you for the rest of your life, the 'Beautiful Girl Across the Hall' and her and Henry's embrace in what appears to be a bath of milk, the bloodied stepping upon of giant sperm and of course Henry's head falling off and landing in a random street are but a few. The black and white visuals not only aid the nightmarish reality of Henry's situation and show off the brilliant lighting, but give the film such a timeless feel that it will still be the same experience for decades to come. This is helped tenfold by the fact that even though surreal, Lynch's film taps into the realist and strongest of human emotions as its run it's course to bloody climax and then stays with you for days where it, like The Lady in Radiator, draws you back, beckoning you back into it's world. In Heaven, everything is fine. Lynch's visual poetry exhibits what should be done in cinema, in a world filled with the generic blockbuster. It uses the medium to its full strength and in that sense Eraserhead demonstrates what film should be about, creating a piece of art that has only been possible since 1895 and is only possible with the power of a camcorder. It is pure cinema and a pure masterpiece. Whether you hate it or fall in love with it, there is no denying that Lynch's hypnotic imagery makes you feel as you've woken from the deepest dream/nightmare you have ever dreamt and for that experience it is worth viewing alone. But once you've seen it once, Eraserhead can only be seen again and again. And with a film as frightening, strange and alarming as this, that is a real achievement. Jamie Panton "},{"Title":"The Greetings From the 20s Artists","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" EraserheadThis contains some spoilers.I was expecting this movie to be slick, unpleasant and uncomfortable for the thought. That was a result of familiarity with the other Master's works. My first acquaintance with him and love was the Twin Peaks TV series. I was twelve and watched it in petto, so, I missed a number of episodes. What I saw was confusing, but fascinating, like some violent and mystic fairy tale for the grown-ups. I honestly believed that I didn't get it simply because I hadn't seen all the series. Silly me. In fact, years later, when I saw all the episodes, the questions brought me just to the more academic ones.So, this time, watching Eraserhead, I was equipped with non-susceptibility intricacy-wise &#150; my credo being never get surprised no matter what, no matter how hard He tries. From this point of view movie seemed a little boring, but still I couldn't resist a certain charm of Lynch's that is peculiar to everything He touches. The picture is dark and has a smell of a mould. Existentialistic moods, the early stuff, I would say &#150; the cinematographic materialization of Kamyu's Sickness &#150; the sickness, or the landscape that makes you physically sick. But Kamyu's man was going to his mother's funeral, while the Lynch's one &#150; to meet the parents of his girlfriend. Everything here is designed to shock you. Everything, but the baby. The baby is absolutely normal. What is interesting, some critics say the baby is a mutant, but do they think so in the movie? They treat it like a normal child &#150; feed it, talk to it, and the child acts like a normal one &#150; screams, gets sick and plays up. OK, it looks ugly, but it looks so to us, how do we know how it looks to them? Or how do we know, that we see what it IS, and not what Henry and his wife SEE it to be? The answer is &#150; we don't know that. The child is bald, big-headed and nasty. Babies are usually such. Or they are such to Lynch, Henry, etc. They didn't need that baby, didn't want it, it caused some troubles to their lives, it changed them for worse, it took their sleep away (actually, this list of pains all the babies bring) - they are definitely not happy with it, so it IS UGLY TO them.This dimension of the movie raises everyday life misfortunes and reflects social consciousness of some family issues. Everything that concerns society and social perception is more or less clear and familiar (like the marriage she -doesn't - want thing). But when it comes to personal visions and submergence you fall into the jack rabbit's hole. Talking about horror effect, the Lady in Radiator is brilliant. She is the most terrible and terrifying thing I have ever seen, but you like her! You can't take your eyes from her, she has a mesmerizing effect of some unknown power. It is disgust, shock, interest, confusion, acid in the mouth, fear, desperation, and paralysis that you feel all at once, almost physically in your body. Her song is just continuing what her dance started &#150; but now she gets the total possession of your mind &#150; the rhythm sticks to you and you can't get it off your head even hours later. In the end, I'd like to point the stunning work at spec effects - the baby is made perfectly, and you don't have a clue, how &#150; you can tell it's alive, a real alive repulsive creature. So, I can't say, that I liked the movie. Like wouldn't be the word, I don't usually like the movies like that. I don't really have a word for the feeling this masterpiece gives me. What is more, I can hardly call it a movie per se. It's rather a picture. Yes, an alive, moving picture by an artist of some Dadaist or Surrealist circle of the 30s. Now, I feel all the absurdity of a try to explain it &#150; surrealism, cubism, even impressionism, - you have to feel them. Once I had a discussion with a literate individual on Malevich's Black Square. After an hour of my speech, he says he still doesn't understand it, and won't understand it until he hears a SCIENTIFIC explanation. The moment he said that I knew I was wasting my time &#150; What a jerk, - I said to myself, - when on earth art needed scientific explanations?. The attempt to analyze Lynch now reminds me of that talk, and now it's me who acts like my thickheaded friend then. You can't catch the elusive. You can't UNDERSTAND it. You can only SEE it. That's why the Master himself never explained it &#150; because it's not for understanding, it's for seeing your own, unique eraserhead. "},{"Title":"No masterpiece","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch films keep getting better and better. This early effort is difficult to follow like many of his other films (Lost Highway), is darker (Blue Velvet) and is patchy. Recently, I saw Mulholland Drive which is an awesome improvement on any other film he has made and one of the best this century to date. Eraserhead is more of a collage of disturbing images and sequences than most normal films with a free flowing plot and theme.I don't think Lynch had a premise with this film and wanted the audience to develop their own story from these images and and sequences. I didn't bother to conceive of what this film could mean. I didn't enjoy it enough it really was a waste of time viewing it, although some parts are memorable. I will never forget Henry and Marie's disfigured child or the dinner which moved and oozed blood. Why? Because it was both funny and shocking in its own way which is rare.I believe it is about lower class people losing their moral values, hope, faith and even sanity in a decaying society. The industrial setting, for me gave the film a British feel, I imagined it to be Manchester in the 1930s - 1950s.Overall the solution to this jig saw puzzle is don't take your anything you value in life for granted because life can be much worse. This is in hindsight, the film possessed no emotional stimulation and did not provoke any thoughts. "},{"Title":"Eraserhead is an expedition","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is an expedition. An expedition into the deepest depths of the darkest part of your darkest nightmare. If you can stand the tension of this film, which is a constant feeling of uncertainty, than you will walk away with a valuable life lesson; It could always be worse. This movie is the purest form of film making, and the reason for the film? To make the viewer experience art. It's not to often you can see a film and experience exactly what the film maker intended you to feel. If you have not seen this great play in perversion ,than go rent it. And lastly, please bring back the midnight films. Our country needs a place to sit back, light up, and enjoy a crazy film like Eraserhead or El Topo. "},{"Title":"This is a story about several oppressive ordeals people put themselves and others threw in a world that perpetuates it.","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie turned me on to surrealistic directors. This has to be the most phantasmagorical of all Lynch's movies. Having seen it several times, I realize that it is the essence of a Lynch film. One can try to explain it and try to understand it but as soon as you grasp one aspect or one meaning to the film you quickly realize that there is in fact more then one goal to the film. Like all of his films this is one that you can watch over and over again, like a classic painting, rediscovering it every time you see it. I found it more disturbing then his other films as far as freaky gross things are concerned. It being in black and white makes it even creepier. Not to forget that the basic story line is disturbing on its own. I appreciated the acting, the characters were way out there! I think it's brilliant, just remember it's a Lynch movie. "},{"Title":"In heaven everything is fine !!!","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lych's Eraserhead is a strange, surreal and nightmarish masterpiece. The monster baby is sooo creepy and disturbing, that it makes the viewing experience difficult. Until this day Lynch will never tell how the baby was created for the film. The story concerns Henry Spencer (Jack Nance), a clergyman with a fro like hairstyle. He seems to be stuck in a bleak and dark environment of abandoned buildings and decayed streets. Henry enjoys a strange dinner gathering with his girlfriend Mary and her family. Well sort of, until the roasted chicken on the dinner plate comes to life. Then he finds out that Mary was pregnant and had a premature baby. O.K babies aren't too bad. But this is no typical baby. It's a hideous, crying, screeching embryo, penis type creature covered in bandages. Freaky!!! And of course who could forget the singing girl in the radiator. She sort of represents a peace of mind state. Eraserhead is full of strange images and was made when David Lynch was living in a slum section of Philly as an unplanned father. So the film seems to be symbolic for the fear of parenting. Watch Eraserhead with caution, because it will haunt you forever! "},{"Title":"4 out of 10","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My favorite band is Tool. This may seem like an irrelevant fact to my review of Eraserhead, but it will come into play. I knew about the cult of David Lynch and I had already seen The Elephant Man, which I thought was excellent, even though I knew The Elephant Man is not like his other films, I decided to see this. My parents told me this was the worst movie they had ever seen, but I decided to see it since it was already on my Netflix queue.Back to the review. Tool came out in the 1990s and Eraserhead came out in 1977. Tool's music videos are haunting and disturbing and magnificent. They also have very great heavy metal music. This movie is almost psychic. It's like it tried to be a Tool music video, without the artiness or heavy metal music. It seemed like a toned down version for the kids. This movie is a pretentious, attempting to be disturbing piece of crap. Watch a Tool music video instead. "},{"Title":"Early Lynch Masterpiece","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Strange,confusing,shocking,beautiful,hard to look at but even harder not to,experimental,surrealistic,hallucinating,mind boggling,psychedelic,industrial,Jack Nance,David Lynch,early work,his best work,MASTERPIECE!Best to explain Eraserhead is to watch it.A review is almost impossible to give since it's so strange. Still,the acting by Lynch actor Jack Nance and the hallucinating soundtrack make it an unforgettable experience.The greatest surreal film since Bunuel's short masterpiece Un Chien Andalou.I've seen quite a few Lynch films and this is my favorite.A definite must see for everyone loving film! "},{"Title":"One of my favorites, but hard to recommend...","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have watched this movie well over 20 times in the past 20 years and grabbed the David Lynch DVD of the film as soon as it came out.  This is indeed one of the icons of cult movie making and one of my top 10.  The problem is that, it is almost unwatchable on first viewing.  It took me three or four tries to get through the entire movie back in the early 80s.  Also, I would not recommend anything except an excellent reproduction such as the Lynch DVD in order to make out all the details in the sometimes grainy B&W.  Thus rentals don't work out here.  If you are a committed fan of unusual films, give it a try.  What is the allure of this film?  First, it's dreamlike quality.  Second, Jack Nance's performance as the main character Henry.  Third, Henry's interaction with the baby, which moves from puzzlement to annoyance, then fear and finally extreme hatred.  Upon multiple viewings, it does start to exhibit its own logic, but insisting on this is like saying that a dream is only interesting if it makes sense.  Is it entertaining?  Yes, I reached that point somewhere around the 10th to 15th viewing.  This is a bit of a commitment.  Try watching Elias Merhige's Begotten first and Eraserhead won't seem nearly as strange.  "}{"Title":"Nightmarish","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ever have one of those dark, bizarre nightmares that aren't necessarily terrifying, but are deeply disturbing, uncomfortable while they are going on, and don't seem to make a lot of sense once you wake up?  This movie is basically that, put to film.  "},{"Title":"Funnier The Second Time Around","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time you see this it's so dark (literally and metaphorically) and disturbing you can't help but be overwhelmed by confusion and a sense of what it means to be insane.  The second time around, it seemed to me to be a laugh riot (the scene where Mary is trying so hard to pull that suitcase out from under the bed especially stands out as it made me laugh so hard I almost cried).  Another great set of scenes is when Henry first gets treated to dinner at Mary's house.  Her smiling idiot father with the man-made chickens and bum arm is a comic gold-mind.  This is essentially a black comedy about a slightly disturbed young man's inability to deal with impending fatherhood and husbandhood and the effect that living in a decrepit urban hell (Lynch lived in squalor in the worst section of Philadelphia with his first wife and baby daughter while making this classic romp) has on his escapist fantasies (love that girl with the cotton candy cheeks singing in the radiator).  Takes on some qualities of a dream (in heaven everything is fine) and Lycnh fanatics should scream with delight at being able to spot the origins of all his usual tricks (curtains, electrical disturbances, stages, mystery women, hightened sound effects, ambient music, etc...) that have been used over and over again in his later classics.  The epitome of uncanny and a hoot if you read into it rightly (quite rightly). "},{"Title":"erg?!?!?!?","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i saw this film as an attempt to find out what all the fuss was about but came away with less knowledge then when i started. i found the basic plotline easy enough to digest but the pure confusion caused by, for lack of a better word, wierdness to much to bear and ended up feeling that my IQ had gone down more than a few points and a bit intimidated into saying, watching or doing anything ever again! "},{"Title":"A Strange and Funny Dream about Fear of Commitment","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The thing I find most odd about the many comments about this movie (other than many of them being so recently made), is that they all miss the humor of Eraserhead!  Jack Nance's Henry Spencer is the perfect schmuck, a guy whom nothing goes right for.  And in David Lynch's world, that is a very dangerous thing to be!  Here are listed a few of the humorous moments or incidents in the movie . . . .(SPOILER WARNING)The scene with Nancy X's parents is almost all humor (until the menstruating chicken at the end, that is), from Henry's approach (when he's scared by a barking dog), to the yelling of Mrs. X at her husband (Bill!), to the conversation (What do you do? Oh, I'm on vacation.), to the accusation and Mary's reaction (They're not even sure it is a baby!).The Erasherhead scene  this dream sequence is part disturbing, part humorous.  It gives me the biggest laugh of the movie, when the kid goes to the eraser factory or whatever it is, and the guy at the counter starts pushing that buzzer -- over and over and over!  Slam! the door opens and that big guy comes in, points his finger and bellows OKAY, PAUL!!!!  I still laugh when I think of that moment.The suitcase under the bed  when Mary leaves Henry, she tries to get her suitcase from under the bed, and has to yank for about 30 seconds before she gets it to come free.  Her pathetic frustration is really funny, as is Henry's reaction to her jerking the bed around.The seduction  Where's your wife? asks the woman from across the hall. I'm not sure.  I think she went back to her parents again.  The ultimate schmuck can't even keep track of his wife (though I think this part is another of Henry's dreams)!The sleeping with the new wife scene  her eye squeaks when she rubs it, and she hogs the bed.  Move over.  Move OVER!These are the most humorous parts of the movie to me.  Admittedly, the Lady in the Radiator, and the baby-thing, are disturbing and dark parts of the movie; the last scenes especially, with the baby-thing being stabbed and then mutating into a giant grotesquerie are the nightmare side of this dream.  But don't forget the humor!I must confess that I am a total David Lynch fan.  My favorite thing to say when talking about him is David Lynch is the greatest living American filmmaker.  I would say the greatest in the world, (living), but I don't see enough foreign movies to accurately judge if there's anyone better somewhere else.  Eraserhead, with its slow pacing (a style, or trademark, he would finally return to in Lost Highway and Mulholland DR), use of dreams and darkness, and emphasis on the dark corners of our existence, is the first of many masterpieces from David Lynch.Final note  I don't know if there is a DVD of this movie, but I have a laserdisc of it (a Japanese import), which is the best way to see this movie, as many of the darkest scenes (especially the one which seems to have been shot in almost total darkness, where Henry rubs at a piece of lint on his robe or pajamas) have poor contrast quality when seen on videotape. So look for that laserdisc if you are a Lynch fan (and get a laserdisc player, obviously, since there probably isn't a DVD of this movie -- though the Japanese might have made one; they seem to be the only ones who really realize, in a large way, what a genius David Lynch is). "},{"Title":"This film is awful","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lets get this straight from the start I have never seen a David Lynch film I like, don't get me wrong its not that i only like a certain kind of film usually the weirder the better I love Reqium for a dream and Ring the Japenese horror, I brought Eraserhead on DVD and have watched it once, and it was the biggest waste of time ever, I was expecting weird, but the film was dismal depressing and basically thats was it's best bits. I understand the film and even the symbolism, but don't worry yourselves about it as it all means nothing and will not make you a better person for watching it.Please do not watch this film.Thank You phew I feel a lot better now "},{"Title":"strange world?","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  film portrays henry who lives in an industrial town, where one day he finds out that his ex girlfriend who had a baby which was deformed ok in this situation think if you had a deformed baby what would go through your mind? yes of course that explains why henry has been seeing strange views. In Heaven Everything Is Fine yes henry has been seeing these vision because henry wished if he died he would't live life like he is living in the film. "},{"Title":"A one-of-a-kind kind of thing. (10 out of 10)","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those rare movies that will polarize almost all who watch it.  You'll really, really love it, or you'll really, really, and I mean, really, hate it.Love might not be the right word.  I consider it an amazing film, but this is not a movie that one can exactly love.  ERASERHEAD creeps into you and does damage to you; the people who hate it don't just indifferently dislike it.  They genuinely resent this movie.  I saw one comment (which I feel safe in quoting, since many others will say this as well) which said that two hours of their life had been wasted on this film and they wanted it back.  I smiled in recognition, since a friend of mine had said exactly the same thing after watching it several years ago.As a personal opinion let me say that it is a worthy heir to the surrealist films of Dali and Bunuel, and has a focused intensity that even their collaborative films lacked.  (This is the purest, most focused work Lynch has done.  He has interesting passages in all of his films, but overall only BLUE VELVET comes close.)There's no point trying to intrigue anyone into watching this movie, so let me just say that you should be prepared for a slowly-paced film, that the black-and-white photography is inarguably beautiful, that the imagery is (genuinely; I can't think of another live-action film like it) unique, that the sounds are very unsettling, and that no matter what you think of it, you'll always remember it.  And if you hate it, don't blame me. "},{"Title":"strange ???","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just have to say that Eraserhead is a very very strange movie ...I suppose it´s a reflection of David Lynch´s brain. I´m not disliking Lynch other films but this one is much too strange to be called a good movie. The only thing that lifts this movie is the set. It has a really good set environment. I´m happy to know that Lynch hasn´t become a worse moviemaker since his first movie. "},{"Title":"I haaaaaated this movie","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Eraserhead' is nauseating without motive, dank for the sake of it, an ordeal with nothing to make it worthwhile. It makes the mistake of depressing and repelling you not because you identify or feel sorry for the characters in their crappy situation, but because it's such an ugly, stagnant, miserable, boring movie. It uses shock tactics without giving you a single good reason why you're being shocked. It tries to fake you into negative emotions without the movie backing up its intentions. I didn't feel as if I was watching this movie so much as being infected by it.It's set in a desolate and run down city in which Henry Spencer (John Nance) lives an unhappy existence. He steps in a puddle. Oh no. Isn't life tough? Henry mopes off to have dinner with his girlfriend Mary (Charlotte Stewart) and her parents (Joanne Bates, Allen Joseph), where it's revealed that she's pregnant. On the menu are little chickens, which waggle their legs and ooze black goo in what I'm sure is a very meaningful way. Then Mary's mum licks Henry's face. Blimey, this must all add up to something. Pretty soon the baby is born, and it turns out to be a slimy mutant that cries incessantly. Then Mary packs her bags and heads home, leaving Henry with only the baby, his next-door neighbour and the lady behind the radiator for company. I checked the counter on my DVD player, and this stuff took about a month to happen. Here's the dialogue in one scene 'Was there any mail?' 'No.' That scene lasts for three days.Breathing space is fine, a slow burn is fine, deliberate pacing is fine. That's all fine. But there needs to be reason for it other than torturing your audience. 'Eraserhead' doesn't use silence and a slow pace to any particular end, it's just agonisingly slow. Shots will start with a dreary silence drilling into your head before anything happens, then end the same way. The nothingness hangs so heavy in the air that my neck started aching, then I got irritated, then I got angry. I can sit through a bad movie if I have to, but please, not one that grinds on like this. There is no reason whatsoever for the pace to be this slow. Shot after shot establishes itself, then just sits there, unchanging, for an unreasonably long time. I really hated this film. It took five years to make, and twice as long to watch. Both experiences were an astonishing waste of time.The direction of the actors borders on embarrassing, and their one-note performances cross that border. Everyone talks. Very. Very. Slowly. They move. Even. Slower. They take an age to say anything, and when something does eventually crawl out of their mouths, it's unutterably dull. There's a lot of staring. Nance has one expression, and he's not afraid to use it. His sucking-a-lemon brand of worrying starts grating after about, ooh, two minutes. The next door neighbour (Judith Anna Roberts), what's she there for? Not a lot, I'm afraid. As it all dragged on at this unbearable pace, with these tedious actors, it made me miserable. If it had made me miserable for some purpose, I could have lived with it. But all this misery, despair, moaning, bleakness - for what? A headache and irritation that ground my teeth to dust, that's what.I know I'm repeating myself, but let me just finish by repeating myself &#x96; 'Eraserhead' depressed and angered me because it's an amazingly boring, ugly, miserable, unbearable, overlong, grindingly slow dullard. This is the kind of film you want to plead with. Why are you so boring? How can you take so long to tell this story? Why should I care about a single thing that's happening? Why is that guy staring at the radiator for what seems like ten minutes? Please, please, just stop killing my brain, shut the hell up and quit with the monotonous gooey imagery, you crushingly awful movie. Why did I spend eighty minutes of my life watching this ghastly film? "},{"Title":"Refuse this refuse","Date":"2 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Strangeness and randomness have the potential for excellence when done intelligently; see Repo Man for an example. At the other end of the spectrum, we have THIS steaming pile of crap. YES, I know what ART is, but I also know what GARBAGE is, and the difference is not always just a subjective matter of taste. NO, it's not mavericky; it only exists to be shown to first-year film students as an example of everything they should AVOID, so don't go looking for artfully subtle meanings and nuances where there are none.Second star given for SOME decent cinematography, despite being overwhelmed by the otherwise complete lack of entertainment value. Even if this had been my very first foray into video production, I would have burned it out of embarrassment. I would rather die young and broke as a never-been than to live long and wealthy with THIS poo splattered on my resume. "}{"Title":"Almost impossible to do justice in a few words.","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is set in some dark, noisy & dirty industrial city where Henry Spence (Jack Nance) lives in a small apartment on his own, the utter banality of his existence is frightening. Invited over to his girlfriends (Charlotte Stewart) house Henry is told by her mother (Jeanne Bates) that her daughter has given birth to his child, she expects the two married very soon & the baby to be picked up from the hospital. Henry discovers that his baby is a mutant that screams constantly, the constant noise & pressure gets to Henry's girlfriend she leaves him & the baby to go back home to live with her parents. Left alone with his wailing baby in his cramped little apartment life & fatherhood becomes almost unbearable for Henry...Written, produced & directed by David Lynch who also gets production designer, sound effects, special effects, editing & original music credits many consider Eraserhead as some sort of classic, some sort of modern surreal masterpiece oozing with metaphors & deep symbolism but I really can't see where those opinions come from. Eraserhead is the sort of film that really does defy description or categorisation as it's one of a kind, not meant as a typical straight forward film with a linear story that can be understood easily Eraserhead is hard to interpret & seems like one long surreal dream full of symbols & metaphors for everyday life & it's the way you subconsciously interpret these images & metaphors that will ultimately decide how much you get from Eraserhead. Unfortunately for me I just thought Eraserhead was a random collection of seemingly unconnected weirdness that never came together in any meaningful way & if I have to think about the meaning or message of a film or even something as basic as what's it's about then the artsy symbolism & surrealist nonsense has probably gone over my head & as a whole the film wasn't obviously for me. For a film like Eraserhead to work you need to associate the surrealism & metaphors with something tangible & I didn't, I just thought Eraserhead was a mess of scenes & images that overall meant nothing to me.Maybe the single biggest cult film of all time Eraserhead is definitely worthy of it's notoriety, filmed in black and white with barely any dialogue & nothing in the way of standard narrative for an audience to grip onto Eraserhead isn't an easy watch. From piles of dirt on Henry's dresser to a bizarre scene where an old woman starts singing & dancing while giant sperm rain down which she them tramples to when Henry's head falls off & is replaced by his mutant babies to a general weirdness & unease that the not quite right normality it has. Apparently shot over five years as & when first time director Lynch got some money Eraserhead is amazingly well made considering it's low budget with a really crisp & clean look about it, sure it's weird but it's also stylish & nice to look at. Two years into filming original cinematographer Herbert Cardwell died in his sleep & was replaced by Frederick Elmes for the rest of the shoot.Shot on a budget of about $20,000 Eraserhead is incredibly well made with great special effects & some mildly gross-out scenes of mutant babies, decapitated heads & giant sperm. The acting is pretty good & quite intense although there's barely any dialogue & the character's are never fleshed out.Eraserhead is hailed as some sort of cult classic that I admit just went over my head, I thought it was a boring mess of a film with scenes of surrealist weirdness that to me didn't mean anything. I didn't get it, so what? Life is too short to spend hours thinking & analyzing a film, isn't it? "},{"Title":"Erased it","Date":"2 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The plot... well, yes... the plot. A rag-tag geek working at a printing house gets his girl pregnant. With a mutant dinobaby. Pressured by her parents (who like eating miniature dancing cooked chickens from Peter Gabriel's Sledgehammer for dinner) the two marry. However the freakoid baby is too much for her, hence she jumps ship, and lets our hero take care of the munchkin (yeah... like that's a likely scenario). Soon after he goes crazy and turns into an eraser, cuz being a father does that to you. Plus his kid turns out to be full of porridge. And their a lady living in the heater.The film is wacky. Some would call it surreal and is mostly reminiscent of Luis Bunuel's (and Salvador Dali's) infamous Un chien andalou (surprisingly at the same time it also has the feel of the classical Ozu movies). It's closest living relative would have to be the music videos of Tool. But is being wacky, out-there, surreal enough to make this a masterpiece? In my humble opinion no. I do admire some of the sequences and visionary filmmaking, which to an extent was revolutionary and it has unnoticingly changed a lot as far as the art of film is concerned. It's influence on music videos is not to be understated, as the movie offered such detachment from logic, but at the same time supplied captivating visuals and atmospherics. And that was exactly what music videos required - minimum to no logical script, but maximum visual gratification.Admitedly not a great David Lynch fan, but I do admire the fact, that no-one has ever come as close to filming dreams as he has been. Surrealism probably does best designate his movies and The Lost Highway or Twin Peaks will remain great cinematographic experiences. Nonetheless even though Eraserhead has all the trademarks of a Lynch movie it overdoes the absurd, pointless and illogical. There is no semblance of reason and although the outworldiness of the script does necessitate sense and logic I found at times that even in the minimalistic surreal script plot holes were abundant (a father not knowing anything about his son's medical condition?).Additionally I find it extremely hard to grasp, why so many people call this movie disturbing, horrific or ghastly. It was way to rubbery and the effects too comedic to really warrant such phrases. None of the images served in this movie troubled me, which surprised me given the notoriety of this film. Or maybe I've just become too desensitised after watching too many Japanese gore/artsy productions? Definitely a movie that will put off many from so-called auteur or art-house flicks and definitely not recommended as a movie to start off a Lynch fan-club. In the end too self-indulgent, absurd and pointless to really deserve anything more than a 2/10. "},{"Title":"Erase It From My Memory.","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is why I am doing this whole thing. To watch a film like this. I have only seen three other Lynch films in their entirety (I'm still having trouble watching all of Inland Empire). I have no idea if people on this board like this film, but I do know that many here like Lynch and his unusual style. Saying unusual is an understatement too.The sound design in this film is phenomenal, if not bizarre and is the film's key ingredient. If this sound design did not work then I do not think the film would have such a cult following. Everything is heightened to an extreme and surreal beyond what one can imagine. Thew squeaking of the puppies, the disturbance of the radiator, so on and so on.If I were to actually try and figure out what the film was about, my head would explode ala Scanners. I get some themes and meanings, but was lost in the so called narrative, if you can call it that. Lynch has always been one for the abnormal things and this is no different. I can say that this is one of his weirder ones and that is saying a lot.The dream sequence ties into the title and seem to have nothing to do with the film, upon first look that is. Eraserhead is definitely a 'watch more then once' experience. You can debate with everyone about what the film was trying to say or what the hell is was even about, but no one can be certain. I don't even think Lynch knows.Now whenever you watch a film that is experimental, you try to find some value and meaning within it. You want it to be more than just another weird film for the sake of being weird. Lynch has been accused of this many times, but I think he is better than that. His films do have substance, you can tell in how he tells the story and how things seem to re-appear. Unlike other films where they pop up and are never seen again. Even though there are numerous scenes that just simply don't make sense to me, like when the daughter is sitting on the couch and doing something weird, then the mother brushes her hair. Even worse is when the chicken starts bleeding and the mother reacts to it in a bizarre manner.This is my least favourite of Lynch's films, for the simple fact that I never was interested in what little story there was. It didn't seem to go anywhere and for me to be invested in a film it has to be telling a story, one that I can understand, comprehend, or at the very least, try to look more into. Eraserhead did none of this for me. After watching it, I do not really care to watch it again to find any hidden meanings or to try and understand whatever it is that I missed from the first viewing. I can go on in life saying that Eraserhead did nothing for me and of course be hated for it, but whatever.But never say never right? Who knows, maybe one day down the road I'll get a chance to watch this so called 'masterpiece' again, and think it's brilliant. Until then, I'll say not. "},{"Title":"my reaction was..............huh.","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I admit i was a little disappointed in this movie, being a fan of Mullholland Drive. (I know someone somewhere is going to attack me for that, but it's true.) I found it to be pendulous and too long, but to its credit, it offered some interesting things to ponder. I didn't suppose the freaky wormbaby to be a premature birth, but rather, an abortion, and that its presence was symbolic of the trauma and sin of that action, which was being ignored and suppressed by Henry and Mary. It could also be just the illegitimacy of the child, which would render it socially freakish in a repressed society. Make sense? Based on that, I also thought that the image of the fluffy-faced woman in the radiator trampling on sperm-like little things was an indication of Henry himself being trodden down by the life he was forced into. But I think the point of Eraserhead is that it's able to be interpreted in different ways.but that doesn't mean i would watch it again voluntarily. nor does it mean that when it ended, i didn't start laughing and say, why the hell did i spend money to rent that? "},{"Title":"Dark, disturbing, and bizarre comedy","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I finally saw this legendary cult favorite, Lynch's first feature shot in black and white with the most unusual sound effects and arresting visuals for the first time and I had rather unusual reaction to the film. Its genre is presented as combination of Fantasy / Drama / Horror and the keywords that have been used the most are disturbing, depressing, and bizarre. I found the movie hysterically funny and I laughed for the first 80 minutes of it (I saw the 88 minutes long version). The ending is surely disturbing and unpleasant but the movie has so many comical scenes and images that I wonder if someone else has got the same impression? How about Henry Spencer's (Jack Nance) electrified-looking hair that seems to point to Heaven, where everything is fine. You've got your good things. And I've got mine as sung by Lady in the Radiator (tell me she was not hilarious)? The dinner at X family with the carving of chicken scene in particular is a comical masterwork. How about a mutant baby? I think there is (or should be) a rule - the scariest monster is the one that we never see, the uncertainty is the scariest monster of all and as long as we don't see it we picture it in our imagination and get scared of what we imagine. Once the monster is for us to see, it is not scary anymore, it is laughable...After the movie was over and left me puzzled and uncertain to what I just saw, I decided to watch the interview with Lynch to see what the father of Eraserhead has to say about his movie, its idea, his interpretation. I've got to tell you that he did an awesome job in not telling anything about his own vision of what he created. The interview was longer than the movie and Lynch recalled the smallest details about the days (and months and years) of working on his first film while he was a student at the American Film Institute's Center for Advanced Film Studies when he was shooting mostly at night and used the most unusual buildings for his story or rather for collection of nightmarish images accompanied with the soundtrack that sounds like it was recorded in a machine shop. Yes, Lynch talked about many things but when it came to the question on what the movie is about he only said that for 25 years since the movie was released, he had never heard or read a single comment from the critics, viewers or reviewers that would come close to what his vision or concept was. Not a single one. The major impression I had that the movie was a meditation on the male-female relationship that culminates in parenting, and how far from ideal it could get. His first marriage ended while he was directing Eraserhead and there was a child from the marriage. My guess is that maybe Lynch did intend to bring his own bitterness, resentment, and disappointments to his first movie and during all those years he had been working on it, he turned it to the dark comedy. "},{"Title":"One of kind, but that doesn't make it GOOD!!!","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead (1977) is a very bizarre effort, what a strange strange movie this is, what was going on in David Lynchs mind when he made this? It's a very hard film to sit through because it's just too bizarre and it doesn't make any sense! I think David Lynch had a nightmare one night and decided to put that nightmare onto film.............. this being the result!!! I love horror movies, i love bizarre movies too, but i didn't enjoy Eraserhead unfortunately.Most people will have trouble watching this to the end, most casual movie watchers will almost certainly switch off after 10 minutes or so! But it's a cult classic, but thats because it's one of a kind, most people who are fans of this movie, are fans of David Lynch. They will forever be trying to understand what goes on in his complex, bizarre and sometimes wonderfully gifted mind! "},{"Title":"David Lynch...Oh, he tries so hard.","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch has got to be one of the most self-indulgent filmmakers to ever find an audience.I was extremely excited to watch this movie the first time. I'd heard so many great things about it, how it was more or less a filmed nightmare, incredibly weird, and even, mindblowing. The high contrast b&w cameras, the strange and creepy imagery...all sound great in theory. But unfortunately, in reality, it's a film made by David Lynch.I can enjoy plots that develop slowly. I'm a huge Hitchcock fan. I even loved M. Night's Unbreakable, when most thought it was mind-numbing. But this is slow for the sake of being slow. Mr. Lynch isn't trying to build tension or eeriness, it seems slow because he didn't know what to film next and so just kept filming the same thing longer than he should have.I can--and usually do!--enjoy weird movies that don't make much sense (Or at least end with a violent upsurge of orthogonality) Pi, Itchi the Killer, Tetsuo, even 2001 A Space Oddyssey -- all films I loved. But Eraserhead tries too hard. It nearly doubles over backwards to give you weird, imagery, but Lynch never stops to wonder just how interesting the image is. In every scene I can hear him mumbling to himself in the editing room, Look at that! Isn't that cool! Ooooooooh!, and meanwhile I'm watching the screen, thinking Nope. Not really. In sum, this film is a young David Lynch trying as hard as he possibly can to do something strange, and succeeding I suppose, at the cost of a good movie. It's probably worth watching just so you can be conversant on it, since it seems to be such a staple of the weird-film-subculture, but, quite frankly, if this was my nightmare, I'd wake up bored. "},{"Title":"The World of David Lynch Eraserhead.","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead (1977) was David Lynch's first feature length film. It was a piecemeal project that took nearly five years to complete. After directing several shorts, Mister Lynch took on the task of creating a film. This surrealistic vision of a nightmarish future confused and shock many people (even to this day). Using black and white film stock and a jarring soundtrack, David Lynch has made a film that stands on it's own even to this day. Sadly, this movie is not widely released on D.V.D. and for a time it was only available through the director's own web site. It's very pricey but if you're a true fan of the movie the price isn't too bad.A strange young man finds himself in a loveless marriage to an even more eccentric woman. He meets her weird family and is surrounded by industrial complexes and strange noise that seem to come from everywhere. Everyday, the dude escapes from his dreary reality and finds solace in a little lady that lives in a radiator. But the day when the stork makes a visit and leaves a present for the couple is when everything sours to a point of no return. What happens next is impossible too describe and not worth spoiling. If you're a true fan of David Lynch then you'll want to watch this movie!!This has to be one of the most interesting movies that I have ever seen. A true piece of work that's bizarre and eye candy for those who appreciate open interpretation films. Too bad David Lynch never made another film like this one ever again. Maybe it was never meant to be.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The emperor is naked people, just because a movie is slow, boring, shot in black & white, and completely devoid of content that does not make it art","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is not great art because of its content, but because you are supposed to think it is.Its a David Lynch film, its in black and white, its weird, its slow & boring, the easiest way to dismiss someone who doesn't like this movie is to claim they have no attention span.Actually like is the wrong word, you are supposed to get this movie, that should raise some flags for you.If you want to see a slower movie with a good plot check out Seven Samurai or The Ninth Gate. If you want weird imagery, try Pi or The Cell.If you want to prove you are artsy, then sit through this and come here claiming its the best thing since sliced bread.It the simplest terms, this movie SUCKS, I would rather watch an Adam Sandler movie(*shudder*) then this crap again. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was by far the WORST movie I have ever seen. (Ishtar was a masterpiece in comparison).This film has no plot whatsoever. Even people who like this movie cannot tell me what it's about. I only found out much later that it's about two schizo's who raise a child together.If there is ever a debate as to what is the worst movie of all time, I challenge ANYONE who can find a piece of trash that would even come close to this disaster!By the way, I am not a David Lynch basher-I loved Blue Velvet. "}{"Title":"Boring and near unwatchable","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know that David Lynch relies on a lot of surrealism for his movies and this doesn't make him a bad director. In fact I like surrealism but the key is moderate amounts and not too much or it becomes distracting and hard to follow. His movies are sort of boring and hard to enjoy at times although I can see how some may object to this I felt Eraserhead in particular was so tedious that I had to just stop watching it.After thirty minutes of nodding off I realized finally that this movie is way overly hyped and tends to rely to heavily on abstract concepts for me to really stick with. Maybe I'm being biased in thinking that they movie could have been much better if their was some sort of plot and dialog. "},{"Title":"Save yourself from demonic offspring known as Eraserhead","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is a unique movie experience, and in my mind, takes the throne as the single worst movie I have ever beheld. If you have ever seen this disaster then you must understand on some level why I would say that. Viewing this film is one of the most haunting, disgusting, and painful experiences I have ever faced, yet I see people giving it glowing reviews and decent scores. Perhaps that is more frightening than the movie itself.If you haven't seen it yourself, feel lucky and blessed. It is a bizarre exploration of the most torturous images and sounds ever. With each unsettling and grotesque scene combined with aggravating machinery sounds or the mutant baby gurgling and crying, or both, the movie does everything in its power to revolt the audience. Some people seem to thing that this movie is like Lynch's experiment, and his main goal was to horrify the audience. If that's the case then he was blindingly successful, but that in no way makes it a good film or him a good director. It makes him a sick director, and this a bad...oh god...a bad, utterly bad film. Lynch obviously didn't realize that movies are a form of entertainment, not physical and mental torture. This film and its relationship with the world is much like this Imagine you're given a painting by a famous painter, and that painting is hailed as a genius work of artistic experimentation. Now imagine the painting is a series of the most terrible images ever, and part of the creative genius of the painter was to splatter feces on it. Now ask yourself this, would hang this hailed masterpiece in your home...would you even want to be near it? Of course not. Despite the title of great art given to it, you know it's still horrifying images covered in reeking waste. That is the best way I can describe Eraserhead.Lynch fans will tell you that the movie is pure symbolism or key imagery, but that doesn't matter since every so-called symbol is horrendous to see or hear. I have seen more than my fair share of movies, some of which I would call utterly terrible. But even the worst movies can be so bad they are funny. This movie shatters those boundaries and steps fully into hellishly bad. There is nothing even remotely entertaining or forcedly funny about it. It is simply an exercise in soul crushing pain, that left me depressed and nauseated. Not just because it was the worst thing ever, but because it single-handedly proves that there is no God. For why would a god allow Lynch to live after creating this disease, let alone allow it to be formed in the first place.For those of you who may think I am overreacting, I say this...don't see it, for you cannot unsee it. If you plan to watch it for your own reasons, you will regret it. My advice is if anyone ever approaches you and suggest watching Eraserhead (even if that person is your best friend or mother), punch them in the face as hard as you can and run away as fast as you can, for you can be certain that that person is delirious or most certainly has bodies buried in the dirt floor of a cellar. Avoid this like the cancer it is. You have been warned. "},{"Title":"disappointing, strange, extremely hard to understand","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Probably the strangest movie I've ever seen and I'm sure that I'm not the only one with this opinion. I love movies which force me to think about them. I love to have my head full of ideas and thoughts while I'm leaving the cinema. No doubt that Eraserhead by David Lynch force people to think about it but there are many questions and not even one answer. I share the meaning of some that David Lynch wants people to be angry while the  film is over (and probably long time before the end).May be it's art, may be it's bull****, all-in-all it is not my cup of tea. I haven't found any possible reason why to rank it better than 3 (out of 10). It was hard to decide but there is nothing but some impressive moments and excellent actors performance. "},{"Title":"Not your garden-variety freak out","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" To review David Lynch's Eraserhead is to review the man himself, which is nearly impossible since he's as enigmatic as what he puts on screen (images oozing out gracefully, sometimes grotesquely). It isn't any wonder why Lynch's output has made him a cult figure and hero he simply doesn't pander to any known movie regulations (he's his best audience), and his very dry humor reaches us cautiously, creeping up like fingers from beyond the grave. Lynch directs nightmares, but not just anybody's nightmares. His horrific hallucinations seem to stem from childhood--a lone boy's mounting terror at being sucked down into the unknown--and yet he revels in the experience. He's a consummate filmmaker, and often a quiet masochist, but if a viewer isn't attuned to Lynch's rhythms--or his fascination with the perverse--the twisted imagery just starts to look silly and self-indulgent. Eraserhead concerns two unwed freaks and their mutant offspring, and it is filmed in startling black-and-white utilizing a fine central actor (John Jack Nance, whose perplexity and child-like confusion is the most sympathetic part of the picture). David Lynch is green here, and probably unconcerned with audience reaction, but his style (a series of sickly scenes of human deterioration) is certainly gripping. The film is really not much more than a project, a talented student showing off, and it isn't absorbing as a whole. But in vignette form, and surely in retrospect, Eraserhead holds a peculiar power unmatched by any picture from a major Hollywood studio. Its eerie ambiance isn't accidental--Lynch is quite calculating as a scenarist and as a director--although the end results could be less personal than anyone realizes. It could be the ultimate in-joke on celluloid. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"sorry but","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't care if you like symbolic filmaking, I've ssen enough to know what's what. Sergio Leone made great symbolic films and kept the audience engaged, David Lynch on the other hand is a pseudo-intellectual boring as heck you know what. I get it, it just doesn't entertain me. I like a movie that engages as much as it tells, an this movie tried to tell too much and engage too little, and artsy types can label me as just another dummy who didn't get it, but I don't care, it's a movie... it should entertain. This movie bored me to tears, and when I was semi engaged, I hated life, god, and everything else, woohoo! So hate me for ripping this film and I will in turn hate those who believe it's brilliant. HA! "},{"Title":"complete nightmare","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently watched this film, and I have literally become emotionally scarred because of it. Before I get into why I would like to say first of all that I think the use of sound in this film is amazing for its time, as well as the special effects as the mutant child is very realistic (for a mutant anyway).What really got to me was the fact that the 'nightmare' didn't actually make any literal sense, as it was meant to be interpreted by the viewer. I cannot see how this film could be interpreted as anything other than bizarre and mentally disturbing! I feel that the overall concept of the film is David Lynch trying to creep out the audience as much as possible, without any consideration for the viewers feelings or mental state of mind after watching this film. As I said at the beginning of this review I have been mentally scarred by this movie and literally cried after watching it because of how disturbing it was!! On my own personal recommendation (rather a warning to others) do not watch this film as, while technically applaudable, will leave you very confused and disturbed no matter what you may have seen before. For those of you who do still decide to watch Eraserhead, don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"ZZZZZZZZ!!!","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A wise film critic once stated that the ultimate sin a movie can commit is to be boring. Eraserhead is beyond boring; it's positively life-draining. I still don't know why I made myself sit through the entire thing. After the first couple of minutes, I couldn't stop glancing at the timer on my VCR. Time seemed to stand still. Each minute was an eternity of mind-numbing boredom. I can't say a single nice thing about this piece of trash. It would not be possible to make a worse film. "},{"Title":"The single most boring movie ever?","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Lynch's The Elephant Man is one of my favourite films, if not my absolute favourite. And I'd heard a lot of interesting things about this film. So I finally got to check it out, and I was woefully disappointed. This is the most boring film I've ever seen. In fact, I tried to watch it twice and fell asleep both times. Finally on the third attempt, I managed to sit through it.*** SPOILERS ***Look, a movie which is creepy or weird just for the sake of being so doesn't work. There still has to be some method to the madness. There has to be a point! This film has NO point other than to be strange. It is also the slowest movie I have ever seen. The pacing makes it seem like it's 10 hours long. And the monotonous score, really just a throbbing ambient sound, just makes it worse.Sure, the baby was creepy (looked like E.T. Junior) but so what? The novelty wore off after the first few scenes. I kept waiting to be scared, or even in the least bit interested or entertained. But it didn't happen.There was no discernible theme of the movie either, no allegory. I suppose anyone who looked hard enough might see something, but it's highly unlikely it would have anything to do with something Lynch was trying to say.There is zero entertainment value in this film unless you happen to be very easy to amuse and you just want to see a random jumble of weirdness, none of which makes sense. The cult following of this movie is, however, easy to explain. People want to pretend they get it or they'll feel left out. It's really quite sad. There are quite a few movies like that, and I don't like any of them. I'm smarter than that.It has a few amusing and genuinely disgusting moments, but that doesn't by itself even begin to make a film. There is nothing else to redeem it. It's a great movie to put you to sleep, but I wouldn't pay money for that.3/10 "},{"Title":"Horrible movie!","Date":"18 March 2011","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the past, I've walked through many video stores and have seen the box for Eraserhead staring at me on the shelf. Although I was oddly curious about the movie, I never rented it.Recently, I discovered the movie was available instant stream on Netflix, so I decided to go ahead and give it a chance, why not, right? Well, now that I've watched it, I'm sorry I did. Not because I found the movie to be terrifying or anything, just stupid! It's such a waste of time to watch this movie. The first ten minutes nobody says a word...not that people have to be talking all the time in order for a movie to be good, but ten minutes of silence was excessive. Even if you're trying to establish mood or setting or whatever, it doesn't require ten minutes of footage. It just seemed an effort to increase the running time to me.I'm not familiar with much of David Lynch's work, other than Mulholland Drive which I also hated, but if those movies are any indication of the kind of crap he normally makes then I advise people to avoid his films at all costs.It seems like Lynch thinks he's an artist just because he purposely makes weird stuff. Just because it's weird shouldn't automatically make it art. This movie is proof that no matter how bizarre something is, it'll find an audience...no matter how small. It's definitely a cult film, that's for sure.Do yourself a favor, pass this movie by. You're not missing anything, trust me! "},{"Title":"David Lynch Channels His Inner Ed Wood","Date":"6 March 2011","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back in the day, the Trendy McScenesters were falling all over each other in praise of this movie. However, I somehow never saw it, either on video or at the usual midnight/rep theater screening. But, thanks to On Demand, I was able to see this for free. And was I ever lucky! No, I wasn't lucky I saw a great film; I was lucky I didn't waste my precious youth, valuable chronic and the price of admission to see this POS. This movie is somewhere between a big budget Ed Wood film and a C- student film. Pointless, plot less, mindless, and most of all, just plain boring! For the life of me, I can't see what all of the fuss was about.As bad as this was, I liked a couple of things. First, I'm a sucker for black and white cinematography and Lynch does a good job of it. At times you get the feeling of being in one of those late 50-early 60's British films with all of the grunge and dirt of urban industrialization. The other thing I liked was the special effects. Being a low-budget film, I was impressed with the mutant baby and other effects that were used.Other than the two above mentioned item, this film sucked. I'm glad that I didn't put out any money to see this overrated, self-indulgent mess. "}{"Title":"Vastly overrated and immensely disturbing best avoided by children or psychologically vulnerable adults","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film has become a famous cult classic and thus attracts considerable debate and comment, both favourable and unfavourable. However, anyone who is tempted to watch it simply in order to discover what all the fuss is about should be aware that this is a *particularly* disturbing (I would say distressing) film, located at the darkest end of the spectrum of surrealism, and, due to its many very unpleasant and potentially frightening images, themes and inferences, it is best placed in the horror genre, despite its lack of traditional blood and gore.No matter what opinions of this film (both for and against) may be found on this website or anywhere else, this is not a film to watch without first considering the point that, whatever else it may be, it is almost universally considered to be extremely (even excessively) disturbing, and should DEFINITELY be avoided by anyone who is in a psychologically vulnerable condition.It is also probably best avoided by anyone who may find it upsetting to see imagery of premature, damaged, injured, deformed, mutated, mentally and/or physically abnormal, or dying/dead babies, as the film refers throughout to a baby which can, according to the viewer's interpretation(s), be placed into any or all of these categories (plus more, no doubt). Even though the baby in the film is evidently a model (and a poorly made one), it is still realistic enough, and peculiar enough in both appearance and behaviour, to potentially cause distress to anyone with psychological concerns regarding babies or childbirth. It is not for nothing that the term The Eraserhead Baby has entered the language, at least in the UK amongst adults over about 35, and is always used to mean something which is weird and scary.In my opinion the usual certification of the film is not high enough; while it does not contain explicit sexual content, graphic violence, or any of the other conditions which would cause it to be rated as an adult movie (e.g. drug use), it DOES contain very disturbing imagery and, as the mother of three children, I would certainly not allow them to watch it until they were fully adult, i.e. 18 or older - and even then, I would warn them (and anyone else) to beware of its genuinely disturbing nature and advise them not to watch it at all, as in my opinion it has no merit of any normal cinematic kind and can serve at best to make the viewer wonder why it was made, but at worst to leave the viewer psychologically unsettled or even permanently damaged, depending upon the robustness or otherwise of their psyche. This really is NOT a watch it for a laugh film.Although some argue that this film should not be judged by normal movie standards (I'd say because it doesn't meet any of them, but that debate belongs elsewhere), the term film tends usually to mean something with a discernible plot/story, widely comprehensible (not necessarily pleasant) content, and some kind of meaningful or at least understandable conclusion, hopefully with a bit of entertainment thrown in. So if one is to judge this film according to normal cinematic standards such as intended meaning (if any), storyline(s), acting performances, quality of direction and/or production, entertainment value, and so on, it scores very low (in fact, I'd say zero) in all such typical categories. It can be argued that the absence of plot and the disjointed, inexplicable nature of the film's progression is of merit because it is not a film, but is in fact a piece of art, but there is no point in entering *that* debate here, either. I would simply like to say that, if the director was trying to make a statement, it is impossible to tell whether he has succeeded, since it is not possible from watching the film to tell what statement, if any at all, is being made; indeed, although many people have managed to find meaning in the film, no two of them agree as to what that meaning is, so if it is there, it is so completely obscured by the film's bizarre incoherence as to be impossible to deduce with any certainty.What is certain is that I have yet to find any person at all who has watched this film without finding it disturbing in some degree, with many considering it very disturbing and unpleasant indeed, and finding themselves stuck with mental images and concepts which they wish they hadn't acquired - in other words, most of the people I know who have watched this film genuinely wish they hadn't, as they gained nothing useful from it - not even entertainment, as, in spite of its many peculiarities and a lot of unpleasant imagery, it somehow manages also to be, overall, noticeably dull to the point of being boring.All in all - don't expect to be impressed, or even entertained, but do expect to be disturbed to some extent, unless you are exceptionally hardened against films which set out to achieve precisely that effect. "},{"Title":"Let's call it art?  I don't think so...","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a complete waste of time. I'm glad I wasn't unwell when I saw it because I'd have thought I was stuck in a nightmare. That might be the feeling it was meant to create but I don't think that makes it a decent film at all. I felt like being sick it was so unsettling.And you know what else gets me? The fact that if some folk don't like it/understand it they're labeled as ignorant or uneducated. Just because I don't walk about in two different colour of shoes tilting cups on their side, messing beds up and calling it art doesn't mean I'm not worthy. This film wasn't worthy of my time! Don't watch it unless you're a bit unhinged and like to think that some artist can put your dreams into a movie. "},{"Title":"Overrated, self-indulgent","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After hearing how wonderful this movie was from multiple friends, I gave in and rented it one evening. It was an evening that I wish I could have back.Very rarely do I stop watching a movie before it is done, but that's exactly what I did here. The thing was so ridiculous that I simply could not bear it.The film opens up with the main character of the movie, Henry. Henry is a very strange man, as he seems to walk around in a daze, and live in a very strange and rundown building. In fact, most of the people seem to be walking around in a daze. I guess that's what happens after nuclear disaster. which is what is supposed to have happened, according to a friend.After 30 minutes of film (or did it just seem like 30 minutes), Henry has done nothing nothing whatsoever except walk around in a daze and mutter to himself, all very strangely; finally going over to his girlfriend's house for dinner. His girlfriend and her family are all blank stares and three-word phrases as Henry is. When the dinner is served, the main course, which appears to be some kind of game hen or pheasant, starts moving around on the plate, making little noises and oozing a black fluid. Henry and crew give their game hens blank stares and seem vaguely sad. It was at this point that I shut the tape off. I contemplated opening my second story window and casting it out, saving my town from the stupidity that is that film, but thought better and returned it instead.I have never liked anything else David Lynch has directed. Most people are convinced that he is a genius, so perhaps I'm just not clever enough to get it, but I don't think so. I had the same kind of reaction when Twin Peaks was on television. I watched one episode because everyone said it was genius, but it did nothing but irritate me throughout, and surprise me that people could be such horrible actors.If you are bound and determined to rent Eraserhead, then please find a discount rental store, or use a free rental coupon or something. Perhaps you will see in it something that I did not, this genius that everyone else seems to see, but if you are like me, then it will be all you can do to restrain yourself from taking your VCR, Eraserhead and all, burying it in your backyard, and going off to live with the Amish. "},{"Title":"This is the worst movie I have ever seen. Don't waste your time.","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don't take me wrong, I like independent movies and I am a big fan of surrealism and conceptual art. But there's a limit to everything..This movie is ridiculously slow (Nothing happens on the first 30 minutes) and long, and the plot is completely senseless and unbearable. There's no fun, there's no learning, there's no aesthetic value... I had lots of expectations from comments and other reviews and I got terribly disappointed by this film and its director.Really... don't waste 2 hours of your life. Probably if it was a short film I would rate it 4/10, but I think it's really disrespectful to make such a long movie out of thin air. "},{"Title":"I tried to give it zero but it only offered as low as 1","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"17 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Easily the worst movie i've ever see. I have been told that this is not a movie, it is Art. First of all, if this is not a movie then what the hell is it? Film is a form of art, so it cannot hide behind the idea that this is a piece of art separating it from other films, it is still comparable. This film was downright dis-interesting and boring, it's a relatively short film, but i swear i was sitting there for 3 hours watching this filth roll on. A film is also for entertainment. Film can combine both entertainment with symbolism and messages to create a piece of art that is aesthetically pleasing, refer to Stanley Kubrick and David Fincher. That is good film making. D'you know the real reason why Lynch never speaks of the meaning of this film? BECAUSE THERE ISN'T ANY. I picture, a uni student, with a bad haircut, taking LSD, thinking, I know what's wrong with the world, let's make a film that has hidden messages that no one will figure out. wow great way to change the world genius. How d'you expect to get your point across, when you yourself have no idea how to convey it to the public properly. Easily the worst film ever made in my eyes. I have seen plan nine from outer space, said to be the worst film ever made. Well, at least it was good for a laugh. "},{"Title":"bleh","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"25 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  there are few words that are more misused than surrealism. eraserhead is not a work of surrealism. surrealism links the unconscious with the conscious. bizarre, pointless images that come from nowhere and fail to connect two states of being is not surrealism. it's just disjointed and random oddness. i think the films of david lynch take the cake for inducing the emporor new clothes effect in people. i can follow just about anything, even the poems of antonin artaud, but this film makes no sense and doesn't even make sense in terms of making no sense. it connects nothing to nothing and doesn't even do that in an existential way. existentialism and surrealism are schools of thought and have rules and it amazes me how so many people get suckered into believing anything that is solipsistic or just plain weird is surreal. i hated this movie.  "},{"Title":"It's kind of like having a mutated unicorn claw at the inside of your stomach","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"30 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't even know where to begin. Watching Eraserhead was...unfortunately one of the most unforgettable experience of my life. Yea,there was some strange imagery that left you questioning, but it was either dragged on wayyyy too long or it was impossible to concentrate because of the ear-piercing noises in the background that make you lose focus. During this film i wanted to spoon out my eyeballs, put them in a flame resistant bowl, pour gasoline on them and light them on fire. I know it sounds like i'm being way over dramatic and i'm exaggerating...but seriously. Go out and rent this movie. I am not responsible for what may happen to your mental or physical state...it's all on David lynch for making this 'cult classic'. "},{"Title":"Don't see this movie if you don't have strong stomach.","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers!!!!! I think this movie speaks about the AIDS and this disease can destroy a family and leave you with nightmare for your whole life and the finally destination is the death.Henry probable got the sickness from the whore who live at the opposite room from him, see brings every night new boyfriend and if you notice the man had something at the face. The family doesn't care for her daughter.The kid of Henry is monster and sick and have pimples and inside is black . The women immature and cant raise the kid.Thats for me. "},{"Title":"Lynch as a poor reader of Kafka, and a strong viewer of Welles","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't believe that David Lynch is much of a reader. I strongly believe that his attachment to the surreal is entirely an excuse for his style, not the cause. The viewer gets the feeling that his grandiose scenes were thought out first -- and at the barrage of critics and their ilk, Lynch, running to his local library, ran to the kind of weird Freudian fiction section, grabbed a Kafka, and went, well, I mean, must I say more?His characters definitely should have said less. The ticking of clocks, the the steaming sounds of the radiator, the puling of the child, prove far more effective than the few banal (and poorly mixed!) words from Henry's mouth. Lynch, while generally visually talented, clearly had no idea how to present the dialogue of the film as visually as he presented its connotation. Hence, superfluous dialogue to help even the slowest viewers. Perhaps to help himself remember that the film is well, kind of like this German guy, Kafka!Kafka isn't the predecessor; it's Welles, specifically The Trial. The Trial is Welles' personal reading of Kafka; Eraserhead is Lynch's personal viewing of The Trial. And there is much insight between the two; but little of it solely that of Eraserhead.Make sure the volume is up high. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare in Film Form","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch's debut film is one of the most bizarre, abstract, and downright disturbing films I have ever seen. The plot does not really matter; it is more of a chronicle of different occurrences than a story. However, the film captivates you with it's atmosphere; all aspects of the film contribute to a hypnotic, nightmarish feeling. For one, all of the actors have a very bizarre way of enunciating their words, where they talk slowly and with stilted pronunciation. Almost no context is given to the world this film occupies; only two characters have names, and even then, they are only first names. The soundtrack is nothing but whirring industrial sounds and shrieking sirens, which makes sense considering the factory surroundings the main character occupies. While the film is very abstract, it is definitely very interesting. This movie is something you will either love or hate; my review will not help you decide. The only way to tell whether you will enjoy it or not is to watch it. I love it; you may not. Just watch it and see. "}{"Title":"Awful nonsense","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I actually watched this film thinking all the way through 'at some point it is going to go somewhere that justifies all this rubbish' but guess what, it didn't. At all. I want the two hours of my life back. Where are they gone. The only redemption I can find is to warn you dear reader 'Don't do it!' Watch paint dry, fill in a form, talk to a politician, walk for two hours, just don't do it. It is bad It is very bad It is nonsense I feel like the Emperor Augustus wandering around his palace in Rome after General Varrus lost his two legions 'Where are my legions?' He was heard to moan. Where are my two hours I find myself saying in my toga. Damn you Lynch where are my two hours. "},{"Title":"The perfect example of why understanding a movie, is not always necessary.","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is more of a feeling, than it is a great story. It is not meant to have a complete narrative from A-Z, nor is it meant to please or entertain. It's disturbing as a nightmare and frightful as a hallucination. It's one of the films that I love the most, but will not watch very often. It's tough to watch. And that's a very good thing!For me Eraserhead is sort of a key to the collective works of David Lynch. There are so many visual, emotional and sound references that it cannot be counted on two hands only. There are floors and heavy curtains like the ones in The Black Lodge in Twin Peaks. There are piles of dirt like the ones in Fire Walk With Me. When The Lady . In The Radiator sings she reminds of the performance of In Dreams in Blue Velvet. The special effects is a pre-stage of what goes on in Elephant Man and (to some extend) Dune. And of course the entire mood is just so much Lynch! Excellent. "},{"Title":"I didn't like it at first, but after letting it sit in, I really like it!","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" RIGHT AFTER SEEING IT Now look, just to start of, I don't need anyone saying that I don't get this film. I feel it to be a portrayal of the dreams of David Lynch shown into a film. No, my problem is that there isn't enough material in the script for a feature-length. If it was another one of Lynch's short films, it would have been just fine. I would likely give a twenty, thirty minute short film of this, I'd likely give it an eight. Also, the baby. Where to begin? I think it could have been more effective if we don't see it. I'm not saying because it scared me, but just, it could be anything. It could let us imagine what it looks like, which in turn, may have made it more frightening. Now, I can see how one could like it and good for you if you do, you're likely a good person if we could respect one another's opinions. If someone on IFDb could make an edit similar to what I'd wish for it, I'd likely enjoy it, as I said earlier, probably eight out of ten for that. But as a feature-length film, four out of a possible ten.ONE MONTH LATER After thirty days of letting it sink in, not even seeing it twice, mind you, but a month later, this opinion has changed. First time I saw it, I thought it in a way of enjoyment, rather than enjoyment and quality, which is a more healthy way to review a good amount of films. Then I saw something in the film after thinking about it retrospect, I've gained more appreciation for it. I thought about the beauty achieved with the film and how the black and white works to the film's advantage, making it more haunting, which makes it unforgettable, for better or worse. One thing I love is how this worked in with Lynch's second film, Elephant Man, with similar themes of physical disabilities. We don't care for the baby for his disturbing look and cruel attitude and then we sympathize for the similarly disabled John Merrick, making them similar in more was than the same writer and director as well as black and white. After digesting the film, I'm changing it to a strong seven out of ten. You may not enjoy it, but it is an important film to see. "},{"Title":"Calling-card","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ah! David Lynch.He's another of those film-makers, like Peter Greenaway, Steve McQueen (of 12 YEARS A SLAVE) and Derek Jarman, for whom the emotional impact of an image is more significant than the conventional building-blocks of American commercial cinema. Personally, I love the stuff.ERASERHEAD was Lynch's calling-card. I'd've been pretty scared if he'd come to call on me with it, but I was nevertheless hugely impressed with it when I first saw it not long after it first surfaced in London. Watching it again recently on DVD reminded me how dazzling it is. There they were, all those nightmare images that had stayed with me for over thirty years the oozing chicken; the sickly baby; the lady in the radiator. And that soundtrack - the constant industrial underscore. These things get under your skin and stay there. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!!!","Date":"12 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch is a genius and this is his best work thus far. Check it out!!! This film has many elements that are superior to modern cinema. I think all students of film need to watch this in order to understand what you can do with film. Film is an art form and few modern filmmakers understand this logic. Film does not have to be about boring plot lines in order to entertain. Lynch filmed his dreams and we can get a glimpse of whats going on in his mind. Very personal stuff and a brave film to boot. Those that hate this movie have no knowledge of what art is all about. Exploring the subconscious is very important indeed. Lynch intended for this movie to be a moving painting, and thats what it is. "},{"Title":"Eraserhead","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Strange, that was the word that described this entire movie to me. Once again, a movie has gripped me with it's slimy, creepy hands and once again a movie has taken me on a pure cinematic journey, even though that journey was an hour and a half of pure insanity. Movies like these are special to me because they are pretty much open for interpretation. A plot or story might be hidden somewhere in the film, however Director David Lynch has crafted a movie where the meaning can really be up to you and what you make it out to be. This is what I think the movie is about. Henry, a man of very small and little words makes a trip his girlfriend Charlotte's house. It seems that aren't the peachiest of couples, and to make it worst, on this visit, his girlfriend and her disturbingly strange family inform Henry that he and Charlotte have conceived a child. But not just any child, a very premature baby. The rest of the straight story is of Henry and Charlotte trying to live with this forever crying baby and keep their sanity. The last perhaps 30 minutes of the movie is nothing but surreal and haunting images and scenes. If the viewer wasn't already turned by the already hypnagogic scenes with Charlotte's family, the final parts, which include a big cheeked songstress living in Henry's radiator, giant sperm like things, and Henry taking a pair of scissors to the baby. I really dig this movie, the odd, dark, eerie black and white cinematography; it fit well with the industrious setting shown. There's too much too say the look of this movie, the pipes that run through and around Charlotte's home, the stage where the Radiator Girl sings my new favorite tune In Heaven Everything is Fine, and Henry's small apartment which reminds me of an insane asylum prison cell. There isn't much in the acting area; there's very little dialog. The actor who played Charlotte's father was a stand out as was the mother, they both boosted the insanity a bit. This is a technically impressive film; it's almost forty years old and the practical effects used throughout were very compelling. The movie may come off as too odd and artsy to most; there isn't a traditional story telling movie here. At some points I would agree. Being that this movie is seen by many as a horror movie, I would've liked to see a tiny bit more of a horror story with the movie, but with my taste in strange cinema, this was visually horrifying enough for me that it really was quite scary. "},{"Title":"Overrated but enjoyable","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love when people call things art. Everything is art if its different. I saw this movie because it was on a list of the Most Disturbing Films ever made. Come now people, this movie is barely disturbing. Sure the overall tone is dark and what not, but most things are just weird. There is 0% chance of me losing sleep over this. Don't get your opinions mixed. I am not one of those people who have no trouble watching disturbing scenes in films. I have watched parts of Cannibal Ferox and Cannibal Holocaust and i REFUSE to watch them anymore. Those are truly disturbing films and ONLY because of real animals being killed, which has no place whatsoever in movies. This film had a small amount of gore and it was almost comical. As for the plot you can barely call this a movie. I mean yes there is a plot and you can understand whats going on for the most part, but really no ending. Long scenes of awkward silence and people acting weird, which I assume is due to radioactivity. All in all it is still watchable and enjoyable too! Just don't think you need a barf bag or the lights all turned on. SERIOUSLY, if you get disturbed by this film, maybe you should stick to Disney "},{"Title":"Early masterpiece","Date":"7 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The thing about Lynch movies is that they are so simplistic, but yet a nightmare to figure out what the hell you just saw. It's almost a one location movie, and still baffling. I went into this movie after i've already seen Lost Highway and Mulholland dr. And for a brief moment i actually thought well this is a very early movie from Lynch he probably got more cryptic as the years went by but no this is still the weirdest movie of his that i've seen. So few words are spoken, and i absolutely love it. He really gets the phrase a picture says more than a thousand words. I will not speculate on what the movies is about because i really believe in the same idea as Lynch, that each individual will interpret it differently. This is definitely a movie everyone should watch sometime in their life, and it really goes out to a lot of people. If you are into a visual experience or your just a big fan of a great story you should definitely watch this movie. There is a reason that i'm not mentioning the plot, and it's because i believe that this is a movie you shouldn't read about you should just go and experience it. By doing this a lot of movies has shocked me over the years, and this sure is one of them. "},{"Title":"Dr. Drew says...  5 out of 10","Date":"21 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead (1977) - The Good, the Bad and the Interpreted Synopsis An art-house tale of domestic repression. Henry is a quiet man in a dystopian, industrialized world. He is thrust into a relationship and fatherhood he's not ready for and slowly finds himself succumbing to the pressure of it all.The Good This is the hardest type of film to review. It's one of interpretation, symbolism and hidden meanings. Ten different people can watch it and come away with ten different interpretations of the film, which is likely what Lynch was going for in the first place. For me personally, I am not going to take some artsy-fartsy approach to this movie and simply state if you can't understand the meaning, then it is too artistic for you. I hate that sort of thing. I get that this isn't a movie for everyone, but you have to be able to relate to the film one way or another or the concept is simply lost on the viewer. Lynch didn't lose me, but there were times when I was certainly confused. What I did love about the film was how well Lynch conveyed the plight of Henry without dialogue. The industrialization of the world Lynch portrays is a hissing, steaming, rumbling, disconcerting environment that grates on your nerves as you watch Henry toss and turn in the unsettling apartment. It reminded me a lot of the Japanese film Tetsuo The Iron Man. The imagery, such as the un-potted plants (basically, just mounds of dirt with plants in them) the radiator, the constant rain and whirring of machinery, the dream sequences... all these things captivate the viewer and regardless of whether it all makes sense, you understand Henry's fears and inner desires. As a husband and a father, I can understand the stresses of that role and for someone not prepared for it, this is a great visual and visceral way to watch that experience play out. Who wouldn't be haunted by finding out your girlfriend just gave birth to Admiral Ackbar? The Bad The movie simply gets too out there at times. I've only watched the movie once, true, but there were too many head-scratching moments and they begin to stack up by the end of the film. It ends up feeling cumbersome to watch. I feel like I could watch it ten more times and still not understand certain elements of the story. There is most certainly a core storyline to be followed that is somewhat clear and the viewer clings to that (even if it that storyline is itself somewhat ambiguous), but when we start getting to the Eraserhead sequences, most viewers are going to get left in the dust. Art-house folks will praise it for that value and give it a 10. Mainstream movie lovers will give it a 1 because, at times, it makes no sense in logical movie terms. Me, I found it fascinating, yet too metaphoric in parts, so I can give it nothing but a middle of the road grade.The Interpreted I find that films that require too much interpretation can be taxing on the viewer. I'm not saying everything has to be spelled out or wrapped up nice and neat with a big, red bow, but interpretation has it's limits for me. This one somewhat exceeded those limits. While certain aspects of the film (mostly the cinematography) were visually appealing, the feeling of what is going on? isn't an enjoyable one when watching a film, especially when the story isn't tied together all that well at the end. There were metaphorical props in this movie that, aside from not even knowing what they symbolized with respect to the story... hell, I didn't even know what I was looking at! It's really tough to fully enjoy a movie when you are scratching your head through half of it. "},{"Title":"I've not seen a bad David Lynch film","Date":"5 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...but this one takes the cake.The amount of time Lynch put into this project alone shows his intense dedication to his craft. This film broke almost all cinematic conventions during the period it was made, roughly '73-'79. The dialogue free, Chaplin-esque, walking introduction to the protagonist extends to an uncomfortable amount of time in the seemingly desolate and alien landscape. The editing and prop-work are another marvel. Handmade lamps and claymation worms show the intense hands on required to vivify Lynch's subconscious visuals. He seems to draw from a play in our brains normal consciousness cannot reach and pull the strings that draw them forth in the minds of anyone who indulges themselves in his craft.10 out of 10 for it's critical place in filmmaking history and the intense detail oriented perfectionism that he clearly orchestrated during the many year long production. Anything less is an insult to this timeless piece of art. "}{"Title":"in fire by night and in a cloud by day","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" So I got out my Bible and I started reading. And one day, I read a sentence. And I closed the Bible, because that was it; that was it. And then I saw the thing as a whole. And it fulfilled this vision for me, 100 percent. ~ David LynchLife's absurdEraserhead shows a man called Henry Spencer, who's trying to preserve his naivety, maybe even his innocence. His path is never straight, albeit rather printing a zigzag shaped pattern almost as if it expresses life's randomness or its fragile and shaky basis; a ground-floor built from quantum mechanical components. Reality or nature reveals its duality in many a detail and situation, and Henry seems unable to tell dream or nightmare from the real. Henry's path through life crosses many nightmarish events, and his inner world reflects the exterior and vice versa, as if the textures between inside fluently blend into the outside, giving boundaries the uncertainty of twilight zones.Behind his naive looks his spiritual mind seeks a light in this gloomy day to day existence. He works as a printer in a pencil-factory, but he is having vacation at the moment. Fatherhood and marriage do not bring any release or distraction, albeit enhance the experience of a mental confinement. He wanders about the origin of his desires; who delivered them and why are they no good according society? Life and its rules permanently torture him like the cries of his baby in yet another sleepless night. Next to his bed a denuded plant in a mound of dirt and a picture on the wall of a mushroom cloud of an atomic bomb explosion decorate his room. The atomic bomb called Little Boy killed many a human being, yet ended the world war II. The denuded plant resembles the X family's grandma in such way that it expresses the uncertain barrier between life and death. Does the plant in its winter state expose Henry's Christian roots; a promise of an afterlife? From within the robustness of the rock St Peter pulls the strings in Henry's life in a way that it feels lacking warmth and a heart.Henry's mind does not leave him at peace as his desires grow and grow. Then in a dream he receives a vision. The Lady in the Radiator reveals him how to treat these rules and bonds. When she retreats Henry experiences a nightmare in which he is lying in bed next to his wife Mary, who is giving birth to four umbilical cords. Afraid of Mary's bonds Henry acts according his vision and smashes the life-cords against the wall. Soon he awakes and he finds himself alone with his baby. In the very beginning, when Henry was on his way home carrying his groceries, his mind drifted off in spiritual realms about cause and effect, about the origin of life, his life, the baby's life, life in general? The man in the rock, the puppeteer with the ripped open chest, seemed to control everything, but Henry remained uncertain about the man's residence. Maybe he existed within his own grey matter only? The hole in the roof suggested that his place inside the house was taken by force ... a result of education and social control.Dream or real, Henry fully engages in an affair with his beautiful neighbor. Henry silences his baby and he and the dark haired lady completely dissolve in a pool of love. Within this exaltation Henry makes first contact with his Lady in the Radiator. For a moment he truly is in heaven, but as the beautiful dark lady and the all white girl retreat, Henry faces the heartless puppeteer, whose rage blows away the stage and who confronts Henry with the tree of knowledge. Henry becomes very aware of his sins and he accepts that this can not remain unpunished. He loses his head completely or is it decapitated by the puppeteer (mind the name of the actress playing Henry's lover - http//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Judith_Beheading_Holofernes). His animalistic behavior might as well been orchestrated from his stem or from a small baby-head as he seems unable to resist innate desires. The pool of blood on heaven's floor can no longer bear Henry's head. His head tumbles down from the skies and bursts open in the middle of the road. Its contents provides excellent stuff for erasers. What started as a sweet dream ended into yet another nightmare's existence. All those restrictions and rules suffocated Henry's life to such extremes that he could no longer restrain from a long desired urge. Henry's life felt like a sick joke. In a state between curiosity and madness Henry decides to get rid of these imperative restrictions, to endure and to face his fears to finally reaching his most desired heavenly freedom and blissful understanding in the realms of the creature of light with her mushroom shaped face. At last Henry has found peace in accompany of the one who sang You got your good things and you got mine, which also implies that the secret worm Henry received in his mailbox revealed the true identity of the sender~ In spite of this, you did not trust in the Lord your God, who went ahead of you on your journey, in fire by night and in a cloud by day, to search out places for you to camp and to show you the way you should go. ~ Deuteronomy 132-34Mary Xmess...Credo quia absurdum... "},{"Title":"Erased my reality of life","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can say that this movie is by far a cult classic in my opinion, and a vast artistic expression placed in the minds of the viewers. When i recently watched this film how could you not squirm in your seat from the utter eerie machine metal, crying babe, and destructive chaotic mind of Henry Spencer. To really sink into the movie, the nightmarish psycho mind of henry's thoughts elude him to end up killing his mutant babe, which in the end, brings him to peace.Artistic value is brought up in ever aspect of David Lynch's Eraserhead. Believing that there is one true way of looking at the film is by far a lie, making the film imaginative. What does everything really mean? This sum up of the movie is for you to decide. "},{"Title":"A Surrealists Fever Dreamed Masterpiece","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The definition of surrealism is an artistic movement that attempts to express the workings of the subconscious and is characterized by fantastic imagery and incongruous juxtaposition of subject matter. This is for people who are always trying to find meaning in David Lynch's works. Was Salvador Dali always asked to explain his works? Bunuel? In general, artists don't appreciate having to explain their art, why should they? Art can be interpreted in many different ways, depending upon the individual. An explanation would only ruin its merit. This is my belief. This is not to say that Eraserhead and said works are meaningless, quite the contrary. But I won't go into it by contradicting myself other than to say that this is a film that should be seen for the open-minded and perhaps the not-so to re-open ones way of thinking for the better. Lynch's imagery, lighting and over-all direction is masterful. I only wish there were more films/filmmakers like this to choose from. Unfortunately and on the same hand, fortunately, Lynch is one-of-a-kind. Sure there are others but lynch productions are his own and not copied from others, at least I haven't noticed as of yet who or what he has copied. If wanting to expand your mind and experience difference this a nice starting point, along with his short films, have you not discovered them yet. For those who have, you know what i'm talking about. This film can also be used to put a chill up someone's spine. Might I recommend viewing with the lights out at night, at a decent volume, preferably in surround sound. This is labeled a 'horror' not because it's a slasher/torture/rape/exploitation flick but because its like anything you've ever seen. This is one that definitely lives up to its hype and nothing has come close since. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"No expositions here ......","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead as a movies, I think no, as a piece of art I don't know but as a collection of oneiric sequences it does call for attention. It's far too vague and far too ambiguous. The surrealism is no holds barred and from the opening sequence itself the entire web starts to cast itself. It's hard to describe one's feeling towards a movies like this. Discomforting, well if that's the exact effect then sure it's a commendable piece of art but gratuitously overloaded with squalor so as to accomplishes the same, then doubts tend to rise. Something like Clockwork orange, it was so discomforting and still so intricately designed that even that discomfort had a meaning. Having said that in no way I would refer to Eraserhead as an overblown piece of art.For one Eraserhead did provide me with a new definition for movies, something transcending a narrative structure, a plot/ a story line or other conventional film making tools. It underscores the pure imaginative power of movies. The entire universe with no boundaries and no restrictions and this liberation I have indeed sought on more than a few occasions. Shredding the delusion of staging events in reality and escaping completely into the realm of imagination. For the longest time I tried to dissect the movie, I again and again tried to decipher meaning out of the details I could find here and there but sometime in between I lost track of that and simply immersed into the world of David Lynch. This world didn't make sense but it did give an emotional stimulus that we call art (again maybe, I don't quite know). Of all the assumptions and arguments put forth one that truly makes it easier for me to understand Eraserhead is that of it's Dream like nature. For dreams are neither edited nor structured or expository, they simply are images that arise from the subconscious and sneak into the cauldron of mind and when you wake up and irrespective of whether you remember or not, your heart doesn't stop thumping. "},{"Title":"Yeah, it's weird and surreal but this one just wasn't for me","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some call this film a masterpiece, but I don't know. Personally this film just wasn't for me. Sure it's surreal and weird with a bit of horror aspect to it. But personally, maybe I missed something but I just didn't appreciate this film. It's a David Lynch film so I was prepared for weirdness but that is all that seems to be going for this film. It's just so darn slow while mainly just focusing on the imagery most of the time. A lot of times, I just can't get into art-house types of movies and this is one I just couldn't get into. The plot is just flat and hardly anything to it, but it's still about a hour and a half long since it moves along so slowly. Despite the weird and surreal imagery and characters I was bored with this one. With the constant eerie space noises in the background. Which is in some art-house films, maybe to bring out the feeling of chaos. The protagonist Henry seems like a nice guy who is just out of it and confused most of the way through. And he actually adds to the surrounding and made me understand what might be going on a bit more. I don't know maybe I just missed out on a lot of the symbolism or something. Or maybe some people that praise this film are just self-indulgent and pretentious to the point of liking this film(or acting like they like it). Maybe it is a brilliant film, but personally I just didn't enjoy it much. It felt way too slow for my taste and I started to run out of patience. It does seem to pick up after the first hour though. For a surreal, weird with horror film I recommend Tetsuo The Iron Man.5/10 "},{"Title":"Eraserhead - insane !","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Warning!!! Please do not rent this if you are the average Hollywood ... (write your own favorite film genre on the dotted line) fan. This is not for you. Also, do not try to recommend it to friends, as you will not get invited to the next barbecue.I will however recommend it to you.I am not a film critic and I couldn't say I understand art. I don't know what this film is about. All I know is that it scared the crap out of me (something that the horror movies can't do). Could not say exactly why, because this thing is hard to watch/describe.One thing it did it made me curious about all the other Lynch films, so I'll be on my way to the next one. Wish me luck!Life is beautiful, but this picture represents everything that's wrong with it.8/10 "},{"Title":"A very unique, bizarre, and abstract piece of cinema","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is a very dark, nightmarish film that also has some humorous moments. The film, to me, is about a man named Henry who lives in a world full of darkness and grief. A world that he has created in his own head. It took me the second time to understand what the movie was, and more than likely everyone will have a different view of what the film was about. I have read some of the reviews on here, after seeing the movie, and it seem s to me that some of you are being a little harsh on the movie. A lot of you aren't even thinking about it and taking it as it is, a disturbing and boring movie. I wasn't bored at all watching it and yes it was disturbing. It explores the mind and the nightmares it creates. It is one of my personal favorite movies and is a real thought provoking movie "},{"Title":"Amazing, The Film That Gives As Long As You Wish To Take From It","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Art is nothing if not totally based on what the viewer can derive from the piece, and if this is art, then Lynch's Eraserhead is a masterpiece. Where to start? This dystopian future/ world where Eraserhead takes place is not meant to be real. It's not meant to be believed. It's meant to be dissected. Every component of the world can be broken down for meaning. The old man at the beginning? Yeah, in my derivation, he's God. A decaying God, an image reflective on the state that the human condition has deteriorated to, which is represented by the nightmarish baby thrown into the vat (which is represented of human production on earth). But you know what? As correct as I think my interpretations of this movie are, they don't matter at all. It's up to you to give meaning to this movie, a movie that may not have a plot because it goes beyond plot. The only plot of the movie is the plot you give it, and when done right, this can be the most effective way to reach the viewer. Eraserhead will teach you things about how you think you would never have learned about yourself before. This is truly a work of art. "},{"Title":"In heaven Everything is Fine!!!! A portion out of a mixed bag of life","Date":"6 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie title 'Eraserhead' made me to expect this movie as a normal sci-fi thriller and even I thought the poster of that movie is misleading me. But when I watched this movie, it did really blow my mind out and I am really happy that I really chose this movie to watch, because this is not a movie this is just a mirror of life in deft style. Many a times whenever we go through a nightmare we feel that we are out of our mind we have something in our mind called sub-conscious that view or think things weirdly, that is the same sub-conscious is what David Lynch should thank himself, because at the time he made this movie his sub-conscious mind was at peak I think, so that he could create something which could not be re-created anymore not even by himself. Similar to some people I also feel that this movie is surely a cult in itself. Many gifted directors like David Lynch really use their sub-conscious mind a lot because creating a non repeatable movies like this which requires equally that much enormous amount of creativity.We keep saying that life is a mixed bag which prominently holds mostly happiness and sorrow, yes Lynch here outlines all those in a his own dimension. He uses symbols as his main tool for encryption of his facts he wanted to portray here, these facts aren't analyzable in a uniform way because these facts may vary for person to person depending on their mindset and that's just what the David Lynch wanted!This movie not everybody's cup of tea. But can have a try to watch this irresistible MASTERPIECE. "},{"Title":"Eraserhead or How Henry Learned to Stop Worrying and Love Death","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Played as an absurdist nightmare I think the idea that dominates David Lynch's 'Eraserhead' is that man is a destructive being while woman is a creative one, at least that's how the man from whose perspective the film is told sees things in the face of his own inability to create life and inadequacy to even sustain life as well as his general feeling of worthlessness, especially now that he's on vacation (which is what he tells people, he may or may not have actually lost his job given that we never see him at work) and left in charge of his baby which he doesn't really know how to handle.Being in a relationship with a highly erratic woman and faced with sexual temptations Henry even struggles to keep his relationship alive. After having sexual intercourse with the sultry neighbor woman he gets into a mood where he feels especially inadequate and lacking in control so when he is losing his head it is replaced by the baby's, he feels as helpless as a baby and it maybe also indicates that he sees the baby as threatening to eventually take his place. As for his real head, it drops on the floor and becomes a commodity. His brain becomes pieces of rubber on the end of pencils, again even in this state the only thing he's good for is being a tool that is of a destructive nature. The kid who brings his head to the eraser factory receives money, even dead he's worth more than right now while he's alive.The plant in his apartment is a pathetic-looking branch sticking out of a big pile of earth on his nightstand and some little maggot thingy that he receives per mail he just puts into a cabinet in hope for something to grow out of it, instead it doesn't even move anymore the next time he opens the cupboard. In bed his girlfriend ejects big sperm-like thingies in her sleep and he can't help but throw them out of bed and against the wall in disgust. When towards the end the man tries to overcome his inadequacy to create by at least wanting to understand how things work he cuts up the baby's bandage just to have the baby itself cut open with his only option left being to put the baby out of its misery and killing it, and not even this he can do well.Henry occasionally drifts into a more blissful fantasy state which in his little apartment is usually triggered by the humming of the radiator. But rather than just harmless escapism I think this is more indicative of his flowering death drive. Behind the radiator he at first just imagines an empty stage. Then there's a woman on the stage who crushes those sperm-like thingies which have heads that very much resemble the baby's. Later the same woman sings about everything being fine in Heaven (in Lynch's own angelic high-pitched voice) and after killing his child the film ends with Henry and the woman embracing each other while light embraces them and the screen fates to white. Eraserdead. "}{"Title":"Unforgettable and Haunting","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After watching Eraserhead for the first time, my initial reaction was I have never watched a stranger movie; and possibly never will the rest of my life. Frankly, I'm not even sure if I can rate this movie as 'good' or 'bad', simply because I have never seen anything even remotely like Eraserhead. But good vs. bad isn't really the point. It's how the movie made me feel.This isn't a warm, lighthearted family film. It isn't comical. I've seen it under the genre of Horror and Suspense, but that doesn't quite seem to fit. I wasn't horrified, I was perturbed. I wasn't in suspense, I was in shock. Eraserhead is quite uncomfortable to watch; not necessarily because of the disturbing props or character's strange behavior, but because it made me question everything that was going on in the film.Is Eraserhead about sanity vs. insanity? Marriage and love? Bearing children? Sin and lust? The dream world and the waking world? Loneliness? Questioning the world and your place in it? Questioning your consciousness and yourself? Heaven and Hell? Life and death? I tried to pick one of the symbolic themes I've named above (or ones I didn't feel or notice) and I've found it impossible. It seems to be about everything I mentioned; and depending on who is watching Eraserhead, it could be about none of the things I mentioned. That's what is so fascinating about this movie.Eraserhead is almost inexplicable to someone who hasn't seen it, but I feel it's worth a look. I will say it's not for everyone as it may keep you up at night.For those willing to take a peek at this mysterious film Whether you find Eraserhead to be interesting or boring; symbolic or a silly mess; a bunch of nonsense or a work of genius, it is unforgettable and haunting. "},{"Title":"Slightly Unsettling Monochrome Morbidity","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It was with some trepidation that I sat down to view this cult classic, not least because of its reputation which so obviously precedes it. There is no doubt that this film is very strong on audio - in fact the soundtrack really gets under your skin and creates such an ambiance right from the outset that you almost feel yourself being reeled in. The main character - Henry - is surely a modern day version of Buster Keaton. You really do feel that there is a nod to the silent films era, not only with the visuals but with the humour, most of which is unerringly black. There are many set pieces in the film which serve to both unnerve and amuse you in equal measure, which in itself makes for quite an unsettling experience. The supporting cast are nothing short of excellent. There are several other reviews out there which label this film as groundbreaking and I would say that that label is certainly justified. It will be obvious to those viewing this that certain directors of certain movies now regarded as classics will have had the seeds of an idea from this movie. For those die-hard Lynch fans out there, you will LOVE this film. For those who have never entered the bizarre world of the director, you will certainly take something from this. Not sure what, and perhaps that's the point. This is a new experience which will have you thinking about it days later, and what finer tribute can a movie have than that? "},{"Title":"See it twice - 30 or so years apart","Date":"10 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this when it was new, at a midnight movie. It was about a step and a half too weird for me - I stayed for the whole show, but I never knew what I was seeing. I knew it was creative, I just didn't know what it was creating, rather like The Baby - I don't know what it is, but it's a creation.So, after an appropriate pause (30+ years), I watched it again. It's still weird, it still shows the low-budget style (yet it seems no money was spared in getting The Baby just right), but I now see much more of the narrative, probably thanks to Twin Peaks and Mulholland Dr. - Yes, it jumps or wanders or steps smoothly from the film's dreamlike reality into the movie's realistic dreams, but it all makes sense. I'm not sure it's *supposed* to make sense, but it does, especially if taken from the point of view of Henry, the hero.Try it once - if you don't get it, try it in thirty years, and get back to me. "},{"Title":"Very good, very crazy","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" You will watch this movie and by the ending credits think, what in the hell? what was that? But at the same time, you will be mystified and intrigued by it's crazy sequences, amazing imagery, and brilliant characters. But, as you are mystified, baffled, and intrigued, you will also be extremely, extremely disturbed by it's grossly dark nature. You will not know what to make of it by any means. The ending is extremely gross and disturbing. Now, at the same time, one or two parts of the film get kinda boring towards the end of the second act. Overall, a crazy, dark, gritty, gross, mystifying, baffling, weird, strange, and disturbing film that can really never be compared(in terms of the story and the world Lynch creates) to another movie. Great job Mr. Lynch! Keep the weirdness going! "},{"Title":"Hmm...","Date":"2 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" With the notion that this could quite possibly be the most difficult film to critique, it is important to know that rating 'Eraserhead' on a scale of 1 to 10 is pointless. So why did I do it then? I thought 8 was a reasonable number, because it is high enough to garner attention (which this film definitely deserves), but low enough to suggest that it is not one of the greatest film achievements of our time. With that in mind, I'll begin my exercise in futility. Excluding all of the surreal events and scenes (which may or may not contain symbolic significance), the plot is fairly straightforward. Henry Spencer works at a printing press, and is on vacation. He is invited to his girlfriend's (Mary's) house to have dinner with her and her family (The Xs). Upon visiting, he's informed that Mary had given birth prematurely, and that he had an obligation to marry her. From that point forward, the film delves deeper and deeper into Henry's psyche, as he is bombarded with the consequences of his situation, psycho- sexual imagery, thoughts of suicide, and hellish fantasies. Those who have seen Eraserhead will testify that it is undoubtedly the most bizarre film ever created--they could very well be correct in saying so. It would be unjust for me to elaborate, because excessively describing any of the surreal scenes in the film would cheat any would-be viewers out of the surprises the film has to offer. David Lynch has referred to this film as a dream of dark and troubling things, and the film is closer to that description than any other film before it. It is as if Lynch has analyzed every aspect of a nightmare and created a film from them. The black and white color scheme was a good choice, seeing that some dreams take on a colorless form. Other aspects of the cinematography contribute to the enigmatic, sinister vibe of a nightmarish vision. The beginning shot that sets this disturbing, abstract nightmare in motion is an extremely unsettling image; one that has stuck with me since the first viewing. When making a movie, it is important to establish a connection between the audience and the main character. Lynch has accomplished this with little to no character development whatsoever. There is no deep back-story provided for Henry. He never gives a gut-wrenching, insightful, Oscar-worthy monologue to win the audience over. Lynch instead uses the barren, bleak, and uninspired landscapes as his medium for characterization. The strange sense of isolation Lynch creates as Henry stumbles through his nightmare is an indirect way of personality-building. Henry is alone, helpless, and doomed, and the audience is right there with him every step of the way. The screenplay is staggered; sparse. Nightmares may contain this awkward pause-filled dialogue, but seeing these conversations play out in a movie comes across as a disturbing mess, because much of what little dialogue there is in this movie simply makes no sense at all. Makes no sense at all; this impulsive statement is unfortunately a good description for the bulk of the movie. The film has prompted many responses from audiences, including hand-to-mouth surprised expressions, as well as knee-slapping laughter (to name a few). When critiquing art, the comment that a piece makes no sense is an irrelevant and juvenile judgment. Art doesn't have to make sense--by that rationale, films don't have to make sense either. Reviewing this film is like critiquing the abstract pieces of Jackson Pollock, or Salvador Dali-- ultimately, there is nothing bad or good about this movie. What is certain, though, is that Lynch has created one of the most interesting films I've ever seen. 4/5 "},{"Title":"Classic Lynch in his Eraserhead Form","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Stephen King is to Novels as David Lynch is to Films. You're going to enter the minds of some very twisted individuals with King and Lynch. When you watch a film that a director wrote and produced, you're usually entering their mind, it's almost like a portal into their world. Well Welcome to Eraserhead!! The genius with Lynch is, he's so brilliant that once in awhile he accidentally makes a completely abstract, surrealistic mess into something amazing, with those movies being, in my opinion, Wild at Heart, and Mulholland Drive. WaH and MD barely come together as being some sort of story and that they come together with a beginning and an end(Not a conventional beginning and end though, this is Lynch we're talking about here)in a Lynch film is amazing within itself. WaH and MD are brilliant movies! Blue Velvet, a little overrated in my opinion, but still very good. Then Great movies that are of the 'norm' that Lynch Directed and wrote(one of them) is The Elephant Man and The Straight Story. Two movies that kind of get Lynch out of himself for a moment, and prove his true genius as a filmmaker-not just his usual abstract stuff, but his true genius in what he knows in general as a filmmaker. I really wish Lynch would have shown more of his talent as he did with The Elephant Man and The Straight Story because he really is a great director, and if he would have gotten out of himself a little more and was more diverse in his career, I think he would have easily been one of the Top Ten Best Director's of all time. But be that as it may you get his usual stuff, the abstract stuff, which is Eraserhead and his other films which consists of about 75 percent of his career. To understand Eraserhead is like trying to understand Life. Nowadays, a director with this kind of film as Eraserhead, would be called an Abstract Artist where his or her Abstract Film would be shown in the Gallery of a Small Art Museum. Because really, it comes down to this old question, is Porn exploitation or art? Everyone will have an opinion on that one, most probably won't agree with the latter on that one. So the same question applies with Eraserhead. Is Eraserhead a film or just art or both? Art is subjective, film is subjective, Film can be Art, Art can be film, but I believe one can be objective very minimally with the two(Film and Art) and splitting the two like splitting an atom. Technically Eraserhead is a film, but really it's not a film, it's a piece of David Lynch, it's pure abstract art. I honestly liked Eraserhead, and in my opinion, as all of you may be asking the number one question, 'What the (Blank) was this 'film' about?'...Nothing! That's my opinion, Lynch likes to express himself through his films, he likes to push his limits and he doesn't ever care if anything makes sense or not,(the ending is hilarious and Eraserhead is pretty funny here and there, I would almost believe that Lynch would get a kick out of watching people laugh when they watch his zany, abstract films because I could imagine Lynch would get off on the fact that you're laughing because it makes no sense and Lynch is laughing because he watches you react to his work in that manner), so like i said, when one of his abstract films comes together into making any kind of sense at all like Mulholland Drive and Wild at Heart did, it's a real miracle, and probably very accidental on Lynch's part. You cannot deny Lynch's brilliance though, he's truly an amazing artist, and i just wish he would have shown more of his amazing gift as a director. With Eraserhead though, don't put too much thought into trying to figure it out, you won't, it's subjective remember ;) "},{"Title":"Eraserhead","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead follows Henry Spencer, a soft-spoken fellow with an extremely amusing haircut, as he deals with living in a small, isolated apartment and taking care of his newly-born, premature, mutant baby. It sounds ridiculous on paper, but strangely, makes less sense after viewing it. I have seen it twice in the last two months, and it has become one of my favorites.The acting in Eraserhead ranges from solid to outstanding. Jack Nance's performance as Henry Spencer is superb (at least in my opinion). The majority of his screen time does not consist of dialogue, and he conveys Henry's emotions well, particularly those of discomfort and uneasiness. Charlotte Stewart does a passable job as Mary, the mother of Henry's mutant child. Most of the movie consists of scenes involving these two characters. The other actors and actresses perform their roles as needed, and the film does not suffer from any bad acting.Eraserhead's cinematography is mostly standard, and serves the story well. The film utilizes some creative shots, and from what I remember, held my attention for the duration of the movie. Eraserhead's visual effects are about what you'd expect from a low-budget film. They are done well enough not to induce any cringing or vomiting, except of course where they are intended to. The sound effects, on the other hand, are the strongest aspect of Eraserhead's technical performance. Because dialogue is not featured prominently, what the viewer hears becomes a major part of their experience. In one scene, I was more concerned with a bubbling sound in the background then with what was happening on-screen, so much so that I had to rewind to see if I'd missed anything important. Not that the sound effects are distracting, but they are so captivating and pleasing. Even the sound of the baby's constant crying was mesmerizing.While all of these components affect the viewer's perception of the film's quality, it is ultimately its storyline that will either make them a fan or severely disappoint them. Director David Lynch is known for leaving interpretation of the film's strange imagery and shocking conclusion up to the viewer, and for keeping its intended meaning to himself. Those who do not enjoy applying symbolism or greater meaning to media, or are just too lazy to try, will likely walk away from this movie with disgust. Personally, I took pleasure in thinking critically about the film's message and applying my own meaning to it. My interpretation after my second viewing is entirely different from what I originally thought, and I'm willing to guess it will change after viewing it again, which I most definitely plan on doing.Eraserhead is not a film for every viewer, especially those accustomed to movies made purely for thoughtless enjoyment. To me though, it is a highly respectable achievement in filmmaking. "},{"Title":"Weird, wonderful introduction to the mind of David Lynch","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch is easily among the most uniquely talented and fascinating of directors working today. He is a truly unfiltered artist who puts all his fascinations, fears and inspirations down on film - for better or for worse. Eraserhead is Lynch's first film - essentially, this is little more than a bizarre feature-length student film. It's low-budget and experimental, with untrained actors and not much plot or character development to speak of. Yet Eraserhead is crafted with such care, and has such confidence and consistency in the strange, dark world it builds up, that it clearly stands out from just about every other amateur art-film ever made. This movie boldly and unforgettably marked the arrival of a genuine new talent. David Lynch is one of those rare directors who are already capable of filmmaking genius on their first try. Eraserhead is filled to the brim with strange, evocative imagery I doubt I will ever forget the sight of the mutant baby, or the ominously cheerful puffy-cheeked lady, or sad-sack protagonist Henry as he shuffles through an unnamed industrial city. Eraserhead also is the rare movie capable of earning different reactions on each viewing - I initially found it weirdly hilarious, but on repeat watches it is sometimes frightening and discomforting. And while movies can't get much more abstract or bizarre than Eraserhead without spinning off into utter incoherence or perversity, there are some grounded, real fears to be found here. Much of the movie's imagery and scant story revolve around the terror that everyone experiences at some point when entering the responsibility of adulthood and parenthood. For some new parents, Eraserhead could function as an offbeat therapy session.By design, this movie is not for everyone. Be aware of that before watching. But it is one of the best directorial debuts of all time - not to mention one of the flat-out strangest films I've ever seen, without coming across like it's 'trying too hard'. "},{"Title":"In heaven, everything is fine","Date":"19 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A remarkably self-assured nightmare vision of the world we live in. Lynch takes the domestic world and reveals the horror that is only thinly hidden inside of it -- the things we feel deep down and wish we could express, but can only do so in our nightmares. Everything is twisted, but with its own logic, one that remains fundamentally out of human understanding -- or at least the understanding of humans that aren't David Lynch.And then we have Jack Nance, the titular eraser-headed man, trying to survive in this world -- although, in the end, he's every bit as warped and vile as the rest of it. Still, there's a kind of everyman sympathy that Nance brings to the role, that films the basic human connection that makes this movie so great. My favourite films are the ones that combine an unique aesthetic vision with a tangible human component, and Eraserhead easily fits into all these categories.I've liked the rest of Lynch's films that I've seen, but all of them have felt a little distant and gesturing at something that they don't fully express. Eraserhead, on the other hand, is a complete statement in one haunting package. Maybe that completeness is something Lynch wanted to abandon, but in any case, it makes this film great. "},{"Title":"Weird. Imaginative. And dark. -- All words that can describe David Lynch's Eraserhead","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's truly nothing quite like Eraserhead. Nothing at all. And once you view it once, it can potentially change your entire perspective of film. You begin to highly regard films that baffle you, and films that confuse you. And if I were to describe to you, what Eraserhead is like, I'd say it's like a dream. Despite all my praises, I have one problem with Eraserhead. And that is the fact that, Lynch doesn't remember where the idea for the film came from. He doesn't know what possessed him to make it. And that's a problem for me because, it's difficult to see what he was trying to achieve. For me, it's important, for me to see what he was trying to do so I can learn more about it. Understand it. And I may not be giving it justice by only viewing it once, but I'll say that for me to understand what went on, I think I should understand the idea first. "}{"Title":"Truly Twisted - I LOVED it!!!","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I finally got a chance to view this much-hyped, forever-talked about freak fest known as Eraserhead by David Lynch.First and foremost, I am QUITE sure that subsequent viewings will find me liking this movie more and more. To date I have only seen it once. I KNEW I would have to write a review and my thoughts about it were all over the place - I was disgusted, frightened, amazed, laughed like hell but ultimately was THOROUGHLY entertained.Secondly, I had to come up with a plot line to couch a review in. After only one viewing that seems virtually impossible. Hello folks, this is a David Lynch film - plot is ENTIRELY too restrictive a concept. Suffice it to say, it deals with loneliness, insecurity, frustration, a horny mother, an endlessly smoking grandmother, a hapless father, a mysterious Lady of the Evening, and a VERY disturbing baby.Lastly, pegging it as merely different is a masterpiece of understatement and for a directorial debut is MOST unforgettable. Actually, I have come to like most, if not all of Lynch's work because it was NEVER commonplace, trite or contrived. Lynch is behind such fascinations as Lost Highway, Blue Velvet, Wild At Heart, and, of course, Twin Peaks. My ultimate justification is that David Lynch and I share a birthday which probably explains a lot.Nonetheless, I most certainly recommend. "},{"Title":"Uhhhh, What?!","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Be warned, Eraserhead, is a very, very strange film.Seeping chickens, dancing weirdo women, dying alien baby children, all these features help to make Eraserhead a cult classic from the distinguished auteur David Lynch.It made me feel physically ill at points, yet there are very, very dark undertones of sex, violence, disease and possibly eraserhead was allegorical of American living standards at the time of production.Dialogue is sparse and at points fairly disposable by the audience; Eraserhead is primarily a visual experience, often visceral, often just monochrome shapes...Eraserhead was clearly conceived whilst someone was taking drugs. I think the previous sentence summarises the visual, narrative and overall style and direction of the films. Don't get me wrong, there is a clear direction, but that direction is very, very strange.Surreal.Watch Eraserhead, ideally with someone else, otherwise it would be weird. "},{"Title":"History of America","Date":"14 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A movie is a tale. Strong, soft, ugly, great, insignificant, but a tale. Eraserhead is a special tale about power and sacrifice. About an era and about his symbol. The biographic film must have a slice of truth. The inspiration of director, the cast, the sound or the lights, the sound or the script are relevant but never enough. Or the importance of this film consist in a special art to discover the essence of a world with respect and precision. And Jack Nance, a great actor, with a powerful art, knows to discover the force of a victim and the vulnerability of an infant, the sign of lie and politics in a life who exist only like part of his country's destiny. A rare case in which the nationality of director is relevant. Why? Because this movie reflect the history of America in his precious beauty, in his real fear. "},{"Title":"Personal Insight into understanding this great film and others.","Date":"29 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" OMG! here we go with my two cents! Oooo, I'm so nervous with excitement! I have seen about every Lynch movie, totally love all of them, but didn't like Eraserhead at first, but now I've seen it four times. Huh? Why? What? The thing I can tell you the most about Eraserhead is that I don't know exactly what it's about, frankly, but I like some peoples take on it, but others, well...... Let's look at it this way- The reason I and I think people are drawn to this movie is the FEEL one gets from it, the FEEL, okay? not the 'ooo let's figure it out because there is the secret to life hidden somewhere' thing. Interperations of art are usually WAY too convoluted. People read WAY TOO MUCH into things, OMG! I doubt the 13 seconds before the elevator moves has anything to do with anything. Lynch likes to put things like that in to mess with viewers. People think there is some special THING to figure out. NO! Here is what Lynch does in every movie that draws us into it- I like the sounds of the train, the confused and scared look on Henry's face and so many other characters he has created, the totally bleak as hell look of his apartment that makes you want to kill yourself, the long pauses in between dialog that Lynch would later do in all his movies that gives you an uneasy feeling. Flickering lights, beautifully creepy music with beautiful women, all mixed in with an almost Three Stooges comedy that clashes with the seriousness of it all, which is brilliant. My point is, it's really a painting, but moving picture, so really a moving painting. It's the feel you get, not a twist ending or convoluted mystery story like so many films try to do, and then you only want to watch the movie once, NEVER AGAIN. Lynch has quoted this film as ' look at it as a painting, (watch it all the way through without stopping it, take it all in.') Yes, he said it most certainly is about his being in Philadelphia and what a crappy place it was, and he had a daughter there and it has to do with the stress of that. Yet people read too much into movies and songs, dissecting every little piece of thing that you lose sense of what the artist was trying to do in the first place. And trust me, I don't make this point because I'm 'dumb' or lazy and can't see those secret things. Notice how the warehouse door says 27 on it when they show Henery outside opening the tiny box he got in the mail? Thats the number of the hooker living across from him. Yes, she's a hooker,you know that, right? which adds to Henery's naiveté' that he could have her, did you figure that one out? But does it really mean anything, those numbers matching, I don't think so, it's Lynch being a smartie with us. lol Me personally?, I think the lady in the radiator in an angel from heaven, and that at the end, he puts his deformed baby out of misery by killing it, but still is able and it's OK to go to heaven. Could also be some take on abortion. Murder is a forgivable sin in the bible. Remember, Lynch said that he didn't know the thing that would pull the whole movie together, until he read a line in the bible, and booya! he had it. And he is well know for saying he may never ever reveal what that line is he read in the bible. "},{"Title":"a nice nightmare","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch's first film which took five years to make, essentially for financial reasons, Eraserhead is a film you'd rather watch than tell. In an interview led by French newspaper Liberation in 1987, the filmmaker was asked why he was making cinema and he answered to create a world and to experiment it. This is what he perfectly does throughout this oppressive nightmare.Eraserhead can be read at different levels. At the first degree, the filmmaker develops a simple story that is constantly distorted by the bizarre and the horror. An artistic choice reinforced by an audacious making with disturbing shots. Set in an industrial town, the main protagonist Henry (Jack Nance) has a girlfriend Mary (the actress was the teacher miss Beadle in Little House TV series). He's invited to dinner by the young girl's parents. This sequence flops. Then, Mary raises a monstrous fetus that's constantly crying and treats him like a normal baby. Shattered by its incessant cries, she's leaving Henry's room, leaving him alone with the monster. The latter doesn't seem to want to take care of it and wants to eliminate it.Throughout his work, Lynch shows Henry trying to escape from this oppressive world. Numerous shots depict enlarged details belonging to objects or parts of the room and they are shot in a weird manner. Furthermore, two ladies are in his mind his female neighbor with whom he seems to be in love and the lady in the radiator who sings corny songs. But the monstrous fetus always reappears...I'm not a David Lynch aficionado but throughout the years I warmed to his first visual nightmare and it remains a testing experience. A must-see film. "},{"Title":"There was a good chance I would find this bizarre film very underwhelming, but I didn't!","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After making several short films, filmmaker David Lynch made his feature-length debut with Eraserhead, this very trippy movie which I guess you would call horror! I was not around when this film came out, and I never even heard of it until sometime within the past few weeks when I saw a clip from it, the part showing the character known as the Lady in the Radiator singing the haunting and repetitive song, In Heaven! This made me curious enough to watch the movie, and it didn't take long at all before I did just that. I got plenty of warning about how incredibly weird and sometimes gruesome it was before watching it, and as popular as I knew it was, it wouldn't have been surprising if I got basically nothing out of it, but that's not what happened.In a decaying, post-apocalyptic society, Henry Spencer is a printer who lives in an industrial town full of noisy machines, and is currently on vacation. His estranged girlfriend, Mary X, invites him over to her family's house for dinner one night, so he comes over. After a very strange session at the dinner table, Mary's mother takes Henry into another room and informs him that Mary has just given birth to a baby very prematurely, and he happens to be this baby's father! Because of this, he is now obliged to marry his estranged girlfriend, so Mary and the baby, a severely mutated child, move into Henry's apartment with him. When the couple attempt to sleep, the mutant baby just won't keep quiet, so Mary decides that she can't take it anymore and temporarily moves back in with her family, leaving the disfigured child with Henry, who is now headed for one bizarre and frightening mixture of instances!As I watched the beginning here, I could already tell that it certainly wasn't going to be one of the most understandable films I've ever seen, showing bizarre scenes in a slow-paced manner. It looked like I was going to find most of Eraserhead boring at first, and I wasn't finding the acting in the sporadic moments of dialogue to be all that impressive, but I wasn't going to give up yet. I kept watching to see what would happen, and I think I started finding the film more intriguing when Henry comes over to the X family's home, though I didn't find absolutely everything before that to be boring. From this point on, I found lots of tension in this very weird story which is a lot like a crazy dream with its incoherence, but that's not necessarily a bad thing! Some parts didn't grab me as much as others did, but the all the insanity was definitely enough to hold my attention basically all the way up until the very sudden ending! I think the gloomy atmosphere and constant sounds of machinery and howling wind really helped.Many consider this 1977 feature-length debut from David Lynch to be a masterpiece, while there are also lots of people who have been absolutely disgusted by it, and I can understand that perfectly. It's truly a mind-boggling motion picture, and it sure can get disturbing, especially during the scenes with the mutant baby! Also, what exactly the movie is about is probably largely up to the viewer to decide. You can be VERY sure that Eraserhead is not for kids, and many adults wouldn't be able sit through it, either, which I certainly can't fault them for. If you're used to mainstream cinema, you'd better prepare yourself for something very different if you're going to watch this polarizing cult film, and also be ready for the constant weirdness and unusual gruesomeness that you're bound to see. You've been warned! It's definitely not a film I would want to watch multiple times, but you just might find that you don't even want to watch it once, or maybe you'll be even more impressed than I was! "},{"Title":"A wonderful Cult Classic","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had first watched this movie when we were analysing the relationship between video and sound. I would have to say that David Lynch had nailed it on the head when it comes to this relationship, many have disregarded this movie due to it being surreal and unconventional (and in some cases; the lack of colour) but people have to understand that a man has put so much money and so much effort into creating something that he believed in (Making movies back then was extremely hard compared to this), I have a lot of respect for Mr. Lynch when it comes to what he had created and I would definitely recommend this movie to be watched as well as other David Lynch productions. "},{"Title":"After 35 Years, Eraserhead Is Still Entrancing, Hypnotic, and Very Weird","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Being as huge a fan of movies of all types as I am, I have a running list of films in my head that people say I must see. Eraserhead has been one of those films. However, after reading about how disturbing the movie is, and how many movies magazines and critics have labeled it among the most bizarre and even dangerous films ever made, I have always been very reluctant to see it.I have seen other weird films that I have been intensely curious about, but after seeing them, I could not sleep afterwords. Having refused to see Eraserhead unless it was with other people, not by myself, I finally saw the movie the way it was meant to be seen at a special midnight showing in the Coolidge Corner Theater, located in Brookline, Massachusetts.After seeing it, I fortunately don't have nightmares, but I still can't stop thinking about the film. It is almost always bizarre, sometimes grotesque, and a bit startling at times. What's amazing is how it doesn't feel dated, despite being 35 years old. It's shot in a cool black and white, which gives it a noir feel that has never run out of date. There are also very few (almost no) 20th century technological devices in it, making the film as relevant to 2011 as it was to 1976. It's also amazing that newer generations of moviegoers (like myself) are still drawn to it despite how weird it is.And yes, make no mistake about it, Eraserhead is very, very, very weird, and oftentimes incredibly intense. However, film lovers still see method in director David Lynch's madness, even though they may not completely understand it.Another part of this film's appeal is how the incoherent story structure is used towards this movie's advantage. Without one of the 14 standard Hollywood plots, the film takes hold of your desire to see what happens next. Every drawn out moment of silence clutches onto your attention span, and every eccentric character shocks you, but dares you to look away.It goes without saying that the question everyone has probably asked themselves at least once while seeing this film is, Why? Why does the lead character wear his hair straight up like he's been electrocuted? Why did he and his girlfriend try to raise a deformed baby in a cramped apartment? Why does this man see a singing woman in his radiator? Why does this woman have such huge, deformed cheeks? Why does she sing In Heaven, Everything Is Fine?People who hate this film (and I imagine there are more than a few) have asked themselves variations of this basic question, but refuse to answer them. Fans of the film probably have different answers to this question every time they attempt to answer it. David Lynch's answer is probably, Why not?, which definitely keeps film fans coming back. "},{"Title":"A cult movie of the surreal art of cinema","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch's first full length movie is one of the rare movies that has been extremely weird, progressive and simply different that have reached a certain cult status and given the occasion to a brilliant genius and director to do a professional career. There are many reasons why this movie has been so popular and it certainly merits its status even if it's surprising that so many people like this disturbing, slow paced and anti-mainstream flick.The movie has been shot in black and white and works a lot with surreal images, absurd scenes and strange sounds. The first ten minutes are without any dialogues and even when some characters begin to talk, there conversations are reduced to a straight minimum. The story is slow paced but yet very difficult to explain. The story is set in a very dark, grey and desperate industrial region which creates a truly haunting atmosphere. A weirdo, brilliantly played by the amazing and very authentic Jack Nance, gets the message that his ex-girlfriend is pregnant and they get together again to live with the baby that nobody wanted to get born. The couple soon feels imprisoned by the presence of an ugly and totally weird baby and is longing for freedom and afraid of taking responsibilities. That's the part of the story that is easy to explain but concerning the ending and the whole meaning of the movie, everyone should make up his own mind just as I have developed my proper theory.The movie is highly experimental and a weird piece of avant-garde. It is difficult to approach because of the lack of dialogues and the very slow paced development. The movie is sometimes gore and disgusting, sometimes transcending and surreal and deals a lot with the topic of sex in a very artistic and mature way.Personally, I would suggest to anyone that likes original and experimental movies to have a look on this flick as it influenced many famous directors, actors and even musicians and shows us the roots of a brilliant director that later created masterpieces such as Twin Peaks or Lost highway. This is one of those movies that this kind of people should have seen at least once in their lives. It will surely be a very special and unforgettable experience but you will adore or hate it for sure as there is not much left in between. I really adore it but I didn't give the highest ratings because David Lynch has even done better movies and because there is even stuff out there that is weirder than this one, but Eraserhead is surely a brilliant introduction to the surreal art of cinema. "},{"Title":"A frightening but humorous dream within a dream within a dream...","Date":"7 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you ever wanted to see a nightmare on film, David Lynch's first feature film, Eraserhead, pretty much fills the bill. Filmed over a three year period (Lynch was a film student at the time and kept running out of resources but stayed persistent in seeing it completed), it tells the story of...well...um...that's a good question. There is a relationship, and a mutant baby and man-made chickens and a man in a dark planet and bum knees and a woman in a radiator who sings and a machine that makes erasers out of people's heads (but that might have been just a dream...inside of a dream...or something like that)... well, I think you get the idea. Eraserhead (like many of Lynch's later films) has its own dream logic that, for some inexplicable reason, works (that is, *if* you allow yourself to be absorbed into its world and throw reason aside for its 89 minute running time) and you find yourself understanding it without really understanding it. Yeah, it's *that* weird. It's also a film that is bizarrely humorous while being disturbing and frightening at the exact same time. Most people don't get this movie but those who do LOVE it and find themselves returning to it again and again. I'm definitely in the latter group and have Eraserhead on my short list of all time favorite films. My daughter is also in love with Eraserhead and we frequently quote lines from it to each other whenever the opportunity presents itself. "}{"Title":"in heaven, everything is fine...","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This overheard from a bewildered 16-year-old moviegoer (whose favorite film so far the same year was 'Rocky IV') after the lights had come up in the UC Theater in Berkeley Was that a movie? He has a good point mild-mannered Philadelphia artist David Lynch's dark but impressive debut feature isn't really a conventional movie experience; it's the worst nightmare you've ever had, with the same compelling (and often nauseating) fascination of a bad dream. There's a facsimile of an actual plot, but it unfolds obliquely, in grainy, dreamlike black and white imagery, presenting a long, hallucinatory, and sometimes oddly comic descent into the restless, unprobed corners of the human condition, where newlyweds Henry and Mary live with their bastard child a repulsive, limbless creature of unnamed origin. It's easy to see why this certified cult classic is such a perennial favorite on the midnight film circuit, but there's more here than just the usual wallow in film school self-indulgence, recalling at times the morbid, tongue-in-cheek surrealism of early Buñuel. "},{"Title":"Hell on film","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the first shot of Jack Nance's head hovering in space, Eraserhead is a dark, puzzling nightmare that left me so disturbed I could not think of anything else than the film for days. It might not be a horror film per se, but the pitch black atmosphere makes it one of the most terrifying films ever made.Eraserhead is about Henry Spencer (Nance), an angsty printer who lives in a desolate industrial city and one day finds out he is the father of a terribly deformed baby. To say that it is about a man having a child is a bit of a stretch, however, since that merely provides a backdrop for a series of unnerving events. There is a lady stepping on semen like creatures while dancing inside a radiator, there is the world's most awkward family dinner with a bleeding chicken, and there is a darkly humorous factory scene that gave the film its name. Needless to say, Eraserhead is a strange film that does not quite resemble anything else that I have seen.There are two aspects that really tie the film together and make it into a true masterpiece. Firstly, David Lynch's direction is superb, not only for a debut but compared to any film. The droning score matches the abandoned settings perfectly, while the magnificent lighting gives every scene a certain mysterious aura and is also stunning to look at. All these things blend together so well, creating a singular atmosphere unmatched in his later works. Secondly, Jack Nance deserves much more praise than he gets for his role. Some might say that it is a one note performance, but even if that were true, he plays it to perfection. However, I think he displays a wide array of emotions using nothing but his facial expressions.Stanley Kubrick allegedly showed this film to the cast in The Shining in order to set them into the right mood, and it is easy to see why. Eraserhead is one of the most original films ever, and every bit as frightening as The Shining. "},{"Title":"Mind melting with sounds","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I seriously felt like I needed to watch something happy after this film. My mind just felt tired after watching the film. I also feel like I could not watch it again. But that will not change that I thought it was very creative and very well done. David Lynch really wanted to mess with anyone who watched this film and I believe he accomplished that. The story line was so hidden it was hard to figure out. The scenes throughout the movie though were beyond the strange. From what I can figure out, this takes place in a destroyed world. Most of the green is gone and what is left is pain. Jack Nance plays the main role. His acting was all in his expressions. I loved his expressions. I also read that the script of this movie was about three pages long. So the acting had to be in movement. Then the movie would have to rely on everything else to make it whole. Charlotte Stewart plays the girl he is in love with. They have a baby together, but because of this crazy polluted world, the baby is a bit; strange. It is hard to explain and better to experience the madness than describe it. Lynch's idea of putting mind ripping sounds throughout the film really got to me. Through the whole film it makes you very uncomfortable. I am sure that is what he wanted though. For example, the first ten or so minutes of the film is one constant sound that gets louder and louder. You almost want to pull your hair out. By the end of the film I said to myself, God what an uncomfortable movie. Then it came to me how brilliant David Lynch really is. Many will make a comedy and say that it will make people laugh. That is why many comedies do fail. But Lynch's warped mind probably thought why not make a film to really mess with people and make them feel just weird by the end of it. He made it happen and that is what makes this film excellent. There were some small things I would change in the film, but nothing to the point of a complete change because I would never want to mess with Lynch. "},{"Title":"weirdest film ever..","Date":"8 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As far as Lynch goes this (in my opinion) is his most dark and disturbing piece. The movie doesn't have a massive deal of dialogue, but it doesn't need to as the music and imagery is unsettling purely on it's own. i found it quite hard to interpret what was going on throughout, and had to pause it and search for some sort of explanation half way through! but once you have seen it, something draws you back to it. i found i had a lot of sympathy for the mutant child, especially when it falls ill and at the end when it is destroyed. definitely a film that takes some concentration, but not to be taken to seriously. it's a piece that Lynch himself cannot remember writing, so that say's it all to be honest! "},{"Title":"divinely inspired though excessive","Date":"28 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead was a watershed in American cinema. Nothing quite like it had ever been witnessed. Previous classics are evoked 2001 A Space Odyssey, Busby Berkeley, Universal horror, Roger Corman exploitation, European interwar surrealism. Director David Lynch presents a nightmare-scape of grinding urban industrial decay in which deep longing and pain and suffering throb. From the first moment we are in Lynch-land following his camera into dark nooks and crannies leading to endlessly mysterious crevices and niches, exploding into blinding flashes that may or may not be revelations. Through every moment there is an accompanying sound as vivid as the visuals, mostly the hum, echo and hiss of industrial infrastructure, usually decrepit, creaky, cumbersome, toxic, sickening. Every once in a while Lynch overdoes it. Early in the film members of a family behave in a self-consciously weird manner (a father whose kooky dialogue seems forced, a daughter who goes into a sudden whimpering fit, a roasted chicken that wiggles its drumsticks while oozing a dark liquid, the embryonic baby that extrudes several pints of what looks like oatmeal). These moments of overkill are ridiculous and almost ruin the extraordinary tapestry Lynch has created. The sharp and high contrast black and white photography makes the imagery all the more indelible. There is also the Lynch trademark of female opposites &#x96; one blonde and one brunette &#x96; that shows up in his later films including Blue Velvet, Wild at Heart and Mulholland Drive. The lady in the radiator reminds me of a degenerated version of Toby Wing, an insipid looking platinum blonde from Busby Berkeley movies who was always photographed grinning stupidly in musical numbers. "},{"Title":"Film of the Future","Date":"27 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch is one of the best and most important directors of the twenty-first century. Before his breakthrough, The Elephant Man, Lynch made his low-budget Eraserhead, a tale of Henry and his struggles.Now Lynch's films are surreal. This one was too....but there was something more....something personal and something eerie about the film. I'm not just talking about the overall look and how it's classified as a horror film. All that aside, Eraserhead has this strangely disturbing atmosphere hovering around with it and however impossible the film may seem, you always seem to put yourself in the situation. He calls it his most spiritual film.The actors were creepily accurate (once again, credit goes to David) and there was a constant delay with most events in the film, thus adding a hint of realism to it. However surreal it seemed, there was always a back-way which made the film seem so real, so impossible but real.This film is definitely not for the average movie-goer or for a film critic I don't care for film critics, do you?There are scenes in the film which what was new back then is what we call a Lynchian moment today. These include rare premeditation to the upcoming events, simple yet striking dialogs and a sense of unexplainable creepiness. Eraserhead plants itself as a piece of sheer genius and plays its part as a prologue to Lynch's career and showcases his brilliance. I recommend you guys to watch this film because somewhere in the corner of my head, I'm thinking This is what films are gonna be like in a bit and y'all better get yourself tuned in.Remember- The dumber the audience gets, the dumber the films get "},{"Title":"Wow...so that is what erasers are made of","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Whoa&#x85;this is a trippy movie. This movie is classified as a surreal horror film. But to me it is more of a experiment in cinematography, plot symbolism and imaginative sets. If you can appreciate movies for art, sound, lighting and cinematography then you will enjoy this, but you must have a seriously open mind. David Lynch makes Kubricks movies look like normal films. If you liked movies like Pi, Twin Peaks, Dreams May Come or 30s German Cinema then you may like this movie. If not well then at least you can say you have seen it.I found Lynch's usage of black and white with subtle lighting and surreal sets incredible. This movie may be freaky and disturbing for many, particularly those under the age of 16. I bet this movie gets a lot of play in film appreciation classes.The plot of the movie? Hard to tell but my opinion is dreams, regrets and horrors of a dying man. The purpose of the movie? Who knows, practical joke by Lynch or desire to experiment. Watch it see what you think.Most of the positive in my rating is due to the sheer imagination and creativity of this movie. "},{"Title":"a true testament of the  strange","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like many people this was not the film through witch i discovered the work of David lynch. Not to sound cliché'd but like many my introduction through the elephant man. I actually found this film through a horror website called losamans lair of horror. What hit me about this and many other experimental/art films was the thin line between art films and horror. I've seen art films that have been far more disturbing then most horror,like vase de noces,begotten,pig and so fourth. Yet i've seen horror that had tremendous artistic value. This film has all the above qualities. Basically the film centers around a peculiar man named henry Spencer. He is a hapless man who drudges through a black and white post industrial waste land. Yet through all the eccentricities there is something both relatible and sympathetic to our hero. He strives to live normal in a world that seems to grow more and more unstable as the movie progress's. He does normal things. He works,lives in an apartment,even spends time with a girlfriend. Things start to get a little strange from here on out. We watch as He stares over his dinner which bleeds when punctured with a fork.All the while the girls father watches in anticipation. Henry is soon informed that a child was born and he is the father. We see the child witch is wretchedly deformed to the point where resembles an unborn goat fetus. We soon see the two new parents living together,but the incessant crying of the child drives it's mother away. Leaving an already daunted henry alone with the child. A child with needs that henry can not provide for.As the time passes henry grows unstable and becomes plagued with delusions. A range of visions pass before the screen. A woman who preforms on a stage inside the radiator. She dances on the stage and steps gleefully on small fetuses. As henry watches his head falls of his shoulders and is replaced with the head of his deformed son. falling into a pool of blood. His head is then taken to a badly scarred man who runs a machine that creates...you guessed it eraser heads. He invites a woman home and gets intimate only to be interrupted by her horror at his child's appearance. Furthering in the two of them melting into each other in a bathtub.Finally in an act of desperation or madness. he slices open his child's bandages only to reallies the bandages were his body and then proceeds to stab and kill off his child. In the last scene we see henry watch in horror as his ons innards foam and he is surrounded by white light. The last image we see being embraced by the dancer from his hallucinations. This film really had no effect on me when i saw it as a young man. However when i saw later on after having a child i saw it in a much different light. It deals with a lot of the anxieties that i believe most expectant parents go through. The fear of raising a child alone, the fear that you wont measure up. And of course the overwhelming anxiety that your child will be different. Although sometimes disturbing it deals with these issues in a very sophisticated manner. The sound track that consists mostly of industrial noise would prove highly effective in later work. Filmed in a very striking black and white,It gives the film a very claustrophobic and schizo feel. Although beyond all oddities of this film, It's been incredibly well received. Being applauded by the likes of john waters and Mel brooks. The later of which would lead him to great mainstream exposure and success. Although arty and a bit strange it's well worth the watch 100 times over. "},{"Title":"I Think My Take On This Film Is Different From Most Other Peoples'","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't help but be amused by the people who call it frightening, disturbing, nightmarish, etc. There are nightmarish aspects of the movie, sure, mainly the Lady in the Radiator (maybe it's just organ music that gives me a Carnival of Souls nightmare vibe), but I thought it was a hilarious movie. Hypnotic, fascinating, you have to see what weird or funny thing happens next. The gag with the suitcase had me laughing as hard as at anything else. I thought it was sad too. The baby's mother didn't love him, and he was always crying and got sick. I wasn't disturbed by the baby, I wanted to give it a hug. Deformed cow-fetus babies deserve to be loved too.If I can get a smidge philosophical, I think the film stretches cinema to limits it hadn't been stretched before, although Bunuel, Kubrick, Fellini, and Tarkovsky are definitely forerunners. As an adherent of Tarkovskyish views on cinema, I think this is a very good example of what he called sculpting in time, and the irrationality of so much of the movie underlines the irrelevance of plot, characters, stories, 2+2=4, etc., of cinema itself. "},{"Title":"An intense trip into a mind","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is David Lynch's first feature film. It was completed on a mere $20,000 budget, coming from an initial $10,000 grant from the college where he was studying, and loans he collected over the years from friends, when the grant money was over. This is why it took Lynch six years to complete production.It's the story of a few days in the life of Henry Spencer, a printer on vacation, and his relation with his estranged girlfriend, who leaves him with the mutant monster of a baby she has just given birth to. It's a post-atomic society, as we see from the atomic mushroom portrait picture, hanging on top of Henry's bed.Most of the characters aren't meant to be the representation of people, but rather that of dreams, psychoses, literary topoi, grotesque allegories maybe, but certainly not people. But here and, as the audiences will discover, in his later films, Lynch gives themes and motifs actual roles in his films, personifying certain types or characters, so that they can openly and directly show us the interaction they have with the people in the story. This is why some characters in Eraserhead have names like Beautiful Girl Across The Hall, Lady In The Radiator, and Man In The Planet.#The director defined this debut film as his most spiritual to date and, personally, I do appreciate it from a spiritual point of view; the sense of immanence of which the movie is permeated is a clear sign of the presence of a longing for something higher, an attempt to discover the mechanics behind everything and move in unison with them.This film is Lynch through and through, as we have come to appreciate him and his visions, but it does have a certain naïveté about it, and the sense of active experimentation is very strong; possibly, because of this, his best film to date. "}{"Title":"Outstanding Brain and Soul Fodder","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is strange in many ways. One is, that as a very difficult movie (to bear), it has surprisingly many positive reviews here.When I watched Eraserhead I was very young, about 14 or 15, and for me it was the most remarkable movie for many many years. I didn't ever try (or was able) to interpret it besides the obvious fear of newborn children and standard family or social adapting. I remember me sitting there all the time wondering, what strange worlds movies can offer, and also wondering how familiar these strange worlds can be to me.At this time I had already seen Andalusian's Dog, The Golden Age, and some other movies like Themroc, Satyricon, Teorema and Solaris, but Eraserhead was an ultimate kick of strangeness. It has IMO an own direction of art and is definitively NOT surrealism, but it has a surrealistic appeal to many watchers. It is instead a deeply personal expression of fear and doubt, where surrealism in movies is much more a brain-game, a happening, a performance. Eraserhead begins, where surrealism ends, on a level where we begin to ask ourself how the world around us should be understood and how each of us could fit in - or not.For about 30 years I never encountered a movie like Eraserhead, and when I watched Lynch's other works I was always disappointed, like with George Lucas' works after THX1138 or John Carpenters' movies after Dark Star.I recommend this specific title - seriously! - for high school classes to watch and discuss later. "},{"Title":"Really don't know what to write.","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a big fan of Luis Bunuel surrealism films and have heard David Lynch takes Bunuel to a different level so when I rented Eraserhead I was looking forward to something Bunuel like that made some serious points about American society.What I got was a film that is highly confusing and has made a massive impact on the way I see life but I can't really explain how, there are several images from the film that have stuck with me and will probably haunt me for years such as the deformed baby being sick.The film is intriguing, disgusting and confusing but I am left having returned the DVD wishing I could watch it again to try and make some sort of sense from it, however I don't know that that would improve my enjoyment.As you can tell by the way I'm going on (and the title of the post) I am just writing because I made a promise to review every film I watch and this is by far the hardest one of written... what can you say about a film that has such a massive effect on the way I think and see things yet for no real reason....At some point I will watch it again and my re-review it but until then8/10 "},{"Title":"My Interpretation","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was a milestone for me. It was the thing to see at a midnight movie. Then I saw it, and was disturbed similarly to the way Blue Velvet disturbed me. I have looked on IMDb for a long time to see if anyone else came away with what I thought the meaning was. And, nothing. Here's what I thought This was a result of nuclear bombing. The atmosphere, the droning sounds, the shock and horror...apocalypse. It allowed it to make sense to me. It is a movie to like and hate at the same time. Seeing the baby was horrible. But it set the tone for what I thought was a film speaking about nuclear energy in its time. Maybe wrong. "},{"Title":"Lynch Is Eraserhead","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like most of Lynch's work, this too is autobiographical. Lynch lived a small, repressed closeted life growing up and then in art school met and married a wealthy woman with Hollywood connections to get where he wanted to go. This could be the biography of most of Hollywood's giants including Howard Hughes. As with all closet cases, he seeks to find a sexual mate with whom he can find happiness but despises his own sexual orientation. This is evident in the fact that in all his movies women are either virgins or whores. He also devotes many scenes to the debasing of women much like Hitchcock. The main character and the couple's evil baby are all Lynch. He will never be a happy camper until he comes out. Cinematically, he's brilliant; as far as the plot, nothing is new here. "},{"Title":"Comic nightmare after Kafka","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film start with various framed instances of an id ingesting a pre-somnolent cheese board. Luckily Lynch eschews neither real character, nor the chuckles as well as the chills of his surreal vision. Henry Spencer, as played by Jack Nance, is beset by a neurosis which gives his world-vision the aspect of Stalker-designed Tarkovsky or Orson Welles' The Trial. Indeed Kafka might be as good a way as any to approach the elliptical purpose of of Lynch's film, given the Alien- presaging progeny at its centre.As I've indicated, for all that this is a bizarre, unreal film it has a linear (if easily digressive) narrative and consistent pockets of wit. What it also has though is true horror in its insistent, industrial sound design/score (the director's own) and subject material that makes Rosemary's Baby seem like simple black humour. The feel of the film is most closely matched by the latter-day Inland Empire, but all the subsequent Lynchian tropes are present and just as unsettling. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Extraordinary and beyond bizarre. A surreal masterpiece","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this expecting a different kind of movie, but that doesn't even come close. From the very opening scene everything about it makes it unique, the sounds, pictures, the wonderfully unusual way its directed. Watching it is not like watching an ordinary film, its more like being in a Ripley's Believe it or not theater. Don't let the black & white scare you, Eraserhead is way ahead of it's time. David Lynch's portrayal of a nightmarish world is beyond imagination and totally unpredictable. Telling what it's about doesn't really do any good, that's part of the point of this movie, is to figure out what's really going on for yourself. The answer is different for everyone because it's messages mean something different for everyone.Don't go into it expecting usual David Lynch, it's not a movie with a straight-lined plot. When I first started watching I had that wrong mindset and thought it was kind of boring. But after watching again I realized you can't try and figure out what Henry's doing or what's happening while watching. Just watch and take everything in and let your sub-conscience think about what it means. Though slow and bizarre at times there is a lot going on, possibly multiple sets of symbolism and that's what makes it difficult to get a hold of, if you're too focused on discovering the meaning. The message is dark and disturbing but important, and in the end, I personally believe, has a positive note to it.It's not for everyone but if you like stuff that makes you think, or like really weird stuff, watch this movie. Or if you're just tired of the usual, hero fights against enemy-saves crowd-sleeps with a girl-gets rewards type story; I'm not sure what category Eraserhead fits into, it probably doesn't. It's a masterpiece of abstract art that deserves more attention. I wish there were more movies like it. "},{"Title":"Eraserheads so called 'undeniable success' is an overblown myth","Date":"24 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is a slow-paced (but not plot less) movie full of gentle strangeness and dark beauty, enlivened by doses of warm, twisted humor, and expressed through a thick atmosphere and unusual, excellent performances. A lesser movie might have treated the story as merely an excuse to be bizarre; here, the strangeness is infused with a thoroughly human perspective, for a net result that is hard to describe, but lingers on the mind long after the movie ends. It's not flawless the plot takes a few unnecessary branches and the ending is easy to guess in advance; a few scenes verge on art-schmaltz. Still, the movie soars, and is essential viewing for those who appreciate creativity and intelligence in film.The imagery in the film is often gritty and stark, pointing out subtext to the audience without utilizing masks or shadows. It's a wonderful story about the nature of relationships; about love and marriage and divorce; and about the lives of those unfortunates society labels as different, and the realization that they are not so different as society may have initially supposed. "},{"Title":"I've NEVER Been as thoroughly horrified by a film as I am by this one.","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw Terminator, Alien, and Poltergeist at about 6. They scared me pretty badly, but after being tucked in, I slept fairly easily. I am currently 18 years old, in college. I have a girlfriend I plan to marry and a nice dream to be a writer living in a nice house with a little white picket fence. Call me old fashioned like that. Less than 5 minutes ago, I finished watching the film Eraserhead. I... I can't think about it without shaking. It was not the typical horror by any stretch of the imagination. Yet the whole thing was like this malignant nightmare. It spreads, lays its roots down. Raises a few screams in the night like a handful of ghastly children. A black picket fence, perhaps. I'm... I'm probably going to be impotent for months. Too scared to even get it up. While watching, I began audibly gibbering, I got up and hid in the corner. And I started listening to The Beatles to diffuse the horror of it. Nothing worked. I can't listen to Yellow Submarine without remembering that baby... oh god, the baby.... x_xIf you think there's no such thing as a scary movie, sit down and watch Eraserhead. Keep an open mind. Don't jump at your chance to be critical. Just sit and watch it.You'll learn abject terror soon enough. "},{"Title":"A glimpse inside","Date":"10 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Biology seems be the key to understanding David Lynch - the mutating maggoty monster inside which doesn't bear thinking about. Beneath the polished surface we are in an evolutionary state of flux, an experiment in progress, a mass of test tubes and bubbling flasks on a mad scientist's desk, unstable, barely reliably human. Biological functions sex, eating, childbirth, become disgusting and terrifying. The threat of illness and dysfunction, when you are aware of it, seeps from the very walls. The dog with its slobbering brood shows that such things have to be done automatically - you can't think about it or the demons creep in; to look inward is to look down. Mind and biology; the absurdity of the disparity. The external world, the artificial social world we live in becomes an ironic joke.The really great thing about this is that it all obviously means something - it's mesmerising to watch - but it takes a lot of thought to figure out what - evidence, no doubt, that it is truly tapping into the subconscious. I'd somehow forgotten about the cutting of the baby's bandages - what a stunning scene that is. Perhaps an additional plot element would have made it better, and prevented Henry lounging too much on the bed - but that's a quibble; this is one of the greatest films of the 20th or any century. "},{"Title":"It's a rare jewel for it looks nothing like anything else!","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Awakward characters, there is no character in the movie that looks like a normal human being! Usually people fear what they don't understand and in movies viewers usually tend to give up on the movie if they don't get what they're watching. But, not this movie! The minute you start watching you realize that you have no idea what's going on, however, you are attached to the screen and you want to understand. There is a certain sense about the movie that drags you to the end of it because you refuse to feel stupid. Definitely there is a clear indication to the nuclear era and this appears evidently in the deformities of the characters. The gloominess of the places and characters is another obvious suggestion of the war times and how they affect people mental well-being. Despite all this, you can't but focus on the central character of Henry who seems to be a person void of everything but his sexuality. His world is so empty as his house and you never know anything about his life but the fact that he works in printing and his lust for his neighbor and the blond woman in his head. This is another genius interpretation of what becomes of a depressed person in a war society with no pleasurable act but sex.Eraserhead being written, produced and directed by David Lynch is definitely a vision. I can only say that this work is a jewel that is similar to a wise book which includes the knowledge or discovery of one person and must be experienced. There are lots of smart/genius details in the movie that hold so many intellectual interpretations that the viewer needs to pay attention to. The old lady in the kitchen who sits like a dead person and the mother makes her shuffle the salad. When Henry takes the knife and the chicken bleeds. When the mother licks Henry's neck. When Henry's head is used to sharpen pens! This is like the most beautiful and smartest symbolization of a human's head in this era. We have no heads of our own anymore. Our heads are just pencil's sharpeners for the politicians who are writing our destiny.A movie to the brainers only! "}{"Title":"Read if you want an interpretation","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's get this little bit of nastiness out of the way SPOILERS! Oh, God! The SPOILERS! Run! Run, if you can't stand knowing stuff about stuff without seeing stuff! Hide! Okay, that should stave off the blacklisters....It's Lynch's first movie and it's about the process of making his first movie. There. You feelin' me? Shall I go on? It was his breakout project! Of course it's going to be semi-autobiographical! The bleak industrial landscape isn't quite so mysterious as we'd like it to be. It's a thinly veiled metaphor of the film industry. Bleak. Without imagination. Churning out formulaic, assembly line crap devoid of color and personality. Lynch is flying the bird at the state of 1970s movie-making.The seed for his deformed little brainchild is released by the Man in the Planet. (Let's think of him as the Producer, in my explanation.) He pulls all the strings, or levers, to get things made.Mary X is his muse. She comes and she goes, and she sticks him with his unformed idea when the going gets rough. (See ya! Sucks to be you!) The Lady in the Radiator represents the root of performance (the stage, obviously), and she demonstrates how performers can both help and hinder aspirations of filmmakers.In his own worst nightmare, he's forced to edit (erase) his own artistic vision---represented by the beautiful woman across the hall---and that's why killing his baby equals killing himself. Asking him to make changes is a castration (or, if you're a sick bas+ard like Lynch, a decapitation). The Man in the Planet pulls a final lever, sending actor and director together into either bliss or oblivion.That's my two cents. Take it with a grain of salt; there's no way of knowing if I'm even in the right neighborhood. "},{"Title":"2001 meets David Lynch","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My in-home retrospective David Lynch film festival continues. I hadn't seen Eraserhead since it was released in art theatres over 30 years ago. At the time I was living in a garden apartment in Chicago not much nicer than Henry Spencer's in this film. After seeing the film I found it difficult to open the door to my place. It was winter, it was raining and the steam radiator was hissing loudly. You get the picture.The result was that I automatically blocked-out most of what I had seen and did not return to this Lynch classic until now. Like most people I make the mistake of attaching meaning to Lynch's stuff. Maybe I get close to the mark, maybe I don't. I am not privy to Lynch's commentary on his motivations and visions for his projects, I like to figure these things out for myself. Usually, as with 'Lost Highway', I am defeated and simply watch the films like exhibitions at a freak show at the state fair.'Eraserhead' is extremely funny. Lynch at his most cynical and slapstick. At the end, when the thing (baby) is unleashed from its cocoon by Henry and grows into a devouring planet, or something, Kubrick's '2001 A Space Odyssey' popped into my head.I can think of no closer comparison in the film world. Where Kubrick leaves us with a vision of hope and feeling uplifted, Lynch offers up something more substantial... hopeless reality and eternal groping in the darkness. The key, I think, is in that hit tune In Heaven, Everything will be Alright sung by the girl in the radiator. If you haven't seen 'Eraserhead' this will make no sense. I urge serious film buffs to give it a look-see. I may not live long enough to want to see it again but I won't ever forget it.John Nance is rather wonderful as Henry, reminding me of a couple of city-dwellers I've known in the past. Befuddled at his very existence in a nightmare world of sunless poverty and dead-end striving. I was interested to see Catherine Coulson (the Log Lady from 'Twin Peaks') credited as assistant camera operator. Like Orson Welles, Lynch has gathered a group of stalwarts around him over the years and stays loyal to them. I like that, as it is so rare in the movie biz. But that will only be of interest to dwellers in Lynch-World. This is NOT the first Lynch movie that a novice should watch. In fact it is more interesting to view several of his later works first. The zig-zag floor from the red room in 'Twin Peaks' makes its first appearance in 'Eraserhead' leading me to ponder on what THAT signifies; like the ubiquitous red curtains in many of his films.'Eraserhead' love it or hate it glues itself to the brain. Not light viewing, though possibly a party movie for those special friends who are tired of the usual crop of scrawny STARS who populate most of the junk coming out of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"A Love it Or Hate it Deal","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plot Just looking at the basic Plot, it doesn't seem that far fetch as the movie portrays it. Never the less, it is a truly gripping plot that can make u think.ActingNot Oscar worthing performances, but u can tell that the actors and actresses followed completely in the direction that Lynch wanted them too, which I give them the tip of the hat.Mood Very Dark, basically the closest to black than any other film I have Ever seen. Though The Lady in The Radiator brings a little bit of light to the movie considering she looks creepy, but she looks really happy,and innocent.DirectingThe Films Highest Point. Lynch's camera work and patience give the film such an amazing effect. The Film could've been turned to garbage if it was someone else.Personal Thoughts This truly, a very emotional film. I know many people would disagree by stating O, the characters are too 1 dimensional. I believe that the lack of emotion the actors show, makes the film so much more emotional. The fact that the characters act the way they do with all the craziness around them makes the viewer realize of the true alienation one might feel towards a society which is also madness. This is a Dark Beauty that radiates amazingly. It challenges the viewer (Which some people do not like) with their patience and imagination. It Carries its own unique message about the personal human psyche, and society.Yeah Its very Weird, But Its Art, and great Art isn't always easy to digest. "},{"Title":"Merely bizarre","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I should preface by saying this is my first taste of David Lynch - I figured I should start at the beginning. I knew it would be weird, but I was not expecting this. I like weird movies, but this makes Donnie Darko look like Titanic. Incredibly, incredibly over-the-top in its weirdness. Perhaps a few years ago, this would have bothered me, but I made a conscious effort to watch this film as a film student, not as a movie fan. Although I could easily criticize it for its nonsensical plot and exceptional artiness, I am choosing not to. Why? I really don't know.Right from the opening frame, the film grabbed me with its uniqueness. The single credit, in formal font, displaying David Lynch Presents, made it seem more like a dinner invitation than the opening to a film. The opening sequence, right up until the first shot of the factory, is such a weird way to open the picture, and yet, it works. The first line isn't said until, what, fifteen minutes in? But the film never lost my interest or caused me to turn it off - I was mesmerized. Right from the get-go, the film's unique style is reinforced, with the odd white noise present in the background, the long lingering camera shots, and the lead character's incredibly wacky hair style.The film soon becomes an exercise in trying the audience's patience. Increasingly strange and disturbing scenes interrupt long, slow, awkward moments, but it all seems to fit together. The dinner scene, the mutant baby, the lady in the radiator, the man in the planet - everything is exceptionally weird, but it just seems to work. My personal favourite sequence is a nightmarish scene from where the title is derived - Henry's decapitated head is used as the source for pencil eraser. When it ends, there's no sense of dissatisfaction, but you really don't know what to think. For some, I suppose it could be viewed as overtly indulgent, but I quite liked it.Jack Nance gives a surprisingly good performance, given the fact that the film was shot over five years; his crazy hair aside, he manages to portray both sadness and anger in equal amounts. The shadowy lighting and stark direction suit the film perfectly, and the strange characters are all realized very well. The grey, smoke-filled, almost (some would say definite) post-apocalyptic environment is pulled off excellently and the disgusting mutant baby is just that disgusting. It really is an experience to watch it; I wish I could do so at one of its infamous midnight showings. Still, I really have to sleep on it; it's not an easy film to grade. "},{"Title":"Bizarre but Entertaining","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is really very hard to write a review for the film being that it didn't really have a plot. It was one of those 1970's midnight cult films that became successful by word of mouth. Because of the time period, and the genre film it was, it seemed like an acid trip movie, but you definitely didn't want to trip acid to it. It was encouraged that pregnant women didn't see Eraserhead because it exploited their worst fear, that something could be wrong with their child. This a good movie for a first date because their reaction would read their personality.This a good movie that will definitely get you thinking about life in a symbolic way. "},{"Title":"A wildly creative and original debut","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Considered as one of the most creative filmmakers of the modern era, American director David Lynch has developed a very peculiar and highly recognizable style through most of his work. A style where surreal images are overtly present, and linear plot lines are thrown away in order to focus mostly on the emotions created. This style has its roots in the fact that Lynch started his career as a painter, making his films an extension of that previous work, and very different to what is the classic definition of cinema. This background is probably the reason why he tends to move away from normal films (although movies like The Elephant Man and The Straight Story prove that he can make that kind of films too), and prefers to let his imagination run wild when making a movie. His first movie, Eraserhead, is also probably the best example of Lynch's style of film-making.Eraserhead is the story of Henry Spencer (Jack Nance), a timid factory worker in a nightmarish industrial work that one night, during an uncomfortable dinner with the family of his girlfriend Mary X (Charlotte Stewart), receives the news that Mary had his baby. Henry agrees to marry Mary, as he truly feels that he loves her, but when Henry discovers that the baby is a mutant that cries all the time, life doesn't seem that easy anymore. Mary can not stand the screams of the child, so decides to leave Henry and return to her parent's home. Alone in his decayed apartment, Henry will have to live with the constant screaming of the deformed baby, facing his nightmares and fears about parenthood, as well as the temptations that live outside his room. And the only thing that can help him to survive is the idea that probably, in heaven everything is fine.Written by David Lynch, Eraserhead is a movie built with the logic of a dream, that is, without a linear plot and moving between a series of hallucinations and dream sequences that while apparently random, allow us to enter the twisted mind of its solitary main character. While ambiguous and cryptic, Eraserhead is an incredibly original character study about a man's fears about concepts such as fatherhood, compromise and responsibility. As written above, it follows the logic of a dream, but given it's dark nature, it would be more appropriate to say it is the vivid representation of a nightmare. Despite the apparent lack of narrative (or maybe because of it), we follow Henry closely, almost intimately, through his twisted, yet oddly very human, descent into madness as he is tormented by his demons embodied in the shape of the screaming mutant baby.In Eraserhead, David Lynch brings his nightmare come to life in a wonderfully horrific fashion thanks to his great imagination and his noticeable care for details. With an outstanding use of sound and the cinematography by Herbert Cardwell and Frederick Elmes, director David Lynch creates the perfectly haunting atmosphere of dread and decay that impregnates Henry's depressive industrial world, definitely symbolizing his bleak view of life. Many have said that Eraserhead is more a visual experience than a narrative, and I for once agree with that statement, as it is visually where we get the most clues about the film's obscure meanings, as Henry's vivid dreams and terrible hallucinations are opened windows to his troubled psyche. The pace is certainly slow, but it flows smoothly, allowing the film to express itself via the emotions of its images, like a beautiful yet frightening moving canvas.As the disturbed Henry Spencer, Jack Nance is simply amazing, as if he had been born with the sole purpose of playing this role. What I mean is not that Nance is an extremely talent performer (honestly, that is not the case), but that he managed to convey exactly what Lynch wanted to do with his character in the most natural and believable way possible, effectively making Henry Spencer a honest portrayal of a man facing his most terrible fear becoming a parent. The rest of the cast ranges from average to very good, with Charlotte Stewart being one of the latter, delivering a subtle performance as Mary X, Henry's girlfriend. In supporting roles, Allen Joseph and Jeanne Bates are good, but nothing spectacular, and the same could be said about Judith Anna Roberts, who plays the Beautiful Girl Across the Hall. Finally Laurel Near is great in the now iconic role of the Lady in the radiator.While a powerful and wild exercise of imagination, Eraserhead is definitely not everyone's cup of tea, as due to the atypical way its constructed and the dark nature of its themes, it probably won't be easily accepted by those expecting a more linear, classic narrative style. However, a way to face Eraserhead's cryptic plot is to let the images do the talking and simply experience the emotions Lynch's film attempts to convey. As written above, Lynch was a painter and performance artist before becoming a filmmaker, and Eraserhead carries a lot of this background in its conception; so the watching of the movie as a visceral experience, instead of intellectual, may be helpful in its enjoyment. A very personal movie for Lynch (a lot of the film's darkness comes from his own experiences in the different stages of his life), Eraserhead is like the pure expression of the director's troubles and fears on film.Due to a constant lack of money, it took David Lynch 5 years to finish Eraserhead, but one can truly say that the wait was worthy. Thanks to Eraserhead, David Lynch would be noticed by Mel Brooks, who would help him to establish his name with The Elephant Man. But even if Lynch's career had remained in the underground, Eraserhead is without a doubt, one of the most interesting and thought provoking films ever made. 9/10 "},{"Title":"my favorite film","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is one of the most original films of all time,it is a film either the viewer loves or hates the film but even the people who don't like can't say that David lynch has lack of ideas and/or clichés in this movie.this is a brilliant movie, such a powerful and disturbing imagery, incredible,electric and hypnotic sound design.those who say this that it is pretentious maybe they don't like to think because i think that this and all lynch's films have a story and meaning but his films tell story in a very symbolic and abstract way.to me that is the true beauty of Eraserhead it tells a story through images and sound.words aren't needed to tell a story all it is needed is the emotion that a film transmits to the viewer and eraserhead is perfect in that sense, it is highly atmospheric.Eraserhead is disturbingly beautiful. "},{"Title":"The reason I can't sleep at night...","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie last night for the first time. I had no idea such a think existed. Understand this Being scared is when you see something that causes lack of sleep. It's when you can't get anything else out of your head because of the item doing the scaring. Eraserhead scared me. It brought me to tears and I'm not quite sure if it's because I was scared...or because of that THING crying in pain at the end...This isn't a movie i'd like to watch again, but I know i'm going to. I've already started sketching scenes from the movie and that's never a good sign. It will slowly pull me into it's obsession. When my home computer is fixed I'll probably post my sketches on here. Or if anyone is interested in seeing them they can e-mail me at oxkonnichiwaxo@yahoo.com Also, a little side note. This movie made no sense to me...so if anyone could explain it to me that would be wonderful. I'm really curious about the chicken thing near the beginning... "},{"Title":"Surreal Imagery","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you want to begin to understand Eraserhead, you must always keep the word surreal on hand as the mental lens through which you watch the film. It is a film in the tradition of Buñuel's Un Chien Andalou (1929).In this his first film, David Lynch examines the common theme of fatherhood using surreal images. He also looks at some of the issues surrounding fatherhood (marriage, the in-laws, sexual attraction, infidelity) with that same surrealism.Image is another key to beginning to understand this film. The dialogue in Eraserhead is sparse, to say the least. Like future Lynch films, much of what the director is trying to convey is communicated via the image, not the spoken word. Sometimes the image is a longer, more drawn out scene. Other times, it is a quick flash that hits you like a ball-peen hammer on the forehead.If you watch Eraserhead like you would watch, say, Father of the Bride or Parenthoood, then you will be completely lost. If, however, you watch it knowing that Lynch looks at common themes from a surrealist perspective, you will still be lost, but you'll know how you got there and will find your way back.A final word always watch Eraserhead with other people. Watching it alone is not advised. "},{"Title":"Do not analyse surrealism","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Surreal at its maximum expression, the film shows a man living in an undetermined world of nightmare. An eerie, oppressive atmosphere surrounds everything. Lynch uses the techniques of old masters of German expressionism of shadows and light (in a Black and White movie) to create a certain estate of mind, and to shock.People, creatures and situations that only have slight resemblances with real life but that successfully strike the deepest region of your consciousness and feelings. A very slow pace does not hinder the uneasiness Lynch wants to provoke, but enhances it.Death, life and sin are part of the film. It is full of symbolisms but it is really worth it to analyse them?. If we do we will lose the essence of surrealism itself. We must experience the film, not dissect it. It is a film to feel.**** Jack Nance's performance is something to be remembered. His appearance and his expressions are, beyond any doubt, cult icons. "}{"Title":"Like A Beautiful Nightmare","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch really did some amazing work on this film. He successfully created a totally abstract atmosphere. The cast and crew definitely broke several barriers while making this great work David Lynch is not just presenting a dark intense story here, he's painting a picture and the level of artistic creativity captured is astounding. Words truly are like aliens in this movie, almost non-existent, so the movie is more 'felt' rather than seen or heard. There is a lot of symbolism in this movie and visual metaphor.I wouldn't recommend this to anyone who is easily upset by disturbing images or situations, the movie has a way of completely immersing the audience into the feelings and emotions of the characters. If you don't like artsy stuff then this one isn't for you. Its definitely not for kids.This movie isn't a horror, but it is quite honestly the most terrifying movie I have ever watched. It is more like an experience rather than a film. "},{"Title":"good? bad? we can't tell you.","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" this is one of those few movies that you cannot be told by a film critic that it is good or bad. you must see it for yourself. personally, i enjoy the film. i find it weird, yes, but i enjoy thinking about what it all means (if anything), and every time i see it i find myself longing to watch it again, eventually. it's black and white with no notable stars, and a grim setting. it qualifies in the horror genre because there's really no genre for this film. you may leave scratching your head and saying you hate it, only to buy the DVD a few weeks later because you must see it again.it's a rare type of movie that's infamously popular and strangely familiar. it's a bore at times, but the rapidly changing and confusing ideals in it are enjoyable to most. "},{"Title":"Nightmarish Beauty","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was a nightmare and I couldn't look away... No, I don't mean nightmare in the sense of it was a terrible movie. It was a nightmare in the purest sense. Something you could only see in your wildest dreams but would never, ever want to see.I didn't want to look at times but I felt compelled... I had to see this through. I was afraid and disturbed beyond belief but I could not pull away from this... thing.There was a point where everything just culminated together in the most horrifying of ways and I started to cry. This was the nightmare to end all nightmares. The most horrifying thing I could ever see and I saw it.In Heaven everything is fine. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the most discomforting and bizarre movie I have seen.","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead thrusts you into a bleak setting where the only element of anything 'natural' is how unsettling your reactions are to the soul-crushing the environment is. In an industrial backdrop full of constantly grinding machines, harsh and contrasting light, rusted metal and rotten wood, blackened buildings, and victims of grotesque afflictions of the body, you find Henry and his girlfriend Mary. After discovering Mary is pregnant with his unexpected child, Henry tries to cope with his predicament, her melodrama, Mary's overbearing parents, his lust for his neighbor, his unwanted child, and an all-around miserable existence. Their existence is complicated when prenatal tests force Mary to question if the child is 'even really human.' As Henry and Mary try to force themselves to love the child, their world spirals into oblivion as prophetic and twisted nightmares, strife between them, and a demanding infant take their toll. Eventually, it appears that Henry's only source of salvation comes from the terrible and loathsome acts he dreams and fantasizes about... or are they dreams? Ultimately, Henry's despair consumes him, and he begins to think and do the unspeakable... or does he?I gladly give this movie a 10, despite how discomforted and uneasy it made me feel, as no other movie I have seen has ever been able to wrench such a reaction out of me. A perfect movie, even if for all the wrong reasons. "},{"Title":"Lynch, a modern Genius","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" firstly,i've to say that i enormously disliked eraserhead when i watched it for first time...it seemed to me awful and senseless, though i was thinking and questioning myself about it for several hours after having watched this masterpiece...however,the day after my first approachement i decided to watch it once more in order to find some sense and answers, and i found them...oh,i certainly found them...what it made me feel and thought about it was totally incredible...i didn't know how my vision could have changed so radically in one single day...24 hours in which the most surrealist film i've watched in all my life revealed its reality to me...surely, a completely different reality to anyone revealed to someone who had watched it before...i sincerely recommend to enter into jack nance's head several times to erase any prejudice against this film...i hope you enjoy it...bye! "},{"Title":"to be watched ONLY under the influence of........","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this film around 1983....granted I was under chemical influences at the time....and was mesmerized. I have watched it a half a dozen times since and even bought the VHS a couple of years back.I'll play this for friends who have never seen it and DEFY them to explain what it means. My wife won't watch more than 10 minutes of it. She says it's too disturbing. But, then again, she won't watch Videodrome either.All I can say about this film is !woof! I still don't know what it's about. Even after reading most of the comments posted here, it's still a dark, disturbing, brilliant, thought-provoking act of shear torture, albeit a pleasurable torture. And, from what I've read here, nobody REALLY knows what it's about.Time for my medication.... "},{"Title":"Family Nightmare","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mystery man living on a dark planet. Constant industrial noise. Dark, dank depressing atmosphere. Flickering lights. A bowl of water kept in a sock drawer. Scratchy records. The horrors of an unwanted family. Sexual awakening. Horrifying in-laws. Mechanical chickens. The brunette bad girl across the hall. Desire. The blonde good girl in the radiator. Deformed baby. Wailing baby. Stuck suitcases. Sick baby. Dancing poop. Squashing sperm/fetus dance. Dreams within dreams. Francis Bacon painting brought to life. Tyrannical bosses and inept employees. Severed heads that yield good erasers. Dead baby. Boy gets girl. Quintessential Lynch.You know you love it.I am sorry for the sentence fragments, but I thought it was true to the film's narrative style.Does Eraserhead make sense? Sure it does if you do not try to watch it like you would watch a TV show. The plot is presented in a completely original manner and if you break it down, you will see it has a deeply logical underlying order. There are moments of slapstick and a few red-herrings, but these just add more flavor to the film.This film is a masterpiece and is meant to be watched many times. 10 out 10. "},{"Title":"Cough cough cough","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is a dusty, dirty little film that makes little sense to me now and made little sense to me as I sat watching it. Having had the benefit of watching it with two friends who, like me, are enraptured by David Lynch's high points, I can say that I am not alone in my confusion. I don't think a coherent narrative is the point with Eraserhead, though. Like a lot of Lynch's films, it seems guided more by mood and theme--like music--than it does by an actual plot. So, even if you don't fully understand the film, it's an enjoyable piece of modern-day surrealism. Its debt to Bunuel and Dali should be clear to anyone with a passing interest in film history. Unlike those early purveyors in the unreal, I'm not entirely sure what purpose the surrealism in Eraserhead serves. Bunuel in particular used his unique imagery to make oblique satires of government and religion and the bourgeoisie; he also had a wicked sense of humor. Eraserhead is a little too self-serious and I for one am at a loss to explain the woman in the radiator's significance. Is the film about the growing dehumanization of mankind? Is it about Lynch's adolescent fascination with and distrust of sex? It doesn't matter, of course, because the vision is entirely unique. Eraserhead is an experience and as such it should be experienced--not understood. "},{"Title":"I've seen it maybe 40 times","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead (1977) This is David Lynch's first full length film, and arguably, his most powerful. All stories aside of his behind-the-scenes efforts to MAKE Eraserhead, it was this film that brought him international recognition, and remains well worth the time to re/visit. The first time I experienced it, I hated my friend who brought me (with no advance warning except that it was amazing). What I saw on the screen frightened me at the deepest levels of my being, and I didn't know why. As the years and viewings pass (both in the theater, and on video or DVD), I lose none of my emotional response, but gain further intellectual and formal appreciation for the artfulness of it, and lots of thoughts about the meaning. Lynch himself will NOT discuss Eraserhead's meaning, and perhaps wisely so. None the less, I believe he sees it in somewhat surreal terms (clarification being left to the individual), but was guided by the deep seated fears, confusions, and attractions that fill the Freudian world of the child, and which continue into adulthood. Most of his films since have been eerie and unsettling, but based more in realities we can recognize in the waking, every day sense. Here, the photography is gorgeous and mysterious, the SOUNDscape is perhaps the most subliminally powerful of all time, the dialog perfectly uncomfortable, and the situations right at the edge of possible. Your experience - the sort from which you desperately want to WAKE (but then return to repeatedly, as I have, perhaps 40 times now) - is never comfortable. This film takes emotional and intellectual work. The new restoration for DVD &#150; LONG OVERDUE - is of high quality. Do not let the packaging Eraserhead DVD 2000 throw you. It's only stupid, confusing layout. And, since I have you here, let me make a short pitch for AVOIDING extras &#150; commentary, deleted scenes, interviews, bloopers, factoids&#133; all the CRAP with NO value to the original work of Art. It's filler, and can do nothing but harm the purity of the REAL WORK. If it was important, it would be IN the film. "},{"Title":"A memorable movie.....","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" when you're in your twenties. I've seen it sober, I've seen it drunk, I've seen it high and it's the strangest movie I've seen, ever. It's great talking to the current generation of young people who have heard about it but haven't seen yet. It sparks an interest to see something other than the mainstream stuff. Actually, I wanted to buy it a few years ago, but the price was $60! I would have thought Lynch's college bills would have been paid off by then. It's worth your time just to see it and make your own opinion. I keep wondering what flick to pair it with for a good double feature. Maybe one of the old French 'film noir' flicks. "}{"Title":"Strange...dreamlike...hypnotic","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Title Eraserhead (1977) Director David Lynch Cast Jack Nance,Charlotte Stewart, Judith Ana Roberts, Laurel Near Review The ever elusive Eraserhead has just been released on DVD for everybody's viewing pleasure. Previously only available through bootlegs or through David Lynchs own website, this gem of surreal cinema is now on a cleaned up DVD transfer that does it justice. Though I thoroughly enjoyed this film cause I am a guy who can appreciate the strange and bizarre, I don't think this film will be a pleasure to watch for everybody.Some people find the story of this film hard to follow because amongst the main storyline Lynch squeezes in some bizarre images that I'm willing to bet only he can understand. But in spite of the strange images, there's a story about a lonely guy named Henry Spencer. Henry works in a factory 9-5 and lives cooked up in a claustrophobic little apartment in the middle of a dirty industrial city. He is soon invited to dinner by his girlfriend so he can meet her parents for the first time. Little does he know that he will get a life changing revelation during dinner.If you've seen Lynchs other films (Blue Velvet, Wild at Heart, Mullholland Dr., Dune and Elephant Man) then you know you are in for a strange and surreal ride. Its no mystery that Lynch is fond of messing with your mind and spooking the hell out of you with surreal nightmarish images, so I was ready to submerge myself once again into David Lynchs subconscious. What I wasn't ready for was how deep we were going to go.This movie really is Lynchs most disturbing film and I love it for that. I actually screened this one with some friends in my house and at one point a friend of mine turned away and said I don't want to see this movie anymore! I refuse! and he actually turned his back to the TV! I was like hell yeah! I love movies that can evoke that type of reaction, and let me tell you I understand my friend perfectly. The images and situations are deeply troubling, so be ready for some truly messed up sequences.The movie is sometimes slow, but it more then makes up for that with its visuals. After all, this isn't an action film, this film is something artful, quiet yet unsettling. You see Lynch took extra special care here in making every scene perfectly eerie, perfectly dark and very very atmospheric. The movie doesn't have many outdoor sequences but the interiors of the apartments and the sets suggest that it isn't a pretty world that Henry Spencer lives in. And even the pacing might get slow at times but trust me, when something does happen, well, it blows you out of the water. So be patient and enjoy the beautifully dark and surreal vistas that Lynch has concocted for you.One of the greatest things this movie has going for it is the sound design. There is sound in every square inch of this film and it greatly enhances a lot of the sequences.A cool thing to remember is that this was Lynchs first film ever and man, I have to tell you he was off to an incredible start. He filmed this movie through the course of six years during the time he was in film school, but Ill damned if it doesn't look as professional as all his other films.So when you rent/buy this film, remember you are in for some truly strange and bizarre images. You wont understand everything, but you don't have to. I understood the film and I really appreciate the message that its conveying with its story. There's themes of loneliness, fatherhood, abortion...the film goes into a lot of important themes.Just don't expect a normal film cause you ain't getting one. This is David Lynch after all.Rating 5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"the layman's response to lynch","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a huge DL fan. I'm ashamed to say i was first introduced to him when seeing Mulholland Dr. and like many, I was confused, but ultimately thrilled, curious and wanting more. I watched the film again and came to the conclusion that I loved it. I then watched and bought every other work he did and in doing so got a greater understanding of the films and the man himself. What interests me is the almost angry responses and reactions to Lynch's work from certain people- particularly the average cinema-goer type. Are many like this because they are angry that they may be confused and that many of his films don't contain typical Hollywood narrative structure? Either way I'm glad this is the response of many because if idiots easily understood David his talents would be wasted and perhaps compromised. Any thoughts? Cheers "},{"Title":"One-of-a-kind","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have seen this film, by writing this, four times already and still haven't figured out what everything really exactly means. It is about Henry Spencer, his girlfriend Mary X and their new born baby; a little mutant looking freak. The rest is basically a mix of bizar and surreal imagery, the biggest strenght of this film; a powerful mix of images and sounds. A man in a little house in a strange planet, a 'chipmunk'-lady in a radiator singing about everything in heaven being fine, a more than strange family dinner and a pencil machine are among the things the viewer gets to witness. What it al means? I can't quite tell, and director David Lynch sure doesn't want to tell that himself. Which, in my opinion, is actually a good thing; to let the viewers make up their own minds to what it all means to them. It is a strange, surreal dream, a nightmare, a vision, thoughts born out of fear or frustration. This film is a lot to me, and I am pretty sure it is a lot to other people as well. Weither you love it or you hate it, after seeing Eraserhead you will think about it and you will probably talk about it, knowing you have never seen a film like it, and you never will again. I love all David Lynch's films thus far (can't wait for INLAND EMPIRE), but Eraserhead is arguably his best one ever. "},{"Title":"crucial, cruel and not really a feel good movie","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For all its flaws Eraserhead still remains in my top 25 favorite films of all time. You can love it or hate it, but I think it would be very hard not to be touched by the very suggestive imagery. Lynch meddled with surrealism, the aesthetics of Edward Hopper and the dark side of the soul in most of his films but it was never more gripping or convincing than in his first full length film. In Lost Highway and Mulholland Drive he made just too many concessions to the mass market, while this is a perfect symbiosis between experimental and narrative cinema. Watching it you get the feeling he was making exactly the kind of movie he wanted to, or needed to and there are just a very few films that fall into that category methinks. Frankly, you have to take into consideration that it is obviously low budget, but how Lynch employs his humble means to maximum effect is simply breathtaking and provided a blueprint for fledging filmmakers all around the world. There isn't much of a plot, the whole thing is basically a never ending nightmare about getting to grips with fatherhood, and yet that seems more than enough to keep our anti hero occupied for 90 minutes. Taking his inspiration from silent movies and German Expressinist cinematography (i.e. Film Noir), Lynch takes the audience on a tour de force through the bleakest and most depressing scenarios you can imagine. A seriously disorientated Jack Nance stumbles through an industrial wasteland, feels decidedly out of place at the home of his fiancée and finally cracks up in the kafkaesque claustrophobia of his hotel room. It always holds the perfect balance between sinister fantasy and drab reality so that although there isn't much acting or action to speak of you remain on the edge of your seat the whole time through. Lynch went on to make some memorable films, but he never managed to capture the emotional depth of Erasurehead again. All this said, I would like to discourage you from watching this film should you, or your girlfriend/wife be pregnant. Also, as this is most definitely an underground/independent classic, it might not appeal to your common multiplex visitor, but if you have any interest in what went on off the beaten track in the 70s, this is a pretty good place to start. "},{"Title":"Mind over matter","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Henry lives in a dark and gloomy world of what seems to be like a desolate, and possibly post-apocalyptic, future. There is a near constant droning of what can only be the sound of giant machines in the surrounding factories and life, it seems, has totally boiled down to keeping them going for whatever reason. Henry, who is on vacation throughout the film, seems to be pondering his existence and has a series of bizarre incidents and things are initially complicated when his girlfriend's parents find out that he got her pregnant. The baby ends up being a bizarre looking thing that can only be explained by mutation.Make what you will of this film, because it is probably what director David Lynch wants the viewer to do. Though most people would agree that the movie is a psychological journey through a dream or nightmare scape, but the meaning of it all is really up to the viewer. That makes it almost like a painting by Salvador Dali put on film - the title and content all suggest something, an even point you in a direction, but the film will not tell you where to go, you must decide for yourself - it can be viewed as a love story, a story about parenting, being lost in life, or basically anything else. Love it or hate it, but you have to admit that it is thought provoking. Even if you don't enjoy watching it, you'll enjoy trying to interpret it later.That also leads to the films main strike against it this is a viewing for an audience appreciative of film art, casual film goers beware. 8/10Not rated, but contains gruesome and disturbing imagery. "},{"Title":"read this eraserhead commentary first","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" i have seen many films of many varieties from all around the world and from all different periods in time, including many cult favorites and masterpieces. this is still my favorite.many people here and elsewhere are inclined to call this art and make a distinction between that and movies. worse yet is the genius applause. these may be accurately proscribed comments, but the label's are frivolous, and limiting and i believe unnecessary. it is really a classic cult movie. and though it is severe and focused like an art film or a piece of art, it is entirely pedestrian in nature.however, i suppose it is necessary to warn people before they watch eraserhead, for a number of reasons. it is not fair to say it has no plot, but it is fair to say that the plot is eclipsed by the space and the light and imagery and actions. it imposes a particular experience of time which involves you in things most movies don't involve you in. the sound is a big part of this and you might say it has an embryonic quality. there is a very substantial progression to the film, and it is described and presented in intimately related dramatic scenes, ...but still you may be distracted (and intoxicated) at times, by divergent camera journeys through puddles of water and reflections of clouds etc. oh yea, it is also intermittently DISGUSTING.besides being a cult movie, i think it is an occult movie and i think it evokes its own totally unique and living, yet entirely familiar and mundane, symbolic language. (i am told that it set off a decade long chain reaction of weirdo industrial scenery student films.) there is a rhythm and seduction to eraserhead that is irresistible, even when it is offensive and horrifying. after you watch it a while you may burst out laughing, i don't know. it is impossibly infernal and antiseptic at the same time and it may cause seizures for some. "},{"Title":"and I thought Lost Highway was weird!","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Being a huge fan of David Lynch, I was not surprised to witness the immensely surreal imagery that occurs in Eraserhead. What disappointed me, was that Eraserhead is a film which appears to be weird simply for the sake of being weird. What I really like about this film, is that everything is down to your own interpretation and Lynch directs you to make a decision rather than to simply think what he thinks.This film relies almost solely on imagery, especially considering the acting is pretty poor. Some images in the film are very disturbing and Lynch definitely achieves his goal of disgusting the audience. The first sight of the deformed baby is genuinely shocking and considering this film was on a near zero budget, shows the talent of Lynch as a creative visionary. Lynch is an artist as well as a film maker and Eraserhead is a definite cross over between film and art.Perfectly accompanying the images are a variety of industrial noises and sounds of extreme weather. This gives a wonderful sense of your head being pounded, giving the audience an idea of how John Nance's character is feeling.By no means great, Eraserhead is definitely not for people simply looking to be entertained and is mostly suited to hardcore Lynch fans. "},{"Title":"So this is what the world looks like through the eyes of insanity...","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As with any fan of horror or cult films, I have an interest in extremely bizarre cinema as well. And, as many of us undergrounders know, one doesn't get much more bizarre than David Cronenberg or David Lynch. So, after viewing Lynch's Lost Highway and Blue Velvet it became a goal of sorts for me to locate and view Eraserhead, generally considered his first feature-length motion picture. Firstly, you really have to like this kind of off-the-wall strange kind of sh*t to appreciate a film like this. The story revolves around Henry (Eraserhead, we can assume), his girlfriend/wife, their baby and his life in what would appear to be some sort of ghetto apartment building. Really, what we have here is a lunatic montage of images and scenes that do a wonderful job of twisting viewers' faces into various shocked grimaces and exasperations. It's a beautiful cinematic piece just to watch, even without trying to figure out what the hell is happening. The imagery is eye-catching, shocking, and insane&#151;and despite the relatively slow pace of the film, it does a fantastic job of holding attention through the unusual visuals. Here's my standard breakdownThe Good--The cinematography is outstanding, as is the atmosphere and sound.--It has a feeling of a film from the 40's or 50's because of the extremely dark style of black and white photography, and the film grain (keep in mind that some of this grain could be related to the old video on which I viewed this psychotic montage).--Excellent lighting.--Lynch's direction, of course, perfectly holds the insanity together.--The special effects and shock value of the film still holds up extremely well, even after nearly 30 years.Didn't Hurt It, Didn't Help It--The acting is pretty good.The Bad--The style of the film and its lunatic-artsy style will be a turn-off for a lot of people, as will the extremely dark atmosphere and slow pace. But those are also the qualities that would be appreciated by fans of this kind of film, so there's kind of a catch-22 here.The Ugly--Seeing the baby all sick and covered with sores.Memorable Scene--Too many to mention, but I'm going to go with a scene near the beginning when Henry has dinner with his girlfriend's family and he is asked to carve up the chickens.Acting 8/10 Story 9/10 Atmosphere 10/10 Cinematography 10/10 Character Development 7/10 Special Effects/Make-up 7/10 Nudity/Sexuality 2/10 Violence/Gore 6/10 (there wasn't much, but it was good) Music 9/10 Direction 9/10Cheesiness 1/10 Crappiness 0/10Overall 9/10Definitely not for everyone, mostly for genre-fans and cultist movie-goers. If you like psychotically bizarre and frightful films, then you will likely enjoy this, for instance, if you like the following Naked Lunch, Lost Highway, In The Mouth Of Madness, Jacob's Ladder, Videodrome, Blue Velvet, 2001 A Space Odyssey, Evil Dead, Gozu (Japanese), Audition (Japanese), or Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, then you may want to seek this one out.www.ResidentHazard.com "},{"Title":"the Misery of an Urban Prison","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently watched this again and in most scenes I felt physically sick. David Lynch manages to combine the right sets and images to create a very uncomfortable feeling right from the outset.We're not allowed to see a world outside of that of Henry's and for the most part not outside of his tiny apartment. Anyone who is claustrophobic to any degree will find this disturbing. The song In Heaven, everything is fine which features towards the end suggests to me that Henry is trapped in either Hell or a Hell-like life where the only escape is death. However, the sequence where his head is turned into pencil-top erasers hints that even after death he'll be recycled into the same grim existence with no possibility of escape.Whether the director intended it to be interpreted as I have done I don't know but this is what I take away from one of the most unusual films around.The sound effects are great; well-worth watching with the sound turned up loud.  "},{"Title":"A strange film","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I felt somewhat disengaged with Eraserhead compared to the other Lynch Films I have seen but I do plan to view it a few more times to try and get it. I am a Lynch fan and I have viewed most of his films, but in a weird order.1)Wild at Heart2)Lost Highway3)Fire Walk With Me 4)Twin Peaks (the movie)5)Blue Velvet6)Mulholland Drive7)Dune8)EraserheadFire Walk with Me and Mulholland Drive are equally my favorites but I still want to understand or at least learn to appreciate the significance of the Eraserhead film.  "}{"Title":"One truly unforgettable film","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" To begin with i personally, and i guarantee I'm not alone here, think David Lynch is one of the greatest filmmakers ever. And Eraserhead is one of his greatest. The film is not necessarily a film of full on symbolism. Its more the phenomenal director pouring his thoughts, moods and subconscious feelings into what is essentially a fairly straight forward plot. He is interested in mood and imagery, obviously more so than dialogue. This does pit him aside from Mamet etc obviously and does limit his commercial appeal but it does not render him some arty weirdo. It is perhaps a mistake to view this film as a puzzle you must solve, unlike Mullholand dr, it is more you just surrendering yourself to Lynch's completely bizarre style and thoughts. Because more likely than not you'll just tie yourself up in knots about subtext and symbolism although I'm not saying its wrong to do this. Anyhow, instead you should just buckle up for one the most imaginative, surreal and unforgettable films in the history of cinema. "},{"Title":"absurdly fantastic","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  -this could be a spoiler-I have come to the conclusion that the people that do not like Eraserhead(or any Lynch movie in general) are the ones that need to know the answer to everything and force themselves to use rational logic in their everyday lives. Because of this sign of impatience, they have a negative reaction to the experience. Eraserhead is a movie that is wonderful because a world is created where the viewer has never been before, making it absurdly fantastic. Lynch is the greatest director when it comes to this skill he has a knack for solving a puzzle that deals with both music and visual images, putting them together to create something powerful and extraordinary. In this film,which was his first other than his short films, the atmosphere is created through useful black and white(unlike pi which is stupid and grainy), the sound effects and recordings done by Lynch and Alan Splet, and the horrifying Philadelphia atmosphere and visuals. Because the people described above see this and have no idea what they are witnessing and can't make any sense of it, they immediately react negatively to it. What these people are doing is like taking a standardized test and coming across the fill in the blank with the correct vocabulary word section and discarding the word that they don't know the definition of. That word could be the right answer,but they discard it because they don't know what it means, which is wrong because you can't dislike or ignore something just because you misunderstand it. In this case, Eraserhead has been that unknown, discarded word for years. Which is why Lynch himself had to change the title after re-releasing it in some countries so it would have the chance to be re-discovered after the success of Blue Velvet.I am waiting for the day when the majority of audiences can watch a movie with the same attitude used when listening to music. With music, you listen and, instead of questioning and evaluating everything that is heard, you absorb it and react to its overall sound. If lyrics are sung, they generate a response based on their tone, and what the lyricist is saying is not very important. Why can't people experience a film by reacting to its tone and feel instead of something like its plot? I always thought it was funny that concise summaries of films with direct plots and pitched scripts are usually the most boring things ever. A plot does not make a movie, but rather a tone, or feeling, does. And tone and feeling are two things that David Lynch's Eraserhead have a whole lot of. This is a spectacular movie experience.  "},{"Title":"SPOILERS AHEAD. If you watch Eraserhead 100 times, you will experience 100 different films","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***SPOILERS AHEAD*** PLEASE DO NOT READ THIS REVIEW IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THIS FILM****** Utterly original and unique, David Lynch's first feature 5 years in the making remains one of my favorite films of all time. Eraserhead is best described as an existential and surreal nightmare captured on film. It is highly subconscious and provokes the viewers brain, begging for interpretation. Is this film pure pretentiousness, or does it have meaning? I believe Eraserhead is a 90 minute long metaphor. It is whatever you want it to be. However, there are many consistent themes that are rather clear. ***SPOILER WARNING*** Henry Spencer, the main character, is trapped in a decaying industrial wasteland, void of real human emotion. Dialogue is kept to a minimum, and when characters do speak their voices are monotone and very slow, almost zombie-like. The characters take several painfully long seconds to respond to simple questions, which adds to the uncomfortable atmosphere. The sole window in Henry's apartment overlooks a brick wall, symbolizing how he is trapped in a state of perpetual hopelessness. In order to escape this bleak reality, he peers into a radiator to watch a woman dance and sing in heaven everything is fine. I believe the lady in the radiator symbolizes death, which her eerie, yet tranquil song supports. ***SPOILER WARNING*** The major theme of the film is raising an undesired child. Henry did not mean to impregnate his girlfriend, Mary X. The deformed, mutant baby is the product of a mistake between Henry and Mary, a mistake that they both pay dearly for. The various worm like creatures that appear throughout the film are actually identical to the Henry and Mary's baby upon closer inspection. At one point in the film, the lady in the radiator squashes several of these, which foreshadows something Henry must do to free himself of his living hell. ****SPOILER WARNING**** The closing of the film includes Henry surrendering to the lady in the radiator (i.e. surrendering to death). After dispatching his undesired child (a reference to abortion, perhaps?) Henry embraces the lady in the radiator and as they both disappear in an ocean of whiteness, which is reminiscent of the light at the end of the tunnel theory of death. How about the name of the film? Does Eraserhead suggest the human mind is capable of erasing memories, matter, thoughts etc.?Please know that my opinions and interpretations are merely my own. I am open to other peoples opinions, because the beauty of this film lies in it's abstractness. Each time I watch Eraserhead, it becomes something different. The grainy black and white visuals matched with the white noise soundtrack (scratching, hissing, clinging) creates an utterly powerful effect. When you watch Eraserhead, you descend into an abysmal netherworld that is both alien and strangely familiar. The film delves into your darkest impulses and grips you in a strangely primal way. When the 90 minutes are up, Eraserhead seems like a half-remembered dream, one that should be visited time and again. A truly unique work of cinema.  "},{"Title":"*** out of ****! An excellent film!","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Lynch's 'Eraserhead' is a dazzling, black and white gem full of metaphorical representations and profoundly abstract inner meanings. It is splendidly well directed, produced and written and the cast, especially the lead performers, are incredible. The intricacies and disguised depth of the film will leave audiences and critics alike enraptured. Lynch tells a cautionary tale of what happens when two people who are uncapable of handling the responsibilities of parenting have a child. In a world of turgid films to ready to abide by the rules, chock full of clichés and all to equipped to cater to the viewer, David Lynch's 'Eraserhead' is a stunning, eerily uncanny motion picture which captors the observers emotions, plaques the screen with nightmarish imagery and never refuses to let go (and I guarantee you you will never hear a baby's cries in quite the same way again.)  "},{"Title":"Worth at least 2 viewings","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't expect a twist ending, or an explanation. You will be let down. Simply expect a TWISTED, INEXPLICABLE 90 minutes.A friend had lent this to me enthusiastically saying, You HAVE to see this! I suppose that can produce exceedingly high expectations, but I kept an open mind. On a scale of 1 to 14 I give it an 11.I can understand why so many people hate this film and so many people are addicted. Whether you like the film or not, you will REMEMBER it.Previous comments have said that this film contained sexual overtones and nightmarish imagery. While the sexual and paternal themes are obvious, the shocking images really aren't that bad. Maybe I'm desensitized, but the 1976 imagery is simply random and industrial by today's standards.I suggest seeing it at least twice. It grows on you. I think I'll go watch it again right now.  "},{"Title":"David Lynch's most experimental film","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's hard to believe, I know from David Lynch, who bought us Mulholland Drive and Blue Velvet, that there is something even more different that this guy can make, but here it is Eraserhead. Simultaneously his most simple and intricate film (I know that's a direct contradiction, but you must see it to believe it). It is also disturbing, but not violent or sexual, and is one of the most facinating films ever distributed to the masses. It must have been a real step at the time, in fact, the UK rated it X when it first came out, probably because they didn't quite know what to make of such a strange film and statement. I won't say too much more, as it will destroy the experience of watching it, but what I can say is that this is a film, not for people who watch for a clear plot, likeable characters, or even fans of clear and simple horror films. I believe it to be closer to an artwork than a film. Unforgettable to say the least. "},{"Title":"There's a point to the slow time feel...","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In my opinion, there's a reason that this film feels slow.  The editing is purposely making the pace slow in order to perpetuate the feeling of the film.  Have you ever had a nightmare that you wished would end? I think that's what Lynch was shooting for here.  Another example of this technique is Rebel Without A Cause.  Everything in that movie happens in one day, and if you have seen the movie, it's nearly impossible for that to be the truth.  This almost puts you in the character's head.  I would NOT recommend this to the average film viewer, simply because this is not an average film. I give the movie a 9/10 only because it is not appealing to any taste. For those of you that have seen and enjoyed Lynch's films, this is a must-see. Also good for when you feel like thinking. Don't overanalyze this movie though... just like a dream, take it for what it is. "},{"Title":"Probably the darkest and weirdest film I`ve ever seen!!","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a true gem of a film!!Those familiar with master Lynch`s work will know that no one,and I mean no one,comes even close to this man when it comes to portraying nightmare on screen,and I am especially referring to the dinner-scene,which is a definite highlight as I see it.Surreal and beautiful in all its irrationality!!For those of you complaining about failing to grasp the storyline or whatever,why bother?One should just sit down and be overwhelmed by the truly special atmosphere,just let the darkness emanating from it bombard your senses.Dark horror like this is supposed to be irrational,chaotic and disconcerting.Enjoy the visual side of things,instead of getting caught up in the meaning of a certain line,or whatever.If you are not familiar with his work,also get a hold of Twin Peaks(Both the film and the series)Blue Velvet and Mulholland Drive.To sum up,I can honestly say that this is probably the darkest and weirdest film I`ve ever seen!!One has to have an aquired taste for this though... "},{"Title":"Typical Lynch - very odd, confusing and thought provoking.","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow, I must say I've seen a lot of David Lynch's work, and this is the single most disturbing, odd and as the topic states, thought provoking of his library. Maybe it's the fact that he's never really been open about what he meant by making this picture, maybe it's the insanely odd images we see throughout the film, but whatever it is - it's very unique.I would NOT recommend this movie to many, that's for sure. If you're a fan of Lynch or a fan of obscure cult classics, then I would. Just lookin' for a quick fun movie? Oh man, you've got something else coming. I for one, enjoyed it. I enjoyed trying to figure out what each scene means and trying (failing, but trying) to understand what David Lynch was thinking in making this.  The production for this film was years in the making. It doesn't really show, but it's true.Enjoy it, I know I did.  "},{"Title":"Surreal and Totally Original. My favourite Lynch Film","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Seeing this film took me on a journey, not necessarily with the characters, but in my own mind, and that's what I love about it.  It is Lynch's most simple, yet also his most complicated film to date and is impossible to explain or comprehend.  What surprises me is how a Black & White film with a low budget, more than 25 years after it was made, is still so surreal, effective and excellent. I would strongly recommend any fans of Lynch's work, of cult cinema and possibly of horror films (although this isn't really a horror film) see this film. You will soon see where all the 'baby' jokes come from, where the roots of arthouse and surreal cinema come from and why this is one of the most praised cult films ever. A pure masterpiece. "}{"Title":"midnight movie express","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Monochrome dementia.  The subconscious on auto pilot.  A continual loop of sucessive brain burps belched onto celluloid.  Bringing up Baby in an industrial Twilight Zone.  These are all phrases that could be attached to David Lynch's feature film debut.As for it's meaning who cares? Experience it for what it is.  Far too many viewers seem bent on untwisting a pretzel that was simply meant to be eaten instead.  Chew up the images and then digest them.  When they come out the other end flush your theories down the toilet.  They're pretentious and offer little.  They try and rationalize processes that are irrational to begin with the workings of the imagination.Yes it's probably Lynch's subconscious reticence to accept fatherhood on one level mixed in with his experiences in Philadelphia.  But they've been remolded and repackaged with other ingredients inside a factory of the subconscious.  The movie makes perfect sense when you don't try to make sense of it.  "},{"Title":"The things dreams are made of","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not so much a movie I like, it's a movie I feel compelled to endure once in a while. True storyEraserhead--A Dream of Dark and Troubling Things (always thought it was necessary to include the subtitle) used to come around to theaters in my area just about every Halloween. On two different occasions, in two different theaters an identical thing happened in the audience just as the movie ended, an anguished voice from the back of the theater shouted Good! It's over!Same person? Perhaps. But it really could have been the reaction of a lot of people I didn't want to keep looking at this but I did anyway and now I'm glad I don't have to look any more.Is this the description of a good horror movie? Partly, but it isn't over yet...Many people, probably the theater-goer among them, can't escape this movie by just not looking any more. Once you've seen the images, they stick with you for days. It's like recalling--a troubling nightmare! There's something awful about it, but I can't quite say what... and also something funny about it, but...Why do some people, myself included, want to have this feeling once in a while? I don't know exactly, but I think it has something to do with finding a different way to enter a dream experience. It also re-arranges your head almost in the way that a potent drug can. You feel different afterward. Something HAPPENED.If you don't know what people mean when they say that something literally makes their skin crawl, and you'd like to find out what they're talking about... or if you enjoy that kind of visceral reaction once in a while, this is the movie that will deliver it. If not, don't watch it. "},{"Title":"WARNING could cause serious disturbance","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  seriously... i consider myself to be a reasonably sane person with a fair dose of intellect and imagination. i remember being gridlocked after exiting the theater in the middle of the night. this film really bothered me i could not speak for half an hour... nor could my company. any comment would be superfluous but being silent and looking disturbed was something we wanted to break. but changing the subject was impossible. scary. the atmosphere in eraserhead followed us out and clung to us like body odour can annoying, undesirable but part of what life is about. what a great movie. i saw A LOT of people exiting the theater throughout the film. i can fully understand it when reviewers underrate this movie they can't deal with it, nor 'rationalize it into a corner'. as i couldn't. this is the horror of life in a weird jacket. you have to be strong to watch this OR abort and give it a bad review. which makes it simply fantastic. i mean it when i say that it should be rated ages 40 and over. "},{"Title":"Who needs water boarding?","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am amazed that David Lynch was able to get his career started with this abomination. The only other filmgoing experience I can compare this too was watching Felini's Satyricon or Lynch's truly awful version of Dune ( Uh, dude, Lyle MacLanahan can't act!). However, I must give credit where credit is due, Lynch made time come to a standstill with this loathsome creation. The only other director that could give him competition in this regard was Edward D. Wood Jr. Ed at least has a charming eccentricity with his loopy, insane dialog and unlike Lynch he is at least trying to tell a story. Yes, I admit it, I enjoy a good story, it doesn't have to be predictable or linear e.g. Memento, but at least tell a story. Lynch is good at making you look at disturbing images. Slowly panning camera work through the industrial nightmare world that he creates here and in Elephant Man, This director is known for his artistic vision with my favorite being his filming of the evolution of the decay of vomit in Wild at Heart and of course who could forget the barf inducing cutting the turkey with icky blood coming out.That doesn't change the fact that manure is manure, much like the Jules Feiffer character in Little Murders where the character makes a living taking pictures of manure. As he says,  I've been shooting manure for years and have made a good living doing it. Just like Lynch.I have never watched such a short film, about 90 minutes, that seemed to drag on for so damned long. My son who is a budding screen writer was watching this at home one day. I asked him what he was watching, and he said The Erasherhead it's only 90 minutes long but it seems like years.I have a fantasy that George W. Bush goes to Hell for all the bad things he has done to humanity. There the devil makes him watch The Eraserhead for eternity.To be fair, I liked 'The Straight Story it had a story and good performances. "},{"Title":"Unsettled","Date":"1 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead's been on my Netflix instant queue for six years.It looks scary and it's by the writer/director of Mulholland Drive (a film I enjoy; check out my review) and Blue Velvet (a film I'm still 'back and forth' on.)It was playing at midnight at the TCM Film Festival in Los Angeles, so I was pretty excited to watch it on the big screen.The man introducing the film was Patton Oswalt, so amongst a number of funny things, he also shared the following. Mel Brooks used the resources of his own production company, Brooksfilms, to give David Lynch his first chance at a mainstream directing job with The Elephant Man. Patton reiterates that Stuart Cornfeld convinced him to do so by dragging Brooks to a midnight screening of Eraserhead. Since I was young, I've had the utmost admiration for Mel Brooks. And let me tell you something sister, E-Head's unsettling.I hate this movie.Slimy slithering intestines don't flutter my fancy.Did that sentence make you feel gross? It should; hopefully it scares you away completely. Because that's all this movie does; it seeks to disturb the viewer. So in that department Mission Accomplished, Mr. Lynch.This is by far his worst.It's smart; don't get me wrong. But originality only goes so far with me. When the ride gets painful, stars begin falling off. It's not fun, enjoyable nor educational.Some consider it thought-provoking. I don't.To be more specific, Eraserhead is about the fears of fatherhood. Despite the cover, it doesn't disturb in a manner akin to horror flicks.It's about depravity and inhabits it's own dark shred of sadness that doesn't require a specific genre. Let's call it what it is A student film.There's a lot I don't like.In particular, I really hate the fetus-stomping blonde (or Lady in Radiator, played by Laurel Near) with the fatty cheeks. It's never fun when she shows up; out of tune and singing the saddest song ever. Any scene involving the deformed baby, its grotesque skin disease or the anxiety-inducing wail of sorrow; I'd happily discharge from my brain. It's the single cringe-worthiest hundred minutes of my life. And I've seen a couple movies that'll convert an entire nunnery.Jack Nance as Henry Spencer is very good.The Girl Across the Hall (played by Judith Anna Roberts) is also solid. She dons a low cut dress and walks with a sinewy strut that'll entrance.But all the acting is good, I suppose. Allen Joseph as Mr. X is an oddball who offers the only chuckle.Lynch apparently likes featuring scenes of a spotlight on an empty stage. The shame idea shows up in Mulholland Drive. I don't know what the hell with to do with it.More often I wonder whether it's worth the ponder.Towards the beginning, Henry traverses squat mounds of ashy dust while a train whistle blares in the background. Considering the subject material, I wonder if it's in reference to Ernest Hemingway's Hills Like White Elephants. That short story's about debating abortion and a couple torn up by unexpected pregnancy.And it's Hemingway; it's wildly unpleasant. But much more enjoyable than Eraserhead.Okay, I'll slow down with the pessimism for a moment.To be honest with you I could hate on this movie a lot more than I'm going to. It has redeeming qualities but they bring the rating up to a whopping one star. I'm not mad about it; it's just not what I go to a movie for.These moments of redemption are few and far between. There's a lot of intricate camera angles involving shadows and how they fall on the characters. Even the majority of the smart stuff leaves a bad taste in my mouth! Like the leafless twig thrust into a pile of soil upon the nightstand. Dirt granules certainly spill onto his mattress on occasion.There are two particularly noteworthy scenes. They're both gross and unsettling, but somehow they shine amidst the pit of yuck.When Henry's in bed with a woman, they're wrapped up in the sheets like a spider, and her teeth are chattering like she's freezing. The spindly way she's twisting, contorting and toiling amidst the covers is creepy and discomforting.The other scene involves Henry making love to a woman, and their infidelity descending into milky white tub water situated in the center of the bed. It's a beautiful shot and really a thought-provoking scene with a fascinating dynamic.But even then, it's still pretty unsettling.Ugh! There's so much filth in Henry's room. The sound effects and score are constantly ghoulish, grotesque, creaky, whistley, shadowy, lurid, crackly, scratchy and overall irksome.It's an Odyssey through disgust, silt and darkness. And it's the rockiest ride amidst a meteor shower.Do yourself a favor and skip Eraserhead, and check out Mulholland Drive or Blue Velvet instead. Only the biggest of Lynch's fans will like this. It's 'un-good.'By the way, I don't know what he saw in it, but I still highly admire Mel Brooks.Looks like it's time to catch The Elephant Man. "},{"Title":"Very Different..........................Very Over..Rated","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead answers a very profound question. We now know where Michael Richards got the idea for high hair in the classy T.V. comedy ...Seinfeld. David Lynch (director) is playing around with our unconscious minds by using loosely connected sketches. His grotesque mutant baby...his ultra weird main actor ...and the other few characters that come and go throughout the strangeness. To entertain the audience ?? I have reservation about that. Lynch made a movie that is average, but Lynch himself feels this is a pretty excellent film. Everyone has their own ideas about what this movie is about. In the end, it does not really matter. This is an important film for Mr. Lynch (his first movie), but in the history of movies this is.....totally insignificant. "},{"Title":"Out of scope","Date":"7 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had a lot of expectations from the film but I have been let down before also, so it was not new. I guess we also need to be mentally prepared before starting to watch any film.The film has a story which made no sense to me. I tried hard before writing this, to understand things on my own, but I still couldn't get its logic. It takes you to an unusual journey in which a man has a devil like son and how he came is unknown. What happens afterward is just a mystery. When you don't understand a film you are bound to give negative reviews. But the film is absolutely sophisticated for normal audience. You need a lot more than proper attention while viewing, to understand it. PROSThere was a fascination for the subject and the film all the time which made me sit. The scenes however are so haunting that you assume that something weird will happen. But all you get is increasing complexity in the story. The soundtrack however was good and apt considering the film. CONSI understand that films should make audience think, but the story should not be this complex. At least if one views it with full attention for the first time, he /she should understand something. VERDICT Can watch, looking at it like an experimental cinema. "},{"Title":"A world between Bunuel and Kafka - surreal, depressing and inescapable","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead was David Lynch's first feature film. It was made in 1977 on a shoestring budget and it is a strange, weird, confusing, twisted, yes, a bizarre and surreal film, experimental some might say, nightmarish others, a paranoid experience perhaps, abhorrent, nasty, disgusting, shocking, horrific. Don't watch it! Worst movie, ever! And there are those who call it pure cinematic genius and a must see. But beware Even if you know Lynch's later work, which is rarely straightforward either, Eraserhead poses its very own challenge by trying a balancing act between a surreal world à la Bunuel and a depressing, inescapable one like Kafka's at the same time. It is Lynch's most radical and raw work, an art movie for sure, so expect the unexpected.Yes, Eraserhead needs to be seen if you care for movies. And I'd say the main themes are not that difficult to grasp if you know a few biographical details on its creator, have a bit of an imagination and enjoy thinking about what got through to you by disturbing you. You might put a label on this or that to get to the bottom of the various symbols used in the film - this helps, but the sum of the picture is more than its parts. Most of all it shows the genesis of a filmmaker who would still be talked about decades after he made that incomprehensible thing called Eraserhead. "},{"Title":"The Feature Film Debut of the Great David Lynch","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Henry Spencer (Jack Nance) tries to survive his industrial environment, his angry girlfriend, and the unbearable screams of his newly born mutant child.If you know David Lynch's work, this debut may not be a shock to you. And if you know that his background is actual in art (specifically painting) rather than film, the images he puts on screen may make a good deal more sense -- he is much more concerned with a visual presentation rather than any sort of coherent plot.While the film is certainly more bizarre than Mulholland Drive or Lost Highway or Twin Peaks, those films (and more) give a hint that Lynch has a unique vision. (If you have seen his short films, including Alphabet, then you know exactly what to expect.) How do you review this film? You will like it or hate it, probably. Howard Maxford seems unsure how to categorize this film. In his brief review, he calls the picture clever but ultimately depressing, boring and an alienating and tasteless experience.The film is bizarre, has no real plot (the brief version written above is really a stretch and ignores the pencil factory, man in the planet and woman in the radiator). And how does Sissy Spacek tie in? Mel Brooks loved this film, and because of it offered Lynch The Elephant Man, quite possibly Lynch's biggest critical success. Stanley Kubrick also loved the film and screened it for the crew during production of The Shining.Lynch fans who have not seen this one need to see it. Others may not need to see it, unless you like a dose of the surreal (if you liked Bunuel's Un Chien Andalou then you will love Lynch). "},{"Title":"An imaginative and disturbing film from the master of nightmares!","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" All I can say about Eraserhead is WOW. Where the best filmmakers seek out ambition and strive to create a film that extends beyond their imagination, David Lynch was able to come up with a film that is easily one of the most disturbing and surreal films I have ever seen. Eraserhead has amazing black-and-white cinematography. Lynch takes us into another unnamed world where feeling is all that matters. This is the 3rd film I have seen from him (the others being Mulholland Dr. and Blue Velvet) and it is obvious that David Lynch works on creating a sense of dread and a frightening atmosphere that lingers towards the viewer in a hypnotizing manner. That is proof of great direction, and even though the film is completely different in terms of storyline and look at first, it definitely has his trademark on it. The film has very little dialogue, and it works mostly on surrealism and dreamy images, but to me what matters most in a film is how it makes you feel... the plot, characters, writing obviously have some part to do with this, but the direction is what Lynch's films dwell on. It is all on feeling, and for that reason, even though the film is very slow, I could not once look away. All in all, Eraserhead is an imaginative and disturbing film that proves to be one of the strongest film debuts ever from a director. It proves why films like this are popular, and why this film deserves to be a guide for other directors trying to learn something about creating a real horror film! "}{"Title":"An eerie masterpiece","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'd heard of this movie for ages, but never saw it till now. I watched it in a mood that excluded all its baggage as a cult movie or as pure trash. With no preconceptions, I was completely taken in by its mood. Someone mentioned Kafka as a reason to denigrate this film. I have spent a lifetime admiring Kafka's work, every word of it, and I'm not even through. With Lynch, I had liked 'The Elephant Man,' and a few other films, but had a basically negative attitude toward him as being pretentious. Strangely, this movie just captured my mind completely. I watched fascinated. Those who want to hunt symbols can put equal signs between a detail in the movie and their bloviations, but that's not how symbolism works. I'd say I re-experienced the hideous sleeplessness of the first months of parenting, but I just don't see the worms as spermatazoa. The nightmare family of the 'wife' is right out of Kafka, but the singing lady with the doughy cheeks is absolute;y original - and brilliant. This last image scared me more than anything else in the film. What power that image packed! All in all, I'm still staggered by the demented intensity of the film and find my ignoring it before deplorable. "},{"Title":"Every Nightmare I've Ever Had","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My experiences with David Lynch always leave me saying What? This is no exception. I have seen posters and pictures advertising this film for the thirty odd years it has been around. I always wondered about it. I finally had a chance to view it and found it to be the perfect representative of those weird anxiety dreams that all of us have. Start with a very strange young man who isn't half as strange as the rest of the characters. Throw in a marriage and the offspring of that marriage, a lizard who is quite ill. These people are trapped caring for this thing, not knowing exactly how it appeared or why. There those Pinter like pauses and odd statements made at the oddest times. There is no future that anyone can recognize; where are they going. There are scenes of people dancing and stepping on the heads of more snake-like creatures, cruel exchanges, a man's head being severed and made into pencil erasers. Does this sound like your typical film? And, yet, I couldn't take my eyes off it. I had lapsed into my own nightmare state, I guess. It is about as claustrophobic as anything I've ever seen. I wanted fresh air after seeing this. "},{"Title":"a product of the mind of a psychotic alien on LSD","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unquestionably the most bizarre film I've ever seen, and stranger than I could ever have imagined. Seems like the product of an alien, psychotic mind on LSD. Either that, or Mr. Lynch had recently had a baby and was sleep-deprived for months due to incessant crying. I'm a live-and-let-live libertarian, but that man should be sterilized! ;-)Having said that, I'll also say that I saw influences from Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey regarding camera and editing work, Rosemary's Baby regarding subject matter, and Fellini regarding one particularly Kafkaesque song and dance scene toward the end.I most definitely was reminded at various times of the early ants in the grass scene in Lynch's later film Blue Velvet. The sound effects were also quite good (highly evocative and creepy). And, I have to give the actors credit for keeping straight faces and staying in their incredibly bizarre characters. "},{"Title":"Surrealistic Pillow","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch is like a hollow chocolate egg. This doesn't work in something like Twin Peaks (1990) because so much more is promised. But, Eraserhead has no such limitations. You can leave it hollow, or fill in the egg yourself. The planet (God) image bracketing this film reveals what is inside the egg, during the film's conclusion. Possibly because we are witnessing a loss of virginity, this surrealistic pillow is the purest, most intrinsic Lynch. If Mr. Lynch is successful, your imagination has allowed you to either taste Eraserhead on an artistic level, or become consumed by the picture; if neither prevail, get out your eraser and go back to the drawing board. In Heaven, everything is fine. In Heaven, everything is fine. You've got your good things and I've got mine. Yet in my dreams I'd be nearer my God to thee, nearer my God to thee, nearer to thee... ********** Eraserhead (3/19/77) David Lynch ~ Jack Nance, Charlotte Stewart, Judith Roberts, Laurel Near "},{"Title":"Having Your Pre Frontal Lobes Massaged By Edward Scissorhands","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Make no mistake about it,David Lynch is a genius/madman (take your choice). Eraserhead was his first full blown feature film. It is a profoundly weird & disturbing journey into another universe (of sorts). The no name cast includes John Nance as Henry, an every day doofus with a hairdo that suggests that he stuck his finger in the light socket one too many times. Henry arrives home,to find out he's been invited to dinner by his ex girlfriend,Mary, only to find out she's had a baby by him (or what passes for a baby). The rest of the film is a fever dream of images (real and/or imagined). The film gets it's dreamy,surreal look from it's low contrast black & white photography, and depends on sound to convey it's bleak,claustrophobic feel. I first got turned on to this film when I attended it at a midnight screening back in the early 1980's,when midnight movies were still a going concern. This NOT a film to take a first time date to, nor is it one to show at family reunions (unless your family is that dysfunctional). As this is an independently produced film that was never passed by the MPAA, there is no rating,but contains some images that some will find highly disturbing. Enter at your own peril. "},{"Title":"It's like he took our nightmares and put it on film.","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead.After months of researching and searching i have finally obtained a copy of David Lynch's Eraserhead.I knew what to expect from it but the final result was beyond my expectations.The story is your average guy named Henry has been invited to his girlfriends house and informed that his girlfriend Mary x has had a baby. The baby is deformed. At that point things go from eerie, creepy to skin-crawling. The line of story and dream like scenes get blurred. Things start to build up until it's strange and frankly rather disturbing end.David Lynch is possibly one of the best directors ever.His sense of style is amazing and he captures the idea of nightmare/dream like weirdness perfectly. And even though people wont like films with almost no dialogue you can almost ignore it in this film.Overall you should see it, it's a little known classic. "},{"Title":"Poor Henry","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here's my take on it.The entire film is a dream that Henry's having about getting his girlfriend pregnant, his terror at the idea of becoming a father and his attraction/repulsion to an abortion. The film's full of symbols that suggest this (and I've heard that reading Freud's Interpretation of Dreams helps you unravel them). Two of the most obvious, I think, are the tiny chicken that bleeds, representing the breaking of the hymen when Henry has sex with his girlfriend (why else would the mum react like that and why else would she announce that the daughter's pregnant straight after that scene?) and the girl in the radiator, who represents an abortionist she's both attractive and repulsive, like the idea of abortion for Henry.For example, the moment Henry touches the abortionist, who's been encouraging him with her song about heaven and her smile, he's released from the dark, troubling place depicted so well in the film (worry, fear and guilt over the pregnancy) into pure light (release from it all). Not only that, after he touches her/accepts the idea of an abortion, you hear the suction used in the abortion procedure and see what looks like a fetus, umbilical cord and placenta being sucked away! Maybe Lynch was also commenting on post-industrial society, but I'm more inclined to think that the constant industrial sounds in the background are more for atmospheric effect -- or maybe they even suggest the constant mental noise and confusion in poor Henry's head! There's probably much more going on in this film than that, but I'm actually more inclined to not over analyse it and just enjoy (or not...) the uniquely disturbing and uncomfortable moods and atmospheres Lynch has created in this film. "},{"Title":"when one shouldn't watch Eraserhead","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" i don't think i'm capable of of giving this movie a perfect score, as it completely scared the s**t out of me.pertaining to my title, i think everyone with the opportunity to watch this film should indeed watch it, though i should warn you, it isn't a good idea to if it's past eleven at night.to say the least, this is the single most bizarre film i have ever seen, and i say this in the best possible way. there is something uniquely disturbing about it that not many filmmakers can achieve, although many have tried. and this weirdness to it is so deeply ingrained in our own subconscious that it strikes a chord of baffled empathy and familiarity. however, this familiarity brings out not fondness but instead horror and the inevitable sick feeling of realizing, at some level, one understands what Henry Spencer is going through.again, i mean these in the best possible ways, compliments that may be seen as detractors but are, i assure you, praises.and i thought a clockwork orange was brutally honest. "},{"Title":"Try to find the d-e-a-p meaning in this cult classic","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some years ago I tried watching this weird, disgusting film and quit about half way through. Recently I rented the DVD and stuck with it through the end, even watching the director, Lynch, tell about making it. Give a weird guy the money to spend making a movie, and he'll make a weird movie. Watch this movie and you may be kicking yourself for wasting the time, like I did. Yes, the sound was cool and the lighting was great. But so what? There are many things in this film that make a normal person feel uncomfortable. But hey, isn't that why we watch films? This film could be seen as making fun of people with mental challenges. But hey, it's freedom of expression and boy, and didn't he use some great techniques? I can't help wondering what those guys were on when they were making the movie over several years. Be sure to watch the special story (It's a hum-dinger!) of making the movie. I WILL say that I liked Lynch's Elephant Man, but I haven't seen any of his other stuff. "},{"Title":"A very interesting, creative piece,","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'll make this short. Eraserhead is surreal, absurd, bizarre, eerie, beautiful, artistic, experimental, and original. It has the reality of an anxiety-dream. It's both minimalist (particularly the acting, dialogue, etc.) and expressionist. The lighting and mise-en-scene are striking. Henry lives in a strange, cramped, monochromatic world of aloneness, emptiness, silence, doubt, unease, and horror, which has no logic or rationality and seems more a reflection of his mind than of external reality. None of the characters is likable (in my opinion); in fact, they're strangely emotionally shallow and small-minded, and they would be mundane if they weren't so bizarre; but all are interesting. Some parts are rather grotesque/disturbing, but it's not a horror movie in the conventional sense. It's a very different art film, and not everyone would be able to appreciate it, but I think it's wonderfully creative, dark, and strange. "}{"Title":"An intriguing film, even if its hard to connect with","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch's feature debut, Eraserhead, soon rocketed to cult status, and set him up for bigger things.The film tells the story of Henry Spencer, a printer on vacation throughout the length of the film. He has a girlfriend, and soon finds out he is the father of her child, which was born in the hospital premature. Then he has to take care of it.That's just about the best way to explain it, but there is really less of a story here than just an emotional throughline with the films visual imagery that is clearly visible, but hard to relate to. This is because the film is so esoteric, such an exhibit of Lynch's pure ideas, that it is incapable to relate to unless you were involved in the production. That being said, you feel sympathy for the characters, even if they are given a little too less time to grow, as the story soons sheds them to focus on Henry. Henry is a sad individual tasked with taking care of a child that burdens his every move. He's a guy you can feel for, because parenthood is an experience everyone can sympathize with. It's hard, and even harder by yourself.However, soon things go completely out of hand and body. The film becomes one large symbol for something else, and things may have a certain subconscious power, they, on the whole, don't mesh together or make an attempt to relate to you, like most other films would do.That being said, Lynch's imagery is bizarre and mesmerizing, and sure to captivate you throughout the movie, and cause some serious intellectual discussion of differing interpretations afterword.Eraserhead is well-done and its imagery and sound-design meticulous and inciteful, but the esoteric nature of the film's story will fail to relate in most peoples heart. "},{"Title":"Lynch's first movie is easily his best.","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Easily the most morbid, darkest movie ever made. Totally abstract; to talk about the plot here would be to miss the point. Did I say point? I'm not sure there is a point. But there doesn't have to be one. The film is almost totally free for interpretation. Part horror, part futuristic drama, part mystery. It defies definition. Some scenes are downright chilling, some are absolutely gross, and in-between there is plenty of eerie, dark, confusing, abstract melodrama. The few dialogues that take place - even though mostly weird - give a little bit of a breather. Hard to watch, especially repeatedly, this is definitely not entertainment in the classic sense. Nevertheless, it is utterly fascinating. Hard to believe that it was directed by the same David Lynch who gave us such beautiful-people yuppie-mystery crap like Twin Peaks, and who started casting Laura Dern in his films, probably because he saw talent in her. Or maybe because he is fascinated by freaks? There is a very nice song(!) here, sung by the radiator lady, somewhere in the second half. "},{"Title":"Are You Henry?","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What is a cult film? Is a cult film a film that lacks many of the components of a mainstream film, but somehow or other is able to garner many fans through its artistic merits, bizarreness, racy humor, etc.? If so some films like Kevin's Smith's Clerks and Jim Jarmusch's Stranger than Paradise might rank highly in some circles because of their use of black and white film and their ability to find humor in the mundane life. However, what about the films of Kitano Takeshi and Miike Takashi? Their films are vastly different, but they are both labeled cult film directors in the West. Maybe it is because they are Japanese. As one can tell when one goes to the local video story, if one wants to rent a foreign film it is automatically in the art film section even if they were quite mainstream in their home countries. What am I trying to get at here? I am just trying to say that the label cult film is just too easy to use. I mean, come one, do you really believe Kill Bill is a cult film when it garners millions of dollars at the box office. Who knows? It is up to the film viewer to decide. The reason I am bringing this up and why I went into the blurb above is because I've just watched one of the films that I have known as a cult classic for around ten years, but I have just gotten around to watching myself and that film is David Lynch's Eraserhead.Upon the films opening and it scenes of an urban wasteland of concrete, steel, and dirty water, the first thing I thought was that I can definitely see where Tsukamoto Shinya received his influence for Tetsuo the Ironman. Eraserhead tells the story of Henry Spencer a young man who works for a printing company, he is now on vacation, and who sports some very impressive hair. After returning to his apartment one day, the woman across the hall informs him that a woman called for him and invited him to dinner with her family. This is Mary X, and Henry goes there reluctantly because he has not heard from her for a long time. Within Mary's home we meet her parents. Mom is quite overbearing, Dad likes to cuss a lot and talk about his old injuries, grandma doesn't talk much she jut helps tossing salads and smoking, the dog seems to have just had puppies. Within these environs and after a dinner which consisted of Henry piercing a small cooked chicken that started twitching and bleeding, Henry learns that he is a father. However, he is the father of a monster not a baby. Henry and Mary decide to get marry and raise the monster, but Mary can not handle the monster's incessant crying and leaves it with Henry. Henry could not care less about it, but it seems it is also the least of his worries because some other bizarre things are happening. His radiator seems to be possessed by a woman with horribly puffed out cheeks and his head seems to fall off sometimes&#133; David Lynch's Eraserhead is definitely a trip into the bizarre, and I do believe that it is one of the strangest films that I have ever seen. Does the film actually have a plot or a deeper meaning behind it? Hard to say, but some believe that it shows the difficulties of taking on adult responsibilities such as raising children. However, does the film really need to have a deeper meaning to be enjoyed? Maybe one should just sit back and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"Intense","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie many years ago and I have seen many others since, but this remains one of the most intense cinematic experiences ever for me. I had to force myself, over just about the entire length of the movie, to not turn it off. The pictures, the sounds, the utter weirdness of the 'story' just got at me, and I don't think I've ever experienced such a sense of relief in a movie before, as in that scene, where the girl from across the hall appears. The whole movie really seemed like a nightmare to me, and when I brought back the video and had a look at the back cover, there was a quote from David Lynch, saying that his aim had been exactly that, to put a nightmare on celluloid. I can only say He was successful. "},{"Title":"Definitely not for the easily disturbed","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Completely spaced out. A complete trip. Don't get me wrong, this film is sheer brilliance. The complete look of the film is great (highlighted by the fact that it is in black and white). One warning I would give is that in the film Henry (the main character) has a mutant baby that is born prematurely. I found this highly disturbing because it looks and sounds (it has a terrible high pitched scream) are quite realistic. Do not, I repeat, do not try and understand this film. It is a piece of art. A serious piece of art that will mess with your mind. For anyone doing film studies I highly recommend that you watch this.But be prepared... "},{"Title":"Nightmarish","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch has a frightening sense of humour. Henry Spencer is a likable sweet character in a very dark and sinister looking industrial type of world, a very bleak environment. This film is basically about the hidden fears of fatherhood. And he picks on every single fear one by one with the use of his imagination making this movie basically the bad dream of men who are expecting to be a Dad soon like myself. This is one crazy movie. Absolutely mad. Very psychological. David Lynch has an imagination which he allows to run wild, he feels free to take all kings of turns and really plays with you as he so desires and he does all this in a limitless fashion. This is a masterpiece of true genius. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie first when it came out as a theatrical release. I went back to see it several times often bringing friends and family. I would ask them after the film ended if it reminded them at all of some unconscious thoughts they had or repressed event from their own lives. I have rented it on VHS to watch several times. I now own the 2000 DVD. I always thought that this film was as though David Lynch had somehow wired into a person's mind and recorded an actual bizarre and truly weird nightmare. It is beautiful and oddly serene to watch. Enjoy it with a loved one. The images of some dark hidden cracks in Henry's world are truly made real with the wonderful sounds that complete the video sound scape of another Lynch world. "},{"Title":"Lynch erases any hope for a plot","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Henry goes to dinner at his girlfriends house and gets the surprise of his life and it is not in the man-made chicken. Before he knows it, he is married and has a strange baby. After that, who knows what to think of this bizarre movie. The plot and story are pretty much erased after a certain point and it seems like the rest of this movie is a dream, a mental fixation or perhaps an afterlife.I loved this movie because it keeps me wondering about what it is about and the sad thing is that I will never know. I will also never know what Lynch did to create that strange baby. It looks like a worm or maybe a bald cat. I love the fact that I won't know yet I keep guessing and I will always love David Lynch movies because of that.I will never erase this movie from my heart. "},{"Title":"Nightmarish masterpiece","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Have you ever had the kind of nightmare where nothing particularly scary happens, yet for some reason you're still terrified? The kind of nightmare where nothing seems to make sense, yet in a strange kind of way it almost does? David Lynch has obviously had that kind of nightmare, and he has captured it in this truly surreal and strange film. Though seldom used, there are some very good special effects in the film, the baby being the most obvious and most disturbing. The directing by Mr. Lynch is truly amazing the stark black and white, the dismal look of the city, and on top of all that, he brought out some amazing performances from the cast. Nance was great in the lead; he almost made you feel sorry for him, but not quite. Which I think was Lynch's purpose. Underneath all the beautiful and bizarre images however, Lynch hides messages that are still important in todays culture. He touches on topics like fatherhood, suicide, adultery, not to mention the overall state of the world. This is a great film, though I think it must be watched at least twice for the full effect.9/10 "},{"Title":"The Feel-Good Film Of The Century...","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before David Lynch brought you such laugh-fests as BLUE VELVET, WILD AT HEART, LOST HIGHWAY, MULHOLLAND DRIVE, and the TWIN PEAKS series - came his first full-length feature, the comically riotous ERASERHEAD.Henry is an average Joe who lives in a pleasant little industrial neighborhood. He lives in a cheery apartment where a happy little woman lives in his radiator. Henry gets his girlfriend pregnant and the result is a cute little gauze-wrapped mutated bundle-of-joy that looks like a cross between a plucked chicken, and a baby dinosaur. Momma gets fed up with baby crying all night and decides to move back home with her parents. Baby gets sicky and Poppa Henry tries to play the good Daddy - that is until baby's crying cock-blocks Poppa's chances with the hottie across the hall. In a particularly heart-warming scene, Poppa cuts open the gauze bandages exposing baby's innards and stabs baby in the guts with a pair of scissors until some sort of custard/oatmeal concoction pours from baby's wounds - HOW SWEET!!! ERASERHEAD will definitely be of interest to those who love the equally uproarious WWII concentration camp footage or perhaps those who get the under-rated privilege of watching friends or loved-ones detox off of hard drugs. Definitely funnier than the best abortion video - ERASERHEAD is THE feel-good movie of the century. Grab your girl and some popcorn, and settle into this one for a knee-slappin', gut bustin' good time...7/10 "}{"Title":"A troubling nightmare derived directly from one man's subconscious","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lynch's consistency of vision elevates his material. There are no cracks in the worlds he creates, unless he puts them there. He makes no concessions to genre conventions because he has created his own genre. Eraserhead, which shares genes with Lynch shorts like The Grandmother, was his impressive feature film debut.Many horror films have been described as being akin to nightmares. Eraserhead is more logical than some nightmares, but it is as deeply troubling as the worst nightmares. It derives directly from one man's subconscious fear of being a father and losing control. It gives us a literal representation of that fear in the form of a deformed baby (ghoulishly realized) and serves up increasingly outlandish imagery that grows as a reply to the protagonist Henry's (the late Jack Nance) dilemma.The sound design by Alan Splet and Lynch is extraordinary and makes a clear case that sound is responsible for 50% of a film's power. The aural landscapes possess an engaging, transporting quality that add a deep dimension of grave unease to the spectacular black and white photography by Blue Velvet DOP Frederick Elmes.The film is impossible to categorize and not possible to adequately decipher. It is an ambiguous, interpretative work that broadens cinema's potential to prick the cerebral cortex. "},{"Title":"it may be my favorite movie","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Eraserhead is hard to sum up.  I could sum it up by saying that it's about a depressed, lonely man living in the absolute dregs of society who is forced, by some awful set of events, to raise the most hideously deformed child ever created while he's on vacation.  I could also add that he fantasizes about a world that exists behind his radiator, where a woman with oversized cheeks steps on worm-like creatures and sings songs about everything being fine in heaven.  And I couldn't forget to mention the strange planet inhabited by a scarred man behind a set of levers that appear to control....See?  What's the point.  Summing up the plot of Eraserhead is a ridiculous thing to do because it's not about its plot.  It's about the finer details of the film.  Without a doubt the most striking feature of this movie is its sound design, which adds greatly to the overall tone of the film.  The sound design that makes the whole experience feel eerie and somewhat wrong, that makes you feel trapped in Henry's world.  The next time you watch this movie, notice that there isn't one frame of the film without some sort of everpresent ambient noise, be it the sound of steam going through pipes in Henry's apartment or a litter of puppies suckling on its mother at the X house.  The only silence in the film comes at the end, after Henry embraces the woman behind the radiator.And the high-contrast black and white photography.  I thought it was a bit pretentious of David Lynch to include instructions on how to adjust your TV to make the film look better, but he's right.  It shows the painstaking detail he adhered to for the photography of his greatest film.  The shot of his neighbor walking out of the darkness and into the light before she asks to spend the night at his place is utterly breathtaking when viewed in this way.And that's what makes me so happy about the cleaned-up DVD release of this film.  I always had to watch third-generation copies of someone's bootleg Japanese VHS copy with Japanese subtitles.  This version really showed me how amazing this film could really look and sound.Everyone should see this film.  Not everyone's gonna get it the first time. I don't think I did. "},{"Title":"David Lynch=Insane Man","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the weirdest movie ever made.  The dialogue is very sparse and there are very slow set up shots ala Kubrick.  It is simply about a man growing mad in a surreal world where he has been cursed with a mutant child.  This movie is powerful, disturbing and unforgetable.   "},{"Title":"Brain food","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a GREAT film! In my opinion it's David Lynch's best! One of the best thinker films of all time.If you like David Lynch's work and you haven't seen ERASERHEAD yet, you're missing out on a truly wonderful experience. Keep in mind that this film takes a few watchings before you will fully understand it.The acting is incredible! So good in fact, that the actors prove that a great film doesn't need a lot of dialog. Each character's personal tortures exist, throughout the entire film, in the characters' faces. Jack Nance's performance is especially strong.Watch this film in a dark room (or theatre, even better) completely isolated from the rest of the world. Don't take your eyes off the screen even for a second because you will miss something. Highly recommended for a thorough brain massage. "},{"Title":"Lynchian Brilliance","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Eraserhead was the debut release for arty film director David Lynch.The film is shot in black and white with generally (at the time) unknown actors like Laurel Near, Charlotte Stewart and John Nance.What the film is actually about is open to interpretation but watching the film, one can't help but find some misanthropic view of a post apocalyptic world where mundanity has turned into something truly horrific.John Nance stars as Henry Spencer, the films big-haired hero, Henry is followed on a strange course of events made strange by David Lynche's bizarre take on normality.  Henry finds out he has a child (a strange alien looking creature), gets married, has an affair, and even, in a metaphorical blurr, has his head turned in to erasers for pencil tips. Eraserhead is truly an experience to be sat through, though what you'll actually make of it, is anyones guess.  "},{"Title":"Cult Classic - Maybe if you are in a cult","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I read all the hype about this superior artsy film that you just have to see. I was expecting strange, film noir aesthetics, but I was not expecting a complete borefest.You can say all you want about how great this movie is because of open interpretation. The problem is, all I saw was a giant LSD trip by David Lynch. The acting was horrible. I know the characters were supposed to act like morons, but that just made it worse, not more extreme.Compared to his modern movies, this LSD trip is boring, takes 8 minutes before a word is spoken, and of course it is from a neighbor who doesn't know the main character's name!I watched it all the way through, read some people's interpretations and came up with my own. This is what happens when the writer takes too much acid and nothing makes sense, connects, and it is just a paranoid schizo with bad hair hallucinating the whole time.I only give this a 5 for effort to be something. "},{"Title":"What I imagine a bad acid trip would be like.","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What is this??? Who drilled these dummy holes?? I tried, God knows as your dog nose, I tried. This film was like a nightmare that I was able to wake up from. And I did buy pulling the plug 3/4 the way threw. ' That's all I can stands, I can't stands no more!!!'' Some have written here it is art. Ummmm,,, I don't think so. I cant call it that. Intentionally weird, I can understand, but this is beyond that. I don't know what this is. Now I think I understand David Lynch, I loved Blue Velvet, and have watched it over several times. Fire Walk with me, was just OK, Wild at Heart. again just OK. But Eraser, I guess I'll have to watch it again at a later date, for a second opinion, if there can be such on this film, maybe if I'm doing some jail time or something, or if I'm too happy!!!! "},{"Title":"i may know the point of eraserhead","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What if Lynch is trying to give us an over the top image in order to make us think about this I was in class the other day, and my professor's 4 year old son was there. The boy was constantly getting into things and making distractions for the students. As a result, the professor said to the class, that's why God makes kids cute, so that you don't kill them. It got me thinking about Eraserhead and the wholy grotesque nature of the baby. It cried just as a normal baby cries, except normal babies are usually cute and so our first reaction is not to harm the child, but cradle it and comfort it. Reacting towards the baby's 'cry' in Eraserhead, Henry murders the baby. Think about it. I may be totally off, but give me some feedback. "},{"Title":"Artistic, Surreal....Perfect","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How can you comment on one of the most landmark, life-changing films ever made?  How can you convey the effect, the lasting mark this film leaves on everyone who sees it?  This film creates a disturbing, unsettling atmosphere like no other I have ever seen.  Basically the story is about a man who's girlfriend becomes pregnant, and is forced into marrying her before he is ready.  But that where it stops making sense at face value.  Influenced be surreal film-makers like Luis Bunel, David Lynch prefers to convey emotions with abstract images.  Instead of telling the story in a linear, conventional way, you are left to interpret the film for yourself based on the strange sounds and sights Lynch creates.  You will never forget the terrifying world Lynch places you in as you watch this film. "},{"Title":"An abomination against humanity!!!!","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Please avoid this film at all costs, even if you're a David Lynch fan. I am a massive fan of Mulholland Drive, Inland Empire and even Blue Velvet but if you love life then never watch this monstrosity. It has close to no plot and is very awkward and a generally unpleasant experience. Where Inland Empire was a cerebral experience, this is a monotonous and unpleasant joy-ride into hell. Where Blue Velvet was intriguing, this film has nothing interesting to show or say. Most importantly; where Mulholland Drive was a masterclass, this is a downright embarrassment.This is a 89-minute film that felt like a lifetime. How will I ever get that time back?This film is the worst film I've ever seen and will remain so for a very long time. "}{"Title":"Utter Crap","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can see why all these film school students, hipsters and self acclaimed art gurus love this movie. It goes against anything you would expect a movie to be. There is nothing to understand about any aspect of what is shown.I can understand people feel baffled and amazed after seeing this but just because it provokes those feelings doesn't make it a good movie. To me this movie is the equivalent of some 'painter' randomly splattering paint and swinging a brush against a canvas. The 'artist' doesn't even have to explain anything, just give his work an obscure title and due to the mere fact that it can be connected to anything the viewer wants, it is transformed by criticism into a 'mysterious unexplainable masterpiece'.To go against the general opinion is kind of like swimming against the current but if you look at what the general public has accomplished in the past, you could only describe them as asinine, delusional and amnesic. Which, in many cases gives me all the more reason to doubt the validity of the general opinion.In my opinion, this movie is just a deranged mess of ideas, held together by many moments of awkward and nonsensical moments. I could see some references to the circle of life and death but it was far from profound or inspiring. All in all it was depressing to watch, it would've been more entertaining to have hung myself upside down for 1 hour and 28 minutes. "},{"Title":"Disturbingly pointless + confusing= boring waste of time.","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like art films- I don't mind black & white. I don't need everything all laid out to me in a film... I've taken film classes & learned to enjoy German expressionist films for their lighting & symbolism, etc..... but for the life of me I can not comprehend how this film has such a high rating.I felt like I had wasted 1.5 hours of my life in trying to see this film. I think I would've enjoyed it better had I skipped the movie & just read the reviews and learned that it was supposed to be about an alienated man in a depressing industrial who suddenly has a monstrous baby. If only I could've gotten that from the film. Instead I stared at piles of hair, a deformed warty chipmunk woman, and a alienlike giant spermatozoa being stabbed to death while people hallucinate. I wasted the entire film searching for meaning.... trying to figure out what the piles of hair?/hay? were for? What alien looking spermatozoa had anything to do with what was going on?... etc.Just a few hints could've helped make it a good film... there were things that if explained would have been more enjoyable and seemed interesting... the ominous/abrasive music, the creepy mis-en-scene (the elevator that hesitates, the radiator, the dead tree in dirt, etc.)This film is in no way a work of genius. I've seen films that deal with alienation & isolation. There are tons of films out there about the fear of parenthood or the feeling that your child is an evil entity (Rosemary's Baby, Omen, Bad Seed, etc.) You CAN convey these emotions in a coherent/logical fashion and have a plot/make sense. This just added to my internal debate that David Lynch movies provoke Is he literally schizophrenic and unable to process reality the way most other people do? Has he taken too many psychotropic drugs? I even tried watching the interview with him after the film on the DVD and was unable to bear it. He seems lost in another world and just rambles.People seem to like this film simply because it's shocking & experimental. Sorry, but that's not enough for me. I'd rather have something that's original, pushes the envelope but ALSO be interesting (or at least not like watching someone's disjointed nightmares). I took nothing away from this film - and that makes me feel like I wasted my time.I give it a few points for 1. No T&A, no sexism, no racism, no homophobia 2. No product placement 3. Showing the otherside of the overly sanitized/sentimentalized concept of parenthood. "},{"Title":"The cult of Lynch is more disturbing than this movie","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I haven't seen all of Lynch's films. I'm still pecking away, one at a time. I own Mullholland Drive (which I quite enjoy). I've seen Blue Velvet, Lost Highway, a few episodes of Twin Peaks and Dune. I always hated Twin Peaks and I felt Dune was a horrid translation. I nearly fell asleep with Lost Highway. Per a friend's recommendation, after I told him I felt Mullholland Drive is his best film, perhaps by accident, I watched Eraserhead.I want my hour and a half back. I've never been so bored by a movie. I've read countless testimonials at how disturbing and haunting this movie is and I agree, it's disturbing and haunting, if only because of the time it sucks out of your life through watching it. Perhaps at the time of it's release, it's imagery was more shocking and revolutionary, I dunno. It certainly doesn't shock me or haunt me today. I've read and heard many explanations as to what the symbolism of this film really are, some of which seem to fit. Frankly, it doesn't matter what this film is symbolic of, it's still mind-numbingly boring. I suggest that rather than digging and searching for the deep symbolism here and watching it 30 times till you get it as some insist, you drop a tab, smack yourself in the head with a frying pan and save yourself the hassle. Just because it's obtuse doesn't mean it's art - And it certainly doesn't mean it's deep in any way. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever! ...thank you.","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An ode to David Lynch... the sweet misguided film writer/producer/director. His movie-maker skill falls somewhere along the lines of Fraud. Not Fraud, the elusive Czech musician, but rather the tricky cheater art student posing as a filmmaker. Lynch does not make Movies. Lynch does not even make films. He makes crap, and he never flushes the bowl. So, those of us who are foolish enough to venture into his smelly lavatory are forced with the task of expelling his excrement.Mulhollond Dr.. On a first viewing, this flick is mildly intriguing. Beautiful women and conspiracy will sometimes hold an audience. One may ask What of the jumbled ending with no resolve??? Intrigue halts when research reveals the origin of the films footage in its entirety.Having gained said knowledge there should be no need to try another of his work. But, what better way to give the man a second chance than by watching his most esteemed 'cult classic'?Eraserhead. This film is a void. If you stay with it, you will soon realize that you have been sucked into ABSOLUTELY NOTHING. Eraserhead is often likened to a dream. This is a very romantic way to describe a series of nonsensical images. Dreams, at least, offer an array of emotional content.Thank you for wacky and unexplained movies, David, but I will never again be tempted to watch one of your tortured conundrums. Fool me twice... shame on me. "},{"Title":"The worst film ever made. Ever. Ever ever ever.","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"15 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pretentious, portentous nonsense from beginning to end. The kind of stuff that a certain type of student likes to discuss late at night to prove how alternative he is. Some things happen in this film. (Don't ask me what, I can't be bothered to remember.) They happen very slowly, and for no discernible reason. Some consider that this gives it a dream-like quality; others might argue that this gives it more the quality of a pile of manure. To qualify as a True Film Buff you have to watch this film five times without without tearing your own eyeballs out, then pretend to see some deep inner significance and dramatic worth in it. There is none. It's the Emperor's New Clothes of the movie world. (No, I didn't like it much. Can you tell?)  "},{"Title":"Make's me cringe every time!","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoiler Alert!!! The main theme of the movie is basically a creepy science experiment that goes wrong. The baby in the movie is pretty gross looking and it kind of looks like the baby in the sink of this creepy game I saw but can't remember the title. The whole opening is pretty peaceful I mean there's no music or dialogue it's just a guy walking through the streets of where he lives for about 10 minutes of the movie. Then the color gets darker when we see where he lives intensifying the mood. His girl friend has a deformed baby who won't shut up and is pretty ear-piercingly annoying. Then the story gets really intense after his wife just leaves him so he could put up with it. From there on it becomes a real mind twister and psychological thriller. I must say even though it took me twice to watch the second half and understand I must say this is a really unnoticed creepy science fiction type of film. If you enjoy films like Dr. Phibes or the Reanimator I suggest you give this film a watch. I rate it 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A film that i'll never forget.","Date":"5 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alright, this is for the people interested in seeing Eraserhead. But for those who just want to read my comment on the film, you may do so. So the beginning of how I found this film was very strange. I kept looking at what films people were talking about all the time. And I knew the director David Lynch at the time, but never seen any of his films. I always kept seeing the cover of Eraserhead and hearing the title everywhere it felt like. I was saying to myself, is this film any good? So I decided to check it out and get the DVD.....i've never felt the same since.This film really changed my ways at looking how directors make these strange, bizarre stories that are surreal. I am a huge fan of Stanley Kubrick's films, and I have seen all of his and then Eraserhead, and I got to say, Eraserhead is a bigger step towards figuring out and questioning these movies. Eraserhead is perhaps not for everyone, but for people that love to 'think' in these films, (for example 2001 A Space Odyssey), then this is a good film for you to watch.There is really no explanation of this film. But so far its basically about a man who lives in an industrial enviorment, is struggling with certain things in his life. His mutant baby, his girlfriend, and a whole mind full of things on his mind. He starts having hallucinations of these bizarre characters, and crazy dreams. However the film is intended to not make perfect sense. It presents a totally different look in movies. It also probably gave some influence for other directors, like Tim Burton, who has made so many off-the-wall characters in his films.In my opinion, I think this film should be acclaimed as one of the best surreal/horror films in film history. An experience that will leave you stuck there wondering what your thoughts of the story means. And the funny thing is, the director David Lynch doesn't explain what happens in the film, or really anything that makes you guess what its about. So if you think about it, its pretty creepy how the film is left alone by itself, and maybe.....this film has a big significance, that we all can't figure out. I find that simply amazing.10/10 "},{"Title":"ummm... thanks for that, David Lynch","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After about the first ten minutes I decided that continuing to ask What? Why? was futile. But still, its hard not to ask Why are those chickens oozing? Whats wrong with that baby? why are her cheeks so big? or wonder why I was so captivated by a dead cat being wriggled around by a hanger. I was too mesmerized, and disturbed, by the beauty and obscurity of every scene to even bother with symbolism or deeper meaning. The light and contrast used was lovely- black and white, with more black than white, really added to the nightmare/post-apocalyptic feel. Every second of every scene could be paused, printed, and the result would be a perfect still. There was always noise- sometimes music, but a constant whooshing that sounds like hard wind from inside a building. Every scene was an uncomfortable existence. Still, I couldn't wait for it to be over; I couldn't wait to watch it again. "},{"Title":"Eraserhead","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just saw Eraserhead a week or two ago. I was very impressed. I had heard about the movie a while before then, but didn't get interested in it watching until recently. A friend mentioned having watched it to me, so I decided to watch it. It was like nothing I had ever seen. It was also the strangest movie I have ever seen, yet one of the most original. I admire David Lynch for this achievement.While looking on IMDb I noticed that the opinions on this film were mixed, ranging from a masterpiece, to a waste of time, and boring. It could indeed be argued that Eraserhead is a masterpiece. Many reviewers said the movie was hard to understand, or that it had no plot, or that it didn't make any sense. I think the film will make sense, if you pay attention to it closely and analyze it.That's the thing about Eraserhead; unlike almost any other movie, it challenges the comprehension of the viewer. There were a few very puzzling scenes but apart from that I understood Eraserhead. I think these peculiar scenes, that leave the viewer scratching his head, are best how they are. Not everything in this movie is supposed to make sense, and some of it isn't going to; its going to weird you out. I mean, a lot of movies have weird scenes. Some have very weird scenes.Eraserhead takes the cake. It's just downright weird. A lot of scenes may be disturbing, but if a weird scene make no sense, it's going to be even more disturbing. That's part of what I liked about Eraserhead. I also believe the film does have a plot, and a pretty good one. It is just an abstract one. The plot of an abstract film is going to be very different from that of a normal film; viewers should understand this. Just because a plot is different or odd, doesn't mean that it doesn't exist.The film does start off very slow, but it picks up after that and delves into the story of the movie. I also noticed that some reviewers said that this movie is better if you don't classify it as a movie but instead as art. Well, I wouldn't go that far. No matter what you call it, it's still a movie. Now, for the story of Eraserhead. Eraserhead is primarily a surreal tale of a taciturn man living in an apartment in a barren town, who is coping with bad insomnia one night, because of his newly born mutant baby, and his cumbersome wife.Now for how he got in these circumstances, he usually keeps to himself, but he is invited to a dinner. He decides to attend this dinner, where he meets some friends. He eats with about four other people. It is there that he finds he has impregnated one of them, and she has delivered the baby. He is also informed that the baby is premature, which is presumably why it is mutant. He experiences a lot of visions during this night. I call them visions, but some could just be nightmares. Others are supposedly happening in real life.It is in these scenes, where the viewers may find themselves lost. It's really not that difficult to tell which is which though. Eraserhead does start off very slowly, but it gets better and better. I would recommend it, if you are interested. I would not recommend this movie to someone just because you are a horror movie fan; however. Eraserhead is sometimes classified as a surreal horror, which is true, but in this case a surreal horror is a completely different animal from a horror. I am myself a horror fan, who liked this movie, but I think part of that is because I really like surrealism. I can see a lot of horror fans disliking it. Eraserhead is a very good film for its genre. I would recommend it to any one who likes surrealism. "},{"Title":"Eerie Landscapes, Dreams of Desire, And Nightmares of Haunting Proportions","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is the pinnacle of surrealist, subconscious film-making. That is not to say it is for everyone. On the surface, it is a narrative about a man trying to cope with the uncontrollable forces of his everyday life, but underneath it holds a meaning far more sinister and foreboding.My take on this film is that the main character Henry, is haunted by an unknown, unseen demon, whose presence is indicated by fluctuations in electricity, and shifting of light sources. During a cold, uneasy dinner with his supposed girlfriend's family, Henry learns he is now the 'father' of an extremely premature, possibly inhuman child.While Henry tries to make the best of the situation, by marrying the girl, and bringing her and his 'child' home to live with him, he cannot escape from the clutches of this demon, which continues its reign of terror over Henry and his family. Mary, his wife, unable to sleep due to the crying baby, packs her bags and heads for home, but not before being seemingly raped by an unseen force at the foot of Henry's bed.The 'child' is clearly not human, and it manipulates Henry through the same type of malevolence that his true father, the demon, does, instantly feigning serious illness, and cackling maniacally at Henry's failures. Henry dreams of salvation through his savior, the woman in the radiator, but cannot escape the demons that hold sway over his life, represented by large sperm-like creatures that surface both in life and his dreams.In the end, Henry tries to kill his demon, the 'child', but only sets in motion his own demise. But his savior comes to him at the last minute, to assure him that In Heaven, Everything is Fine, or so he hopes.... "}{"Title":"Lynch asks the viewer to decide what the movie means, here is my two cents...","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only experience I have with movies is being a couch potato since I was 11. I rented this movie a little less than thirty years after it was released. By then, I'd already seen Mulholland Drive and Wild At Heart. When I first rented this movie, I watched the first five minutes of it, chalked it up to being a weird silent film, and ejected the DVD. A year later, I rented it again after reading a blurb somewhere that it had an actual plot. This time, it took.After watching the movie, I was so intrigued by what the meaning was, I read the IMDb trivia section about this movie. After already seeing Mulholland Drive, I wasn't surprised to see that Lynch intended for individuals to make up their own minds what the movie was about.I figure myself to be an analytical person, no psychological elements left open and stuff, but you can't do that with this film. The first phrase that came to mind after I watched this movie was An alternate reality of mass insecurity and anxiety by the main character. Nothing seemed to be stable in his life. A picture of his girlfriend is ripped in half. I saw a plant growing out of dirt without a pot to hold it on the nightstand by his bed. The youngling chicken that was served at his girlfriend's parent's house was screaming and bleeding.I also saw the humor too. The funniest part was the Mother of the girlfriend tossing/preparing the salad with the old woman's arms. She couldn't toss it completely by herself so without anyone looking, she puts the bowl in Grandma's lap and uses her hands like a puppet so that the meal could be completed by the WHOLE family...of course, Grandma never got invited to dinner but she served her purpose.We live now in a cinematic world dominated by endless remakes, comic book movie overkill, and a dwindling demographic of adult movie-goers. For those of us adults who want to enjoy an original movie experience these days; David Lynch is the answer. "},{"Title":"One of the Finest Pieces of Art Ever Conceived","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a nightmarish, post-apocalyptic city, Henry Spencer, a quiet man with an Eraserhead-like hairdo struggles with the bizarre circumstances that face him continuously. While dealing with the awful conditions of the city that surrounds him with giant machines that billow smoke and create a non-stop and inescapable noise, he learns that he is the new father to a mutant baby with extremely bizarre and in-human traits. Now Henry has to deal with the constant screaming of the mutant child and to somehow manage to take care of it.The only way to describe this post-apocalyptic tale that David Lynch brings to life is that it is more of a piece of art than it is an actual movie to sit down with others to enjoy. This movie is disgusting, dark, memorable, and disturbing, yet, I couldn't turn my head away from this cinematically perfect movie for a single minute. Eraserhead is an enlightening experience with an almost never-ending amount of symbolism that represents a deeper and greater meaning behind what is actually shown. Some of the actions that are depicted in this film can seem completely out of the ordinary to the average viewer, and it's meant to be that way, but none of those bizarre actions go without meaning. Along with the endless amount of symbolism that goes behind the plot, David Lynch shows why he is a master at the art of film making with his incredible execution of cinematography. Within each and every shot of this film, Lynch successfully disturbs and creates an unforgettable atmosphere that will leave an imprint on every person that watches this film regardless of whether or not they actually understood everything. His use of lighting, ambient noise, shots of isolation in the setting and the shooting of this movie through a black and white camera, more than effectively accentuates Lynch's skill as a film maker. Eraserhead is not a film for every person. In fact, this movie is not even aimed at entertaining the average movie watcher on any given day. It is for those people that like to analyze and decipher the hidden messages that are presented. One can easily say that this movie isn't simply just a movie at all, but a work of art that can be compared to the works of art by painters such Leonardo Da-Vinci and Pablo Picasso. Eraserhead is one the finest pieces of art that any person has ever conceived and without a doubt, it deserves a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Interesting if nothing else","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is a student film or basically that from what I understand. It is very apparent, as it is filled with the normal slightly creaky acting seen in most student films and the ever present pretensions.It takes place in an industrial wasteland moving from surrealism that is somewhat translatable and then into incoherent symbolism for the viewer. Some viewers will find this annoying, others might want to keep view just to see what oddity will occur next.Everyone in the film really seems to capture the essence of their characters with their movements and facial expressions. The lack of dialog is actually a strength.Jack Nance gives a solid performance, he is the embodiment of a man who is consumed with fear, resentment, and the sense of being trapped. As he moves and walks around his nightmarish world he seems only mildly surprised by the dark images and occurrences around him. He seems to be too defeated to care or perhaps he feels he is unable to escape.Like Jack Nance's character, Eraserhead moves slowly, in fact, that's a bit of an understatement, at some points in the movie time barely seems to move at all.Eraserhead is an interesting movie, which has to be said for about any David Lynch. Eraserhead certainly has its flaws but I think it succeeds on the level Lynch was aiming for. "},{"Title":"My interpretation of the movie eraserhead.","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First, I'd like to say I've only seen the movie 3 times and David Lynch is now one of my favorite directors after also seeing Mulholland drive, Lost Highway, and The Elephant Man.Here is one interpretation out of many possible ones. All symbols relate to Harry in some way.The rock - represents Harry's brain. It's dark texture symbolizes Harry's poor mental health. As the rock get's closer, as does the decay of harry.The hairy whole of light represents a vagina. I don't know if it represents anything at all.The man who pulls the levers represents God and the idea that some things (or everything if you believe that) are out of our control as humans.The Worm - represents decay and Harry's problems. The dirt also represents Harry's decay.The woman in the room across from Henry's room represents temptation and lust. Perhap's God is angry at him when he commits adultery with her.The lady in the radiator is Death and the radiator itself is suicide. that's all I would like to say about this movie. I suggest everybody interested in experimental and surrealist movies should check this out. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Nightmare","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is a great film! I bought the DVD after a friend in high school told me about it. I watched it alone in the dark and the journey was unlike anything I had ever experienced with any movie before. The industrial landscapes are so detailed and amazing that you almost want to jump into the screen and take a look around inside. The audio is so surreal that it leaves you on edge at all times.The best advice I can give to anyone who has never watched this movie before is don't research the movie, don't look at the synopsis, and don't ask what it is about. Watch it and don't have any expectations, watch it all the way through and just experience it for what it is, clear your mind of all judgment until after the movie is over.If there is one thing about this film that no one can deny it is this, the whole piece is the refinement of an idea down to its purist idealized form, I don't know what that idea is exactly but it seems like a very dark, twisted, anxious, nightmare that is more beautiful in essence than anything you can imagine.Thank you David for a great experience in cinematic art. "},{"Title":"A great introduction to one of film's strangest characters and a fantastic feast of surrealism for the senses.","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Perhaps the strangest film ever made, Eraserhead is open to hundreds of unique interpretations. The opening title scene introduces us to the main character, Harry, in the first of the film's many dream sequences. From here on we follow Harry in his day to day life. It just happens that this week, Harry's life becomes a living nightmare as he fails to cope with the drastic changes that take place for him. It doesn't have much of a storyline, the dialogue is thin on the ground too, hardly any character development takes place, and the soundtrack isn't likely to break the top 10; but this sparsity is an integral part of the film. Everything missing in this film is also what's missing from Harry's life; we're never shown that Harry has any friends or given any reason to believe he has any. We never see Harry listening to music, reading, playing sport, or in fact doing much of anything; he occupies his free time lying on his bed staring into his radiator and dreaming. Filming the film in black and white shows the lack of variety and life in Harry's world and brilliantly highlights the grim surroundings of his industrial hellhole slum. Harry is a wonderfully unique character and watching how he interacts with the equally eccentric in laws and joining him in his dreams is a very interesting experience. On top of this the film looks amazing. Harry's world is beautifully bleak and his dreams are sensational showcases of surrealism and though they lack any real point or relevance to the story, they have an enchanting strangeness about them which you can forgive Harry for loosing himself in. Eraserhead is brilliant as a character portrait or as a purely aesthetic film. As a straight narrative piece of storytelling; it makes no logical sense what so ever. But that's not exactly a bad thing. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare On Film.","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch's Eraserhead is a film that not only needs to be watched, it needs to be appreciated.To me, this film is the closest thing to a nightmare caught on film. The settings, the characters, the mood and atmosphere, everything combines perfectly to create this extraordinary experimental work that many people have grown to love, and hate as well.Is it a difficult film to get into? Yes. Will a casual viewer be bored to tears? Perhaps, yes.I love Eraserhead and I consider it Lynch's best work. Not because I like to pretend I'm an artsy person who enjoys weird, obscure stuff. I love this film because I like a film that creates its own atmosphere and makes up its own rules. Eraserhead is nonsensical, oddly-paced and downright strange, but that somehow fits perfectly within the film.The visuals are creepy, disturbing, and have a very eerie realism to them. I'll say again that it does look like a filmed nightmare. The visuals have that surreal quality enhanced by the characters and the story itself.I think Eraserhead is a proof of what can be achieved as a filmmaker and how ideas, no matter how messed up, can be translated into the screen with talent. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of cinema. A boring one.","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here is a classic, one of Stanley Kubrick's favorite films if that mean anything to you. Like Lynch efforts after this, it is a puzzle to decipher but of course with no set solution. There are two movies that have one occurrence of music where it is instantly memorable and sticks out it the film. One is Deliverance with the Dueling Banjos, and this film with the song In heaven everything is fine . That song just gives me creeps me out and is hauntingly beautiful at the same time.It's confusing but that only adds to what the films main objective is. To make you feel like you are in a nightmare. Like a nightmare, things are illogical and doesn't make sense. Jack Nances performance is chilling as an everyman with a one of a kind haircut that must have inspired old school hip-hop artists. If this is a nightmare, then what cold reality awaits the protagonist when he wakes up?Truly a disturbing and unforgettable film. "},{"Title":"Bad dreams.","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have a turtle. I've bought it for 50 in cash. This movie reminded me that I had a dream about my turtle. in it, my turtle was ugly. It was screaming and it started biting. When it bit me I smashed it to pieces. I'm also in the possession of a huge ostrich egg. I dreamed that my mother smashed it to bits and laughed. I was so upset I wanted to hurt my mother real bad.People always appear and ask me things. About money, about time, about jobs, about movies. Then they leave, and I feel like an eraserhead.This movie reminded me that we are surrounded by too many things. And if we die, these things won't die with us. "},{"Title":"An Experience","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A film you either love-or hate. Don't ask me to describe it, but it contains elements of horror, fantasy and has a surreal dream like setting that leaves you with an unsettling feeling. Filmed in beautiful black and white, the title character Henry X lives in sort of an apocalyptical industrial hell. An extreme version of the 1950s square, he has a pen procter in his shirt pocket, his pants are too short, and his hair stands on end. After eating a man made chicken dinner at the equally bleak home of his girlfriend, he finds out that she is pregnant. The offspring- you can't really call it a child resembles a skinned rabbit combined with a human? fetus, and all it does is cry. After several more surreal and bizarre events take place- like the chubby cheek girl in the radiator singing In Heaven Everything is Fine and the leech like worms Henry takes from the box in his suicidially depressing apartment, the girlfriend and offspring leave. Leaving Henry alone, more bizarre things take place. The assembly line at the pencil factory, the horribly scarred man at the control lever sitting by a broken window pane. Does this represent human conception, is he God, or are we being taken to another planet? Film does not give you any answers. You are on your own. A triumph of design, the dreamlike ,trance like quality really gets under your skin and is further enhanced by the soundtrack which features Fats Wallers organ music, the noise of pipes and steam escaping , barking dogs and weird electronically synthesized sounds.Be careful to who you recommend this film to. They will think you are either crazy- or brilliant. A genuine, honest to God cult film, it is best viewed on a cold, rainy night. You definitely will see it in your dream. Not for the timid or easy to please viewer, this dark and disturbing movie transcends the idea of what film is, and creates a totally new form of abstract art.To this day, elements of this film continue to surface in Lynch's work. About the only other film it can be compared to is Dali and Bunuels avant garde 1929 masterpiece Chein Andalou A unique and challenging experience, to say the least. Are you up to watching it? "}{"Title":"The Most Bizarre and Creepy Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just watch Eraserhead and I am completely blown away and a little disturbed. I can't believe the amount of tension that David Lynch created with this film. The movie manages to maintain the same uneasy feeling the entire time and it felt like I couldn't breathe until it finally came to an end. It truly is brilliant.Much like David Lynch's other films, the story is very confusing and all over the place but brilliant. I like stories that let the viewer choose their own conclusions and this is definitely one of those. Jack Nance is awesome and the role is absolutely perfect for him. The effects are wonderful, I really wish special effects were still done the way they were in the 70's and 80's because that was when they were best. This movie is no exception.Eraserhead grabs you and pulls you into its bizarre world for an hour and a half. You will never feel the same after it's over. Be prepared to have this one stick with you long after it's over. "},{"Title":"The WEIRDEST movie I have EVER seen EXCELLENT!","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the most insane movie I have EVER seen in my life. I first watched this at a movie theater in LA and nearly HURLED when I saw a couple of the scenes. I equate it to a very, very BAD LSD experience! From the moment the movie started, I eyes never blinked. The visuals were extremely captivating yet horrifying. The lighting, sound (that constant drone!) and cinematography fit perfectly into the framework of the movie. I think this is David Lynch at his finest moment. Obviously the director experimented with hallucinogenic drugs and was more than likely using them during the production of this film. Anyone that has not seen ERASERHEAD is missing out on a true movie experience. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the greatest films of all time, and in my opinion David Lynch's first ever film Eraserhead, is his best. I saw it at the age of 13 and thought I'd hate it, but I was soon pulled into the eerie and haunting world of David Lynch. It's slow moving and not for those with a short attention span, but if you stick with it it pays off. The film contains some of the creepiest and most disturbing images I've ever seen in a movie, much better than anything Hollwood could ever come up with. There is the Mr.X and Mrs.X, the deformed alien like baby and of course the lady in the radiator. The plot is all about the confusing life of Henry, (Jack Nance) a person who lives in a strange and twisted world. Through out the film we see all his problems, which are seemingly solved with the best ending I've ever seen in a film. It's more of a work of art than a film.10/10 - A masterpiece "},{"Title":"Summary???","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first (and only) time I have seen Eraserhead was last year in 9th grade, we watched it in art class on the last day of school. Lynch could have just wanted to make it into a series of images with a malevolent, nightmare-ish vibe, but I believe that there is much more to it than it merely being a tool to draw out a temporary, superficial reaction. Of course not, because I think anyone who has seen it would agree that it draws out a much stronger, chronic reaction from the viewer rather than just a spark of sullenness. I have only seen two other Lynch movies, Stay and Mulholland Dr., and from what I gathered a viewer must watch his movies many at least several times to manage to make even their own interpretation, let alone try to get close to what Lynch wanted to prevail! To give a proper interpretation of my own I must watch it again (although, unfortunately, here in Cyprus it is very difficult to find it... I have been looking for it for a year now!), but I can surely say that anyone who sees themselves as any of the following will SURELY love to watch Eraserhead-someone interested in dark images, surrealistic art etc. -someone who likes challenges of the mind and be left thinking for ages -someone who likes bizarre work -a Lynch fan pWho you surely must not be to watch it is-someone who's favorite movie is American Pie -someone who demands everything to be perfectly interpreted for them by the end of the film -someone who can only stay interested when the movie is mostly dialogue -someone who cannot be open-minded enough to appreciate or understand the expression of (a) strong idea(s) or meaning through art -someone who expects to watch a movie with a proper, sensible plot -someone who is preoccupied with the WRONG idea that Lych sucks (so what? I'm biased) -someone who is deeply disturbed and can be easily affected by artAnyone who uploads the full film onto youtube should be forever praised!! "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I understand why Kubrick liked it. I really don't understand why a regular 'Wedding Crasher was great' kind of person would like it. There are lots of interesting things going on here as far as film-making is concerned but storyline or random interpretations are just a waste of time. Its a boring film without any storyline. If there is a storyline then Lynch has got to be the worst story teller. I enjoyed the film for 'how did he do it?'. I think thats the only reason one should watch this film rest is Jazz. Also the background music is very interesting and eerie. All zombie public may like blood and brainless gory sequences but i think this film has nothing to offer to a man who doesn't bother about the making of a film. 5/10. "},{"Title":"If you watch this movie with your girlfriend,  you'll probably loose her.","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If she's played miniature golf while on acid before, then this movie will be nothing new to her, but if not she'll think you're crazy for renting this film and leave.And if you are a guy whose favorite pastime happens to be the aforementioned, then this is the movie for you, however I strongly recommend that you don't get high while viewing this picture, simply because drugs and Eraserhead don't mix. It's either one or the other.You see I'm a film-nut, which means I like all movies that loose money, and I liked this one mostly because of its abundant surrealism, unabashed originality, and the myriad-mindedness that evokes the viewer's sensibility into creating his own subjective reality and purpose for the movie, and I'm not the only too. Stanley Kubrick called Eraserhead one of his all-time favorites, and the Libery of Congress accepted it into its prestigious National Film Registry. So it must have some merit- right? Anyway, I thought it was good, but definitely not the type of flick for anyone who's a fan of Friends. "},{"Title":"ERASERHEAD or die!","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After watching this you will see all the other films, especially those millions-of-dollars-blockbusters from Hollywood, with different eyes. Your'e gonna hate them after have watched this... Intense, dark, drone-filled, disturbing, weird, genius! My few words can hardly describe what I think about this film, but I must say my repertoire in English vocabulary is not too big, sorry..;-)FOR ME THIS IS ESSENTIAL FILM-MAKING! REDUCE TO THE MAXIMUM!!! This film has no normal story-line or something. This is pure nightmare, a bad trip experience. Welcome to your deepest, deepest inner thoughts! I would call ERASERHEAD an anti-film! See this as a big, BIG compliment! Not creating a complicated story, trying to make you laugh or cry or whatever, but catching the viewers senses, crushing and mangling them, and leaving you back very very disturbed! Leaving you being brainfucked, thinking about it, and you know that you have seen a very very special and unique piece of art. I would call this a minimalistic, nihilistic statement.For sure, without those all-disturbing sound walls the film would not function in his intensity. I think this sound (...perhaps the whole film) is a big inspiration for drone groups like EARTH and sunno))), who I love and who I highly recommend to those who like and love the mechanical, disturbing and annoying sounds of ERASERHEAD.I DON'T think that you've got to be a crazy freak or a underground horror fanatic or some weird folk to love ERASERHEAD. Though I think that ERASERHEAD is not for everybody. You gotta be some kind of open-minded and you have to have the will of getting disturbed, you gotta have to have the ability to let yourself fall and be taken on a journey through darkest pictures, thoughts and sounds; some kind of masochism wouldn't be wrong;-) Maybe this IS for weird folks only..?! I don't know... I think I'm no strange guy and I LOVE LOVE LOVE this film! Yeah, I'm very into those movies who are leaving you disturbed. Some examples? The Evil Dead, Man Bites Dog, The Ring, The Blair Witch Project, Brasil, Kafka, some of my all time favorites, highly recommended to those who like ERASERHEAD.Enough said..This is an all-inspiring masterpiece! Highly recommended to a big minority of mankind! 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Scary Stuff Indeed","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a guy who likes a good scary movie, however I was never scared by them. Always a quick thrill and a laugh and then I would go to sleep that night fine and dandy. This film scared me, deeply. The cry of the baby is by far the most distressing and disturbing sound I have ever heard. Even the lighting is done in such a way that I shudder. Oh yeah, and that chipmunk girl, don't even get me started. I agree with the deep inner messages, I am still trying to put it together myself. I am warning you however that if you rented this not expecting art, but instead a movie, then you will be disappointed. So open your mind and you will enjoy it into next month. In a quote from the movie, It's OK! "},{"Title":"The Greatest film of all time","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When this film was first shown in 1977, it was not very much talked about because it was slowly becoming a cult-classic for many. I found this film to be dark, witty and funny but also very intelligent. The film tells the black and white story of Henry Spencer(Jack Nance), a fine and quiet young man with wild hair who lives in an apartment. One day, Henry gets a call from the beautiful woman across the hall that his girlfriend Mary has invited him to dinner. On that bizarre night, chickens bleed and Henry discovers he is now the father of a monstrous child that will spin his life utterly out of control. The film mainly explains the analogy of the nightmares of parenthood, fatherhood, actually. Because Henry soon becomes alone. And now its' only Henry, the baby and the beautiful lady in the radiator Highly recommended, not for sissies. It, like I said, reflects on real life with deformity and human birth, and someday it shall be known as one of the greatest films of all time... "},{"Title":"Only David Lynch....","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ....can make something like this!!! I have seen a large number of weird/disturbing/dark movies...but I have to admit in all honesty...NEVER BEFORE have I seen anything quite like this..anything so bizarre and otherworldy....! I have been a David Lynch fan ever since I came across Lost Highway and Mulholland Drive (2 of my most favourite movies) and I had heard/read a lot about his first full-length feature, Eraserhead, but had never come across a decent copy to watch.And finally I found it!! And the experience was.....mindblowing!! (although that word won't do complete justice to how I felt as I watched it.) This one sucks you in...and holds you..what you see on screen is dark, disturbing, bizarre; and it made me cringe during various frames...the movie continued as I watched in awe at what Mr. Lynch was subjecting the viewer to!! I never noticed the time, and I thought it got over too soon. And boy..did I want more!!! Several hours after the movie was over..it refused to leave my head...it stayed on; and I am sure after I see it another couple of times, it will continue to haunt me!! See it to believe it...A perfect nightmare....watch it alone..in the dark! "}{"Title":"Cult Classic","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is one of the greatest films ever released. The film does exactly what a film is supposed to do; Evoke emotions. The film evokes a heavy feeling of LIFE disturbed. Throughout the entire film the lead characters life is so tedious, and you can actually feel what he is going through. Most people would have blown their heads off after all of this fellows challenges. I've shown the film to several of my close friends and all have expressed how weird and disturbed they felt after watching. When I mention Hey wanna watch Eraserhead? most express a fear of the idea. The most common response is Oh God no, I don't think I can handle that tonight the movie is crazy, so turn up your sound and get ready for a ride into your inner most nightmare! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest debuts ever, a masterpiece of the odd!","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch is 1 of my top 3 favorite directors, but it was Eraserhead that truly got me hooked on Lynch.Trying to give a summary of Eraserhead is hard, it has to be seen to be believed but i'll try.Henry Spencer (Jack Nance) is a troubled man in a strange world. he finds out that his girlfriend is pregnant from a 1 night stand and he must take care of the baby and her. The baby is truly hideous, it looks like a combination of a worm and a fetus, and it wines and cry's so much that she leaves Henry all alone with the baby.After being seduced by the woman across the hall, he is relaxed by seeing the chipmunk looking Lady in the Raidiator who sooths his troubles.For a budget of 10, 000 dollars, it's quite amazing what comes out. Other than showing his weirdness, Lynch shows himself in his fear of fatherhood and darkness.A film of the ages, Eraserhead is a striking example of where movies can take us. "},{"Title":"Terrifying -- If You Let It Be","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is for the people who haven't been scared by a movie since they were a little kid. If you've never seen this movie before, and don't really know a whole lot about it except for that it's a weird cult film, follow these four steps and I PROMISE that this movie WILL scare you 1. Watch it alone. 2. Watch it late at night. 3. Watch it with the lights out, and 4. Watch it in a bad mood.Sorry .. but the final step is the most important.It's hard to find a real good amount of entertainment value in this film anyhow, as it is more a work of art than an actual movie -- so I suggest that you take advantage of the main highlight here It's terrifying -- if you let it be. Just allow yourself to give up the safety and comfort of feeling good while you watch it, and I promise that you'll experience something new.And don't forget In heaven everything is fine. "},{"Title":"For fans of Lynch and German Expressionism","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's difficult to take Eraserhead seriously, really. It's more of a film student's exercise than a proper film, really; and if Mr. Lynch says in interviews that he refuses to reveal what Eraserhead is about because he wants each viewer to try and figure it out for himself, the only reason for saying it is that he has a mysterious reputation to maintain; or, in other words, he's full of horse manure. Eraserhead is about nothing. It's an exercise in visuals, in visual effects done at minimum budget; and homage to the German Expressionism of the 1920's that Lynch obviously loves so dearly, influences of which are obvious here but can be seen in all of his movies up to Mulholland Drive.It's painfully pointless to try to find a deeper meaning connecting all the pseudo-surreal dream-scenes in Eraserhead; it's better to just sit back and enjoy the grotesque humor, the creepy visuals and the eerie music and to appreciate Mr. Lynch's unique and strong sense for atmosphere, for his completely original freak-show vision of the grotesque and the bizarre, in the very early stages of its development. Eraserhead is the perfect preface to Lynch's celebrated career, and while most people will find it pretentious, dull and incomprehensible - which, invariably, it truly is - it's essential viewing for devoted fans of this unique director; for lovers of grotesque, dark visual humor; and for students and those interested in the history of cinema, and especially in German Expressionism like that of Murnau and his contemporaries. Remember that this is merely an exercise created by a young and enthusiastic filmmaker making his first steps as a pro; don't judge it too harshly, but also don't bother with the effort of seeking a depth to it. It's not worth it. "},{"Title":"So Weird, Confusing, and Bizarre.","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead (1977) John 'Jack' Nance, Charlotte Stewart, Judith Anna Roberts, Allen Jospeh, Jeanne Bates. Directed by David Lynch.Spoilers herein.David Lynch's best known early film from him is also known to be his strangest. One could agree with that, but some also think it is also one of his greatest objectively. Even if I don't think it really is a great film, it is an interesting and innovative one that lead Lynch to further his career.Henry Spencer is an alienated and afraid worker who lives in an abandoned-like town where machines are constantly working. The world that he lives in is slow, dull, and purely weird. When he finds out that his soon-to-be wife has had a hideously deformed child, we are taken into the mind of Henry as he overlooks his child with horror.First of all, the DVD from Netflix has the picture remastered so well that I was almost shocked. Lynch's direction is very pure and near perfect. What makes the film unique is mostly the way that it is daringly executed and made, but some of it I did not enjoy much. However, though I didn't find much, I felt that there was much symbolism and meaning in the end. While I was entertained and interested by the amazing, atmospheric beginning, the film began to fall a little short of greatness by showing bizarre and at times disgusting imagery. The baby effects are dated, yes, but the idea that Lynch gives about the world we're living in is growing shorter is brilliant. Throughout the movie, not much dialog is even given between characters. Lynch is reflecting on the quietness of Earth (or is it?). Is it a post-apocalyptic world, or is it just an experiment of an environment gone bad?Overall, I would say that this is Lynch's purest film, though not one of his best. The direction and cinematography are perfect for a surreal film, though I am not sure how many will be fascinated by random, bizarre imagery. Recommended for the non-squeamish; proceed with caution. 3.5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Why did I like this again?","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the most bizarre movie ever. I can honestly say there was a period where I sought out strange movies but nothing could ever quite hold a candle to this one.I'm not even sure why someone would want to see this film, don't get me wrong, I like it, but when you break it down it's just sort of a continuous mish mash of craziness that isn't exactly as entertaining as it is scary.If you haven't seen this film you will realize after seeing it that Lynch moved mainstream or at least in that direction with each film after this. As weird as they are, they look like little house on the prairie compared to this. What I can tell you is that, after watching it a handful of times you will come away with some quotes that only you and your fellow I survived Eraserhead mates will understand.Like Chickens! Their the damnedest things, smaller than your hand and their man made! or Look at my knee!!!!! None of these actually make any sense or have anything to do with the movie but they certainly are strange and no one other than those who have braved the film will have the slightest clue as to what you are talking about.Lastly though, DO NOT UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES TRY TO FIGURE OUT WHAT THIS FILM IS ABOUT. IT CAN LEAD TO INSOMINA, DIAHREHHA AND NIGHT SWEATS. Just chalk it up to Lynch being crazy.... "},{"Title":"Etude in gross sharp","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I always found it amazing, how very beautiful the pictures are in Mr.Lynch's films, how VISUAL a director he is. This time, I realized that the soundtrack plays an important role as well - disturbing sounds, noises rather, suggesting doom like those deep rumbles do - or feeling of anxiety, fear, like fingernails on the blackboard...And the pictures are anything BUT beautiful.There is in fact a story to the film, but I think the amazing thing is what can be done, emotionally, using only 2D B&W photography without computer generated effects and a (mono?) soundtrack.In music, this piece would have been called etude - a practice piece - to try out some novel forms of expression; newer works like twin peaks, blue velvet and mulholland drive use those same means in a refined (and much more enjoyable) manner.For those who don't mind touching the RAW ingredients of a perfect meal before it is cooked and served on a silver platter - a very interesting film. "},{"Title":"Must-own for Lynch fans","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ERASERHEADRATING **** (OUT OF ****)Eraserhead is sort of a dark, surreal horror movie that will give you the creeps, and it's one of my all-time favorites.  The whole thing plays like one giant nightmare.  What is it about?  Well, from what I could tell, it's about a young man named Henry Spencer, who visits his girlfriend.  This, of course, leads to a deformed mutant lizard baby thing, a dead moving chicken that bleeds, a chipmunk lady who lives inside a radiator, and more.  It's a lynch film, so go figure.  Eraserhead is NOT for everyone, but for open-minded viewers who enjoy solving puzzles, this is a true classic. And what was up with that screwed up worker guy with the long fingers?  Yipes! That alone is enough to recommend the film! "},{"Title":"Probably the King of Creep Films","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Easy enough...you are either going to like this film or hate it, but I doubt you will ever forget it. The first time I saw it - it was late - after I watched it - it was too late. Lynch was supposed to have said it was a comedy. I didn't know that until many years after my first viewing. I didn't laugh at anything. I simply felt the need to clean things afterwards. I certainly wasn't going to be able to sleep. The imagery is quite striking very frequently. I winced uncontrollably a number of times. After I knew it was a comedy I could find some humor in it - but Lynch's idea of humor is a bit challenging. Okay, bottomline - this film will be included in my library. I liked it! It gets under your skin and lingers. I have a flashback every time I see forks anymore. Ew. "},{"Title":"Utterly alien projection of redemption","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One thing I saw in this movie at my first viewing was that it was a very clever way to project a redemption theme at movie viewers who may have lost their ability to understand the concept.I think Lynch does this by establishing circumstances for his hero that utterly defy our ability to relate to them, in the normal way film artists seek to establish connections between characters and viewers.  Who can relate to Henry Spencer?  That he is in hell is apparent, but who can understand the particular hell Lynch shows us?  Ironically, through this totally foreign projection of existential strife, the redemption shown at movie's end becomes plausible.  Since we can't make sense of Spencer's hell, we are forced to accept the unfolding events as redemptive in a more intuitive and deeper way.  Strangely, Lynch achieved the highest goal of narrative art while heading 180 degrees in the wrong direction.That said, I would be irresponsible not to chime in and remind potential viewers that Eraserhead *is* a disturbing film.  I have friend who says he wishes he could unsee it.  You have been warned.  "}{"Title":"a perfect nightmare","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's surprising to me how many people need to understand a film. Eraserhead works so well on an intuitive level; it's a visceral experience that leaves the viewer spent. Rather than presenting us with someone else's nightmare, David Lynch has allowed us to experience our own nightmare. The imagery, sound, pacing and disoriented timeline create a wonderful sense of foreboding and anxiety. Eraserhead is a beautiful, funny and ultimately very disturbing film.  "},{"Title":"Eraserhead as Satire of Film Noir","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Anybody know anything about film noir?  Examples of film noir include Casablanca, Vertigo, Chinatown, L.A. Confidential, Fight Club.  They are films with a central character (usually male) that is in a desperate or confused state. He is usually seduced by a classic femme fatale who often has some alterior motive. He usually falls in love with this woman, begins to trust this woman, and then is betrayed by this woman.  Other characteristics of film noir include feelings of distrust toward society, the government, or just the world in general. Film noir is usually filmed in dark, dreary outdoor environments or in dimly-lit, seedy motel rooms. They are often black and white and use bright light or music only to symbolize hope or sanity. What's my point?  Take these characteristics of film noir and apply them to Eraserhead.  Now think about how ridiculously these characteristics are portrayed in Eraserhead.  Lynch seems to be poking fun at serious films noir (to the extreme).  This is satire at its best. Eraserhead may have virtually no entertainment value, but David Lynch is a genius. "},{"Title":"like no other","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was told by a friend that this was my type of movie, due to the fact that I like unique and odd films. I was not disappointed. as odd as people like to say David Lynch is, I found that his vision of a nightmare world were relateable. Maybe not exact in content, but the horrific images, the unusual actions of his surroundings, and the black and white imagery gave you the sense of being in a nightmare world. Not a movie to invite friends over to see, but highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A movie that has to been seen","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Eraserhead is David Lynch's directorial debut and his most personal film. It takes place in a weird world where Henry after finding his old girlfriend has had a premature baby is told to marry her.  The plot to this is very bizzare and hard to follow.  It is completely uncommercialized and it is very hard to soak in everything that is seen.  The movie has some classic Lynch moments and it is a good movie that should be seen if you are lucky enough to find a copy.  This movie is not for everyone and most people will not like it, but if you want to see the weirdest movie ever made, give this a try.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Too Much or Not Enough","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The reason I saw Eraserhead was because of it's cult following and also because I absolutely LOVED Lost Highway (1997).  So I thought I'd check out one of David Lynch's earlier works.  Bad move.The thing about Eraserhead is this  it's either so thoroughly coated with overly complex metaphors that it is totally indecipherable to anyone, or it's just totally random images sewn together.  Either way, the movie is pointless.  While the imagery is interesting (the baby especially), it's not enough to sustain anyone's interest for 90 minutes.  This is why you need a script that is more than 20 pages.  This is way you need a plot.Lynch has obviously learned a lot about writing since 1977.  Eraserhead is dark (sometimes to the point of frustration), confusing (always to the point of frustration) and not really all that disturbing (which is also frustrating, because you know it's supposed to be)!4/10 "},{"Title":"Most frightening movie ever.","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am more than happy that I watched this movie more than once when I rented it. I am only upset that I couldn't have kept it so I could watch it more and more and more. The first time I watched this movie, I was scared out of my wits. And to make matters worse, I had to go into work immediately after watching it, sitting alone behind a low lit desk, begging for the place to close sooner. David Lynch was either a weirdo or a psycho when he directed this movie. I don't know how this movie was made to be so eerie and omniscient maybe it was the black and white film that made all of the blood effects indistinguishable from the real stuff. Maybe it was the incredible make up work used on the baby thing and the Woman in the Radiator. Maybe it was the sound track throughout the film. There was always some type of noise constantly going on, whether it be a rain storm, some type of metal creaking, the radiator hissing, or the baby's constant crying, but it took a toll on the viewers' toleration. Like Mary X, you too will eventually lose your mind and become very paranoid.I am VERY happy that I got the chance to watch this movie more than one time. For me, the first viewing was sort of like a This WILL scare you and if you want to enjoy this movie, you are going to have to accept that you will be scared kind of statement. The movie made it's point to me the first time I watched it, while the second time I watched it I actually payed attention to the more subtle topics of the movie. Fortunately I didn't watch the movie the second time alone, otherwise I don't think I would have gotten much more out of it. I saw it with friends, namely one who is as much of a movie man as I am. The other two people who saw it had no conception of art, only making fun of what they didn't understand (it took me a while to get them to shut up). But the other guy, he pointed out that the premature baby thing VERY closely resembled a goat fetus. He also pointed out the the song of the Lady in the Radiator was actually a Pixies song. He said that they used that song to close gigs they had in bars and taverns. I also want to thank him for helping me put together the significance of the last shot with Henry in it where the eraser dust flew from behind his head. (This was my best interpretation Everybody used him, and then forgot him). Those few seconds where the eraser dust flew around the back of his head was in my view, the best use of symbolism in a movie. Mr. Lynch deserves much credit for making this movie. He was something out of this world, let me tell you. Thank you and good day.-Scott- "},{"Title":"AN UTTERLY ORIGINAL DEBUT","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Lynchs' debut feature is a true original. Essentially more arthouse than his more 'conventional' follow ups (if you can call them that) it is basically a series of abstract, nightmarish scenes that will probably have film studies students scratching their heads and trying to make sense of it all. But their is no sense to be had. It is a film that plays on your emotions- and in doing so- is often quite terrifying. The industrial noise soundtrack compliments the 'action' brilliantly, and although it may not be 'entertaining', it is certainly technically innovative and an intresting experience to watch. Lynch would apply fragments of style from this film to the infinetly more accessible 'The Elephant Man', which bagged him an oscar nomination. This is proof that directors who concentrate on their own individual style and influences on a feature debut become the greatest auteurs, and in doing so, are capable of contributing some very inspired touches to the world of cinema ****/5.  "},{"Title":"To spend a day in the mind of David Lynch","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm at odds think of any other film that has taken on the narrative structure of a dream and managed to pull it off, well Lynch has made the first cinematic dream, or should that be nightmare? Eraserhead's best feature is that it makes no sense, now I'm aware of the contradictory nature of that statement, as I have already belittled and criticized such other films as Fellini's Satyricon and Bergman's Persona for the same thing, but in Eraserhead it really doesn't matter in the slightest. The film follows a young man named Henry Spencer (a bizarrely coiffed Jack Nance) and his girlfriend Mary X. The fist part of the film shows Henry mooching around the dilapidated industrial bombsight that seems to be the earth before going back home to his apartment to sit on his bed and stare into his radiator? (Like I said the film makes no sense). But the questions it raises makes the film, you can try and interpret the images as much as you want, but only Lynch will ever know what the film is about.After the most disturbing meeting you're partner's family dinner scene ever committed to celluloid we find out that Henry has fathered a child with the spasmodic, twitchy Mary, and pretty soon Mom and Dad have made sure that Mary and child are living happily ever after with Henry. This being David Lynch of course, a man not know for his promotions of family values, happiness is something Henry can only dream of. This vision of happiness comes in the form of a small hamster-cheeked woman who lives in the radiator? (Once again, it makes no sense) She sings to Henry, with a song that can only be interpreted as a cry for suicide (In Heaven everything is Fine) and it's not long before Henry is having visions of his head falling off and being made into an eraser tip for pencils.Lynch takes the ordinary and the mundane, and mixes it with a stunning sense of avant gardsim; his interpretations of commitment, sex and childbirth are all made clear. The child that Henry fathers is no real child, but a deformed slug, constantly crying and screaming until he has successfully driven Mary back to her parents. In one scene towards the end, Henry is turned away by the mysterious Woman across the Hall, he watches through the keyhole as she cavorts with a balding, middle-aged man, until his baby begins laughing at him. Eraserhead is a bleak and gloomy film that one must see at least five (?) times before the initial shock of the film's surrealism finally is erased, composed in constant darkness, with a soundtrack that has a unvarying hum of industrial machinery. I've spent quite a bit of my comment room trying to gather my thoughts about it, and I'm still getting new ideas as to what it's all about a good three years after first seeing the film, for that it receives a 10/10  "},{"Title":"In Heaven, everything is fine","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Eraserhead is one of the most difficult movies to categorise into one genre. David Lynch's cult directorial debut is a disturbing, thought-provoking, bizarre and scary tale of a depressed and lonely man named Henry (brilliantly played by Lynch regular Jack Nance) who is forced into marriage after his spastic girlfriend gives birth to a premature baby who craves his attention.The plot sounds simple enough except it isn't. It takes so many different topics (original sin and forgiveness, premarital sex, suicide) and moulds it into a well-crafted experience full of over-the-top symbolism, scary sound effects and Jack Nance's crazy hair. Nothing is pretty in this brilliant movie. Plus it is also filmed in gritty black and white to enhance Henry's nightmarish world.A lot of people don't like this movie. Some say it's makes no sense, others say its way too disturbing. I believe it isn't supposed to make any sense, and for all those people who don't like disturbing movies can go back to mainstream Hollywood films.If you haven't seen Eraserhead (and view yourself as a serious movie watcher) I highly recommend that you do. It is a monumental achievement in modern film history. And when you do, watch it by yourself with no distractions, in the dark, late at night with the volume turned high. This is the best way to experience this movie.10/10  "},{"Title":"Eraserhead is an experience","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Eraserhead has to be the most unique film I've ever seen...it's not so much a film, it's an experience. Experiencing Eraserhead is like stepping inside a nightmare...waking up inside the mind of a madman..and it's not for the faint of heart. This is not a nice, pretty, commercial film weak as gruel, this one will make you want to take a bath with a brillo pad after seeing/experiencing it..it sticks to you like the dark, damp grime it is bathed in. Eraserhead is the truest example of art form in it's ability to get inside the mind and under the skin of the audience.  "}{"Title":"No rationality, no culture - just fear","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While watching `Eraserhead' I was asked by friends what this movie is about. I thought a little and answered About people. They were disappointed by the answer, but nevertheless I didn't find anything to add.I think that it is easy to say what a bad movie is about (briefly retelling the plot) but it is almost impossible to do this for a good movie. It shouldn't be about anything. It is about everything. The artist creatively mirrors the world on the screen. And as the world is tight together and it is difficult to separate something from it without simplifying it to a certain extent, so a work of art should be taken as a whole. And one more point A work of art is not `What You See Is What You Get', it is much more what you see is what you have to think, feel, learn, experience. Since then, no one can tell the truce about a work of art. One can find (create!) the truce inside himself. But this demands not to watch passively a show, but to make your mind, your soul working while.All these words I have to tell because `Eraserhead' leaves nothing for those who used to the usual way of telling the story, usual way of depicting the world. It breaks up all the common cinematographic, and even human, standards for how the world, people can be perceived.Sometimes it seemed to me that this all is about how would an extraterrestrial being perceive humans. Sometimes it seemed that those extraterrestrial beings are already in our unconsciousness and looks out to the world without any rationality, without keeping all the common `how it should be'.Lynch creates a world without any kind of spirituality. Men and women look like human beings that lost all of their humanity &#150; just flesh, and brain that is not able to manage the outside world. And the world disintegrates, falls into pieces of sensible reality that is not to be rationally analysed. This world scares. No rationality, no culture - just fear. "},{"Title":"Have I really watched a movie called Eraserhead or....?","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not amazed that Eraserhead ends up with a weighted rating of only 6.7 at IMDB despite its artistic quality.In fact, I'm amazed it went that high!I mean I'm nicely surprised that so many people actually appreciate this strange peace of art. I would have thought it would have been bashed by the flock!As it's certainly the strangest movie ever (even Erendira, Naked Lunch or Santa Sangre look normal compared to it!), and expresses such a high artistic ambition, along with a strong will of depicting ill oniric fantasies (a little like Giger's painting/sculpting), it may be quite disturbing. It's definitly not for kids.After having seen it about 5 times to have the opportunity to really appreciate it, I have to say it's probably one of the more unique artistic productions of all times. Eraserhead is a genre in itself, and as many great peaces of art, has this timeless feeling which makes it look and sound like some dream you'd have had... Have I really watched a movie called Eraserhead or were I asleep and had this weird dream? He he...Quite an experience! Warning contains, potentially, all the elements to make you sick and have nightmares for weeks - keep your kids away from this! "},{"Title":"Hard to find, hard to watch, not hard to remember","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had been looking for Eraserhead for the longest time, so getting it second hand for $5 was an extra treat when people sell it for over $150 on e-bay. I knew the basic premises of the movie and thought that I was prepared for a movie in which I would have to sleep on to solve (like Lost Highway), but as it turned out in the end I didn't want to sleep on it, infact I didn't want to go to sleep. The images Lynch presents us with can be so horrifying at times that you cant help but feel somewhat scared deep down inside. To this day only the people who made the film (which really only consisted of 5 or so people) know how the baby was made. In 1977 It's defiantly ahead of its time, and for a low budget picture it's even more of an amazement. You can't help but feel both disturbed and sorry for Harry disfigured little runt yet I feel as if I would have had to been forced to do the same if I were in his situation. I think that this was by far Lynches best work as it doesn't try and tell a complex story only David Lynch can understand, but instead we get a film in which we help contribute and make up in out own mind as we watch. It's in a league of its own and the best horror movie I have ever seen in my life. Yet it will leave you in total aw and have you thinking for a long time to come.So if you hated every other David Lynch movie, or you want to like him but sometimes his stuff is just to obscured you can't enjoy it, I urge you to give Eraserhead a viewing (that is of course, if you can find it first) "},{"Title":"The most masterfully depressing film ever made","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not a film for the sensitive. If the epithet applies to you, you will be lucky not to have seen this film. The degree of physical and societal deformity portrayed in Lynch's film is stunning, but the most horrifying aspect of the film is in the characters' placid day by day acceptance of their grotesque circumstances even as they slide deeper into their pit. Eraserhead is the antithesis of a later film by Lynch, The Elephant Man.  The latter film begins with grotesque deformity and horrifying circumstances, but gradually progresses toward a remarkable degree of normalcy. The former descends and decays in a manner unmatched by any other film I know. In it's art and execution, it's a masterpiece. I've viewed it perhaps three times, but I have never been able to watch it all the way through in one sitting.. something in my mind says, That's all for now, and I stop then and finish it a few days later. I believe this.. precaution..is what a reviewer of Eraserhead meant when he wrote, years ago, If ever a case could be made for having received permanent brain damage from viewing a film, Eraserhead would be that film.  "},{"Title":"on its own","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is so strange that when it finished i was asking myself did i just watch that? I am fascinated by this film because it's the only film i hate and love at the same time. You hate it for its dark and depressing surroundings but you love it because it shows that so well. i won't even bother to actually figure out what is going on in this movie but i can say he has a cool hair style. "},{"Title":"Eraserhead Review","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When it comes to cinema as an art form, very few films, if any, are as abstract and bizarre as David Lynch's first-ever feature-length film Eraserhead. Like any piece of art, some people will embrace it, others will shun it. Most are content to give it a shot and never see it again.It truly is an experience unlike any other. The film takes place in its own little world a dark, grungy, industrial nightmare laden with stark patterns, shadows, and odd details. Characters don't have much to say, leaving their odd actions and reactions to tell most of the story. There are numerous expressionist images that will truly challenge one's understanding of what's going on I seriously can't say why this film has a scene with a man on another planet, or why there's an ugly lady dancing inside a radiator, or why there are worm-like things everywhere. The film has its share of grotesqueness, from the crying of a strange mutant baby to the bizarre nightmare where the guy loses his head and it literally becomes a pencil eraser...the film packs in so much weirdness, but it runs evenly and hypnotically, to the point where it's all effortless and natural for the strange world Lynch has created.The film's content doesn't really follow a standard narrative, so interpreting its plot will depend entirely on the viewer and what he or she makes of the images. The most obvious thing is that this is about some dude having to put up with the horrors and fears of parenthood. You could probably watch the film and extrapolate psychological and sexual subtexts as well. Characters don't have much to them, but it's easy to relate to the protagonist through all his surreal visions, no matter how harrowing they become.The film uses some very strong, vivid, and stark imagery, all shot with fantastic black-and-white photography. Editing is really precise and good. All of the actors fulfill their parts well. Dialogue tends to be pretty short, blunt, and weird. This was never really an expensive or elaborate production, so considering the film's limitations, it really made the most of what it had. Sound design is very punchy, while the music is extremely airy and surreal, giving the film the perfect atmosphere.Eraserhead is a strange, surreal, gaudy piece of work that may not make much sense to a casual viewer. As a work of art, it is phenomenal, and all mature audiences should give it a try at least once.5/5 (Experience Extreme | Content Extreme | Film Perfect) "},{"Title":"A very, very good debut from David Lych, though to me he did go on to even better things","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of a very divisive director, along with Mulholland Drive Eraserhead is one of his most polarising films, with people finding it wonderfully surreal, funny and unsettling and others will find it for their tastes confusing, too out there and weird. On first viewing the latter was the case with me(after being so amazed by the accessible emotional power that The Elephant Man and The Straight Story gave) but after further viewings(Lynch is one of those directors where each of his films should be seen more than once) now it's the former. While Eraserhead is not quite among Lynch's best films(Blue Velvet, The Elephant Man, Mulholland Drive and The Straight Story) it is still a very good, even great debut from him, albeit with some parts that are a bit too draggy and drawn out. Eraserhead looks splendid, it's beautifully shot and coupled with the film-noir-ish lighting it's a highly atmospheric-looking film. It's not a Lynch film without surreal imagery and Eraserhead is filled with that and in a way that even early in his career is very distinctive of Lynch. The score has an eerie tension and used in an understated way, not one of the best film scores out there but it suits the film well. The dialogue is spare, only about 21 minutes worth and while not exceptional it is a long way from poor, though maybe Eraserhead may have fared even better without it(big emphasis on maybe). Lynch's direction is for a debut very accomplished if not at his best, his direction in the likes of Blue Velvet and Mulholland Drive was pretty much masterly. The story is distinctively surreal and oddball but also very expertly unnerving, Blue Velvet and The Elephant Man feel more accessible but Eraserhead is essentially a mood piece and works amazingly as one. The theme of a man fearing fatherhood will resonate with a lot of viewers too. The mutant baby is incredibly creepy but there is room for some funny moments in a very low-key way especially the dinner-table scene. The acting is great, especially from lead actor Jack Nance, what was most effective about his acting was how personal it felt, in fact the whole film felt very personal. Overall, will divide viewers, it did bewilder me at first, Eraserhead proves to be a very, very good debut as well as a very, very good film where no matter how you feel about the film you cannot deny that a lot of effort had been put into making it. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A Dream of Dark and Troubling Things","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the early 1970s, a young film student began work on his first feature length project, a surreal exploration of the nature of dreams and nightmares that would go on to be, in my humble opinion, one of the best films ever made. That young man was David Lynch, and the film was his work of surrealist art known as Eraserhead (1977).I first became aware of David Lynch after seeing Mulholland Drive as a teenager. While researching his past work, I began to read amazing things about something called Eraserhead, which was starting to sound like my fantasy version of the perfect midnight movie. Once I finally saw the film, I realized that is exactly what it was THE definitive midnight movie. The film has affected me not just as a viewer but as an aspiring filmmaker. The first short film I made, Dreamspace, was heavily inspired by Eraserhead, primarily in the look and style of the film but also in the themes of dreams and the subconscious. David Lynch continues to be a major influence on all of my work.The beauty of Eraserhead is in its simplicity. It tells the story of an ordinary man living in an extraordinarily bizarre, dystopian industrial wasteland. Henry Spencer (Jack Nance) is a man who is on vacation from his job at a print shop. One night, he goes to the home of his girlfriend, Mary X (Charlotte Stewart) to have dinner with her and her parents. After some strange behavior from Mr. and Mrs. X (Allen Joseph and Jeanne Bates), Henry is soon told that Mary has given birth to a baby. Well, actually, they're not sure if it is a baby, but she's given birth to something - and Henry is the father. The couple decides that Mary will move into Henry's small, dreary apartment and they will raise the child together. When the baby arrives home from the hospital, we see that it's actually a small, dangerously premature, mutant creature that cries incessantly. After the baby continues crying and crying non-stop, Mary can't take it anymore and returns to live with her parents, leaving Henry all alone to care for the baby. And thus, Henry Spencer's trip down the rabbit hole into a disturbing, existential nightmare begins.The theme of the fear of fatherhood is the most obvious one to spot. Lynch was a new father himself when he began working on the film, and I've read that his daughter was born with severely clubbed feet, which is metaphorically similar to the deformed baby in the film. Other themes explored are those of isolation, loneliness, urban decay, and the ever blurred line between dreams and reality.The pace of the film is very deliberately slow, but, in this case, slow does not equal boring. The film is designed to lull you in to its hypnotic world; to put you in a trance and make you feel as if you are in a dream. Then, once you have been fully hypnotized, the dream slowly begins to devolve into a nightmare and it takes you with Henry into a very dark and unsettling place.One of the most impressive aspects of the film is its stark and hauntingly beautiful black-and-white cinematography. Lynch uses heavy light and shadows to reinforce the surreal, dreamlike nature of the world he has created. The direction and cinematography are handled with a simplistic beauty and a self-assured confidence that is rare in a first-time director. The decaying industrial dystopia is captured in gritty, grainy imagery that makes you feel the dreariness and hopelessness that the characters live with.Another spectacular aspect of the film that adds to its entrancing effect is its sound design, done by Lynch and Alan R. Splet. The sound is meticulously designed and is constantly present at every moment of the film. The foley sounds are done with such an incredible and painstaking attention to detail that one can only imagine how they managed to achieve the sounds they did, especially with such limited means. I read that the sound design took longer to create than the editing of the film, and if you've seen it, you'll know why. The film is a perfect example of how important sound is to fully immerse your audience in another world, and how it can increase the overall viewing experience.Jack Nance's performance as Henry is excellent. You truly feel for Henry in his plight and this is largely due to Nance's quietly introverted and sympathetic portrayal. (And kudos to Jack Nance for keeping that hairstyle throughout all five years of the production). Charlotte Stewart is very good as Mary X, the young woman who regularly gives birth to strange flagellate creatures while she sleeps and doesn't know why. She portrays the emotional frailty and ultimate breakdown of the character of Mary quite well. Allen Joseph and Jeanne Bates as Mr. and Mrs. X are extremely memorable and quite hilarious. Their scenes in the home and at the dinner table, particularly with the twitching chickens, are so bizarre but very, very funny. There are also very solid performances from Judith Roberts as the Beautiful Girl Across the Hall and Laurel Near as The Lady in the Radiator that add to the beauty and alluring mystery of this stunning work of art.Eraserhead is one of the most towering examples of pure, unfiltered creativity in existence. It remains high on the list of my favorite films ever made. This is one of the films I can watch over and over again and it never gets old. It's a meticulously crafted work of dark, strange, and surreal art that begs to be analyzed and examined with a fine-tooth comb. And if you do decide to sit down and study it for yourself, I think you'll be quite pleasantly surprised at the level of mad brilliance that comes through the screen.www.themovierealm.com "},{"Title":"A man's personal journey into fatherhood","Date":"30 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only honest rating one can give a movie like this is a five. It is filled with striking and disturbing imagery, it is slow-moving, and its score is minimalist. For these reasons you will either love it or hate it. It's a movie that doesn't fit into any other genres or rating systems. It is psychological to its core and symbolic in its blood.Many things have been said about Eraserhead, but it is a monster of a different breed and to truly begin to develop an opinion on the film, one must attempt to understand it.I'm going to start out by saying that Eraserhead is not as complicated as people make it out to be. Eraserhead is the autobiographical account of the anxiety experienced by a young man who is struggling with his new life as a a father and provider in a relationship which has taken an unexpected turn. Everything about the film is exaggerated and reeks of fear and dissatisfaction. From the start we feel pulled along by the man in the planet as he pulls Henry's life force out of him (seen as a sperm-like worm). Henry feels a terrifying lack of control as we can clearly see, which only magnifies his sense of isolation at the absence of his lover Mary.We sense Henry's growing anxiety as he meets Mary's family. What once a pleasant clandestine liaison between he and Mary has been interrupted by her insistence on meeting the family. Henry senses something is amiss and his feelings grow more intense as he is exposed to the family's eccentricities. He asked by Mary's father to carve the chicken, a duty reserved typically for the patriarch of a family, and hallucinates a menstruating chicken, a manifestation of his suspicion, which is confirmed in the following scene Mary is pregnant.Soon it is not simply Mary's family that is encroaching on his personal space, but also Mary herself and their newborn child. We sense that Mary and Henry have become far more distant, but also that Henry feels no personal connection to his unplanned child. The child remains a worm-like fetal abomination. Despite its infant-like qualities, Henry sees it as nothing more than a personified sperm and does his best to repress the remainder of his own worm-like sperm.He fantasizes constantly about life beyond his tiny apartment. He is plagued by the thought of sexual responsibility and through the voices in the radiator he imagines a paradise where his sexual actions have no consequences. It may not be perfect, but to him it means freedom. A world where women swallow.Mary, meanwhile feels overwhelmed at Henry's lack of interest in anything but sex and her new motherly responsibilities. She leaves him in a fit of rage, yet we can see her desperately wishing for Henry to reach out for her as she prolongs her goodbye. Henry is left to care his child, which he feels grossly unprepared for. As the child grows ill he again looks for a way out of his predicament.This way comes in the form of the attractive neighbor, whom Henry uses to escape his responsibilities. He dreams of abandoning his child for a life of freedom, but he knows that inside he was once a child too and imagines what kind of a person he would have been had his father ran out on him. He sees himself as a sperm-like child with an inability to care for himself, just as his child requires his care.This is the first time Henry feels a real connection with his child. He realizes that in order to keep his child healthy and safe he has sacrifice himself and his desires. This culminates in an elaborate scene where Henry hallucinates his own head falling off and bleeding, while a young boy takes it a factory where it is turned into erasers. The eraser dust of his dreams and desires is blown away by the hand of the factory owner. An elaborate illustration of the plight faced by breadwinner who works to feed his family.Next, Henry is faced with a hard task. He has to let go of his fear of fatherhood and embrace his responsibilities. In this final scene Henry destroys his preconceived notions about his child, through a symbolic murder of the worm-like creature. He realizes that only he has control of his actions and through his conquering of his fears destroys the man in the planet. Having accepted his responsibilities and conquered his fears he moves into the light of existentialism.It's a story about sacrifice, fear, responsibility, and single-parenthood. It may or may not be your cup of tea, but it does a remarkable job of expressing the anxiety that a new parent feels. "},{"Title":"Not really very entertaining.","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have a couple college degrees but none of them are in film making. I enjoy movies, mostly horror and sci-fi, but movies of all genres. I enjoyed Blue Velvet because there was an understandable story but that element is completely lacking in Eraserhead. OK, so it's an art film but one that lasts for 90 minutes and doesn't really entertain. The movie starts with a fetus-like thing apparently being extracted from the title character and later the character becomes a spouse and the father of a mutant baby. The movie apparently invokes fatherhood, abortion, marriage in a highly repulsive manner. Lynch is apparently disgusted with the prospect of fatherhood or the prospect of forced fatherhood. Eraserhead's baby is a wailing, grotesque monster so I think that's a fair conclusion. Like many art movies, this is not a flick for entertainment. It's a movie to analyze the mind of David Lynch. Weird, gory, grotesque but not necessarily entertainment. 4/10 "}{"Title":"The true heir to Cocteau","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" No other film has come close to seemingly combining the repulsive and the beautiful. Eraserhead is as magical as Cocteau, as visually impressive as 2001, as unnerving as Poe. Its also David Lynch's purest work, an uncompromising vision of depression. This is personal film-making at its most extreme. For an hour and a half, you are stuck in Lynch's bizarre yet complex mind. What Eraserhead means is completely open to debate. Its one of those rare surrealist films that, even if its actually about nothing, you are convinced it is a metaphor. No other film has received as many interpretations as this one. Eraserhead certainly isn't for everyone. Many will either be made uncomfortable by its unrelenting strangeness or bored (sometimes both). However, those who want to be confronted by cinema, and view it as a potentially transcendental form (as opposed to simply entertainment) need to step up to Eraserhead's challenge.Oddly enough, unlike many other art and surreal films, this isn't a cold and uninvolved experience. I have suffered from depression issues in the past, and make a supreme emotional connection with Henry every viewing. Also, while the film is unrelentingly grim for the most part, there are bits of absurdest humor that reveal themselves more and more upon every subsequent viewing (I've found this to be a trademark with Lynch films). For a film with such a low budget, Eraserhead appears to have much more scope than it actually does, mainly because of the range of the film. Nothing else I have seen so resembles a half-remembered dream, Eraserhead is one of the most poetic films ever made in America. Its not just a freak-show or self-indulgence, its a truly beautiful film. (10/10) "},{"Title":"My 17 month old daughter is scarier.","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Right. Before you read on, I'm not going to kiss David Lynch's ass, so please do not read on if you're looking for some 'oh it was wonderful artsy farts' stuff. I like some David Lynch work. I think David Lynch thought 'let me make a movie about hardly nothing at all and see what idiots think it has some deep and wonderful meaning' and guess what, a whole bunch of you did just that. 'oh it means we're living in hell and we don't know it, ooh ooh its his struggle with living and fatherhood' blah blah blah. how do you KNOW what it means. did YOU make it? I also think it may be relevant that Lynch said nobody has ever come close to HIS idea of what the movie means. Yet we all seem to think we do. I personally, am not trying to guess what it means, for I personally, don't give a s**t. Maybe once I watch it over a few times, I may. But right now after having seen it and reading all your pseudo-intellectual 'I know what this means' comments, I feel like puking. And I disagree with all the people who thought it was scary. Those people must live sheltered lives. Ever gave birth? Thats scary. PS- I thought Lost Highway was better. And Twin Peaks. "},{"Title":"There are surreal films, then there is ERASERHEAD","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Lynch redefines the phrase free-expression here, matter of fact he redefines the art of film. Is it film? Is it art? No way does one watch ERASERHEAD to be entertained - the very word demeans its purpose! Lynch made this film firstly because it expressed HIM and what he stood for at that time (and judging my MULHOLLAND DRIVE, still does!)and secondly - because he COULD!  It really doesn't matter whether you find it interesting, pointless, innovative, pathetic or the second coming of Jesus, it IS WHAT it is, WHEN it was! (I trust that is implicitly clear to you all!)As interpretive surrealism it interprets nothing because nothing you are watching can be! But in a DREAM state all bets are off. Henry could be you or I! The girl in the radiator, every desire - sexual, imagined or beyond realisation! Perhaps Lynch was mocking the viewer and indeed the images mean nothing - I don't think so however!  The whole point IS, the director WANTS you to try and interpret it, that at least shows your alive, the question is?  was Henry? "},{"Title":"Eraserhead","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director David Lynch (The Elephant Man, Blue Velvet) in his later films made a few films that have hard to follow stories and plot lines, but this one has pretty much no plot at all. Basically in a seemingly post-apocalyptic world of an industrial town lives big-haired factory worker Henry Spencer (Jack Nance) who is attending dinner with his girlfriend Mary X (Charlotte Stewart) and her parents Bill (Allen Joseph) and Mrs. X (Jeanne Bates). Together they try to feast on chickens the size of a person's fist, but carving it proves tricky, especially when it spews blood and Mary has spastic fits. Henry then finds out that Mary has given birth to their baby, a mutant looking creature that squeaks and cries all the time, so they obviously have to move in together to care for it. Mary leaves after not too long living with her boyfriend and their baby because of the continuing screams of the child, leaving Henry to care for it himself, slowly driving him insane. To escape the sight and sounds of his baby he diverts to watching and listening to the Lady in the Radiator (Laurel Near) with her puffed up cheeks singing about heavenly things. There is a particular moment when madness truly hits Henry when he sees himself on the Lady's stage in a courtroom style set-up, his head comes off, and is replaced by his mutant baby. Henry's head then falls down into a street where it is cracked open, exposing his brains, and a Boy (Thomas Coulson) takes the head with brain to The Boss (T. Max Graham, or Neil Moran). A portion of the brain is put into a machine, becoming eraser ends fro pencils (hence the title), which is checked by the Pencil Machine Operator (Hal Landon Jr.), who approves the brain is perfect. When Henry returns from this dream or whatever, he can't take anymore from the mutant baby either, so he takes the very harsh decision to stab it to death, before ending the film in the arms of the Lady in the Radiator. Also starring Judith Roberts as Beautiful Girl Across the Hall and Jean Lange as Grandmother. Throughout the film you see all sorts of weird, creepy, disgusting and unsettling things, I quite like the plant in soil on a table with no pot, but the stand-out moments are of course the tiny chickens, any part with the baby, and the infamous brain scene. This utterly imagined nightmare really taps into all your senses, making you feel uncomfortable, and the non-linear narrative is up there with Un Chien Andalou, certainly a must see cult experimental horror. Very good! "},{"Title":"sorry but","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't care if you like symbolic filmaking, I've ssen enough to know what's what. Sergio Leone made great symbolic films and kept the audience engaged, David Lynch on the other hand is a pseudo-intellectual boring as heck you know what. I get it, it just doesn't entertain me. I like a movie that engages as much as it tells, an this movie tried to tell too much and engage too little, and artsy types can label me as just another dummy who didn't get it, but I don't care, it's a movie... it should entertain. This movie bored me to tears, and when I was semi engaged, I hated life, god, and everything else, woohoo! So hate me for ripping this film and I will in turn hate those who believe it's brilliant. HA! "},{"Title":"Plain, pointless, not very artistic","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mkay. I had to check it out for some reasons. Many adult and serious people i know told me that was the scariest and creepiest movie they have ever seen in their lives, not the massacre and blood and monsters Hollywood kind, but something talking to the deepest and darkest corners of your subconscious. I read audience's comments and i was promised that it would literally damage my brain cells and stick with me for the rest of my life, and such epithets as haunting, disorienting etc. -.- Well, i must say that i get impressed easily (especially with the proper atmosphere and sound effects), oversensitive and schizophrenic and very phobic by the way.... But i didn't find a single merely impressive or frightening, disturbing or whatsoever thing in this movie. And i tried hard. it didn't move a muscle on my face nor a nerve in my spine. The only emotion that i felt roused is some anger toward the personages that looked plain dumb. Except for the baby. I honestly hate kids, but what of so scary there could be about that poor ugly creature that's half ET half baby dinosaur - is out of my mind (and maybe it was the only character i felt sympathy or compassion for, especially when it was ill or being killed)... and to me a common human infant can be much more annoying or menacing... Of course it wasn't meant as an horror movie, it's 'art'. Well i must say i've gotta ponder much over it's artistic value. I love abstract art and surrealism, and the plot itself is the thing i hate most in a book or movie. But come on! The plot, despite what was said, is quite clear and definite in this movie - couldn't be more. And surrealism and stuff like that should be really talking to the hidden sides of your subconscious, provoke inner images and emotions that are difficult to categorize or identify. Here we have only plain and obvious meanings and images, all of its symbolism lies on its surface, and can't for sure be of a revelation to an average modern decently open-minded adult... yes, there can be be multiple interpretations of it, but they are all still too obvious and superficial. The matter is not that you should dig deeper - you can't go any deeper because the solid concrete bottom is too close to the surface. It can't be called boring, not to a certain extent. But nothing more... "},{"Title":"Eraserhead = Napoleon Dynamite minus the entertainment value.","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It always amuses me whenever I hear someone calls Napoleon Dynamite worthless trash, then they further to say films like Eraserhead&#151;and yes, there are A LOT of films just like it&#151;are cinematic masterpieces. I'm sorry, but both films are the same thing, just with different motives. I'll never begin to understand how anyone can find entertainment, or even something thought-provoking, in literally watching people stare at things for almost two hours. I'm sorry if everyone who gave this film a positive score had Down syndrome, but simply do not have that attention span. And, honestly, I feel sorry for those of you who do.There is very little about Eraserhead that is genuinely weird. It's a surreal take on our daily lives, nothing more. All the scenes involve shots of the lead character sitting and staring at things in an attempt from the director to make us, the viewer, feel as if we're seeing something weird. In actuality, there is not a single scene in this movie that is any more abnormal than what I see when I look around my room as I type this sentence. There are a few scenes, including the scene that reverences the title, where David Lynch apparently realizes the fact in what I just said and adds some generic surrealist moments. Black-and-white tiles, old ladies, trees, what looks like a waded-up crap&#151;all the predictable surrealist imagery you can think of makes its way into this movie.That leads to another point I've never seen a review mention Eraserhead is NOT original. If anything, it's more unoriginal than the big-name Blockbuster made by some director who has about the creativity of a dead tree stump. It takes no imagination whatever to think of something like Eraserhead. Gothic art has been done for centuries. All Eraserhead does is take the most generic of it all and puts it to motion. It's a lot like a less diverse version of Vampyr. The only sole idea that David Lynch didn't wholesale copy/paste from other artwork is the baby, and even that left me thinking about a few other movies with similar ideas. Eraserhead had zero originality, and next to no creativity.The story isn't something a lot of people feel worth mentioning because it takes last priority in the film. Most people will say the story is left up to the viewer to decide, but that's completely ludicrous. Eraserhead has a very linear, predictable storyline that has been used time and time again in films and literature before. Because the story is so paper-thin, writing a single sentence about it would lead into massive spoilers, but I will say this. I fully expected the disturbing ending from the first 10 minutes. I would have been much more surprised/shocked if it DIDN'T happen. The events of entire storyline plays out exactly like a standard soap opera, and every single one of them is predictable. Again, Eraserhead is a sad lack of imagination.The only thing I can actually complement Eraserhead about is the portrayal of emotion. The father-son relationship as somewhat compelling. The husband-wife relationship was interestingly and accurately portrayed. All the other relationships in the film were complete clichés, but those two stood out. But, then again, who really cares? I can see just as compelling relationships in real life, so why should I waste my life watching them in a movie that has no other redeeming value whatsoever? The effects of paranoia and nervousness are well-done, but, again, it adds nothing to the bland story.Eraserhead is a waste of time. It takes an uninteresting premise and makes it even less interesting. As a work of Gothic art, it's simply generic at best. The repetitious surrealism gets annoying very quickly. Eraserhead does absolutely nothing but make you wonder Why didn't I just walk to the local nursing home and watch old people stare at walls? Same thing as watching this movie. And at least that way I'm doing the community good. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Eraerhead - Worst movie ever made (if ur a fan, don't read this)","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know there is a following for this movie, which in most cases i can understand. the only reason i applied for this account was to express to everyone that i think Eraserhead is the worst movie ever made. If there is a point to this movie, it is sooo vague that no way would someone be able to come to some conclusion of one by watching it the first, second or third time watching it.I imagine drugs had a great deal to do with the creating of this...whatever its supposed to be. i just wish i could get that 2 hrs is spent watching back.i gave it a 2, because although it is my least favorite movie, i have never been negatively effect like this before by a movie. so i guess that says something about the power of his work. "},{"Title":"No sense at all","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" That's what this movie is. I skipped through it because it started to deeply annoy me in the first 20 minutes or so. As in Mulholland Drive, perhaps his second most praised movie after this one, I wanted to hit David Lynch in the face or something after the movie ended. I have no problem at all with art expressed in any which way it be in a movie, but movies such as this, my friends, are THE REASON! why so many average viewers hate the so called artistic movies. Because self proclaimed movies like this one give them bad rep. I am a movie lover, and it annoys me if I don't get a certain movie's message or story, but intentionally making 88 minutes of confused and boring footage that has only stupid little monsters imploding around is beyond me. I am the first person to applause new approaches to movies but give me a break. Calling Eraserhead a good movie is calling any home movie just as good. Utterly pointless, as a matter of fact you should get a migraine or something while watching it. Cult my ass. 3/10 "},{"Title":"What in the heck is this?!?!?!?","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This seems to be the type of film that you either really like or you really hate, in my case I definitely choose the latter.Ok to start off, what is the point of this film?  I realize the allegories about fatherhood and all, but whats the deal with a friggin dinosaur that she gave birth to?  Do you need to understand this film to like it?  Maybe thats why I hate this surreal effort so much.Oh yeah the pacing.  Everyone in this film does everything sooooooooo s-l-o-w-l-y and deliberately it grates on your nerves.  If they just sped up the movements in this film you could have cut it from 90 mins to 45 mins. For example, the first 13 mins has that whole birthing allegory with no a single word of dialogue.  That whole part could have been cut to 3 mins tops.I will admit some of the visuals are shocking, but what else is there to hold it together?  This movie just seems like a series of shocking visualsheld together with no purpose, or no glue for that matter.  And when a movie like this has no glue to hold it together, it becomes pointless just like this crap.  I dont care how artsy it is, I dont care how original it is, I just care about plot and story and pacing, and in all three this movie is seriously lacking.  Heavy recommendation to avoid! "}{"Title":"I'm sorry","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a big fan of Lynch's work. I loved Mulholland Drive, TwinPeaks, Blue Velvet, and Elephant Man. I am not easily bored bymovies. I appreciate unusual camerawork and long shots. I recently saw Eraserhead, completely ready for something weirdbut what I saw I cannot explain. I hate when people criticize moviesbecause they have no recognizable plot, because I don't think aplot is always necessary. However, I simply do not understandanything about this movie. Maybe I just saw a bad copy. It looked really bad and fuzzy and thesound was awful. Not that there was much to hear. I tried to like this film, I really did. I loved Jack Nance in Twin Peaks. Will someone please tell me what I missed?  "},{"Title":"Zzzz wow anyone can make movies.","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The story drifts in and out, from one bizarre part to another. Nothing ties it together, and its just here and there. Wow maybe if you watch this tanked drunk would make sense. Wonder if he made this movie when he was like 6, or baked on acid. Wait long its like 10 minutes between lines. In all the movie is crap, crap and crap. I watched it, and had to come here to read the plot. To find out what the movie was about lol. I read flixster for a plot on this movie its different. I think people are just guessing on what its about. In the end no one knows. You can say anything and it could be. Cant believe anyone would actually like this movie. I could film crap on a stick and if they liked this move. They would probably like my movie to rofl. Artsy is one thing, this is a stretch from that, and just pure crap. "},{"Title":"What ?","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay there were some interesting Artsy/Frenchesque sort of scenes placed next to each other as a sort of story kit for the viewer.  I tried and tried to assemble these pieces into something entertaining but never could. When the film ended my only thought was What the hell was that?  Then be a bit frustrated over wasting so much time on something that ended up with the same kind of plot I might have gotten from watching clothes tumble in the dryer for an hour.I think people would rate this film better than 'junk' only if they're habitually pseudo-intellectual or otherwise irretrievably continuously trying to appear artsy or deep. "},{"Title":"Am I missing something?","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"13 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen a great many movies by a great variety of directors from around the world in several different styles. But in all my years of movie watching, never have I felt that I have more effectively wasted 89 minutes of my life that I'll never get back. This, to me, was a complete nothing of a movie. It evoked no emotional responses aside from the slight revulsion I felt about the baby and its ultimate fate. Visually, it did nothing for me. It struck me as the same typical self-indulgent, I'm-smarter-than-the-audience stuff that David Lynch has been cranking out for years. I'd seen Dune (Frank Herbert is rolling in his grave over that) and The Elephant Man. The latter had the Lynch's fingerprints all over it but brilliant performances by Hurt and Hopkins saved it. Not so for Eraserhead. For reasons that escape me, Lynch has ardent followers and fans of this film.I guess I must have missed something somewhere. Now if you don't mind, I've got Kurosawa's Ran spinning up in the DVD player. "},{"Title":"Trash","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"30 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is the kind of self-indulgent trash which gives independent movie-making such a bad name. Truly a film which provides more nightmarish visions of filming technique than nightmarish visions. The actors can't act, they can't react, they look awful, and consequently none were ever heard of again. The positive aspect of this film is David Lynch's example that no matter how big a screw-up you make you can still achieve success!The worst film I have seen (out of around 1,500 films).  "},{"Title":"overwhelming David Lynch visions","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Henry Spencer (Jack Nance) is a quiet factory worker living in an industrial landscape. He and his girlfriend Mary X has a child but it is a malformed inhuman baby. Mary can't take the crying and walks out.I am very reluctant to put down any more plot details because I'm not sure about a lot of what I saw. There are some crazy surreal stuff here. It's part Kafka. The baby is like some weird Cronenberg creature. Nance is doing most of his acting thru his hair. This is a lot of weird ideas from the mind of David Lynch. It kind of overwhelms any story in the end. It reminds me of the second season of 'Twin Peaks' where his craziness becomes greater than any traditional story or even the characters. "},{"Title":"Captivating, Humorous and Disturbing","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead is either a film that you either, love, hate or grow to love. Most of the film is seemingly incoherent and lacks a typical plot line that is nearly standard in today's films. This type of indecisive directing by Lynch helps to establish this film as one designed strictly for audience interpretation although Lynch himself has said that he didn't anticipate the film to be viewed by audiences at all. While this film is highly disturbing, it is also quite thought provoking and can be universally related throughout many communities and cultures.While Eraserhead is from 1977 and had access to color, it was done in black and white. I believe that this intentional lack of color was to enhance the interpretation of Henry's character. Who is Henry? What is he thinking about? Is what is happening in the scene actually happening or is Henry delusional or suffering from a mental illness? The sounds of the creature child add to the chilling effect of this film.From a theme standpoint, I believe that Eraserhead deals with a number of common concerns that are prevalent in our culture, religion, sin, guilt, shame, regret, mental illness, sexual repression and suicide. While these themes are not explicitly spoken about or even mentioned throughout the film, the tone and the symbolism that is found speaks loudly. The lighting throughout the film is quite exceptional, it helps to define the symbols and gives the viewer a deeper understanding of the dark undertone of the film. Overall, I think this is one of the most artistic films that I have ever seen and is definitely one that film lovers should experience at least twice. "},{"Title":"In heaven, everything is fine","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have seen almost every movie Lynch has ever directed, and Eraserhead really stands out from the rest, although my favorite remains Mulholland Drive. As a first film, it stands out because it shows what a promising career he had ahead, similar to when Tarantino's Reservoir Dogs was out in 1992. Anyway, i'd say it's a very authentic and bold movie, overall. From the sceneries - the window blocked by a brick wall and the apocalyptic vibe - the eerie ways the characters seem to move inside that universe, to its surrealistic roots, i never came across anything else quite like it. It all appears to happen inside a nightmare, but whose nightmare is it, ours or Jack Nance's? Hard to tell, when some of the imagery makes us physically uncomfortable. Particularly, to me, that scene with the Radiator Lady singing, and the squashing of the mutant babies - even thinking about it makes me cringe. It's a hard movie to watch, not advised to sunny days, but are any of Lynch's films? Finishing it, i felt just like i had awoken from a nasty nightmare, only it was one i had put myself under voluntarily! Anyway, i admire filmmakers who can set up an atmosphere, and who manage to connect with the audience somehow, i'd imagine it's not an easy task, but it's one David Lynch can pull off alright. "},{"Title":"Outstanding!!","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently discovered this film. It is truly an outstanding piece of art. This director has accomplished greatness with this work. The symbolism is grand. This film elicits a range of viewer emotion that is far superior to other films. It is a complex film if you pay attention. It is genius! Hollywood needs more of this type of film! Enough with the sub par remakes and cliché romantic comedies! Let's raise the bar! We need to raise up and demand films that challenge us, elicit a range of emotion, and provides us that journey in to complex artistry! Watching Eraserhead was my pleasure, but it has heightened my disgust for our vapid movie industry! "},{"Title":"The Real Meaning of Eraserhead","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch's first feature film is a triumph and an artistic masterpiece. How anyone with taste could refute it is beyond me. Many who don't like the film say I don't know what it means! Well, guess what? It doesn't mean anything! That's right I said it doesn't mean anything. David Lynch hasn't once said what it means because it would take away the magic and the mystery. David put images and sounds together and made something people could remember. Eraserhead is truly the epitome of surrealist art. It is the Edvard Munch's The Scream of film. Nobody knows why the man in the painting is screaming except that what is lying in front of them is beautiful, enchanting, mesmerizing and haunting all at once. So don't question it. This masterwork is better viewed as it stands...unexplained. "}{"Title":"There's just nothing like it. Fantastic!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a big Lynch fan. Thats how i got in touch with this movie. When i first saw it, i was really amazed, a little scared and confused. I have never in my life seen any movie like this. So.. if theres more people out there who really likes Eraserhead and know about other films who can even get me close to that feeling i got after seeing Eraserhead, please tell me!Thanks! "},{"Title":"Where did Kansas get off to?","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Toto, we're not in Kansas anymore.  Thus spake Dorothy.Why this disturbing, funny, brilliant, and provocative work is no longer available, especially to DVD, is pause for thought.Dark.  Unrelenting.  Mesmerising. Flawed to perfection.Lynch has never come close to repeating this level of surrealism, and perhaps as a social order, we should give thanks...Imagine what this film would look like now, in a Marilyn Manson era...what would the soundtrack be like?  "},{"Title":"I saw it!","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has an unbelievable depth.  You won't be able to start understanding this movie on one or two viewings.  I think this robustness is what makes Eraserhead, and most Lynch films for that matter, wonderful and engaging.  That's why I love this movie... plus, mutants are cool!  "},{"Title":"i highly recommend it. awesome film","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  hard to find this precious jewel         but once you find it its well worth it.   this is the definitive piece in David Lynch's portfolio of movies. a must see for any fan.   a strange movie filled with crypitcism, kinda on the slow side but worth the wait.      i super duper totally highly recommend it.     "},{"Title":"an interesting and well made film","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  eraserhead is one of my favorite movies of all time for it opened me up to the world of underground/avant-garde/ and B Movies.  My only complaint is that they cut the scene in which Henry spies on the 2 women tied to the bed and the man with the jumper cables "},{"Title":"Unique film for dedicated followers","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had such high hopes for this film, I was afraid I'd be disappointed as I sat down last night at twelve o'clock to watch the tape I got in the mail the same day. I wasn't disappointed. Not by far. "},{"Title":"Very original film","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a interesting film, very original, with a creepy atmosphere.The direction was pretty good and the performances were much better than you could expect for this kind of movie.The story was way too strange, but original and fascinating. The movie has a dark, stylish and eerie atmosphere, that's why I liked it. The characters were strange too, but very interesting as well. The visual aspect of the movie seems quite advanced for the time it was made.It must be one of the most original films ever made.It was a very good, movie I really liked this film. "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead (1977) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Brilliantly made yet poorly scripted (or just too weird) debut from David Lynch about a man who's life takes a turn for the worse when he learns he's the father of a deformed child. On a technical level this film is as close to brilliant as you can get. There's no doubt this film shows the amount of talent Lynch has especially in the visual sense where things to get much better than this. However, the film was just too weird for me and I was never really caught up in the story. The film probably would have played better as a three reel short. "},{"Title":"oFfIcIAlLy BlOwS","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yea thats right this movie blows. I've watched it twice or at least tried to watch it twice. It just plain sucks. 8==>, thats what I'm talking' about. The only David Lynch I really have appreciated so far has been The Elephant Man. That was well done. This is an incoherent story and its f'ed up in a big way. The oozing liquid that pours out of the chicken grossed me out the first time I tried watching. I went a little farther in the film and then when the mutant baby came up, that was the last straw. I turned it off. Returned the DVD and didn't think twice about it. Until recently, when I went to my local video store and rented a bad quality copy on VHS. I got a little farther, but not much. At least I got to the part with the lady in the furnace, that was well, interesting to say the least. I couldn't take the part with the sick mutant baby, so I turned it off. Thats it, I've had it, I don't want to watch this movie anymore. One person wrote that this film is tough to stomach through, I agree, don't watch while you are eating. The movie is repulsive in its nature, but I guess thats one of Lynch's talents and I'll respect him for that. But what I don't particularly respect him for in this film, is his lack of story telling. It has great technique and you can clearly tell that he was thinking. But it doesn't fit together, it feels like a mi-sh mash of boring imagery thrown at the viewer from an obscure angle. Let me add that I love the Black and White photography, I still prefer Black and White, done well that is, not just for the sake of it. I mean don't get me wrong because I love personal films, just not this one. I love indie features because rebel nature against the Hollywood system. This film clearly finds its cult following with the midnight crowd. It has all the right ingredients to fulfill that boundary, and it does so with style, just not substance. Yes they are two different things indeed. An example of a movie with all style and not substance is 300, and I hated 300 more than Eraserhead. To even say that I hated Eraserhead would be mean, but I do feel that it doesn't quite live up to all the hype. So, occasionally I enjoy the big Hollywood boom blockbusters and maybe thats what I was in the mood for while trying to watch Eraserhead, its clearly my fault. But I have the courage to write this review of the film, therefore I must have something to say about it. Right. Well yea, I stated what I liked and didn't like, more or less Eraserhead has redeeming qualities, just not enough to out weigh an incoherent story. Like I said it's great for the midnight crowd, I just don't want to be part of that crowd tonight. "},{"Title":"Pure Cinema...","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pure Cinema...for me that sums up this brilliant, original film.It's a very dark and personal vision - a very pure vision which hasn't been contaminated by 'traditional' ideas of storytelling, narrative, etc.This is what cinema is all about. The sound is absolutely incredible and it is one of the few films that has really utilised sound to it's fullest potential.What is Eraserhead about? David Lynch neither confirms nor denies different readings of his films - it is left up to the viewer to decide. For me it is about fear, the fear of fatherhood, responsibility along with other things - but that is a personal reading.It is one of the few films where I can say that it seems that the director has been able to press the film against his chest and leave an imprint of his soul. Beautiful, dark and unforgettable. "}{"Title":"THE BEST FILM EVER MADE!! and possibly the most disturbing","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't care what you think. This film is the most original film ever. It accomplishes what films were made to do but never have done. This film puts you in a different world that is unexplainable. It puts you in a sense of disturbance and relaxation at the same time. NOT EVEN KUBRICK achieved this level of creating another world. This film and INLAND EMPIRE are the best ever made. It is so wonderful and out of mainstreamthe story is simple. A man in distress from life he finds other wordly reliencesof course it IS OPEN to interpretation. IT is the only film wide enough for hundreds of interpretationssee it10/10 "},{"Title":"silly, pretentious, art house film","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It has agonized me for years how popular and infamous this film is, and how recurrently it comes up in topics by way of films. It is as though everyone who saw and liked this film has never seen any other artistic film in their life, and thus are mesmerized by its 'artfulness'. It is certainly a visually stunning piece of work, with a very particular attention toward lighting (which helps to ignite a very moody atmosphere) worthy of attention, but other than that, it falls flat. If Lynch had any other intention with this film aside from to make a visually pretty, so-called 'WEIRD' and abnormal film, than I'd be hard-pressed to find an individual who actually managed to tap into what his intentions on actual content were. If you liked the artfulness of this film, then I'd like to encourage you to do some real art- house film homework, because you will find there are actually visual and *really bizarre* films out there that manage to either a) contain an engaging plot or b) possess enough intellectual content to get you thinking (neither of which this possesses)... Something you clearly need to do more often if you liked this filmPSeriously... This is just another pretentious art film, with the vapid, sophomoric intentions of being 'weird' and 'different'. I like my art films... But this one was just an offensive joke in the name of art house films, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have seen... ever!","Date":"20 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love movies and I am planing to work in the movie industry. So I consider myself as someone who knows more about movies than the average Joe. This is the worst movie I have ever seen. Actually it's not even a movie. I would describe it as a collage of pictures and sound. The sound is so annoying that my head started to hurt. It does not have a plot or even believable acting, at least movies such as Plan 9 from Outer Space have a plot that you can follow and laugh at. I really don't get why people consider this cheap piece of **** to be one of the best movies ever.Most overrated movie ever! "},{"Title":"Warning May cause severe drowsiness","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is by far the worst movie i have seen. I don't think i've ever been more bored than while i forced myself to sit through it. Every moment was like one random thing after the next, i had no idea what the hell i was watching. I find it odd that people actually found this entertaining, you would have to watch it extremely attentively just to figure out what is even going on in the plot. When i read the summary for this it was like i was reading a summary for a completely different movie. This is actually the only movie i've ever fallen asleep to in broad day light while watching. However, i would recommend this movie to people with insomnia, I'm willing to bet it would knock you out within a few minutes. "},{"Title":"How Can You Spoil This Movie","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, many people ponder the great significance of Eraserhead. They ask questions like Is the man pulling the levers God? Is the girl in the radiator the Virgin Mary? Yadda...yadda...yadda. All the while, David Lynch sits back and laughs. This film is about....well...nothing. While Avant Garde may be the correct label to place on a film of this magnitude of nothingness, Masterpiece is a stretch measuring light years across. DO NOT READ FURTHER IF YOU DO NOT WANT THE GREAT MYSTERIES OF THIS MOVIE REVEALED TO YOU.After years of research (not) and study (not)of this most unusual film, I have arrived at the following undeniable answers to it's many puzzling questions.Q. Who is the man pulling the levers? A. He is a man pulling levers.Q. Who is the girl in the radiator. A. She is a girl in a radiator.Q. Why does the baby look like a deformed tadpole? A. Because he looks like a deformed tadpole.Q. Why do the small chickens (really Cornish hens) spit out globs of coagulated blood between their tiny drumsticks. A. Because, if you don't thoroughly cook your hens, you will get salmonella and possibly brain damage. Afterwards, you will sit around all day with nothing better to do than to try and figure out the profound meaning Lynch was trying to convey in his thoroughly simplistic film - Eraserhead.LOL "},{"Title":"Utter garbage","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw Eraserhead at a friend's BBQ, and good God, let me say that it was the worst, least coherent film I have ever seen.  I can only imaging that everyone involved with the film was on outrageous amounts of drugs, except for the deeply masochistic who would voluntarily view this film multiple times.  This film does have a redeeming quality If there's someone you don't like, but they respect your opinion, tell them to watch this. Anyhow, those were my opinions of the film, as for reasons the worst lighting and sound I have ever witnessed; nearly nonexistent dialogue; multiple shots of over 20 seconds wherein it was not possible to know if it is merely one still frame, or just no movement; and finally, a dinner scene that haunted my memories for days.   In conclusion, view this film at your own risk, though I would strongly recommend against it. "},{"Title":"Eraserhead is stupid, but not the kind of good stupidity that we expect from these films","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead the 1977 cult film directed by world-renown film artist David Lynch has only one thing going for itself stupidity. Yes I said it, this was a very stupid unfulfilling film. Let's break down the film as a whole to find out what went wrong.The Acting-The acting was terrible, which consisted of characters that were forgettable and not likable. I think a frying pan has more character development than the actors in the schoclk of a film.The Script-The script was painfully awful and felt that it was written by someone that had just finished elementary school. The dialogue was not convincing and the pace was waaaaay to slow. The script should have been proofread a hundred times over.The Plot-Maybe I didn't understand the film, but the plot made know sense. The whole time I was watching the movie I thought to myself, WTF! This is a true travesty of a film.It is hard to see how this film became a cult classic. It was boring, dull and pointless with no redeeming qualities. So far, this film goes down as the worst film I've seen this year.Eraserhead should be erased. "},{"Title":"Lynch's gift to cinema","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first time I heard about ERASERHEAD was as one of Stanley Kubrick's favorite films. That alone got me interested, but I was turned off when I read several reviews. It seemed to be weird for weird's sake, like a mash-up of BRAZIL and the FORBIDDEN ZONE.After seeing MULHOLLAND DR., BLUE VELVET and DUNE, I was ready to accept David Lynch as a great moviemaker and storyteller. Biting the bullet, I found myself a copy of the film that had disgusted me a year and a half earlier.Wow. From those first shots of Henry floating in space, to the enigmatic Man in the Planet sitting in his cramped little room, I was hooked. This wasn't a movie- this was an experience. I hadn't been this absorbed by any film since before middle school. When the credits flashed by to Fats Waller's gleeful music, I was shaken- in all the best possible ways.You have to keep in mind that ERASERHEAD is a film aimed at the soul, not at the brain. Yes, not everything will be explained when the credits roll. In fact, most of the imagery isn't explained at all.The story itself is deceptively simple, and not as inaccessible as most reviewers describe. Henry Spencer is an depressed man living in a world of abandoned factories, railyards, and mounds of dirt. His one-room apartment is a Lower East Side tenement from Hell. One evening his temptress neighbor tells him that his ex-girlfriend and her parents have invited him to dinner. This dinner turns out to be perversely awkward (like MEET THE PARENTS on acid), and it so happens that his ex has given birth to... something (imagine the offspring between a raptor from JURASSIC PARK and a human, except in fetal form). Henry is forced to marry his ex, and they live together in his apartment with the baby. Revealing any more would take away from the fun.The cinematography is amazingly beautiful. It seems Lynch and crew have discovered at least ten different variations of black, making film-noir look like THE WIZARD OF OZ. The rumbling, everpresent soundtrack frequently shifts from sensually overwhelming to breathtaking. When the Lady in the Radiator (Henry's muse) sings In heaven, everything is fine, you are both repulsed by her deformed face and enchanted by one of the most eerie songs in the cinematic universe.It took a grand total of six years from getting financing to putting ERASERHEAD into theaters, and it all seems to have paid off. 1977 is best remembered for giving the world STAR WARS, the beginning of the end of the New Hollywood auteur era. But while studio execs were envisioning the profits of mass-marketed franchises, David Lynch was watching audiences vomit and literally run out of the theater (including the projectionist) at the premier of his first film.Not because it was God-awful, but because it gets into people's heads the way very few other films can. "},{"Title":"An interesting experience","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead, David Lynch's first feature film, is perhaps the strangest, most cryptic, and generally bizarre piece of cinema I've ever seen.It is the story of Henry Spencer, a timid printer who is forced to marry his girlfriend after she gives birth to a deformed baby. What sets it apart from other films is that much of the film is shown in cryptic metaphors that take a great deal of thought to decipher. This isn't helped by the fact that what's real and what's not tend to blend together seamlessly. If you're anything like me, you will be absolutely baffled your first viewing.While the strange way the story is presented is enough to merit a viewing, it is clear that David Lynch is a master at creating powerful visuals. One scene that particularly struck me is where Mary comes out of the kitchen, sobbing, and can be seen behind her eerie, grinning father. While some of the scenes end being downright absurd, when Lynch gets it right, he gets it right.The soundtrack is another piece of interest. It's strange, fairly ambient, and fits the film perfectly. In Heaven is one of the most chilling uses of a song ever. Really an excellent score.Jack Nance does a superb job at the nervous, awkward Henry, but other than that, the acting is nothing spectacular.Now, this movie does do some things wrong. While it may come down to personal preference, I found the pacing to be excruciatingly slow. I honestly think that this hurt the film more than anything else. It became tedious and painful to watch at some points, because things go so slowly. Of course, the fact that I didn't get what was going on certainly didn't help, but the pace is still nearly unbearable.As I've said before, some of the scenes simply don't work. The grandmother, head, and chicken ones in particular come off more comedic than disturbing. It's understandable with a film like this, but it's a point worth mentioning.All in all, Eraserhead is an interesting, if flawed, film that is worth at least one viewing. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Perhaps the darkest most depressing piece of cinema ever made. ***** out of 5","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a dark dark movie that revels in it's unpleasantries. Forget logic. It doesn't exist here. Within the terrible yet undeniably beautiful images lies somewhat (and I do mean 'somewhat') coherent and understandable storyline. It isn't quite like Mulholand Dr. where entire scenes are placed out of order. There is also an element of humor, the blackest kind. There were times where I laughed my head off even though feeling kind of guilty about it. There is constantly some kind of sound playing in the background. A lot of the time these sounds are exaggerated, such as the puppies sucking on their mother's teats. That particular sound drove me crazy, but I was laughing all the same. There is a baby fetus thing that was born prematurely and it does nothing but cry... and at times, maybe even laugh. We have a lady that looks like she was taken straight of the 1930's, but she has great big monstrously deformed cheeks that look like they may be cancer. She sings a song and dances. She is disturbing. It's a great film to come up with your own conclusions and answers for it's bizarre scenes. The overall film is 'depression' on film. It's a nightmare. Not pleasant. But this is why it's such a great motion picture. You'll never see a film that focuses on such unpleasant emotions as this one. "}{"Title":"Very Interesting","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I received my copy of the Eraser Head DVD on Christmas, and have watched it around 4 times up to date. I personally think it is a great movie for a larger group of people to discuss after wards, such as Mullholand Drive, another good Lynch film. Some of the scenes might be disturbing or confusing, and I am almost certain that there will be an event in the movie that long after your viewing will stay with you. It does a very good job of attracting the mind to think in a deeper sense and decipher what in fact is going on. I highly recommend this movie, I thought the performances where good, the way the movie was shot pertained well to the overall feel of darkness and sinking terror on the main character, and the sounds were unreal. I still get shivers when I hear that baby cry in the back of my head... 9 out of 10 with my highest regards. "},{"Title":"Audio-Holocaust","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought this flick was great! From start to finish. The film revolves around Jack Nance and takes us through the sub-conscious of both his and the director David Lynch's disturbed minds. The symbolism used in the film is often times deliciously disturbing in a dismembered bodies in a car-crash sort of way. And the score for the flick is amazing. Lynch did the score and it's this type of audio-holocaust that continues through the entire flick. A dreary, depressing, droning sound that really sets the mood. The symbolism is difficult to understand as is the story... if you can call it that. Because of such a vague storyline, we the viewers have the opportunity to interpret and play out the story in our own minds to however we see fit. I would have to recommend this film for anyone who likes Lynch's unconventional style or just likes seeing cry cow fetuses. "},{"Title":"Kid A - The movie","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Eraserhead is the type of film that changes your view on life, at least for a few hours after viewing. It is depressing, horrific, and at times downright scary, but remains strangely compelling throughout.What little plot there is can be explained in a few lines Henry, a man with crazy hair lives underground in an industrial estate. His flat seems to be inhabited by strange sperm like creatures, and there is a constant background noise of heavy machinery. He visits his girlfriend's house for dinner, only to discover that she's had a baby. His baby. The thing is, this baby is a few months premature and still in the embryo stage. Henry is then left to look after the... thing when his girlfriend runs away, thus marking the start of a horrific sequence of events.The whole film is like a living nightmare. The sounds are horrific, the scenes are dark and scarecley lit, and the whole thing is in black and white, which makes it even more scary. The special effects are brilliant The synthetic chicken that spews out blood looks great, and the baby looks like Ridley Scott's Alien, but even worse.So a great film by a great director. I'm suprised it's gone so unnoticed. You really should see it. ASAP.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful, beautiful film.","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, is truely David Lynch at his best.  This film is my all time favorite movie of all time.  It is frightening, yet beautiful.  Here is my interpretation of the movie.Eraserhead is without a doubt the most frightening film out there.  Even though there is minimal dialogue and minimal violence, it tends to scare.  The reason I think it scared me is because it was so realistic.  Think about it.  You're thrown into a life changing situation that will change it for the worst.  You have a wife you don't love and a child that will never be normal.  So you start to escape into your own place (i.e. the Radiator) where you are happy.  You start to cling to this dream world because it is the only thing left that makes you happy.  You come out of the dream world and try for a second chance at happiness on the outside of that special place, but again you are let down.  So you destroy the thing that caused it all because you think its the only way out.  When that thing is destroyed (i.e. the Baby) you find that nothing has been fixed and your world falls apart.  Think of it on that level and just try to get a good nights sleep after watching.  You'll see what I mean.On a lighter note, the song that the Lady in the Radiator sings can be interpreted in a positive way, despite the ominous tone of the song.  In heaven everything is fine to me, means that no matter how bad things get, you can always escape into your own mind, which Henry does for a little while.  Anyway, I thought this movie was scary.  Its symbolisim plays a big part in that.  It can be interpreted in many ways, but that is just my interpretation.  Go and watch it.  You'll see how truely frightening, yet truely beautiful Eraserhead is. "},{"Title":"how to interpret Lynch","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ok, folks, you don't go to a museum and stare at modern, abstract paintings if you want a photographic depiction of a pond with ducks. it helps a lot if you can get hold of any interviews with Lynch about his films......he will reveal what was going on in his life and mind at the time he wrote the screenplay.  it is, in fact, essential.  just google around on the web, you should be able to turn up enough stuff to get a good grasp.  also, any reading up on psychology and psychosis you can do will help you recognize various afflictions he injects into his films. "},{"Title":"One of cinema's greats","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I knew nothing of this film when I first saw it, but after viewing it I was turned into a David Lynch fan forever.  This has to be seen to be believed, a truly breathtaking account of a man who doesn't do very much, depicting a desolate modern world and telling so much without talking down to the audience.The film plays like a visual poem, from the Man In The Planet (representing fertility) to the mutated baby, which in turn drives Henry to despair, we are transported through this industrial waste-land (the sound effects are awe-inspiring), and we end up in Henry's head, filled with weird and wonderful things.Lynch rightly became noticed for this film, and went on to make some superb films (Blue Velvet, The Straight Story), but this ranks as his best, not being afraid to be itself, not a mainstream film, but a work of art. "},{"Title":"no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Understand that I give this film a rating of 9 out of 10, and that I make the promise never to watch this film again.  It is one of the most horrifying films I have ever seen or probably will ever see - and for that I will always be in debt to Mr. Lynch - an amazing accomplishment....  but it is not a film you should rush into seeing without understanding what it is you are getting yourself into.  I admire David Lynch - he creates moods in film I can only aspire to - but I don't think many of us could go where he has gone.  Eraserhead is a masterpiece but beware.... "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am not sure what anyone could like in this piece of garbage, I feel like it was a huge waste of time that I spent watching this trash. I am all for weird and unique films but wow this was just plain stupid. Terrible acting, horrible plot, there was nothing about this film worth watching. I think most say they like it just because they are supposed to like it. This is not an art film it is a stupid piece of trash film.Do not waste your time. Terrible, boring and stupid.Awful, extremely slow.Nothing worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Boring, Grotesque, Nauceating,  SEE IT!! )","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wish I had sent for another one... I don't like animated cooked chicken gushing blood from their stuffed innards. I was also disillusioned with the overall stupidity of the attempts at jocularity --like playing with a decomposed dog. A redeeming factor could be the occasional good composition of some scenes which is accentuated by the fact that the movie is in black and white.It was sort of funny when the mother-in-law attempts to rape John; how she said 'if you don't get it up, you're in big trouble! lol ! But BEWARE... the deformed baby is very... VERY D E F O R M E D !!! hahaha!!!Daniel Tebar 813-362-5541 "},{"Title":"Ought to be called Egghead","Date":"21 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm sorry. I consider myself a thoughtful, open-minded person, and quite a film buff. But sometimes you just have to be selective. Unless you are a student pursuing a useless degree in the Philosophy of Film, there really is no reason to waste your time on this weird movie. I don't know. Maybe I'm wrong here. Perhaps you enjoy bad special effects made of cream of wheat and foam rubber. Perhaps you spend countless hours contemplating the vastness of the infinite universe. Perhaps you're the kind of person who loves drinking puddle water and chewing on your own scabs. If so, go right on ahead and watch it. Otherwise, there are much more coherent offerings if you want flicks heavily endowed with symbolism. Try watching The Last Man on Earth, or After Hours instead. At least you'll be able to follow the storyline. "}{"Title":"its like opening up a vein and bleeding out your soul","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" some people may say that that's a good thing. i disagree. film students love this! i don't know why, but film students are just really bad at films. I watch films to escape my reality for a few hours. i could work, have conversations, or do pushups, but sometimes i feel like living a different life. i don't care about the subtle imagery or the really neat way that they filtered the yellow light out of the shot without resorting to that mundane standard method. eraserhead was just a terrible trip. it made me really depressed, so much so that i didn't even hook up with my girlfriend that night. if you love life and love living, don't watch this. nuclear waste is beautiful in a way, but its poison in most. avoid this poison. "},{"Title":"Quite Possibly The Greatest Lie Ever Told... in cinema at least.","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Its not that I didn't get it, but come on... people are praising something made by someone who has no idea what its about. Lynch himself doesn't seem to know what half his movies are about.To me, Eraserhead, is like watching a naked white dude with tribal tattoos masturbating while juggling huge chainsaws. Its not that you don't get it, but rather, you don't even want to ask why. You'll either slowly close the door and pretend you didn't see it or you'll exclaim, Brilliant!!! SIMPLY Brilliant!!! If you're trying to appeal to the in-crowd or art-house hipster wannabes, then be my guest, waste your time (and/or money) but trust me even if you dabble in eccentric cinema you'll want to gouge your eyes out after watching this. But as they say, one man's trash is another's treasure. If you want something convoluted and a bit different try Kubrick, Cronenberg, Mike, Aronofsky or maybe a superior Lynch film such as Lost Highway or Muholland Drive. "},{"Title":"Movies have a purpose","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" That purpose is to tell a story. I don't care what anyone else tells you otherwise, the reason movies exist is to tell stories in a visual form. The stories themselves can be about whatever the filmmakers want them to be about, but it should at least tell some kind of story.Okay, so before I start sounding like a broken record, I'll just cut to the chase - Eraserhead was a colossal failure as a movie. Yellow Submarine made more sense, and I've never been high in my life. Fewer things actually happened in this movie than a typical episode of Dragon Ball Z. The plot (if there was one) was so wrapped up in multi-layered metaphors as to become completely irrelevant. If you want to use metaphors and symbolism in a movie, that's one thing. In fact, one of my favorite uses of symbolism in a movie comes from another David Lynch film (Blue Velvet). But in that instance, the metaphor was perfectly clear to anyone who had been paying attention to the movie. Here, the metaphors lose any meaning Lynch may have had by becoming so convoluted that nobody, not even the man who made the movie, can glean any sort of meaning from them.To summarize, I disliked this movie for the same reasons I dislike abstract art (which I do not consider to be art, as it requires no actual talent to produce) and poetry it manages to find the most confusing way possible to say absolutely nothing. "},{"Title":"Really?  You can't be serious...","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alright, I can understand if you feel like you need to belong to some special club after watching this movie. Perhaps you feel like you are better off having watched this movie, because after sitting through mindless dribble such as this you might have the subconscious need for some sort of gratification. However, I found this movie to be a very enlightening lesson. That lesson being How not to make an enjoyable movie. Some of you might say that this is a form of art, but to the average man, this movie was about as entertaining as a root canal. I warn you, if you are looking for an enjoyable experience, please avoid this movie, because this film was designed to carry out Lynch's deepest desire to confuse the hell out of people and get paid while doing it. I don't believe that there are any deeper meanings behind any parts of this movie and that Lynch is secretly sitting in his house laughing at all the schmucks out there willing to waste their time to debate it. But if you are an elitist yearning to be accepted in a pretentious group, well perhaps this is the film for you. Have fun making films like this without 1/100th of the popularity of Lynch (how he ever became known or funded is still a mystery to me). "},{"Title":"I understood this","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  it's about how one director was trying to make it in Hollywood, so he filmed this really awful film, and tried to create all of these little sub-plots about this alien baby or some girl who sings in a a radiator or the family that just starts acting crazy and all seizure-like(Daughter, when they were in the living room and mother at the dinner table). Also it just drags and drags(for instance the opening sequence) and just makes no sense at all. And the purpose of this movie was that hopefully people would waste there time on it(like I did) and they would try to decipher all thses meanings, and ideas about what the film was trying to say or some stupid crap like that. When it fact all it proves is that any person with a camera can make a movie about nothing and just add a couple of wierd things it and people would be foolish enough to make it a cult movie(cause they don't know what a good film is) and the director would be praised about how great a film they have made about a movie that makes no sense at all. Although I thought the homosexuality sublpot of the main character was really interesting. "},{"Title":"It hurts, pain annoyance and a general feeling of badness","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  David Lynch, now there is a director....for me to poop on.Hmm now I've seen eraser head and the best question I could conceive to ask is just a general Why?Just because a movie doesn't follow a story line does that mean it should be labeled an Art film.  Is it in the name of art I watched close up after close up of some guys head who is staring at the wall with annoying background noise.  This makes it the laziest film I've ever seen it is as if Lynch just turned up every day and filmed a particularly uninteresting wall and threw in some words here and there if the thought passed his mind. Never mind actually constructing any semi conceivable thought because I'll just label it Arty and people will see anything they want to in it in order to make themselves seem sophisticated. "},{"Title":"????!!!","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one weird movie. I just cannot understand why people praise this movie as a masterpiece. This has got to be one of the most incomprehensible piece of dribble I have ever watched. Eraserhead was depressing, irritaing, boring, and for what purpose? I don't mind,and in fact actually like, movies which may be unconventional but nevertheless have a meaning or message to the audience. BUT THIS ? I admit I'm not a David Lynch fan, but Eraserhead was just stupid. Aside from viewing the miserable existance of the protagonist's life-for no real reason- other annoying factors include that woman behind the radiator, who just sings endlessly, and goes on and on, I just wished she would stop, it got so unbearable. Lynch is insane to have made something so mundane on something which was obviously a budget next to nothing. Avoid this piece of trash, its just a waste of time.  "},{"Title":"The Emperor has no clothes!","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An incoherent mass of erudite ramblings. Lynch tries to convey an extremely personal experience -- that of his own psyche; a dream -- and fails miserably. He wallows in excess and lack of focus. I was at once bored and confused by this film, which dragged on and on until I could barely tolerate it. The story is drowned in overbearing symbolism and excessive comments which are either lost entirely to the viewer, or saturate him or her with their obviousness. I couldn't tell if the laughter and squirming in the audience were because they hated it as much as I, or because they thought they saw something that just isn't there. "},{"Title":"My second-least-favorite film of all time","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bizarre and pointless visual images that leave the viewer with  furrowed brow saying, Huh??  The film makes no sense  whatsoever on any level.  There was nothing in the film that wasinteresting, insightful, creative, or worthwhile in any way.  Itexhibits a mind-numbingly nihilist view of life. "},{"Title":"Most disturbing film I've ever seen!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's been a long time, but I have to say that this is the most disturbing film I've ever seen and as soon as I saw it I wished I hadn't. Even 25 years later, I still can remember the depressing images of this movie. I hope to never see it again! "}{"Title":"Bizarre, incomprehensible, and random","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Local moron has a kid who is hideously deformed and evil.  The family is evil, the dialogue is incomprehensible.  The characters are bizarre and undeveloped.  This movie is ... .weird.  Usually that would be a compliment, but this film just baffles me without leaving me anything other than a general impression that you shouldn't give birth to children that look like big worms.  Even the strange art-film-student-type videotape film from The Ring was better than this.  On the other hand, if you want random, disturbing (and I mean disturbing), disjointed footage with no plot, this may just be your holy grail. "},{"Title":"Worst movie of all time!","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just watched this yesterday and it now replaces The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 as my personal choice for worst flick of all time. Throw in equal parts of Monty Python, Alien, Charlie Chaplin, George Orwell and Andy Kaufman into a Cuisinart, puree for 10 minutes and dump into a toilet and you have you have the plot. There is virtually no dialogue, much less meaningful dialogue. Since it has no plot, the action is excruciatingly painfully slow developing to whatever extent one would considered that it developed at all. The end befits the rest of this abortion, it just truncates in mid-frame. Oh, and I was not ever fooled into thinking the damn thing was ever going anywhere, one reaches that conclusion within 60 seconds of the start. But you have time invested, it's a crappy weather Saturday afternoon, so what the hell. The one thing I concluded very early on from this waste of an hour and a half was that the director was attempting to play a prank on his audience, mocking anyone gullible enough to pay money to see this masterpiece. Only in that sense could it ever be considered the cult classic that it has evidently become. "},{"Title":"What The Balls!!?","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's black and white. 2. There are no subtitles. 3. It makes no sense! What we have here is a pile of drunk and drugged art students who found an old camera behind a dumpster and decided to make a film before they passed out. Want to see little girls hiding inside radiators with their mouths filled with golf balls? Want to see her dance? Want to see a little odd chap with funny hair stand in the dark, in the same place without moving for 10 minutes while the camera zooms in and out of his face? This wouldn't be so bad except his expression stays the same- he looks like he has soiled himself and doesn't want Mr Lynch to know. But Mr Lynch does know, and there is a game of wits to see who breaks first.The madness continues- the man who may or may not be married to one, none, or two women is disturbed to learn that he is a father. Of course, these being drunk and drugged hippy art students- the baby is a fish! And not even something pretty like a Salmon, no, this looks like it has been swimming in a toilet all its life. The girl dances in the radiator for a while, the man soils himself again, and the film ends. What was the point? I'm sure the director was making some sort of extraordinarily intelligent and important point about War or George Bush or something, but all I got from it was a sick feeling. I had to skip through all the moments where nothing happens (most of the film) wishing that the man would go crazy and shoot someone, or at least the fish would turn evil and try to eat someone. I like films where lots of things happen, explosions and fights and fast stuff. Nothing of the sort happens here.This is like picking up a comic only to find that all the pages are black and white, with no pictures or words or X-Men. Luckily no-one has ever heard of this movie. Maybe I'll give it to that fool Brendan who lives on my street and he can watch it and self combust. Knowing him though, he'll probably love it. Fool. This film is not right. It is the product of a disturbed mind. It's like reaching into your wallet and rather than extracting 5 bucks, you pull out 2 burnt sausages. Half eaten.Best Bit When it ended and I threw it out the window and I watched some A-Team instead. It took at least until halfway through the 3rd episode till I felt clean again. It was the one where two fire stations are fighting each other for power and Decker is replaced by Briggs (who himself is re-replaced and vanishes mysteriously) "},{"Title":"The Ultimate film","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The reason why I call it the ultimate film is that it's like no other movie you've ever seen. And it may be the only film by David Lynch that I'll ever like.This is the type of film that you have to see repeatedly just to try to understand its meaning, even though I'm not sure if Lynch said that there's a specific explanation. I feel that it's all left up to the viewer to decide. And that's what makes ERASERHEAD so great! First off, I think that nobody but Jack Nance could have played  Henry  better. His physical appearance takes you, the viewer, into his own domain and his own odyssey.If the characters were'nt bothering enough, there's also the mysterious, supernatural figures.But my most favorite thing about ERASERHEAD are the sound effects. They are the BEST I've ever experienced in a film, striking and very haunting. Almost as if the air and the building are alive, waiting to swallow Henry up. Also, there are some extroadinary visuals here.Without a doubt, ERASERHEAD has to be seen to be believed.  "},{"Title":"The worst kind of pseudo-surrealistic garbage disguised as art.","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"10 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I normally don't like to badmouth a film, even a bad one. I try to find some sort of redeeming value for the time I invested, even if it's just to laugh at the badness.This film however takes the cake. I want my 88 minutes back. I want to kick David Lynch's behind. The only power this movie had for me was the power to sicken and irritate.Art films are fine. There are many out there. The Seventh Sign by Ingmar Bergman for example. Watch those not this. I've always prided myself on attempting to be cultured enough to watch even the most tedious of art films and find something redeeming or artistic.OK, OK, I'm ranting. This film is THAT bad. It's made far worse by the vast amount of praise it gets when, in my opinion, it's a sophomoric attempt at surrealistic grandeur.Lynch has serious problems. I might have been willing to give the movie a 2 or a 3 for at least attempting to be artsy but then I watched the extras and was subjected to him stuttering on (even more time he owes me) in disjointed paroxysms about how awesome the drawer of pudding and peas was, etc. *sigh* Many reviewers here have already said things like this and I want to back them up! The Art Institute that gave him the grant should have been shut down (and possibly brought up on charges for damage to the psyche of viewers). This film really is, as one person here put it, like The Emporers New Clothes. All right, alright, I'll calm down and try to give a more direct synopsis **SPOILER ALERT MILD SPOILERS AHEAD** The film is set in a dreamy sepia-toned gritty world of industrial decay. The characters seem to follow no known pattern of behavior, the monsters are very, VERY poorly animated (in the opening sequence you can actually see the strings...maybe THAT was supposed to be artsy too?), the FX are simplistic, and even the dialogue is secondary to the parade of lighting and attempted artsy camera-work that fails abysmally by being both unnecessary, overwrought and FAR TOO TEDIOUS.While it's obvious, especially after listening to Lynch's monologue, that there ARE some themes going here, parental fear, fatherhood and the nascent horror of being, the actual delivery of the film is so languid and...words just don't exist to describe it...overwrought, overreaching, etc. are the best I can do...that the film made me almost catatonic while watching it.I will concede that there are many people who might enjoy this, especially those who enjoy disjointed and/or viscerally disgusting images.OK, I take one thing back there IS one redeeming thing about the film that being the sounds. In their ability to raise one's hackles they succeed (and I have to think that was part of what Lynch was trying to do). The ongoing, seemingly incessant strange thumpings and undertones of distant factory noises, is like Chinese water torture. If that's what he was trying to accomplish then the film succeeded in that one way. Not something to be proud of or praised for. I could as easily listen to fingernails on a chalkboard for 88 minutes and get as much artistic value out of it. To say nothing of entertainment.Movies are made to entertain, that is their function and reason for being. This film does not entertain, it sickens, repulses and BORES. I cannot recommend enough avoiding this sepia-toned waste of celluloid.P.S. I apologize for the rant but it's just THAT BAD and I feel it my civic duty to warn viewers.P.P.S. What the heck was with those cheeks???! I kept expecting cockroaches to burst from them or something. Sick. "},{"Title":"A little tale, with a lesson","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"10 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So, I was in college at the time, see, and a few of my rather mix and match friends were sitting around my dorm room and for the lack of anything better to do, we decided to catch one of the movies playing on campus.  The movie we chose to see was Eraserhead.  We made it through the movie all right, but as we left one friend exclaimed, That was the worst movie I have ever seen!  Me too! said a second, and one by one, we all jumped in with the same verdict Eraserhead was the worst, vilest, boringest piece of crap any of us had ever seen.But the story does not end there.  Some weeks later, one of that set of friends noted, Hey, remember that Eraserhead movie?  That scene with the girl in the radiator?  Well maybe... and off she went on an interpretive spree.  And later, another friend found himself recalling the film, and a scene, and what he felt it might of meant, and another and another... Until we finally realized that the movie was not bad; we were a bad audience. We had not captured and seen the quality of the movie, the ideas being expressed, the depth of the allegory, and stuff.  The next year, the movie came around on campus again.  The same group, minus one who had graduated, armed with our prior viewing experience, ready to meet the director on his own terms, marched to the on campus theater to see it again.  The result?Eraserhead was the worst, vilest, boringest piece of crap any of us had ever seen.There's a lesson in there.  "},{"Title":"this is bad","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" i feel so strongly about how bad this film is i would say it is probably the worst of all time next to north fork.reading this you're probably saying he just doesn't like David lynch,that is so wrong i love David lynch because he is just so unique and twin peaks has to be the most perfect TV series of all time but eraser head is just a big disappointment the whole way through it really is a struggle to watch.i liked blue velvet and would say its probably Davids finest film.not many films can really be 2hours worth of nothingness but this succeeds.i don't need things to happen constantly on screen i do like things like dead man which captures atmosphere well but eraser head doesn't even have that.hope this is of some help.take care "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was the biggest pile of nonesense I have ever seen. I don't mind weird, dark, and disturbing films (in fact, some of my favourites are like that The Crow, Dark City, Se7en, etc.). However, EraserHead was simply plotless, scriptless, pointless, and meaningless.  I never worked out what it tried to represent and to be honest I don't care in the slightest.It really looks as if the story was put together by Lynch putting down the first thing that arrived in his head after several heavy nights out. I cannot see how anybody can call this a masterpiece...This is easily the worst film I've ever had the misfortune of watching avoid at all costs.(phew... I got it out of my chest and feel better now...)  "},{"Title":"Art or excrement--you decide.","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"6 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an amazing film to read about in the reviews. Many give the film ratings of 9 or 10 and yet many give it 1--it seems that some consider it great art or genius and the others consider it pure excrement. There aren't a lot of opinions in the middle with this one! I'm not even going to bother trying to summarize what I saw--like practically everyone else, I really have no idea what it was all about though I suspect the film has no meaning at all and director Lynch had no idea as well. Yet, like much art that is confusing and controversial, many TRY to read meanings and symbolism into it. Sure, there is a lot of obvious sexual imagery, but what it all means seems pretty pointless and I truly think this is THE point of the film.In addition to having no point, the film also tries very hard to make an impression by pushing the audience's gross-out buttons! In other words, keep playing various horrific images in an apparent attempt to make people flinch or be repelled. Frankly, I've seen worse but would probably have to go back to a medical museum to find it again! It also tries to push the limits by making the film very unpleasant--not just appalling but also by making the whole thing rather boring and drab.So, you are left with a confusing film with probably no meaning, bizarre sexual imagery, gross special effects and complete utter boredom all wrapped up in one package. Some enjoy this and I say more power to them, but as for me life is just too short. Watch it if you want--I just can't see why! "},{"Title":"WORST movie ever. (EVER)","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this thing with my now grown kids several years ago.It left us all scarred and to this day, we shake our heads and whisper amongst ourselves about how we stupidly spent 89 minutes of our lives viewing this, this...thing, minutes that we can never get back. Not to mention the horrible visions that remain inside our heads from this horror of a *movie*. If awards were given for worst movie then this thing would definitely be TOP contender for worst movie ever filmed. Anyone who claims that this piece of literary garbage is fabulous, brilliant, etc are putting on a show. If you sincerely believe this then I suspect that you're actually demented and this is probably a result of watching this movie. I know I've never been the same and not in a good way........ "}{"Title":"12-step program for recovering David Lynch fans","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Admitting you hated Eraserhead is the first step. Then you have to accept that Lynch is a woman-hater and a phony. Then you have to apologize to anyone to whom you ever recommended a Lynch movie. Then you must recant every bit of enthusiasm you ever expressed or felt for that execrable TV series of his, or for the loathsome movie based on it. Then you have to accept with good cheer the inevitable oblivion into which Lynch and everything he ever did will drop like a stone into a bottomless well. And finally, you must resolve never to discuss, much less debate, Lynch's work with those who still pretend to respect it, understanding and accepting that the appropriate punishment for pretending to like Lynch's work is...pretending to like Lynch's work.Okay, so 6 steps. "}]