[{"Title":"One of those You had to be there films","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" Folks, There is only one group of people who will truly enjoy and think this is a great film-the group who it was intended for those of us who were in our pre-teens or early teens who saw this when it first came out in the Summer of 1977.The tale is pretty much the kind of thing that every red-blooded American boy of that age would dream about. The little leaguers fire their tyrannical coach and borrow a van to play at a little league championship in Houston. To avoid spoiling it, I'll just say that this deals with their adventures along the way and the results. A Huckleberry Finn of the 1970s, to be generous.The overprotective parents and PC squads of today would have heart attacks at the scenes of the kids' foul language, cigarette smoking, chasing a grown woman, committing grand theft auto, and swiping Playboy magazines. But most of us who saw it at the time knew that this was over -the top and didn't take it that seriously.Yeah, an adult viewer would agree that the story, writing, and acting are atrocious. But this wasn't intended to be Shakespeare. See it with a 13 year old mind and trust me, you'll get it. For those of us who saw this as 13 year olds in 1977, leave your brains at the door and enjoy the nostalgia and the theme song Looking Good. To everyone else-you've been warned! "},{"Title":"Dome Sweet Dome.","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" Most of the standard crew (Walter Matthau and Tatum O'Neal are huge absences though) return for this feather-weight sequel to the highly popular original of 1976. This time juvenile delinquent Jackie Earle Haley and his teammates hit the road to Houston to play a little league game in the Astrodome. It seems that Haley's estranged father (William Devane) also lives in Texas and he becomes a focal point as the club lacks a manager. The kids are more grown up this time but their maturity seems to be on the decline as they only care about girls (who are all obviously older than they are) and getting into general mischief. The only real attraction is the Astrodome as the old scoreboard and the novelty of the eighth wonder of the world in 1977 make the closing act of the picture a nostalgic view to a part of sports history that many have already forgotten about. Overall the movie is a stinker with little else to recommend. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Not a foul ball but not a home run either","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  This second installment in Paramount's The Bad News Bears film series is (as most sequels are) not quite as good as the original film but it's not entirely bad either. William Devane does a fairly good job in his role as the new coach of the Bears little league baseball team. He has his sights set on big things including giving the team a shot for the little league world series and a chance to play at the famed Houston Astrodome. However, what could've made this sequel better was if some of the talent that came together to make the first film so enjoyable could've returned. The series was never the same without Walter Matthau and Tatum O'Neal.  "},{"Title":"Kids are so adorable when they turn 13, aren't they?","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" Yikes...one of the most awkward sequels of all times. First they replace the inspiring, easily recognizable soundtrack of the original (Carmen) with some maudlin seventies fare that even Laverne and Shirley would laugh at. Then they have a group of unappealing adolescents known as the 'Bears' ride to the Astrodome in the back of a cargo van (why the Bears were chosen to play in this game instead of the Yankees, the team that actually WON the championship in the first film, is conveniently glossed over). In between, there's a sandlot game where, predictably, the Bears revert to their 'Bad News' ways. Yeech! There are some sequels that should not be made when the star of the original decides to move on, and this is one of those times. Perhaps Matthau saw the script and realized that his career would follow that of Roy Scheider's if he participated in this atrocity. Other than a somewhat touching subplot involving Tanner's desire to win the game for The Looper (Timmy Lupus who appears in the sequel for about twenty three seconds), this film is more than worthy of a royal skewering from Mike and the bots of Mystery Science Theatre 3000 fame. "},{"Title":"limited sequel","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" The Bears are back but Amanda Whurlitzer and Buttermaker are gone. Kelly Leak (Jackie Earle Haley) drives the new dictatorial coach Manning away. The team is off to the Houston Astrodome to play the Houston Toros. Leak brings on Carmen Ronzonni from back east to be the new pitcher. The boys drive to Houston on their own. They discover that they still suck after playing a roadside game. They get into trouble for their van and Kelly decides to contact his estranged father Mike Leak (William Devane). Sy Orlansky (Clifton James) is the local businessman sponsoring the game.Most of the gang is back with the exception of the big stars. It's too bad that Walter Matthau and Tatum O'Neal can't return but it may be asking too much for sequels of that era. The story isn't much. I don't know why the Bad News Bears get to play in the Astrodome. There are snippets of fun but mostly it doesn't live up to the original. That is until Tanner runs around and the Let Them Play chant. It's cheesy but effective and it's the Astrodome. "},{"Title":"A comedy of errors","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  Probably like most kids my age at the time, I found this to be the *second* coolest movie of summer 1977 (gee, what do you suppose was the first). But with age comes awakening and through viewings in my later years the holes in this script broke out like jock itch.  Although some of the gaps were plugged in the paperback, it still left a leaky script up there on the screen.First bad play is the lack of explanation as to why the Bears, and not the league-champion Yankees, get to travel to Houston.  Later, the kids are held on suspicion of grand theft auto for their van (which they earlier admitted to secretly borrowing) but the issue is never resolved, so what's the point of making the vehicle hot in the first place?  Of course, the hardest pitch to hit is the idea that a Houston home crowd would unanimously root for a visiting team, regardless of some sappy news story of a kid back home with a broken leg.  On that note, the photo given to Lupus of his heroic catch from the first film is said to have been taken by Ogilvie's dad. Yet the photo is nothing more than the actual shot itself from the first film. That would mean that Ogilvie's dad would have to have been standing right next to Lupus in the outfield when that catch was made.  Okay, okay.  This one *is* nitpicky but I hate when movies flub little details like this. Finally, it's established that the winner of the Houston game will advance to a game in Japan.  Yet in the next film, BNB Go to Japan (1978), no mention is made, even by the Bears themselves, of the Houston victory and they travel to the land of the rising sun for other reasons, which they address on a talk show hosted by Regis.  Even back *then* the man was everywhere.Trivia In Paul Brickman's paperback adaptation of his screenplay, Ronzoni spins a tale of scoring with a babysitter.  This monologue would later resurface verbatim years later in Brickman's script for Risky Business (1983), in which Tom Cruise, in an early scene, brags to his buddies about scoring with a babysitter. "},{"Title":"I LOVED this movie-back in the day","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" I first saw this movie back in the summer of '77, just before my 9th birthday, and enjoyed it so much that I joined a little league baseball team the following year. Unfortunately, our team didn't end up winning the state championship, and we never traveled 2,000 miles plus from Arizona to Houston in a stolen van to play a baseball game. But, our team had a lot of fun despite our constant parental supervision, and lack of a feel good soundtrack. That's what this film did for my life.While some have heavily criticized this sequel over the absents of Walter Matthau and Tatum O'Neal. However, I find their criticism is incompatible with the overall plot and theme of the movie, about a team of kids breaking away from the confines of their suburban existence in California, and seeking carefree adventures independent of any super imposed rules and societal precepts. Sort of like a cross between 'Easy Rider', and 'Bless the Beast and Children'. Except, without any Buffalo's serving as metaphors for the spirit of children, and stuff.Therefore, the manager in the original Bad News Bears (Walter Matthau) can't be included in the sequel, or he might end up in jail for grand theft auto, kidnapping and contributing to the delinquency of a lot of minors. And, you can't have a preteen Tatum O'Neal traveling 2,000 miles in a van filled with a bunch of horny boys. Bad things are bound to happen. So these criticism are really unjustified, and you would have to have a completely different movie if the Walter Matthau and Tatum O'Neil characters were included in this sequel.However, what would be a fair criticism of the movie, is the fact that The Bad Bears are a really Bad baseball team before Kelly's separated father (William Devane) takes over as manager and converts them into champion players once again, after just a few days of practice. This makes no sense at all, because the team has already won the California state championship before arriving in Houston. So, they shouldn't have any trouble hitting and fielding, even if their having trouble replacing Tatum O'Neil's pitching. The obviously manufactured family drama scenes that inevitably occur when Kelly's role as team leader is threatened by his fathers assistance. That Kelly personally requested in the first place.(well, sort of)This concludes with an over the top, Hollywood manufactured family drama scene at a pool hall between Kelly and his long lost father. That's followed by the equally easy quick resolution of long time buried family issues after the team manages to come from behind, and pull out the close game at the end of the movie.Fortunately, I was too young back in '77 to notice these flawed script devices, and really enjoyed just riding along with the team, and experience their sense of adventure while breaking a few grown-up imposed rules while independently pursuing their quest to play the Houston Champions, and resolve a few father and son issues along the way.While I realize that this movie is definitely not for everyone. But, if you were a kid in the 70's, or just want to reconnect with your lost sense of youthful mischief when the world was still just one big adventure? Then this is a must see movie. "},{"Title":"Devane and Sweet are the only reason to sit through this .......","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" Dolph Sweet as the Bears overbearing coach, and William Devane as his reluctant replacement, are the only reason to sit through this. Otherwise, what you get is a predictable bore of a baseball film, that is strictly adolescent material and definitely by the book. The will he or won't he play scenario seems pretty stale, and the father - son relationship tension doesn't work either. Devane is really wasted, essentially playing a one dimensional character, that is very forgettable. Most attempts at humor fail miserably, and even the big game is weak. This is probably a sequel that never should have been made. Billy Bob Thornton's abrasive character in the Bad News Bears remake seems like Oscar material compared to The Bad News Bears in Breaking Training. - MERK "},{"Title":"I Love any Movie....","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" that features the town I grew up in, Houston. If it's a film about paint drying, and was shot in the 70's, I'm there! But, about THIS movie....BNB BT is a decent, but weak follow up to the original. But then most Part II movies tend to be, right? Without Tatum O'Neal, and Walter Matthau, the movie seems to just coast. Now, I like William Devane, but it would have had more bite with the original leads.The kids are cute, they play their hearts out, and you just love them. We have the sub-plot with Devane and his son, and then, the BIG FINISH!Yeah, it was filmed inside the Seventh Wonder of the World, the Astrodome, famed for such things as, The Billie Jean King-Bobby Riggs Battle of The Sexes tennis match, Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo, Astro's baseball, Oiler's football( and the short lived USFL Gamblers, too!), and countless other events. Part of the old school charm of watching anything in the 'Dome, was that scoreboard that lights up with the cowboy, and bull, all LONG gone....It's fun seeing places you knew growing up, AND seeing people who went to your school! The character Janet was played by Michelle Fruge, was a cheerleader and was in my graduating class of 1980, from Dulles High School, in Sugar Land Texas. 6 on a scale of 10, for Houston. 4 on a scale of 10 for everything else. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but it's nothing without Buttermaker","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" After seeing The Bad News Bears, I have just been in love with that film ever since my first viewing, so I figured despite the low rating on IMDb, just to give the sequels a look. So, I just watched The Bad News Bears in Breaking Training and while I didn't think it was so bad, it lost it's substance of what the first one was, and that was a crappy team with a lousy coach that didn't care if they won or lost. Now we don't get to know the coach better, we get to know the team better, well, I guess we didn't need to know that much.Some of the team is back, mainly it seems like we are focusing on Kelly this time, but they want to go to Texas to win the big game in the Astrodome to win the game for Lupus and a trip to Japan or something along those lines. But the team gets a lousy coach to begin with, so on their road trip, Kelly picks up his estranged father and asks him to be the team's coach and help them practice. Of course, Kelly and his dad need some things to patch up before they can play any games.The thing that was strange to me mainly, I don't know maybe because it's a different time, but I found it strange that the dad kept calling the boys handsome and patting their upper legs, but I don't know, maybe I'm just taking it too seriously or too PC. While, on it's own, it's not too bad of a movie, I wouldn't really suggest this movie for the hard core fans, but I rented both sequels, so I might as well see the next one, right? 5/10 "}{"Title":"Watchable sequel","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  The Bad News Bears in Breaking Training is a cute sequel to the classic original. By know means does it come close to it predecessor but it is a fun time waster.The Bears head off,unchaperoned, to play an exhibition game at the Astrodome against the Texas state champs. (One major flaw is that it is never adequately explained why the Bears would be making the trip since they lost the championship game in the original). The usual juvenile hijinks ensue on the road as they make their way there.Once there team leader Kelly Leak enlists the aid of his estranged father (nicely played by William Devane) to coach the team. This leads to the opening of some old wounds between the two. It's a nice distraction from the main story and handled well until the cornball, cliched scene where the hatchet is buried.The big game is handled well with the Astrodome surroundings a big aid.While Walter Matthau and Tatum O'Neal (the star pticher in this one is played by Jimmy Baio who is given nothing to do)are sorely missed, the cast does an adequate job of making the film amusing for kids.The final result is a nice little film. The game is the best part but there are plenty of amusing moments (including the requisite bad language from the kids) to keep you mildly interested. If you don't agree, just take a peak at The Bad News Bears Go To Japan. This film will look like a classic compared to that disaster. "},{"Title":"The Best of the Bears","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  Can you name another movie that captured the 70's generation as well as the bond of friendship with the most diverse group of kids in the world. Forget comparing this film to the original or that piece of crap Japan flick that completed the trilogy. This is an amazing film that tells a decent story, but overall gives a funny and enjoyable film that you never get tired of. Even if you hate the Bears or some of the annoying characters, its a classic because it never gets old. The characters all seem too real. Since none of the actors made it big, it adds to how real the characters in the film are. For that, possible sad reason, the film can only be seen through the eyes of the young. "},{"Title":"However, the real star of the show is Chris Barnes as Tanner Boyle","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  Call me crazy, but this is my favorite movie of the Bad News Bears movie series! The story of the Bears travelling from California to Texas for a game at the Astrodome san parental supervision might be far fetched for some to swallow, but overall the charasmatic leads of Jackie Earle Haley and William Devane make it all work. However, the real star of the show is Chris Barnes as Tanner Boyle, whatever happened to you Chris i do not know, but your portrayal of Tanner has always had me and my friends rolling on the living room floor for decades! Great to see on DVD, too bad Paramount couldn't even see fit to include even a lousy trailer! oh well, it is good to have the Bears back! "},{"Title":"Flat first sequel","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" The Bad News Bears in Breaking Training was rushed into production when the original movie quickly struck box office gold. It shows. While I wouldn't call this sequel awful, it all the same isn't a very engaging experience. Despite the departures of the Walter Matthau and Tatum O'Neal characters (whose disappearances are never explained) it could have worked. There is early promise in the scenes where the team takes charge for themselves to get to Texas. But soon things go flat. The movie lacks the hard edge of the first movie, both with humor and with delivering any messages. The subplot between the William Devane character and his son is too simplistic, and wrapped up way too quickly. And the surrounding material more often than not can be considered padding. Oh, there are some mildly amusing moments here and there, but not enough to raise this movie from being a real disappointment. "},{"Title":"Forget Buttermaker; Breaking Training is better than the first!!!","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" The first movie was great, and I can't say it wasn't, but I believe that the second one was much better. Sure, Buttermaker and Amanda were great characters, and I was sure the movie would be terrible without them, but I was completely wrong.The main plot The Bears are invited to play a game at the Houston Astrodome against the Texas Little League champs The Toros. Unfortunately, the Bears are left coach-less when their new coach quits before practice even begins! Desperate for a coach, returning all-star player Kelly Leak seeks out his estranged father, Mike. Mike agrees to coach and leads the Bears to victory, regaining his relationship with his son in the process.This movie is many things It's a guy-movie, it's a baseball movie, it's a father-son movie. If you look for all of these plots in a movie you'll find it extremely entertaining. "},{"Title":"guilty pleasure","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  Like many kids, I saw Star Wars dozens of times, but when I think back to my first movie experiences, this movie has a special place.  For us Star Wars kids, it really was one of the first movies that hinted at the great things we had to look forward to as teenagers.  Unfortunately, it doesn't hold up very well.  I still hope Chris Barnes (Tanner Boyle) will show up as an adult and rightfully claim the comedy throne left vacant by John Ritter when Three's Company went under.  Nostalgia (4 stars).  Reality (2 stars). "},{"Title":"Good but, light weighted script!","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  This was a good follow-up but, Where's Walter Matthau, Tatum O'Neal, and director Michael Ritchie? Well, Michael Pressman was an OK director but, Michael Ritchie's direction was successful in the original. They were a few changes, of the players; Engleberg, got fatter (portrayed by another unknown actor, so they can make the character even funnier), and a New Pitcher!!! He was a good one, and Tanner was seven times funner!William Devane was awesome!!! he did well od the coaching, and especially, it was a lightweighted script.**1/2 out of 4 "},{"Title":"Best in the trilogy","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  Surprising as it sounds, I thought this movie was the best of the three.  It was a combination sports movie, road movie, comedy and drama rolled into one.  The sports part was obvious, as it is about the underdog Little League baseball team California Bears going to meet the mighty Texas Toros.  The drama is in the subplot where star player and unofficial team leader Kelly Leak (Jackie Earle Haley) rejoins the team as a chance to see his estranged father (played nicely by William Devane) in Houston.  The comedy was plenty as the kids were involved in many adult situations.  All parts were mixed together quite nicely and still featured the classical music that was in evidence in the first movie. "},{"Title":"Those crazy kids!","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" First of all, I presume that if you are reading this, you probably accessed this page on purpose...which is all the more reason that I should say that The Bad News Bears Breaking Training is classic!  However, I think it's fair to say that the movie isn't conventionally perfect...far from it.  But there are a myriad of redeeming qualities in this movie.  First off...this movie has one of the best theme songs (Lookin' Good) of any movie to come from the 70's.  And any movie that can blatantly stereotype every disposition and culture (images of Mexican, black, and white Americans come to mind) and do it so humorously is a winner in my book.  "},{"Title":"This was as good as sports sequels can get","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" The Bad News Bears in Breaking Training (which should've just been called The Bad News Bears 2 takes off a year after the first one. The boys led by Kelly Leak (Jackie Earle Haley) jump into a stolen van and drive from Southern California to Houston Texas to play against the reigning Little League Baseball Champs, The Toros. I love how most of the boys returned and that it is a worthy sequel. I also like the subplot with Kelly and his father, Mike (William Devane), showing why Kelly was so bad to begin with. Things that did make me mad about this film is the disappearance of Walter Matthau and Tatum O'Neal, if they were in this film, it would've been good, and Kelly's Dad could've been the co-coach. Kelly and Tatum also could've had a little romance blossom in this one. And the only other thing I didn't like is why Timmy Lupus is in the film, but for a maximum of three minutes! But you gotta love Tanner Boyle, Ahmad Abdul Rahim, and smart whiz Ogilvie. Jimmy Baio's Carmen Ronzanni I could've did without, but he was good towards the end. I recommend this for all Bad News Bears Fans. "}{"Title":"Kelly Leak rules!","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" Hey whoah! Now I know this movie may be lacking in some eyes, but this is 1977. I was 11 years old when I saw this and I LOVED it. If you remember, the one that sucked was the one AFTER this one called The Bad News Bears go to Japan. William Dane did fine, I don't know why all the bashing? This movie was a very memorable one and to this day I still think about it and I'm downloading it as I write this. Tatum O'Neal and Mathau were probably busy or whatever but the theme sort of changed direction anyway to be geared towards Kelly Leak and his estranged father whom I will again say was played very well by William Dane. It was Kelly Leaks father for cryin' out loud, who do you want, Charlton Heston? The casting was fine, the movie was great. I can guarantee your kids (or any kid for that matter) will not give it a bad review. "},{"Title":"The second part of the Bad News Bears trilogy!","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" The Bad News Bears in Breaking Training (1977) was a notch below the first film. A couple of key players from the first film are missing (Walter Matthau and Tatum O'Neal). So the supporting cast has to pull their weight. The Bears go on a summer trip to play in the Astrodome. But they need a manger. The kids decide to leave on their own. After tricking their parents into thinking they found a manger, they hit the road. Jackie Earle Haley (co-captain of the Bears in the first film) takes over as the leader of the team. The players want a manager. So he searches for his estranged father (William Devane) to help them on their way to Houston. Will the Bears make it to the Dome on time? Can the father and son patch up their differences and work together? How do the kids travel from California to Texas? Find all that out when you watch THE BAD NEWS BEARS IN BREAKING TRAINING.A cheesy fun family film. Many of the key players from the first film reprise their roles. This film was Jackie Earle Haley's chance to shine. He was a child star during the eighties. He practically fell off of the face of the Earth until he began to show up in movies recently. Followed by The BAD NEWS BEARS GO TO JAPAN!Recommended. "},{"Title":"this is the best movie","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" this is a movie for every one it has great scenes and every thing. the casting was good if you liked the first one you'll like this the best scenes are the ones with jackie and his father and who the fight and solve things and you'll like every thing they do they try to pick up a hitchhiker they rent a hotel they play against a team in Mexican they loose but they tried their best jimmy baio is in this one and his performances great but if you miss Amanda from the first one its okay because you'll love every body's performance you'll like the good performance of their couch and every one else and you'll like how the van is colorful "},{"Title":"Tanner was such a bigot!","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  SPOILERS Tanner used epithets throughout the whole movie bashing Ahmad and Carmen, and the catcher for the Toros, who was a jerk himself. So watch for Tanner's slurs, especially in the hotel when he and Carmen fight for the bed and he says, You dumb w**! "},{"Title":"Bill Devane = uggh","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  This movie is a headache waiting to happen. Seeing these kids after the onset of puberty isn't fun or cute to watch anymore.  In fact, it's not even humane to watch this movie.Somehow, the lowly Bears are playing for the national little league championship in the glorious Houston Astrodome.  Their new coach is none other than William Devane.  The not-so-climactic game is an endless montage of bunts and Devane yelling irrelevant nonsense like Attaboy! from the 3rd-base coaching box.  I could swear Devane is looking at chicks off-camera during some scenes.The good thing about this turd (by the way, I think original BNB is the best sports movie for kids or adults) - writer Paul Brickman did this dud along with Deal Of The Century, but was allowed the chance to make his own films Risky Business and Men Don't Leave which were both great.  "},{"Title":"There's Bad....and then there is BAD !","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  How can a movie like this be made ? How come this is not an afterschool special, because it sure looks and smells like one. This stinker is so bad...so incredibly bad. Questions to ponder Why does Kelly's Dad clap like a neanderthal ? Why is Kelly Leak so cool ? Why is there a celebration scene about getting hotel rooms (what is it with these Texas movies and celebrating otherwise normal things, see Urban Cowboy review). How are the Bears the California Champs if they lost in the title game last time ? Things I love about this movie. William Devane mugging at the camera and showing off his baseball skills (in an Army jacket no less, notice he has one outfit almost the entire movie). Kelly losing control and just running...running...running from all his problems. And perhaps the best scene in the entire movie, when the team gets the hotel room with the view of the Astrodome, Harpo Marx Jr. runs into Kelly's room to tell him they can see the dome from another room, and Mr. Jackie Earle Haley in all his coolness gives him the biggest I am way too cool to be bothered by your childish excitement look. Now that is direction !but all is not lost, Willy Devane does well considering the material he has to work with, and J.E.Haley actually went on to be in '83s Losin' It, a rather funny movie and role. And we get to see the wonderful Astrodome in all its 70s glory, although Jimmy Baio nearly tanks this one and surely makes his cousin look like Anthony Hopkins. "},{"Title":"B2 The Mighty S***s","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" The subject is a reference to my review of the original (The Mighty F***s). There's no getting around it this movie SUCKS.It would have been okay if they did this as a separate movie, and it might have found a home on cable, but to piggyback it onto one of the best films of all time was a disgrace.No Matthau and O'Neal? Are they KIDDING? What made the original work was those two great actors taking a great script and making it even greater. This movie reminds me of watching the Chicago Bulls after Jordan retired and Pippen moved on; the supporting cast was fine when they were letting the two heavyweights shine, but on their own they were as bad as those Baby Bulls. Do we really need to know Kelly Leak's backstory? Bill Devane as his father was a miscast, but it was hard to notice because the entire cast stunk. The plot -- they are playing for the national little-league championship -- is also far-fetched, since the Bears were about having fun rather than winning, and you can only go so far on Kelly Leak's back.I wish I could say I remember more about the plot, but most of it was about how the Bears had to navigate their way to Texas without adult supervision (creating tons of complications whenever they needed to be of age for something), and it becomes painfully obvious in this film why Jack Earl Haley is a competent #3 guy in a movie, he is no Jordan or Pippen on the screen.Calling this movie a sequel is a bit of a stretch as well, as the characters, the plot, and the movie as a whole bears little if any resemblance to the original. Matthau is probably still turning over in his grave at what they did to this movie, and I'm sure Vic Morrow has done the same.A movie as strong as the original deserved a much better continuation than this one, and it could have been done. "},{"Title":"Bad News Bears = Bad Movie","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  There's a showbiz rule that you should never work with children or animals . Michael Jackson didn't heed this advice and now look at him , so why on earth did someone think a baseball movie featuring a bunch of kids would be a hit ? It's not just any bunch of kids , no siree it's a Jewish kid , it's a black kid , it's a really fat kid , it's small but gutsy kid etc who are all annoying as can be If they'd remained a bunch of stereotypes and cyphers it would have been bad enough but someone somewhere decided to stick the knife into the audience by casting a bunch of ( Not very good ) child actors who obviously attend a ( Not very good ) stage school . You might be interested though not shocked to know that the only actor in BAD NEWS BEARS IN BREAKING TRAINING who has had regular employment since is William Devane and he was 37 years old when this movie was released There's another problem and that's a heart tugging family sub plot where we see the crap hair style kid spouting lines like  I remember being five years old and you gave me a bike . I didn't want a bike - I wanted a father  I'm telling you what this kid really needs is some acting lessons . Something else is the suggestion that if people chant  LET THEM PLAY  at a sports arena people will get what they want . I'm sorry but we don't live in a democracy . Don't believe me ? then go to the republican party convention and chant  WE WANT JOHN McCAIN  then go to the Democrat party convention and chant  WE WANT RON KOVIC  and see what happens Add to all this mush poor directing where everything seems to be framed in medium shot and strange cinematography where primary colours dominate the screen and you've got a movie that rates two out of ten  "}]