[{"Title":"personal all-time favorite","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"142 out of 198 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For my taste, the first hour and a half of this movie is the greatest stretch of filmmaking ever.  Up until Roy and Jillian reach the dark side of the moon on Devil's Tower, this movie is perfect.  No, it's beyond perfect -- it's sublime.  It takes me to a level of bliss that no other movie can do.Many critics and viewers -- including a number on this site -- don't like this movie at all.  Those who do like it almost uniformly like the final sequence, the alien landing, the best.  For me it is the rest of the movie that is the most remarkable.  Some of my favorite sequences1.  The blinding flash of light that ends the opening credits and leads us to a sandstorm in Sonora Desert, Mexico -- Present Day, with various team leaders, Bob Balaban, and Francois Truffaut speaking three languages as they find a whole bunch of old Navy planes lost in the Bermuda Triangle and an old geezer who saw something very strange.  El sol salio a noche.  Y me canto, he keeps saying.  Translation He says the sun came out last night. He says it sang to him.  Then Balaban translates for Truffaut Il dit que le soleil etait venue ici hier soir, et qu'il chantait pour lui.  Then Balaban disappears in a cloud of dust.  The mystery created in that sequence is incredible -- the greatest opening of all time, if you ask me.  Trivia note  that sequence was the last Spielberg filmed before the movie's release.  The shooting script opens with Indianapolis Flight Control, but Spielberg decided he wanted a new opening and shot this after production had wrapped.  Supposedly this sequence was inspired by the Iraqi prologue in the Exorcist.2.  Roy's first encounter with the aliens in his power company truck -- a brilliantly conceived and edited sequence.  I love the dolly in to Roy's window as he pants in shock in the shadows, then the comedy of his reaction when the lights in the truck come back on.3.  The sky speeders disappearing into the clouds over Muncie, followed by lightning and then the lights of the city coming back on, bit by bit. Spielberg's use of miniatures here is breathtaking -- as it was in 1941 and as it is later in CE3K when the UFO believers gather again to await another encounter and the lights from the government helicopters move toward them across the plains below.4.  The entire sequence of Roy going crazy.  This was controversial with critics -- Pauline Kael, who loved the movie generally, hated Roy throwing the bushes into the kitchen -- and Spielberg actually cut the entire digging up the garden sequence from the so-called Special Edition.  To me, though, this is the absolute heart of the movie.  Ask people what they remember from CE3K and the first thing they'll say is mashed potatoes.  To my mind, the garden sequence is one of those magical moments that is so funny and so sad it's just perfect.  I believe every second of it, every time.  The reactions of the kids are perfect -- the oldest son is big enough to be angry, while the middle says, Dad, when we're finished with this can we throw dirt in my window?  (In the dinner sequence, little Sylvia has arguably the best line in a movie full of them -- I hate, I hate these potatoes.  There's a dead fly in my potatoes.  An ad lib, of course.)In recent years, Spielberg has expressed concern with the fact that Roy leaves his family to pursue the aliens, and has said that if he were to make the movie over again, he would change that part.  To my way of thinking, if you take that out, there is no movie.  What this movie is really about is Roy's obsession, and that, I think, is why it has such a hold on me personally.  This movie is about what it's like for a person whose life has lost its meaning suddenly finding there is a really important purpose, and pursuing that purpose at all costs.  Is it right for him to turn his family's life upside down and ultimately leave them behind to do that? No. But his obsession is understandable, I think, and the purpose Roy finds is something a lot of people would like to feel.  Also, it's clear that Roy is not acting entirely of his own free will -- he has been commanded subliminally to make his way to Devil's Tower.I am not aware of any other movie -- or book, or any other source, for that matter -- that portrays 70s suburban life so accurately.  The street, the house, the cars, the toys, the furniture -- it is like an archeological document.  And the way the kids act, and the family conflicts -- to my way of thinking, they are all portrayed with unerring accuracy and realism. Some have contended that Ronnie is unflatteringly portrayed, but to me that's not fair.  She can't be blamed for reacting the way she does to Roy -- many people in her shoes would.  Garr's performance is brilliant; she and Dreyfuss are magical together.  Melinda Dillon, too, is brilliant in her role.  In the shooting script, the sexual attraction between Roy and Jillian was more overt, but Spielberg wisely downplays it in the finished film. It's only hinted at, although it is there.The actual alien landing sequence, in my opinion, is a letdown.  It's brilliantly photographed and realized, but once Roy and Jillian make it to the dark side of the moon, the primary tension in the story is gone.  If I could edit this movie, I'd take a major pair of shears to the final sequence, cut it down to maybe half its current length.  I do get choked up when I see Roy in his red suit at the end of the line of astronauts, though, and Jillian wiping tears away as she clicks away with her Kodak.As with the original Star Wars, my other all-time favorite movie, I have a problem with the way this picture has been hacked and altered from its original release through various special editions.  I understand it's possible to watch the original 1977 cut on the DVD, and I'm glad of that. That original version is the best.  I first got to know this movie on ABC in the early 1980s, when it was shown with all the original and Special Edition footage edited together.  Personally, I don't think the special edition footage adds much (even the Gobi desert sequence, which is an interesting concept that was in the shooting script, stands out because it was obviously shot by a different DP and doesn't have Truffaut in it).Anyway, I will always cherish this movie.  You tell Crystal Lake we're going to candlepower in ten minutes!  Zey belong here more zan we. There's always some joker who thinks he's immune.  You can't fool us by agreeing with us.  What the hell is going on around here?  Who the hell are you people?  Ronnie, everything's fine.  All this stuff is coming down. "},{"Title":"Transforming Fear to Wonder","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"126 out of 171 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An amazing film, one of my favorites. I watch this regularly, especially at times when the reality of life is overwhelming, just to refocus and regain some sense of perspective.Everything in this film works toward one end to transform the adult sense of fear back into the childlike sense of wonder at the world. From the very opening moments of the film, designed to create confusion and startlement, this movie creates a sensation of dread and foreboding. The dissonance of the soundtrack, the juxtaposition of images, they all are working to build into the viewer a feeling that something just isn't right, that something out of the ordinary is taking place, and underscoring this all with a sense that this is something to resist, to pull away from, to not allow it to affect one's ordinary life. But as the movie progresses, the tone begins to shift, and the true intent of the film begins to peek through. This isn't about being afraid of the unknown, but rather embracing it. Paying attention to the subliminal images in life, allowing them to lead you into something unknown and perhaps dangerous, only then can one be open to wonder and experience the world through the magical eyes of a child.Dreyfuss' character takes us on this journey, met with resistance all along the way. His wife, his neighbors, his job, his community, all are working against him, and it's only when he's reached his craziest that he truly gives in and begins to stop trying to understand and instead embraces the experiences in store for him. The scientific community is seeking to understand, but without having any personal calling to be involved. Only Barry is truly able to throw himself into the strangeness that is taking place, and his enthusiasm is greeted by both the characters and the audience as somehow alien and threatening.The ending of this film, when all the fear is finally stripped away and the sense of amazed wonder overtakes everyone on the screen and in the audience, brings about an amazing catharsis. Discarding all the adult sensibilities and being able to approach life once again with a sense of innocent amazement for the Strange hidden amongst the Ordinary, one can begin again to approach life from a fresh vantage point. Powerful, mystifying, and rejuvenating. I highly recommend this film for anyone jaded with life and seeking a sense of renewal.  "},{"Title":"Aliens in Muncie make for Spielberg's Best Film Ever","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"95 out of 149 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steven Spielberg has made huge popcorn blockbusters that gross more money at the box office (i.e. Jaws, Raiders of the Lost Ark, or Jurassic Park) and are more exciting on a visceral level. As he as aged and matured as a director, he has also made movies that are more important and will hold a more solid place in the chronicles of film as an artistic document of history (i.e. Schindler's List, Saving Private Ryan, and Munich). For my money, his best film will still always be Close Encounters of the Third Kind. This film is Spielberg's humanistic and heartfelt answer to Kubrick's intellectual and cerebral look at man's first contact with life from elsewhere in the universe in his 1968 opus 2001 A Space Odyssey.Close Encounters came early on in Spielberg's career, made in 1977, and has all the hallmarks of his later films played just right before he became so self-referential. Here we have his typical bag of tricks long before they became so typical familial strife, coming to terms with something bigger than oneself that challenges the male protagonist's view of the world around him, little kids in jeopardy, superb build up of suspense, fantastic visual effects, and a memorable score from John Williams. From the first UFO sightings in Muncie, Indiana to the fantastic finale at Devil's Tower in Wyoming, this is grand entertainment. Lots of films have emulated this movie to varying degrees of success, from Robert Zemeckis' earnest Contact, to the shameful scam that was M. Night Shymalan's Signs, and even Spielberg himself recently did the dark natured flip-side to benevolent alien encounters with his remake of War of the Worlds (which makes a fantastic double-feature with this). However, nothing compares to this true original. No other film has made me want to believe in aliens more, and I'll never look at a plate of mashed potatoes the same again. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, extraordinary and beautiful.","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"68 out of 112 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watch the skies, you may see the stars move. Is it your imagination, or did it really happen. Answer to that could go both ways. Three UFOs fly past you while you are on the highway, one bright blue, the other red and blue, and the third bright orange, followed by a small red orbit tailgating it. Was this real, or just your imagination Either it was real, or you must be seeing things...Thus is among th many questions asked in the Steven Spielberg UFO classic, Close Encounters of the Third Kind a film that explores not just the possibility that we are not alone in the universe, but a film that compels us to look inside ourselves and try to find the real meaning in our lives. The story starts when lost pilots planes are being found, except that they have been lost for over thirty years! And in another part of this world, a married man, working for a cable company, experiences a close encounter of the first kind - sighting a UFO. Then, he experiences physical experiences regarding a shape and place he has never comprehending before. With a scientific expedition in pursuit, Roy Neary( Richard Dreyfuss) and a fellow close encountering Jillian Guiler(Melinda Dillon) try to find out the answer to their questions of why these strange occurrences are happening.As realistic as it could be, this film transcends the usual alien picture because it portrays the unbelievable as totally realistic and what one wouldn't expect - intelligent life is just that - intelligent, and accepting, of our world and universe. The images in this film light up the screen and make you feel like you are living a dream, with flurry images of light, making one feel warm and gentle. The locations are great too, as they go from Mongolian deserts, to farmlands, to the famous Devil's Tower in Wyoming, where the main magic happens.The characters are what really grab you. Roy Neary, the main focus, is as normal as he can be, what with working for a power company. A perfect fit in the puzzle this movie weaves. Francois Truffaut makes an almost rare appearance in a much bigger role than usual, as an astronaut that is just as fascinated with these happenings as the rest of the civilians. All characters are credible and you just learn to love 'em. The story lines (including family values, what is more important in one's life, and what the ultimate experience in heaven is) are as empathetic as it can get. John Williams scores a masterpiece with a score that touches all the senses in our subconscious and takes us on a journey with the characters, but on a journey within ourselves, as does the movie, and in the end, you feel refreshed and ready to take on your troubles and strife.The matter of which version is which is a real conversation piece. As the original theatrical version is VERY rarely seen, one suspects, based on many reviews, that the 1980 re - release is a much better film. But this should not hinder any viewings of this spectacular film. Spielberg, get back to these kinds of films! "},{"Title":"Close Encounters Of The Incomprehensible Kind","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"47 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadThis movie, besides being dreadfully boring, suffers from two bizarre assumptions. One, that advanced beings are less aware of how their actions effect more primitive forms. Two, that their forms of organizing knowledge are identical with our own. The first is also found in THE MOTIONLESS PICTURE, they cannot tell scans from weapons attacks, though we, the primitives can. Here, they burn faces, terrorize a single mom, almost burn her house down and abduct her little boy. We are supposed to believe that they are that advanced and are oblivious to the consequences, moral and scientific, of their behavior. The deduction is unavoidable either they are 1. malevolent or 2. Retarded. On earth, it is an empirical fact that the higher up the chain of mammal life we go, the greater the awareness of our actions on other creatures, not less. Here, as in the MOTIONLESS PICTURE, they tool about kidnapping children, burning faces, planting the image of the Devil's Tower in monkey boys heads which tortures them and causes them to freak out and go bananas. Does this sound like benevolent aliens to you?The second one we see in the last half hour of the movie. As in CONTACT, where we hear Ellie tells us that math is the only truly universal language. What is the evidence for that assertion? Kant shows us that the forms of unifying the phenomenal into categories like causation, plurality are simply our ways of making sense of the phenomenal world and have not reality outside of our minds. Why would we assume their minds work like ours? Notice that imitation is not communication. No communication occurs in this movie only we play back and they play back. Nothing more than if we played Little Deuce Coupe to them and they played it back to us. What happened? nothing but mindless mimic behavior. The same with the silly hand gestures, what just took place?Beyond these subtleties, the movie is one of the most boring pieces of crap you will ever endure. The effects have not aged well; as one great reviewer wrote, they do look like lighted ice cream cones. You will not enjoy watching Roy and his family come apart; or Roy turning the living room into a mud room, literally. It is an ugly, boring film. Seeing the little boy and his mother terrorized and then the little boy abducted, sorry, these actions do not bespeak benign, kind aliens. Forgive me, it came out after STAR WARS and it was so apparent to us, at the time, it was an attempt to cash in on that movie. It is just different enough but you get the point. Ironically, Carpenter did the same thing to Steven with STARMAN right after E.T. The movie is not esoteric it is absurd and incomprehensible deliberately I believe. Q.E.D. "},{"Title":"Spielberg's most overrated film.","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"53 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  * 1/2 star out of ****Keep in mind Steven Spielberg is my all-time favorite director.  I love so many of his works, whether it's powerful drama (Saving Private Ryan, Schindler's List, Amistad) or fun escapist action films (the Indiana Jones films).  But with Close Encounters of the Third Kind, I was hugely dismayed by how dull, plodding, predictable, and outright stupid this film was. The fact is, the film contains so many annoying little flaws that all combine to bring the whole thing down.  Probably the most damaging aspect is the predictability of the story.  It takes 2 hours for the film to get to where I knew it was headed, and the resolution was most definitely not worth it.Richard Dreyfuss (who you'll probably confuse with Bob Balaban because of their similar looks), who is a decent actor in his own right, is disappointing as Roy Neary, whose character is so crazy and unlikeable, the experience of watching the film becomes numb.  The fact that he decides (spoiler) to leave his family behind to go with the aliens is unbelievable, nowhere near as convincing as Jodie Foster's and Gary Sinise's decisions to explore the stars in their respective sci-fi dramas, Contact and Mission to Mars, two vastly superior films.Close Encounters also suffers from some rhythmless pacing.  Everything moves slowly, and nothing really interesting occurs.  Granted, the finale is a visual treat, and the aliens do look realistic, but it's surprisingly dissatisfying.  There's nothing here truly worth watching.The script, written by Spielberg himself, isn't particularly compelling.  The dialogue is a little weak, the character development misfires, and attempts to inspire a sense of awe are smothered by some really odd music from John Wiliams (a contrast to the brilliant scores of Alan Silvestri and Ennio Morricone in, once again, Contact and Mission to Mars).  Talk about a time when this film could have used one of those two composers or James Horner instead. "},{"Title":"Spielberg Takes You Into A Realm Beyond the Known","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"72 out of 132 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  	Strange things are happening around the world; things that challenge the imagination and open the mind to possibilities almost beyond imagining.  Things that only director Steven Spielberg can explain, which he does in his monumental epic of man's encounter with alien life, `Close Encounters of the Third Kind.'  Planes lost in WWII suddenly appear in a Mexican desert; a long lost ship turns up in the middle of the Gobi Desert; and in Dharmsala, Northern India, hundreds of people are gathered together, singing--a short `tune' that consists of a mere five notes, over and over, repeatedly.  When they are asked where they heard this tune, the throng, as one, dramatically thrust their hands into the air and point to the sky.  And, indeed, in the skies all around the world, strange things are happening.And even as these events are transpiring, one evening in Muncie, Indiana, the city is suddenly blacked out by an inexplicable power outage.  Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) is at home when it hits, and he is called in by the power company for which he works, then sent out in the darkness to an unfamiliar location.  Lost, he sits in his pick-up truck at a railroad crossing, studying a map, when all at once he notices a `disturbance' around him.  Mailboxes along the side of the road are clanging open and shut by themselves; then things inside his truck begin to move, subtly at first, then erupting and flying about as if caught up in a tornado--and then just as suddenly his truck is engulfed in a blinding light.  He leans out the window for a look, but it's too bright and he has to pull back.  Then just as abruptly, it all stops-- the disturbance, the light-- everything.  And he looks out the window again; but this time he sees something.  And though he doesn't realize it at the time, at that moment, his life changed forever.In this wonderfully realized, highly imaginative film that is extremely well crafted and presented by Spielberg, he takes you along with Roy in the days that follow that strange occurrence in Muncie.  Roy becomes lost in thought, drifting, unable to focus on anything, much to the consternation of his wife, Ronnie (Teri Garr).  But he can't help himself; something-- an image-- has begun to form in his mind.  He has no idea what it is or what it means, but it becomes an obsession, and slowly it begins to take shape  First in a handful of shaving cream, then in a plate of mashed potatoes, which he piles up and begins to sculpt with his fork, while Ronnie and his kids look on in bewilderment.  But he can see it in his mind, and it's like a mountain-- a mountain shaped like a `tower.'  And Roy isn't the only one.  Around the world, others are being drawn to the same image in their minds, and it's a force that compels them, pushing them on to find whatever it is, a power so strong in cannot be denied or refused.  They know only one thing  Whatever it is, it's important, and they have no choice but to follow where it may lead.  And it becomes a great adventure, one in which they discover what Man has long suspected  We are not alone.Richard Dreyfuss is perfectly cast as Neary, a regular guy-- he could be your neighbor or the man who comes to install your phone-- and gives a thoroughly convincing, introspective performance while creating a character with whom it is easy to relate and through whom you are able to share this unique adventure.  Garr does a good job, as well, as Ronnie, the wife concerned with her husband's sudden and seemingly bizarre behavior, someone with whom you can certainly sympathize.  Dillon delivers, too, as the single mother who suddenly finds herself caught up in these inexplicable and extraordinary events, and also turning in a memorable performance is the young Cary Guffey, as Barry, Jillian's son, who makes his own connection with the other-worldly visitors. The supporting cast includes Francois Truffaut (Lacombe), Bob Balaban (Laughlin) and Lance Henriksen (Robert).  An uplifting, positive motion picture, `Close Encounters of the Third Kind' is thoroughly entertaining, as well as thought provoking.  Spielberg draws you in as few filmmakers can, with a great story and with characters who are readily accessible and with whom it is easy to identify-- all of which adds up to an absorbing, memorable and enjoyable experience, and a perfect example of the real magic of the movies.  I rate this one 10/10. "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"25 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I saw this first in the theatre I was blown away. It affected me profoundly. I thought the whole concept was fresh and new, the family strife, the yearning for and then actively seeking a higher concept for one's life, the mental breakdown of the main character as he tries to visualize what's inside his head messages from alien beings.Richard Dreyfus, Francois Truffaut, Teri Garr, Melinda Dillon, all perfectly cast. Along with Cary, the child actor who is brilliant.As a microcosm of life in the seventies, the film is amazingly evocative, the perfect young family suburb, the children, the stay at home wife, the backyard barbecues. The husband who is a dreamer and when he starts to act it out, shatters this perfect home life.Then the action moves to the mountain where the aliens are preparing to land. This scene got me in the theatre and gets me now. It is highly emotional. The music, the lights, the response of the mother ship. Highly charged cinematic moments.However, and it is a big one. The transition of Richard Dreyfuss's character is far too sudden, he turns his back on children he obviously adores without any reflection whatsoever. How on earth would they survive in a seventies world without his income? Also Bob Balaban and Richard Dreyfuss are almost twin like in appearance and I kept getting them mixed up.Francois Truffaut gave a fine performance as did many of the minor players. And the special affects - way before modern CGI - are breathtaking for their time.Sometimes one is better leaving a movie seen in a theatre on its release exactly there a one time viewing only. Seeing it for a second time removes the wonder and awe of that first viewing.I would have given it a 9 the first time, this time a 6 so I calculated a 7 out of 10 to be fair. "},{"Title":"Snore Factor 10/10","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hated it when it came out, still feel the same. Pure fantasy, not to be confused with real science fiction. The Burbs of UFO movies. Hard to take this one seriously. And with all due apologies to Mr.Spielberg, who has made a number of great movies, but this ain't one of em'. There's nothing compelling, or intriguing about this flick and it's quite silly actually. I doubt that was the intent. Impossible to muster any sympathy for Richard Dreyfuss' character. He appeared to be having a little too much fun with his obsession. Either that or he was warming up for his part in What About Bob. Melinda Dillon was quite good though in a contrasting role. And (spoiler alert) please people, escaping from the grasp of the military on a top secret installation and actually allowed to get away so they can take a peek at that horrible giant Fisher-Price synthesizer and watch the pretty UFO's dart about all dressed up in their finest Christmas season trim! I don't think so. If you're ever out in Vegas, take a run up to Groom Lake where you will likely be greeted very rudely if you trespass the signs that read Lethal Force Authorized. That basically means shoot first and ask questions later. Good alternative to Disney for the kiddies. 4/10  "},{"Title":"Another Memorable Spielberg Hit From the '70s","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"44 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is probably considered a classic by now, along with a few other 1970s Steven Spielberg movies. At the time of its release almost 30 years ago, the special-effects in here were astounding to view....and still hold up! They are still fun to watch.The scenes in the beginning of this movie and at the end, are indelibly imprinted in my memory cells as well as millions of others. Who can ever forget that opening scene in the farmhouse when the little boy (Gary Guffey) is kidnapped or that ending with the gigantic spacecraft hovering over Devil's Hole in Wyoming, or the sound sequences emitted by the scientists trying to communicate with the aliens? There are many, many memorable scenes in this film - probably its biggest attribute.To me, the only uncomfortable scene is the yelling match with Richard Dreyfuss and his family. The only message I didn't care for also involved Dreyfuss' character, who is envied at the end. Funny, I don't see a man who thoughtlessly leaves his family beyond as someone to be envied. Overall Dreyfuss looked more like a Doofus in here.There are other credibility problems in here, too, but overall it's extremely interesting storytelling, great colors and special-effects and just about everything that director Steve Spielberg is noted for in his successful box-office films which translates to one crucial factor entertainment. "}{"Title":"Close Encounters... of the worst kind (contains spoilers)","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love Steven's movies and brought this for £3 at the store today, simply because his name was attached to it and figured hey if it's not great, it'll at least be fun... unfortunately I was wrong.Me and my fiancée sat watching it, but the film never really seems to grip you in any shape or form. I really enjoyed the character development in the film, showing excellent emotion and the lead character was quite amusing with his crazy moments.My disappointment was down to the fact we were never really given anything to sink our teeth into... then the ending resulting in a bunch of song playing between ships and a keyboard with little lights?.... then more ships come to play a song... followed by a really BIG ship who out plays the musician..... it just seemed something and a whole lot of nothing in the end.They fly light years to return a bunch of people and old planes, to kidnap a child for a couple of days and then take a guy, breaking his family up on the sole purpose of seeing some lights and hearing them play five keys of music? The end?....Now I'm not bashing those who like it and don't want a flame war on here, at the end of the day it's just my opinion, but it really felt like two hours of nothing, with the opening ten minutes being the best part of the movie. A real shame as the opening ten mins seemed to be building up to an interesting movie. "},{"Title":"A terrific movie about alien contact.","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"43 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters Of The Third Kind is a film about aliens landing on earth, but instead of descending into the usual laser-gun confrontations between humans and aliens, this one dares to remain peaceful. It is a film about contact, not conflict. It is also a wonderfully thoughtful film and a prime example of compelling story-telling. If there is a weakness with Close Encounters Of The Third Kind, it is that the director Steven Spielberg occasionally allows sentimentality to enter into the proceedings, but in truth it is a very minor weakness and it doesn't significantly spoil this tremendous movie experience.Several missing aircraft turn up over 30 years after they were reported lost. More baffling still is the fact that they vanished over Florida but have turned up, in pristine condition and without pilots, in the middle of Mexico. Other weird things happen an aeroplane pilot reports a near collision with a brightly lit spacecraft; a Navy warship missing for decades is found in the desert; thousands of Indians report a light in the sky which sang to them; and across America there are scores of inexplicable UFO sightings. Electrician Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) is a normal family man who sees one of the UFOs. Soon after, he is tormented by a vision apparently implanted in his mind by the aliens. His torment becomes obsession as he tries to figure out the meaning of a hill-like shape that has become embedded in his mind. As his marriage collapses, he desperately tries to find answers and is finally gratified when he discovers that the picture in his head is trying to tell him where to go in order to witness an extra terrestrial landing.The fact that Roy Neary is just an everyday guy cast into the most incredible of circumstances gives this film a real human dimension. Roy could represent any one of us - you, me, your next door neighbour, your father, whoever. Spielberg tells his story very carefully, adding clues and more layers of mystery before actually revealing where the story is heading. It is probably the most controlled and skillfully paced of Spielberg's '70s films. The ending, featuring the alien arrival, is a technical tour-de-force, but it works well on an emotional level too because the viewer has grown to know Roy and has been drawn into his quest for answers. John Williams provides yet another legendary music score - including an iconic five-note tune which the aliens and humans use to communicate with each other. Close Encounters Of The Third Kind is a classic sci-fi film, as fresh and absorbing now as it was back in 1977. "},{"Title":"Strong emotional core that avoids Rockwell-esque sentimentality","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"24 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When the whole area suffers a full blackout, electrician Roy Neary is called out to service some poles suspected of being down.  Sitting in his truck trying to find directions he is suddenly caught in a bright light and the electric's on his truck fail.  Shortly it passes and he sees a craft pass overhead.  At the same time nearby a woman pursues her young son who has wandered out in search of the lights that have been calling to him.  Both adults are left wanting to know the truth and filled with half-ideas and images that haunt them &#150; when Gillian Guiler son is taken, this becomes even more important to them.  Meanwhile the military, led by investigator Claude Lacombe uncover planes and ships that have been missing for decades and uncover hidden codes and signals in the mysterious crafts.I am currently ploughing my way through Speilberg's Taken on BBC2 so I thought I'd give this classic another view just to remind myself how good Speilberg and aliens can be.  The plot is perfect for any UFO nut &#150; the government are behind everything and know of everything.  The story unfolds really well &#150; the three main stories complimenting each other and giving the film a sense of pace.  The strand with Lacombe following events all round the globe is the least personal (and thus least involving) but it is enticing us for the climax of the film.  Neary's soul searching maybe does go on a little too long but the emotion in the family situation is intense and his frustration and sense of confusion is very real.  Although the thrid strand has less screen time the abduction of the child is a powerful scene and the emotion is well brought out.The special effects are very good but the glue of the film is the emotional telling.  This is Speilberg doing well &#150; he never really gives into his American Apple Pie style sentimentality and the film keeps moving along and has a real emotional heart to it.  The climax of the movie always sort of messes me up and I find it best not to question it's logic on any level for fear of holes opening up all over it &#150; but it does have a sense of childlike wonder to it, which I guess Speilberg was trying to get across.As usual Dreyfuss does well under Speilberg and he is mostly responsible for keeping the emotion in his character realistic without being all syrupy and sickly.  Truffaut is OK but it's impossible to see him as anyone but Francis Truffaut and his character suffers as a result.  Garr and Dillon are both strong female characters for different reasons and the support cast are generally very good (including a good handful of the Dreyfuss family).Overall this film never gets me as one of the greatest sci-fi's of all time, but it is certainly a very good film that takes `real' people as it's driver and not flashy effect shots.  That `Taken' seems to be slipping into Norman Rockwell type mawkishness is good enough reason to revisit CE3K. "},{"Title":"Sucks","Date":"14 July 2012","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I would rather watch a porno starring my mother than this film. It is completely uneventful and all around terrible. After hearing good things about this film I am completely disappointed. The plot seems like it is building for an eventful action but nothing happens. Everything that does could be predicted by a monkey. Do not expect any twists and turns or you will be disappointed. By looking at the cover art of the DVD you can guess the plot. The entire plot of the movie is aliens come to earth and people go to see them. There is no resolution of the plot. The plot is merely a happening that leaves you hanging. This movie completely lacks any humor or action. I can think of no reason why anyone would enjoy this film. Save yourself and do not watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Spielberg Directs Star Bores","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"30 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This came close to breaking box office records when it was released in 1977 but for the life of me I have no idea why . I disliked this movie upon seeing on its British television premiere one Christmas ( In those days the only time you'd get to see a good movie on television was at Christmas or Easter ) in the early 1980s and after seeing it again earlier today I now know why I disliked it - It was directed by Steven Spielberg I'm sorry to be a heretic but has there ever been a more overrated director ? With CLOSE ENCOUNTERS we see all the flaws of Spielberg's work 1 ) Shot duration - Notice how the camera stays locked onto a scene ? Take for example a scene early in the film where the Neary family make small talk ? There's no inter cutting in the scene as the camera holds still for a couple of minutes . I may be wrong but it might in fact be shorter than a couple of minutes but feels far longer . There doesn't seem to be a single scene in the whole movie that doesn't suffer from this flaw which means the entire film feels painfully longer than it actually is . To give you an idea of how bad this is cast your mind back to the first time you saw the special edition . Didn't you ask yourself if there was any difference between the original and special editions ? I know I did , and compare the special edition of CLOSE ENCOUNTERS to the special edition of ALIENS or the extended releases of LORD OF THE RINGS and you'll realise the original version of CLOSE ENCOUNTERS is a very badly edited movie that suffers from overlong shot duration and most of Spielberg's other movies , especially AI , suffer from this directorial flaw 2 ) The score - I can understand Spielberg rehiring John Williams after the superb work the composer did with JAWS but if he did such a good job with JAWS why did Spielberg allow him to get away with a mediocre score here ? The alien spaceship theme is memorable but the other music in the film is very irritating because despite being intrusive it fails to convey what the audience should be feeling and eventually sounds like an orchestral dirge . It's also interesting to note that while Hans Zimmer and Howard Shore are head and shoulders above Williams as a composer Spielberg still continues to hire him for every film he directs and I've no idea why . This movie should have ended the partnership 3 ) Mawkish family sentiment - Being a Spielberg movie means we have to endure American apple pie family scenes and my god it's an endurance . Living in Scotland I fail to connect with these middle American families but I guess if you live in middle America you'd probably fail to recognise these type of characters also . I notice Spielberg's latest release WAR OF THE WORLDS has shoehorned an American family into the narrative when the original novel worked well enough without an American dad and daughter Sorry if you're reading this Steven , I hope this criticism hasn't ruined my career as a Hollywood screenwriter and I realise that it's not entirely your fault since a movie about benign aliens isn't going to impress a lot of critics so lets blame the producers . I mean we see people being abducted by alien spaceships which was the premise of UFO . Despite the overall flaws of that Gerry Anderson series the idea of aliens abducting humans so they can steal their organs is a scary and compelling idea . Unfortunately there's no such horrible goings on here as we're treated to a happy ending . Likewise the government conspiracies of keeping alien contacts secret is very twee after seeing numerous episodes of THE X FILES , in this movie nosy people don't meet a violent death at the hands of government spooks Can you imagine how much better this film might have been if it had been produced as UFO meets THE X FILES ? In fact it'd probably have increased Spielberg's standing amongst a lot of people including myself . But as it stands I think this movie is summed up best as STAR BORES "},{"Title":"Overrated, disappointing sci-fi film that has become fondly remembered over the years...but why?","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"67 out of 129 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Steven Spielberg's Close Encounters of the Third Kind (1977) is a genuinely silly, unfortunately outdated story. Its epic scope made it one of the highest-grossing films of 1977, nominated for two Academy Awards ® (it lost Best Visual Effects to George Lucas' Star Wars). Now, 27 years later, it just seems goofy and sickeningly sweet.Spielberg adds a schmaltzy layer to most of his films that set his projects apart from the work of other directors. Arguably the most famous filmmaker since Hitchcock (in terms of public recognition), Spielberg is responsible for some of the greatest films ever made. Most critics consider E.T. and Close Encounters of the Third Kind &#150; both films that deal with extra-terrestrial life &#150; to be some of his finest. For me, they are both rather disappointing. And unbearably sugar coated.So, what is the primary problem with Close Encounters? Is it a bad movie? No, not really. But it's not a particularly memorable one, either. Apart from a few so-called classic sequences (the boy opening the door, the mashed potatoes, the alien arrival), the movie fails to spark much interest. Most of it &#150; to be completely blunt &#150; is quite stupid. Spielberg admits on the Special Edition DVD that he finds Close Encounters a bit too optimistic and unrealistic. When Spielberg made this movie, he believed in extra-terrestrial life, and was a young man with no children. In retrospect, Spielberg claims that the movie is a perfect snapshot of his youth, but as an adult, he would never make the movie the same way he did in '77.One of the largest flaws is the fact that Roy Neary (played by Richard Dreyfuss fresh off the success of Spielberg's 1975 smash hit JAWS) abandons his own family (wife and children) to embark on a crazy search for extra-terrestrial life. In a matter of thirty minutes of screen time he has packed up, traveled to Wyoming, broken past blocked off roads, found a new romantic interest, and by the end...well...let's just say that the conclusion is rather shameful on Spielberg's behalf. It is quite evident that he had no firm grasp of moral obligation in '77, and Roy's climactic decision is wholly unbelievable.Then again, most of the film is like that, too.Neary is an electrician who experiences a close encounter one night when a UFO seems to attack his car, and then flies off into the distance. Roy soon struggles with confusing mental images that have mysteriously implanted into his brain. Hounded by the smart Dr. Lacombe (French director Francois Truffaut in his acting debut), Roy soon realizes that the extra-terrestrials plan to land on earth &#150; and he wants to be there, to see it all.Roy's evolution is too fast &#150; in a matter of what seem to be few days he has turned into a complete loon, and because of Spielberg's lack of character arc, the sudden change is startling and &#150; worst of all &#150; cold. We lose all sense of empathy for Roy, primarily because we do not experience his pain &#150; we see him suffering, sure, and moping around like a cry baby, as his son names him. But this happens so fast that we are left wanting more.The movie's conclusion &#150; which lasts over forty minutes long &#150; is the most exciting part, but the abrupt change of pace (from being a slow-moving charming family film about close encounters to an oddball chase movie about the government covering up a dangerous conspiracy and hunting down escaped witnesses) hinders the lasting impact. Spielberg is constantly trying to find a groove for his movie, and never really finds one to stay the course.Then, there's the long-awaited alien introduction (which lasts over twenty minutes long). Most people flocked to the theaters in order to see this sequence &#150; the special effects showcase of the year. This is proven by the fact that Spielberg purposely draws out the scene for such a lengthy period of time. Then, audiences savored the F/X because they were the best since Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey (even the trailer advertisements claimed this was so, in order to entice viewers). Now, they're outdated, by almost all standards of special effects. Watching them for twenty minutes becomes tiring.And of course, the annoying musical conversation between man and alien comes next &#150; something else that only makes the film more grating so many years later. It's so '70s! someone once said. I agree. (Many great masterpieces were made during the 1970s, but most people forget how many downright cheesy, forgettable movies were made, too.)Close Encounters of the Third Kind simply does not hold up after 27 years, which is quite unfortunate. The F/X are shoddy, the ideas are insane, the movie is long and boring, and the direction and acting are about the only two things that approach greatness. Spielberg shows talent behind the camera here, but it is vastly inferior to JAWS. Even John Williams' score fails to leave the same impact as JAWS, Jurassic Park, etc.Produced during a slew of happy alien movies (followed by another slew of mean alien movies during the '80s after Ridley Scott's Alien in 1979),  Close Encounters is at times amusing, annoying, fast, long, and silly, all at once. The nation needed hope during the '70s, and they turned to the skies. Spielberg answered their calls, with a movie that set records, but is now nothing but a forgettable tale. Many will disagree with me when I say that Close Encounters of the Third Kind is an overrated, disappointing motion picture with few redeeming qualities. The harsh feedback should be interesting.2.5/5 "},{"Title":"Space Aliens Kidnapped My Baby!","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"20 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Space aliens invade Indiana and kidnap a three-year-old! It is not clear why the power goes out and household appliances go berserk when the aliens approach. It's also not explained why those who have seen the alien ship suddenly become obsessed with a mountain they have never seen. In fact, there is no rhyme or reason to anything that goes on in this unbelievably stupid film. Spielberg has made a few turkeys in his career but this is surely his worst. His script is totally nonsensical and becomes increasingly tedious before reaching an utterly ridiculous ending. It turns out the space aliens are star babies from Kubrick's 2001, except that they have now become creepy toddlers. "},{"Title":"Great sci-fi","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"27 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters of the Third Kind is the story about a man who has a close encounter with aliens. However, no one seems to believe that it really happened except a woman who's son was abducted. They both have a similar vision apparently put in their minds by the aliens, and they set off together to go meet up with the aliens one more time.I've never been a huge Spielberg fan. Sure, he's made some good movies, but I just never saw anything real great about most of his movies. That is, until I saw Close Encounters of the Third Kind. This movie had me so entranced in the story that the 2 hours and 15 minutes flew by. I'm not even a big sci-fi type of guy. The cinematography, acting, music score, and directing are all top-notch. The special effects, although obviously sub-par by today's standards, were phenomenal when released in 1977 and is still good enough to not make the movie look cheesy by today's standards. "},{"Title":"Slow Encounters Of The Worst Kind","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters Of The Third Kind is so terrible in so many ways that I'm at a loss as to where I even begin....For starters very little happens in the film; now I'm not someone who has ADHD who needs explosions and car chases every two minutes in order to keep my interest in a film, but if you're going to set up a film in a slow burning way then it's always a good idea to make the characters interesting or give your audience something to care about. Seven Samurai is a good example of a film that is slow, but in that film the viewer is rewarded for their patience by a spectacular closing act. No such luck here. The first 90 minutes revolve around spaceships flying around we then have Dreyfuss and his family squabbling and arguing - all this isn't helped by the fact that none of them have a shred of likability about them. As the mother, Teri Garr was particularly grating and her overacting became mildly irritating. Likewise, the kids were annoying as well and the family melodrama that we witness for the majority of the running time gave me a mild headache.I think the worst thing about this film is that Spielberg somehow manages to make this family unfriendly; younger viewers will be more forgiving than an adult audience and won't look for things such as poor character development, plot holes etc. Kids will just want the film to be fun and exciting and the problem here is that Close Encounters is neither. I can imagine kids saying 'Mummy, Daddy, when's this going to get going?' 'When is something going to happen?' Then mummy and daddy are going to be forced to apologize for wasting 2 hours of their children's time when they realise that it doesn't get going and that nothing happens. I can honestly imagine this film causing a family row.Close Encounters is a terrible film and I can only assume that the high ratings have been awarded by Spielberg devotees - you know the sort of people who refuse to accept that he's capable of making a bad film. I, for one, would class myself as a Spielberg fan and have loved several of this films including Schindler's list, the first 3 Indiana Jones films, Jaws, Duel. However, I am prepared to accept that he does misfire on occasions by making boring films such as this and Empire Of The Sun. If you must watch a Spielberg film that involves an extra terrestrial encounter then you'd be better off watching ET. "},{"Title":"Spellbound and groundbreaking classic science fiction picture by the great Steven Spielberg","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's a clever sci-fi in which our protagonist (Richard Dreyfuss) isn't the typical nutty scientific , but an ordinary man who causes a rift with his wife (Teri Garr) and works in a local electrify company . Dreyfuss and a mother (Melinda Dillon) whose son (Cary Guffey) is abducted , contact an UFO mystery which leads to a location where rare events are happening . Dreyfuss is excellent confronting mysteries and bizarre problems that achieves ultimately resolve .This phenomenal Sci-Fi packs thrills , emotion , suspense and wonderful frames . Impressive images continue in crescendo until the riveting finishing , a long twenty-minutes sequence that is really imposing . Sympathetic performances from the main cast , such as Richard Dreyfuss , Gary Guffey and Melinda Dillon . Cary Guffey's acting was so good that they only ever had to do one or two takes of each shot he was in . He became known as One-Take Cary on the set, and Steven Spielberg had a t-shirt printed up for him with the phrase written on it . Stanley Kubrick was so impressed by Cary Guffey's performance that he wanted him for the role of Danny Torrence in The shinning (1980) . The picture obtained Academy Award for the rousing cinematography (Vilmos Zsigmond and cameramen William A. Fraker and Douglas Slocombe), Sound effects and was nominated  support actress (Melinda Dillon), music score (John Williams )and other technicians Oscars . Extraordinary soundtrack by maestro composer John Williams ; the iconic five-note melody was a chance arrangement that both John Williams and Steven Spielberg happened to like out of hundreds of different permutations . Fascinating especial effects were realized by specialists as Douglas Trumbull , Richard Yuricich and Dennis Muren . Filming was realized with rigid security rules , circumstances that originated an enormous interest when it was exhibited in 1977 Christmas . Spielberg admired to Francois Truffaut and contracted him to play an important role as a scientific along with Bob Balaban . Truffaut saw as Spielberg directed very fine to children and suggested him that he would make one film featured for them and he subsequently made E.T. Steven Spielberg has stated that absolutely nothing in his life has been more difficult than editing the final 25 minutes of Close Encounters of the Third Kind . This enchanting movie , magnificently written by Spielberg , contains his usual references to Pinocho (Carlo Collodi) , his preferred book . Rating  Awesome , above average. "}{"Title":"Spielberg's worst movie ever","Date":"8 February 2012","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" After reading all the positive reviews and seeing the 95% this movie received on Rotten Tomatoes, I decided to check it out. The movie was a huge disappointment. The movie progresses at a snail's pace and by the time you get to the big encounter, audiences are bored out of their minds and wish this crap just ended. The story is so poorly written with no emotion or character development. It felt like an amateur wrote this movie. The movie was well directed but that's it. I expected a deeper story from Spielberg. This movie feltso one dimensional with no depth. It also has more music than dialogue which is never good. You can't even say this movie really had a story since it feels completely pointless without any meaning. I was hoping that the aliens would just destroy the entire planet and this film so no one has to waste 2 hours of their life. I felt empty after watching this film and did not get the same emotion from similar films such as E.T. "},{"Title":"The Third Narrative","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers Herein.I give Speilberg little credit, even claim that he has taken us several steps backward in how we use our visual imagination. And for that he deserves distain. But he was not always excessively vulgar, visually lowbrow. Before `ET,' he did some strongly visual work and he tried hard to work in an intelligent way. This film is his most purely visual. You can watch it entirely with no sound, or if you are clever, with music but no dialog. It is not well framed. It does not do anything interesting with the camera eye. It does not invent a style, or innovate in any way. But it does read visually. And it does paint effectively with light. Today after 25 years, that use of light still shines.This film is also his experimentation with exposure to great thinkers in film. The film itself doesn't have any great ideas, but you can see Speilberg's striving. He casts Truffault in the role of the representative of the human race, the one man who knows more than anyone else. For those who don't know, Truffault was possibly the most articulate person ever in the film world he weaves so compelling a story that after a career as a critic he launched the `new wave,' a notion that is all intellectual force but completely devoid of ideas. Pairing him with Balaban is symbolic. He (with his dad) is one of the intellectuals of Hollywood. Speilberg was also able to enlist Attenborough's help for the Indian scenes. (Attenborough was filming `Ghandi.') Attenborough was also considered a fulcrum of thought in Hollywood. Paul Schrader wrote the script, the man at the time with the most visual writing style.Schrader's first script focused on the idea that visions create themselves with the obvious extra level that films and everything in them are invented by the viewers. Thousands or millions of people simultaneously converge on a single meme (here a musical theme or a landscape feature or the very notion of `others') and bring it into existence. When talking about film, this is an idea expressed by Schrader, Truffault, Balaban and Attenborough. Framing it in terms of UFOs is a brilliant conceit. Unfortunately, Speilberg tarted it up along the way, but that sort of proves the point doesn't it?I believe that films invent the collective imagination, so it is no surprise that after this appeared the details of UFO sightings changed to conform. Just as shark attacks, both real and imagined, greatly increased after `Jaws.'As the vision itself, one is tempted to contrast this with `Contact,' `2001' and `Mission to Mars.' `Contact' was wonderless, and lacked a center -- either visual or philosophical -- but had a clever machine. `M2M' had a much more intelligent eye (the audience becomes god), a more elaborate encounter, and better attention to consistent art design. Same with `2001.' The difference between the two is in what god they invest. Kubrick invests in a god of space (not outer space) so infuses his film with environmental causality. This is what dePalma does more directly with the eye that makes things happen. Either is vastly more intelligent than what Speilberg can do, but not what he set out to do here.  "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like Richard Dryfuss as a type of actor. But I cannot tell what has ridden him to be a part of this film. This film is absolutely ridiculous. It is perhaps something to entertain children whom You tell something about the man in the moon. If Spielberg tried to make something to be taken serious he failed totally - in my eyes (he will come over it). He had a fantasy and he made a film out of it and interestingly enough many spectators seem to have the same kind of dream in the US, not so much in Europe. It is not a sophisticated dream to say the least. Supposed that aliens like the aliens in this film came to land in my garden I would start to laugh and could never end it. How would the aliens react, fly away peeved and demoralized? These bloody immature humans! I am sorry that I am so uncultivated! Spielberg has either a childish character or a good sense for business - perhaps both. There is nothing to be criticized for making childish fairy tale movies, except if anybody starts to take it serious. The idea of aliens who try to contact with humans, developed in this way is not too bad, but how its was put into practice, is just nonsense. Ah look the aliens, how cute they are! Nice people, let us shake hands with them! Peace, joy and egg-cake! I am anxious that aliens will not visit our Earth as long as we make films like that - sorry, as long as here are humorless people like me! "},{"Title":"poorly made, painfully slow, Spielberg's greatest failure","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While I do respect Spielberg's talent in certain (but not all) of his later films, he had a rough start in his directing career.The cinematography is mediocre at best.  It is filmed in a very plain and standard fashion.  The camera rarely moves except for the most basic following takes.  Most of the takes are framed in the same bland manner. The camera is never used in a creative way.  You get the impression Spielberg just set up a camera, about head height, said 'go', and let the actors do their thing, rather than paying attention to how he was portraying his scenes.The acting nothing special.  Emotionless government workers, unconvincing family tension, weakly portrayed feelings of wonder and amazement.  The motivation of the characters is rarely visible through their expressions or voices.The plot was thread-bare and predictable.  I never once felt that the main characters' would fail on their mission, or wondered what I would see at the end.  Rarely have I seen a movie take so long to tell so little.  The movie has an annoying habit of constantly pretending as if it were building up to something, and leaving you wondering whether anything dramatic will actually happen.  There are few explanations of the events, apparently for the failed goal of making the film 'mysterious'.The dialog was stiff and agonizingly cliche.  The scripting bears the shallow markings of the other films which Spielberg helped write.The effect were embarrassing.  Nearly every effect relied on simple red and blue lights.  In some scenes the only effect was a red light shining through a window or a grate.  The UFOs were nothing more than red, blue and sometimes white (how alien) light bulbs dangling on strings.  Sometimes two at a time, sometimes in threes.  The grand finale involves lots of these little light bulbs and something that looked like an upside down christmas tree without the tree (just the light bulbs).  The large 'spaceship' (a painfully obvious model) then engages in a tacky game of Simon says with the Earth scientists.  The 'alien' reminds you of an arthritic, anorexic muppet. The ending is no different than any other Sci-Fi B-movie.  Pitifully predictable ending, and laughable effects.  For anyone who ignorantly claims that the effects were good for their time, I would like to point out that this came out the same year as Star Wars.Overall the film had a feel of pretending to be epic, while really telling a superficial and unconvincing tale.  The only reason anyone even remembers this film is the popularity of it's topic (frequently the case for Spielberg), not for the films ability to impact the viewer.  It was neither visually nor emotionally engaging.  It lacked any signs of creativity or talent.  A failure in every aspect. "},{"Title":"Absolutely incoherent and irrational","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"20 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I hated this movie. So many inconsistencies. So much that didn't make sense. So little meaningful action. Terrible. I had heard this movie was supposed to be so great. 7.8 here on IMDb! Obviously I am missing something. Umm, my review has to have ten lines. How much more can I say THIS MOVIE SUCKED. Man I hated this movie. I really did not like this movie. What did the Devil's Tower have to do with anything? Why did the boy go, but not the Mom. Who the hell was the French guy? What was the significance of him being FRENCH? Geez, did I mention I hated this movie. Why did the station wagon have Wyoming plates? What, did they RENT a station wagon? WTF? "},{"Title":"Didn't like it","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"22 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I looked so forward watching CEOFTK as everyone had nothing but the best to say about it, but watching it, was nothing but disappointment.From the first 15 minutes I was bored and the rest did not satisfy me to the extent that I found it hard to stay concentrated till the end.It seems a movie starting nowhere and going nowhere, no plot no story just randomness.I know most people will disagree but the bottom line is I am not watching this movie ever again. "},{"Title":"Top Ten reasons why this is NOT a great movie - or even a good one","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"28 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  10) Francois Truffaut - I'm sorry, nothing against the guy personally, but Spielberg casting him in this movie was a mistake. At least without giving him a solid, intensive course in how to speak English. I don't mean to be so U.S.-centric, but come on - when one of your main characters has to have his every sentence translated, it gets awfully annoying, and calls undue attention to itself. A real Special Edition would have shown mercy for the audience and had his entire character edited out.9) Terri Garr - Again, nothing against her, but this has to be, next to Willie Scott in Temple of Doom, the worst written female character in any Spielberg film. Ok, we're supposed to get that Roy Neary is becoming obsessed, moving dangerously away from his family - but how well served is that premise if his wife is such an unfeeling bitch from the get-go? We never see any kind of harmonious rapport between them, but neither are any marital problems examined or made clear to us. She's just the cardboard bad guy of the piece, and such two-dimensionality is cheap in a movie which purports to at least be partly about real people. After all, Darth Vader or the Nazis make more enjoyable and less offensive villains than Teri Garr ever could.   But her character is only symptomatic of a much bigger problem the film has, which leads directly to. . . 8) Who the hell ARE these people?! - And why are they so gosh-darned obsessed with UFOs. Why is it so important that Roy Neary get on that spaceship? Why is Melinda Dillon's kid - alone amongst the entire pre-adolescent population - singled out for abduction by the mysterious aliens? Why are all these seemingly normal people drawn to making replicas of that ooga-booga lookin' Devil's Tower? I mean, I know there's a place for dramatic ambiguity (hey, I love 2001!), but Steven can you at least throw us a bone? What is it about the particular people who are invited (in the words of Truffaut's interpreter) to see the alien landing that makes them so special? If Spielberg could have figured out some way to tie these peoples' emotional lives to the urge for extraterrestrial contact (as he did in E.T.) he might have had something powerful here. In the absence of any such clear link, however, all we get is a bunch of sound and fury (oh, and LIGHTS, too!) which ultimately signify nothing.7) The funereal pace - Steve, yo Steve - who told you that you had to be so damn solemn about this whole thing? I guess, after Jaws, you were trying to prove that you could be SERIOUS, and WEIGHTY - and that translated inevitably as SLOW. Things take forever to happen in this movie - probably to cover up for the fact that not much does. 6) The running up the mountain sequence - Ok, this is perhaps a crass criticism, but am I the only one who noticed that Neary's and Jillian's escape to the top of Devil's Tower (against direct Army orders) could have made for a great action chase? In a movie, I might add, which desperately needs some action! A whole ten-minute cat and mouse game between Neary and co. and the Army helicopters in pursuit could have been a tour-de-force of style, tension and kineticism. You know, the kind Spielberg is known for. Instead, he just throws the sequence away. They get to the top of the mountain - end of story.5) Mothership sequence lasts far too long, with no real payoff - Yeh, all those flashing lights were cool, and that five-note musical motif is ominous and haunting - but what of it? Ok, so the set pieces are in place for a great sequence, but. . . nothing really happens, does it? And, as with the rest of the movie, it takes so long for it not to happen, that you're numb about halfway through. This is where all the individual failures of the movie come together to lay one big colossal turd upon the viewer. Since we don't care about, or even understand, the characters we are cut off from their personal rapture at the landing; since the aliens' plans or general purpose is never articulated (or even suggested), there is no tension generated by wondering what they are going to do when they get here; and since the entire movie has been so deliberately slow and ponderous, this scene has to be even slower - you know, to show how important and climactic it is. What we're left with is a big sound and light show, nothing more. Anyone who's ever been to a Pink Floyd concert has seen it all before - and better.Ah, I don't have the heart or the interest to continue with this list - anyway, you get the idea. Close Encounters so clearly wants to amaze and enrapture us, but it forgets that you do that best by engaging us with actual characters, making us care about them, and then leading them through a fantastic trip or quest where they find some kind of meaning. The movie has the quest part down, but neither the meaning nor the engaging characters. It's like, it believes that the suggestion of UFOs and other intelligent life in the universe by itself is enough to make us sit up and take notice. Well, it isn't. This movie lacks the zip and excitement of Star Wars on the one hand, and the philosophical/metaphysical speculation of 2001 A Space Odyssey on the other. From Spielberg's own canon, it is missing the fundamental heart and whimsy of E.T., as well as the strong interconnectedness of the main characters found in Poltergeist.So what does it have? A ranting Frenchman, a shrewish wife, a rag-tag group of inexplicable characters, a deathly snail's pace, and a cheesy Disneyesque parade of  bright lights and colors (Wow!). If that's your idea of a good time, then be my guest. You deserve every frame of this movie. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"29 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A perfectly fascinating piece of science fiction fantasy, it is visually impressive, well written and well directed. The film has certain moments that can be described only as classic, however the overall film is quite imperfect. There are some really striking flaws such as poor dialogue recording, an ending that is by far too roundabout, and in fact a whole end section that is not nearly as interesting as the beginning of the film. Either way, there is still however a lot to appreciate in the experience, including the spectacular sound effects, which won the film a special achievement Oscar. "},{"Title":"An Anal Encounter Of The Steven Spielberg Kind","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here are 3 reasons why I only gave this old-school, Sci-Fi picture 4 stars - (1) The scene with Roy and the mashed potatoes (and him desperately looking around at his family at the dinner table and saying, while pointing to the mound of potatoes - This means something.) was particularly idiotic, to say the least.(2) It made absolutely no sense to me why these aliens would be so brain-dead as to actually go ahead and dump a full-sized ocean-liner into the middle of the Gobi Desert. Is that stupid, or what!? (Hello!? Now, how the heck were the humans supposed to haul a gigantic sucker like that over to the nearest ocean?) (3) It really killed me that before the team of volunteers went so bravely ahead, parading themselves on over to the aliens' ship, that a Catholic priest was suddenly present on hand in order to give them all god's blessing and a bon voyage, to boot. Ha! That was a total howl, and a half! Like, didn't director Steven Spielberg even have enough common sense to realize the sheer stupidity of including such a ridiculous religious scene as the likes of that into a film about aliens landing on Earth? Talk about a pack of totally clueless and misdirected nonsense to the 10th power! "},{"Title":"How an incredibly boring movie with no plot can still make lots of money","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I come to this movie I ask myself two questions what is the point of it and is it here just to show off special effects. The answer that I come up with is there is none and yes. I haven't seen this movie seen I was a kid and the only thing I could remember was a scene where a number of spaceships fly over a road and a small boy cries out Icecream. I really only watched this movie for the special effects, and one must say that for the time, the effects were very good. Watching it now, I just think that it is Spielburg saying, hey, look how much money I can spend on a pointless movie. This movie indeed has not real point or plot. What seems to be happening is that machinery that has disappeared, allegedly because of alien abductions, is now appearing around the world. Then there are some strange lights appearing over Idaho and this kid runs out of the house and stands on a road as space ships fly over. There are a number of other people here as well. One of them is a guy that ends up losing his wife and kids because of this experience. Personally that scene just made me sick because it revealed the problems with marriage, people think it is great until they hit the first obstacle, and then marriage is horrid. People simply don't take note of the marriage vows anymore &#x96; to be with that person through all manner of hardships. The breakup of this marriage is simply pathetic.All these people have been implanted with the knowledge of a mountain where the aliens are going to land. The army also knows of this place and forces everybody else out. Two people manage to get there though, even though the army tries to stop them by using a nerve gas scare and then sleeping gas. When they reach the place, the aliens appear in a huge ship that makes the mountain looks small, they speak with music (even though I doubt the humans actually know what is being said), and then the aliens return their abducties (all Americans), another lot are sent on board, we have a look inside the mothership and the movie ends.From this synopsis there seems to be a big indication that there is no point to this movie. In my comments of this movie, I am probably going very much against what the critics say, but I seriously feel that this movie is long winded, dull, and pointless. It is not pointless in the existentialist style, but pointless in that it seriously has a non-existence plot. It is a movie simply made to show off special effects, and even Jurasic Park had more of a plot to it than this. There is the government conspiracy in this movie, but is still leads to a pointless ending. The boy is abducted by aliens, but why did the aliens take an interest in him in the first place? There is no answer to this and I feel that this was only done for some scene.No, I do not like this movie. It may be quoted as a Steven Spielburg masterpiece, but I refuse to say that it is. It probably didn't flop, but that is because people were dazzled with the special effects. What is interesting though is that at the time of the creation of this movie, we have the government coverups. Cover-ups never came into constant use until the late 80's and the 90's so it is interesting to see it used here. The cover up is not as evil as it is in such movies as Conspiracy Theory or series like the X-files, but it is used. Possible it deals with the distrust of the government after Watergate, but moreso it is seen as for the publics safety rather than anything else.There are no antagonists here, except maybe the army, and they are not portrayed in a genuinely evil light either. Rather they have their goals and they don't want people around to see it. Personally I think this is a movie that can be missed. There is a special edition that I saw, which means that it is longer and more boring than the original. "}{"Title":"Lost in the spectacle and suspense is a necessary character component","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" After Jaws launched him toward eternal fame in 1975, Steven Spielberg's follow-up film would tackle a bigger cultural phenomenon UFOs. Close Encounters of the Third Kind was only the beginning of the director/producer's love affair with the possibility of life on other planets and the first to capture the magnitude of what first contact would be like with aliens in the era of emerging special effects.But let's take a look at a film released just before it, in the same year (1977) in fact. A little film called Star Wars. More than 30 years later it might not be fair to compare to the two, but the truth is that one film was about producing a big-budget cash-eating spectacle while the other was fulfilling the dream of a filmmaker to tell an amazing story in a world never before imagined. Star Wars has heart and Close Encounters has nothing but our attention.It's hard to knock a film made before I was born in an era where I can't appreciate it for what it was at the time, but there are a lot of fundamental storytelling principles simply left out of this story that one cannot overlook. Visual effects, cinematography and Spielberg's knack for crafting great cinematic moments aren't enough to cover up barely existent character motivation.I've read that Spielberg has regrets about the ending of this film, that his main character, Roy (Richard Dreyfuss), wouldn't make the choice he makes in the end. I have to agree -- and it's symptomatic of his entire film. Roy is a normal suburban Indiana family man who we don't know much about. Then his truck stalls and he has a close encounter with some kind of UFO. Suddenly he's a madman, being haunted by images of a mesa, ruining his familial relationships. He's driven as if by some other force to go all the way to Wyoming to figure out what it's all about.Spielberg has us at that last bit of figuring out what it's all about. Roy, on the other hand, and the mother of a child who was abducted (Melinda Dillon) are just inexplicably possessed and driven to madness by a vision of a mesa. Roy going crazy and throwing dirt into his kitchen window or randomly sitting in the tub with the shower on for hours keeps our attention, but there's little sympathy going on because we really have no idea who he is. The ending scene of the film is much the same way. It's this drawn out scene of VFX spectacle and flashing lights and John Williams music but it's only a climax in that awing sense and in finally delivering what the film has been hiding from us the whole time. It is not a climax of great character realization (or at least epiphany that makes sense). It can be completely basic, like Luke Skywalker trusting the force, believing in his destiny and then becoming victorious, but it still has to be there and resonate with us in some way.I certainly recognize some of the brilliant scene work Spielberg does throughout parts of the beginning and the latter half of the film, but there's a reason this is not a classic for all generations great movies, especially sci-fi films, tell stories that transcend bad special effects or any other inhibitors and Close Encounters is about making a suspenseful film, not telling a deeply human story.~Steven CVisit my site at http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"Mature, soulful and entirely credible sci-fi classic","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the same year which George Lucas' Star Wars ravaged audiences worldwide with its exhilarating depiction of extraterrestrial space battles, Lucas' close friend, the equally legendary Steven Spielberg also chose to explore the topic of life outside earth, but in a distinctly different fashion. In fact, Close Encounters of the Third Kind could almost be considered the antithesis to Lucas' sprawling space epic. For a film focusing on a phenomenon sweeping the globe, from the United States to India, Spielberg's effort is a surprisingly small, intimate film, grounded in realism and plausibility, an examination of the human side of extraterrestrial contact and a celebration of the unknown and humankind's innate fascination with it. For a film widely hyped as being the extraterrestrial follow-up to Jaws! Spielberg is incredibly daring, providing a remarkably inexplicit and non mainstream effort, especially for a director who normally exemplifies the aforementioned qualities. Lengthy, leisurely and never once spelling out the scope of what is actually happening, the film adapts a hypnotic, haunting quality one would hardly expect from the director of Indiana Jones. Instead of a far easier to sell, pulse pounding alien invasion action film (an idea he would revisit to lesser effect in 2005's War of the Worlds) Spielberg focuses almost entirely on the surprisingly credible human side of the gradual progress towards alien contact, painstakingly doling out enticing tidbits of the looming confrontation while resisting the typical Spielberg trademark of money shots flat out exposing the aliens in all their glory. In fact, for a film so captivated with their inevitable presence, we see next to nothing to do with aliens whatsoever - a bold and surprisingly effective directorial move, grounding the situation in reality and making it all the more compelling as such. Of course even in such a comparatively realist film, which for the most part shuns showy spectacle, Spielberg can't quite resist downplaying the sheer awe factor involved with an otherworldly presence, and certainly knows how to judiciously work a moment accordingly - the few fleeting glimpses of any trace of alien life are truly stunning, captivating and often terrifying (Spielberg proves near peerless at generating tension seamlessly), enough to rival any of Spielberg's other more overt emotional wrenching without ever resorting to the treacly earnestness of his later E.T. Of course John Williams' classic, simply magical score infinitely adds to the splendour, showing surprising restraint compared to his usual soaring orchestral bravado a simple five note theme (usually played on an unspectacular reedy keyboard within the film) building into an engrossing orchestral rendition which perfectly captures the fascinated awe for the unknown of the film. Richard Dreyfus wonderfully inhabits the human heart of the film as electrician Roy Neary, haunted by visions of mountain-like structures after a chance encounter with an alien vessel. As Dreyfus' unique energy alternates between wryly comical and heartwarming when interacting with his family to manic and obsessive when yearning to discover the meaning behind his visions, never once does a false note ring, a wonderfully fitting and perfectly charismatic lead. Visionary French New Wave director François Truffaut proves a strong acting presence as the head investigator of the alien encounters, his grim determination mixed with awed reverence making for a compelling and sympathetic authority figure. Unfortunately, the acting credibility does not stretch to the female castmembers, as Melinda Dillon playing a woman whose son is lost after an alien encounter and Teri Garr as Neary's resoundingly unsympathetic wife both give unconvincingly imbalanced performances frustratingly out of synch with the film transpiring around them, seldom realistically responding to the events befalling them. However, Bob Balaban is amusing as a befuddled translator continually taken aback by the fantastic events transpiring around him. An unquestionable anomaly for a Spielberg film, Close Encounters of the Third Kind proves a compelling and entirely believable examination of a much disputed phenomenon, providing on the whole a surprisingly non-mainstream feel without jeopardising the essential movie magic which makes the film such a joy to behold. While those expecting a fast paced action packed sci-fi thriller will find themselves readily disappointed, those willing to behold an intimate, elegant examination of humankind's fascination with the unknown will be hard pressed to find a more fitting film. -8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Just Watch E.T. Again","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Note The Director's Cut is the version viewed. Close Encounters Of The Third Kind is not entertainment. It is torture. Despite Close Encounter's legacy, I cannot recommend it on almost any level. Yes, it has greatly impacted culture and films, but this is not entertainment. This is the destruction of a family, a father slowly turning insane, and an overall traumatizing affair turned into a film. I repeat for a third time, Close Encounters is not entertainment. The, slightly confusing, story follows a man named Roy, who's life is changed when he sees several UFO flying around his hometown. He becomes obsessed with a strange shape and sculpts it endlessly. He begins to go crazy, and his family is devastated. In a nutshell, that is the plot. And while parts of the story seem somewhat intriguing, they are executed poorly. A good portion of the film centers around Roy growing crazy and the effect it's having on his family. Do we really need all this screen time focusing on the arguments and stress that his family is experiencing? We get the point, his family is vexed, you don't have to emphasize your point with a sledge hammer! But watching Close Encounters is not only stressful, but it's also incredibly boring. At over 2 hours in length, Close Encounters is a tedious film. It lacks any kind of excitement (minus in one somewhat crucial scene involving a UFO abduction) and is generally devoid of humor. UFOs are teased to the audience, but never in length until the end. The slowness of the film may not have been a big deal, had the pay-off been substantial. Alas, it's just as dull as the rest of the film, though the most impressive special effect work occurs here, and it is indeed impressive. The score is shockingly pedestrian, despite coming from master composer, John Williams. There is actually little music to speak of, excepting the famous five note theme. I've come to expect so much more from Williams, but this is a major disappointment. I feel little need to waste any more of my life than I already have on Close Encounters Of The Third Kind. I despised it and saw it as an exercise in tedium and stress. To see a family fall apart is not entertainment. If other plot points were executed well enough, this wouldn't be a problem, but the whole thing is a big mess. If you want aliens and Spielberg, you'd be better off watching E.T. again. "},{"Title":"absolutely not worth watching.","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"19 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Romans certainly knew what they were saying when they coined the phrase  de gustibus non est desputandum . Most of the initial reviews of this aged film are favorable. Several of the later reviews express my opinion - a movie not worth watching. It is a mystery to me that such an outdated product continues to maintain a strong following. But again,  concerning tastes, there is no dispute . I viewed this slow, boring film from my exercise bike. Pedaling was more exciting than what I was watching on the TV screen. During the first several minutes of the movie, the dialogue was difficult to hear and thus, to understand. The unnecessary noir aspect of many of the scenes- actually, a lack of illumination of the ambiance - made it difficult to see the actors in action. Again, if you like films of this theme, I suggest that you spend your viewing time with something more up to date - especially in effects. "},{"Title":"A very boring and over-rated film.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"19 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this is the first film I saw (in 1978 when I was 16) where I realised that hyped, megabuck films are not necessarily any good. In fact, my experience is that the majority of hyped films are very poor which is why they have to be hyped.  The best films are not hyped but become very popular through personal recommendation (for example The Shawshank Redemption, Stand By Me, and Brazil).I was very bored with this film from the beginning (though it is nowhere near as tedious and naff as Independence Day). It has very little plot and seems to consist of a series of incidents which are sometimes connected and sometimes not (rather like an Arthur C Clark novel). Special effects are not enough to make up for a poor screenplay.The one good thing about this film is the soundtrack by (which I bought). I think it was by John Williams (who seems to rely heavily on Stravinsky, Dvorak, Charles Ives and Aaron Copland). I recommend that you buy the soundtrack but miss the film. (Or better still, buy pieces by these four composers!)One film I recommend which is in a similar vein is Morons From Outer Space. This superbly extracts the Michael from Close Encounters and is a very entertaining and funny film. (Although non-English viewers may have trouble understanding the accents of some of the main characters!)I would like to have given this film 0/10 but (illogically) the lowest score we can give is 1/10.  "},{"Title":"An encounter to avoid","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"22 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is a hoax on the viewer⎯ a promise of thrilling revelations, which never materialize. Spielberg has put together an unrelenting progression of teasers, cinematic high jinks of flashing celestial lights building an anticipation that leads ultimately nowhere. This faux suspense is interspersed by the angst of a mundane suburban family counterpointed by scenes of dry officious scientists and authority figures declaiming theories and statistics. As with the majority of Steven Spielberg's work (an exception being the powerful masterpiece, Schindler's List) this is a film constructed to appeal to the sensibilities and maturity level of teenage boys. The action/adventure genre has a legitimate place in movie making, yet this Spielberg effort falls flat on both counts. This is an incredibly boring movie. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Crafted, Patchily Told","Date":"6 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The success of Jaws effectively gave Steven Spielberg free reign to take on whatever project he was interested in, and that project happened to be Close Encounters. It is a very different film to its predecessor despite also being labelled as a big blockbuster. Whereas Jaws was much more tense and fast-paced, Close Encounters moves slowly and continuously builds toward its grand climax. In a sense you have to give Spielberg credit for trying something completely different and not being afraid to take risks so early on in his career. With that said the film, despite its positives, is simply too uneven to be considered one of his greats.Story wise the film is strongly lacking, not because of the plot but more because of the way in which it is told. It does move along slowly, which would be fine except that nothing is done or shot in a gripping way. Things happen, its reflected on without ever getting a proper answer and then people gradually get weirder. Our main character Roy wants to know why he feels the way he does and whether he really did see a UFO, but he goes into a mental collapse far too quickly and bar his bizarre antics (like creating a mountainous shapes out of things) we don't know how he feels. You also know exactly where the film is going by the halfway point and because it isn't told in an engaging fashion it does start to drag, even in spite of the spectacular climax. Even with the plots issues, I did enjoy the ideas behind the film and many of the emotional moments. It is much more a film about the struggle that humans have in understanding the complexities of the world and in a way can be viewed as a subtle commentary on the problems that come with obsession. Roy gives up his family and normal way of life because he feels such a strong need to discover what is out there. Although his behaviour can grate on you (filling the house with plants and dirt), scenes such as the famous mashed potato one and him crying in the shower are very effective in showing his turmoil.The acting is uniformly solid. Richard Dreyfuss makes for a good everyman as Roy, capably making him an ordinary person affected by what has happened to him. He deftly handles the important emotional moments. Melinda Dillon is the stand-out as Gillian who is also affected by the UFO sightings and whose son is taken. She's gives off a very gentle and believable vibe throughout. Teri Garr and Francois Truffaut are both fine as Roy's exasperated wife and a French scientist. The character motivations do trouble me though. Gillian's motivation makes sense because she believes her son is at the mountain, Roy however completely ditches his family despite clearly loving them in order to chase his obsession. It makes sense to show how wrapped up he is, but to me this made him seem needlessly uncaring given how quickly he loses control and that makes his plight difficult to get behind. Visually and musically it is difficult to find a fault with the film. The effects still hold up extremely well and the UFO's are still very effect, especially the truly mammoth main ship that appears at the end. The aliens themselves also look great, in part thanks to the excellent lighting. The shots of suburb areas at night are beautiful and there is something so striking about images such as the house lights gradually going off one-by-one. John Williams' score is filled with his usual bombast, but it is nicely subdued in certain places and the melody used to make initial contact is memorable. Its a nice change of pace to his usual work and deserve to be ranked among his best material. There is no doubting that Close Encounters is a film with genuinely interesting ideas behind it and a director who is easily able to create absorbing work. Yet the film never feels like it knows its plot or characters well enough, the pacing is also off as at times the film moves to slow then at other it feels like character experiences are glossed over. Perhaps the film came to early in Spielberg's career and if he had worked with a more experienced eye then he may well have been able to fully succeed. Despite its visual beauty and intriguing ideas, the film is sadly let-down by its shoddy story-telling and confused motivations. "},{"Title":"Goof in credits?","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the ending credits Carl Weathers is listed as Military Police, but in the IMDb he's listed Harry, Air Traffic Controller. Who's right? My guess is that Morgan Freeman plays Harry the Air Traffic Controller in an uncredited role.Love the part in the Sonoran Desert and the WWII-era aircraft. The Trade Winds Bar(seen on the calender found in one of the planes glovebox) is still there and I've been there many a time, though I think it's long been a strip club rather than just a hangout for Navy guys.Also, there is no Naval Air Station in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. There's just Jacksonville, Key West and the greatest of all, Pensacola NAS. There are a number of Air Force bases in Florida(Eglin,MacDill,Hurlburt), but nothing in Fort Lauderdale but drunk college kids. "},{"Title":"Leaves you wanting more... but not in a good way.","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can see why this movie is regarded as such a classic, I really can, but as great as some of the iconic scenes are, when judged as a whole it is far less satisfying. To put it bluntly, almost nothing happens in this movie. It ends at what is by far the most interesting part. The fact is, the entire movie is build-up to a final scene that is not explained at all, and could easily be the start of a much more interesting film. This may be the only alien invasion movie that ends as soon as the aliens arrive, with no explanation of what they want or why. The parts we do see are mostly good. It's pretty realistic and very clever at times, but in terms of plot, this is a very good half of a movie, nothing more. "},{"Title":"Spielberg bores this time (surprisingly)","Date":"23 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steven Spielberg is known by many audiences to be one of the best modern day directors. His ability to set himself up with great casts, resounding music, intellectual stories and top-notch special effects seems to come natural. So it actually is a surprise for me to say that his third theatrically released film did not entice me at all. I found a couple of good things to give credit for but everything else is tiresome and confusing because of how bad the writing is.Close Encounters of the Third Kind (1977) is the story of a man who happens to get a glimpse of a UFO and then decides to make it his goal to be able to see them again in person. Cast, as this ordinary man is Richard Dreyfuss who has worked with Spielberg two years before in another blockbuster called Jaws (1975). Here, Dreyfuss starts his character out like any other normal person but soon becomes absolutely bizarre in a sense that I'm not sure if anyone will understand what's happening to his character. And Spielberg wrote the screenplay! What's going on here? And what's with the François Truffaut's character? He can speak English but he also needs an interpreter? Ugh... I also got confused as the film was getting close to its end because it seem liked there was a secret love interest but it never was explained. How did Spielberg miss all these loopholes? Another aspect of the film that frustrated me was the dialog. It's not that the dialog was too simplified or overly complex - its placing was off. By placing I mean when people are trying to talk, there's always something else that is competing with it. Someone is trying to explain something but it's too hard to hear because there's a storm louder than hell. Or when Dreyfuss' character is talking on the phone, but can't be heard exactly what he's saying because a TV is on in the same room and you don't know which thing to focus on. Come on guys.There were even parts of the movie that was never explained. When an individual first sees the UFOs they end up getting this red burn on their body. It was never explained what it meant, what the possible side effects are or how it was gotten rid of. What is going on with this story telling?! Even more shocking was how bad and absent composing legend, John Williams' music was throughout the film. In some places of the movie, it was closer to sounding like a horror film with sporadic volume increases and scraping violins.The only credits I will give are the background scenery and special effects. I really like the scenic backgrounds, especially since it is in widescreen, the shots look great. And for 1977, yes, the special effects are great too. The lighting arrangements of the UFOs were mesmerizing. However, that's all I enjoyed. I am still truly shocked to how bored and confused I became with this Spielberg film.The shots look great but that's it. John Williams' music is random as well as uninspired and the screenplay was written very poorly. "}{"Title":"It's like Halloween for grown ups!","Date":"11 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters of the Third Kind is written and directed by Steven Spielberg. It stars Richard Dreyfuss, François Truffaut, Melinda Dillon and Teri Garr. Music is scored by John Williams and cinematography by Vilmos Zsigmond.Suddenly planes reported missing in 1945 show up the Mojave desert, and in pristine condition. Air traffic control is alerted to something strange in the sky. Lineman Roy Neary is out on a job call and has an encounter with what can only be described as a UFO. The government are up to something, but what? Neary and others find they are strangely drawn to a place they have never known before. Once the destination is reached, the revelation will make history and change perceptions for ever.1977 was the year when sci-fi went blockbuster style, as Star Wars' impact was still being felt at the box offices around the world, Steven Spielberg ushered in his call for tolerance, an examination of faith, the need for human interaction and just the human need, a wondrous tale of the first contact between man and an alien species.Watching Close Encounters of the Third Kind now it's inarguably ahead of its time, it still feels as fresh as a daisy, with the director beautifully managing to craft a film that strikes a chord with the young and old alike. I was but a mere boy when I saw it back in 77, I loved it then because of the spaceships, I laughed at the funny things Richard Dreyfuss was doing on the screen with spuds and shovels, and that ending, those beings and the mother ship homing into the picture to stop me in my choc-ice eating tracks. Now I still get all that boyish entertainment, but I now understand thematics and points of worth, Dreyfuss as Neary is our everyman, his obsession to find his calling holding us in his palm. The fabulous Melinda Dillon as Jillian Guiler, no histrionics here, a believable woman, a single mother just desperately trying to find the apple of her eye. And uber cool Truffaut as Claude Lacombe, the scientist, so restrained, so very human, rest assured that in a film involving beings from another planet, this film is very human indeed.The plot is simple and straightforward, there's no saggy filler or need for twists and turn a rounds, but the mystery element is strong, are these beings friends or foes? One terrifying scene at the Guiler house in particular skirts the boundaries of horror, the tone of the film is never airy, there's a bubbling undercurrent of unease, even fear of the unknown. Spielberg is canny, he may be operating from his child whimsy at heart, but his brain is mature and in gear. He dangles human peccadilloes as the three pronged character fork digs towards destiny, and once we arrive there at Devils Mountain, pop culture references are assured, the master magician with the beard pulls his rabbit out of the hat to deliver a finale that once viewed, is never to be forgotten. He's aided considerably by the two noble masters at his side, Mr. John Williams providing five tone wonder and Mr. Douglas Trumbull a purveyor of remarkable and classical effects. While Zsigmond's photography dazzles the eyes yet smooths them with astute colour lens choices.In any version it's a wonderful movie, but I agree with Spielberg about the S/E cut that features the inside of the mother ship, that's a mistake. The version to go with in my book is the Collector's Edition. But as long as you let this movie into your life, no matter your age, then you will be better for it. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A close encounter with selfishness...","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I acknowledge that it's considered a classic, but I have to say that I never got much out of this movie, myself... I found the main character of Roy Neary to be way too unsympathetic (although portrayed well, by Richard Dreyfuss... ) He just started to irritate me.I guess that was sort of the point, to show that somebody can get so wrapped up in their passion that they start to lose themselves, and lose sight of what ought to be important to them (especially in the face of something so vast, the perspective of which appears to make human concerns almost irrelevant... ) but intellectually knowing this didn't make him more bearable to put up with, for 2hrs + !Making the character inquisitive and inclusive instead of flat-out selfish would resolve a lot of my problems with the film, I think. You can be obsessed with something, but still try to engage other people with your theories, rather than shutting them out, like Roy did. As a viewer, taking on the sadness of those left behind kind of spoilt the wonder of the rest of the film, for me... Humans have been shoving other people aside in favour of self-interest for years, now; we never did need aliens to help us do it... "},{"Title":"This is nuts.","Date":"4 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A lot of the movies I saw when they first came out I haven't seen since, so I'm getting around to all of them once again in due time. I had forgotten how clever the set up to this one was, with so many early scenes suggesting more of a horror element to the story rather than a sci-fi slant. With a less suggestive title, Spielberg might have kept the viewer on the hook until the first alien actually appears at the end of the story.The whole notion of Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) becoming totally obsessed with finding an answer to his pyramid problem seemed credible enough, but as the picture progressed, I think his bizarre behavior robs the picture of some of the magic and warmth that the director was trying to achieve. When Roy kisses Jillian (Melinda Dillon), the thought of betrayal crossed my mind and I no longer saw him as a sympathetic character on a quest. The earlier segments in which he begins to alienate his family would have been unsettling enough if it involved just Roy and his wife (Terri Garr), but seeing the kids torn up like that probably isn't fair game for a family night at the movies. When he boards the spaceship to fulfill his obsession, I kept wondering how this was all going to settle out with the rest of the Neary's. Like so many pictures, this one closes out with no afterthought of what will happen to the rest of the characters once the finale has played out.With all that, the movie still has it's place among Hollywood's premier attractions, and is a visual treat with it's many special effects. The mother ship presents a stunning blend of color and sound, and this was the first film I can remember that suggests the appearance of aliens along the lines of Whitley Strieber's visitors, popularized almost a decade later in his non-fiction work 'Communion'. The one thing I couldn't fathom though, was the amount of dirt it would have taken to build the mock Devil's Tower in the Neary living room. Those four or five shovels of dirt lobbed through the kitchen window wouldn't have cut it, and as I think about it now, is one more of those afterthoughts that poor wife Ronnie would have had to deal with if she ever returned home. "},{"Title":"Close Encounters of the First Rate","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" NOTE This comment comes from the collector's edition of the movie.When Close Encounters of the Third Kind was first released in 1977, it was still common that B-movies, reminiscent of the older sci-fi flicks of the '50s, were produced and shown in theaters.But it must be admitted that the '70s generation was very different from the '50s. Belief in science was stronger than ever and the Cold War context was less tense than it was one or two decades before. In fact, there were few sci-fi movies during that period.Only two big-budgeted movies released previously shared the same vision of outer-space visitors than Close Encounters The Day the Earth Stood Still and 2001. The difference with Close Encounters is that it's far more accessible and it drifts away political contexts in favor of pure entertainment, brilliantly orchestrated by the young prodigy Steven Spielberg.Close Encounters is a movie divided in three sub-plots which gradually come together. Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) is an electrical repairman who lives with his wife (Teri Garr) and his three children (Shawn Bishop, Adrienne Campbell and Dreyfuss' real-life son Justin). When a mysterious black-out occurs, Roy is sent to repairs but he witnesses an UFO and makes a close encounter of the second kind (physical evidence, as the UFO's lights cause a 'sunburn' to Roy).From now on, Roy becomes obsessed with that experience. He eventually begins to act oddly as he constantly sees a mysterious shape everywhere and he locks himself in the bathroom with the shower wide open on him still in clothes.On another part, Jillian (Melinda Dillon), a single mother, lives with his young son Barry (unforgettable Cary Guffey) but her UFO experience is far more horrible as aliens inexplicably abduct Barry.The third part is about a group of UN scientists led by French researcher Claude Lacombe (famous French filmmaker François Truffaut, in his only Hollywood actor role). After discovering Flight 19 (a fleet which disappeared in the infamous Bermuda Triangle area) in Mexico desert and a large cargo ship in the Gobi Desert (weird, isn't it?), Lacombe and the scientists discover that aliens could land near Devil's Tower in Wyoming.Like he did with the shark in Jaws, Spielberg wisely shows the aliens only when the film's almost over. And when he does, he shows a never-seen-before portray of the 'visitors', which is far away from the bug-eyed monsters of these famous '50s movies. He develops special effects to create wonder and astonishment instead of laughable horror.The spaceships are beautiful and the child-like aliens are so wonderful, we could hug them. I also loved the scenes when inanimate objects begin to move by themselves on an uncontrollable way, such as Barry's toys, the mailboxes and especially the horrific sequence in Jillian's house that gives an impression that we're watching a 'house-comes-alive'-style of movie.And of all performances in the movie, Dreyfuss is by far the greatest with his obsessed Roy role. Highlighted must be the scenes when he cracks up while sculpting that shape in his gravy and his frustration when he cannot figure what does that shape mean.And who could forget the music? The famous five-note sequence has definitely entered into popular culture and it has become the movie's trademark.Possibly the greatest sci-fi movie of the 70s, Close Encounters still wonders today. Its special effects haven't dated at all and its depiction of aliens looks like nothing that preceded or even followed it. That's why it's an immortal. An infinite classic. A feat of interstellar proportions... "},{"Title":"Visual Masterpiece that is rivaled by few","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently seen the televised version of Close Encounters of the Third Kind, and it was astonishing. It is a well done film, that hits the life long question Are we alone in the universe? The acting was moderate, with the break down of the Neary family being too subtle for any sort of break down. Cinematography was award winning, and it did so for good reason. Excellent camera angles, and great positioning made this movie very appealing. The absolute best part was the visual effects. Never in the history of films will Close Encounters of the Third Kind be matched by any computer effects film, ever! Visually stunning, and absolutely breathtaking, this film was ahead of it's time. I give this film a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Goodness gracious me","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is a wonderful blend of science fiction and real life. Spielberg, in this film and E.T., does a wonderful job of portraying how the life of an adult and child would be affected by the knowledge of alien life. It's an amazing story how one man can lose focus on his life, family and himself as he searches for answers. The movie also establishes, in my mind, Richard Dreyfus as one of the premier actors in the industry. This and American Graffiti are perhaps his best performances. The director, once again, does a wonderful job of portraying the ordinary man, in extraordinary situations. One of my top three movies. Has just the right amount of realism, magic, and mystery to keep you watching the first time, and then again and again. "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant!","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not English... Sorry for mistakes...The movie is magnific! I watched it for the first time in 1990, when I was 11 and since that I consider it as my number one ) Many SF were made after. Some of those were really good and interesting but CEFK has its own spirit. I have to mention also of John Williams music. I love to listen to it for hours every day.I can not find words to describe how I love this movie. It's more than just the movie... It's 8th wonder of the world )Greetings to all CEFK fans. Do not hesitate to contact me if you want to discuss about the movie. It would be a real pleasure for me ) "},{"Title":"human consciousness evolves","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roy is driven by something he can't explain. Everything he's ever learned has no relevance. Despite this, he will risk all he has, all meaning, all that he has been taught to believe as truth... house, job, friends and even his family... to try to get an explanation. As a few others also have some kind of strange experience that compels them as well, he is driven even harder to find the meaning. Despite what status quo says. In the end, even his own life is risked. This is nothing less than the evolution of human consciousness.UFOs are used as a metaphor which makes it fun and accessible.Great film. I don't think Spielberg realizes how wonderful it is. "},{"Title":"An intelligent, unusual science-fiction was something unique back in its day.","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roy Neary (Oscar-WinnerRichard Dreyfuss) is a middle-class family man, who loves his wife (Teri Garr) and his three kids. Then one unusual night... Roy believes he made contact with a flying UFO in the middle of nowhere but Roy isn't alone. Since there's different sorts of people, who experienced the same thing. Now Roy and his new found friend Gillian (Melinda Dillion in a Oscar-nominated performance) shares the same obsession and dreams about the unknown.Written and Directed by Three Time Oscar-WinnerSteven Spielberg (A.I. Artificial Intelligence, Jaws, Schindler's List) made an entertaining, fascinating Science Fiction drama that has an strong visual style and an refreshing sense of humour. Dreyfuss is excellent in his lead role as a man, who doesn't understand his nearly dangerous obsession. Dillion, Bob Balaban and french filmmaker Francois Truffaut offers strong supporting performances. Even the little boy... who plays Dillion's son (Gary Gaffey) is also quite good. This was an major box office and critically acclaimed hit, when it was release in the fall of 1977. This movie was so popular that Spielberg re-cut his picture for the 1980 re-release with new scenes and added special visual effects.The DVD is actually the Director's Cut. Disc One has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an superb DTS 5.1 Surround Sound (Also in Dolby Digital 5.1). This DVD is digitally remastered for THX Picture Quality and Superior Sound. Disc Two includes an highly entertaining Documentary with the Cast & Crew, Vintage Making of a Featurette, 11 Deleted Scenes (Some are Good) and more. Close Encounters of the Third Kind remind an major classic for more than 30 years now and it always finds an new audiences, who never seen this landmark feature. This has an memorable music score by Five Time Oscar-WinnerJohn Williams (Home Alone, Jurassic Park, Superman, Great Cinematography by Vilmos Zsigmond (The Black Dahlia, Blow Out, Maverick) and of course... State of the Art Special Effects that still looks terrific. Don't miss it. Also Alivable in a Three Disc Set (Which includes the original theatrical version and the re-release 1980 version). Panavision. (**** 1/2 out of *****). "},{"Title":"Who Are You People ?","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roy Neary is out driving late one night when he sees a series of brightly lit spacecraft fly by. Determined to find out if his experience was real, he becomes fixated on an image of a flat-topped mountain. What is happening to him ?Steven Spielberg is, by anyone's standards, one of the greatest American filmmakers of the modern era, and this is my very favourite of his films. It's a stunning, one of a kind, wondrous, exciting, philosophical, humorous, frightening, touching and uplifting science-fiction classic. At the ripe old age of twenty-nine, this is Spielberg firing on all cylinders; his film is dazzlingly cinematic, with extraordinary use of camera, sound, special effects, montage, the whole bag of tricks, but at the same time extremely personal, intimate, dramatic, moving. It moves from parochial suburbia to big wide landscapes, from family drama to government conspiracy, from one man's fixation to a concerto between worlds with incredible seamless ease. On one hand it's an escapist sci-fi adventure of the kind Hollywood specialises in, but on the other it's an avant-garde story of obsession and experiential trauma. If you are willing to go with it, the final thirty-minute Devil's Tower sequence is an almost religious epiphany - a near-perfect distillation of the pure wonder we feel when we consider the infinity of creation and our lowly place in the universe. It is a film crafted out of love for the film-making and film viewing experience itself. I can't so much review this movie as simply list everything about it that is so brilliant. For a start, there is the career-best performance by Dreyfuss as Roy the Everyman. The hardest thing for an actor to do with this type of material is convince us that it's real - to make us believe his predicament - and Dreyfuss is exceptional in every scene. He's passionate, amusing, completely focused and perfect for this part. The supporting cast are terrific, but two actors completely steal it - three-year-old Guffey as the beautiful little boy and the iconic French director Truffaut as the investigator Lacombe. John Williams' music throughout is a thing of rare beauty - the five note invitation motif is unforgettable but the entire film is swathed in a deep score that alternates between tender and monstrous. The photography by Vilmos Zsigmond (and a slew of others, it must be noted) is simply breathtaking, whether it's Dreyfuss staring at a pile of mashed potato, a crazy old man sitting in a rocking chair, Guffey reacting to the unseen aliens in his living room, the screws turning in the floor vent, Truffaut looking out the window as our heroes escape from the helicopter; not a shot is wasted and every one tells a story. The film won an Oscar for cinematography. The lovely visual effects by Douglas Trumbull are exquisitely beautiful, almost light paintings, and they fill us up with the wonder of the story - the alien mothership at the end is my favourite movie special effect I think and the jaw-dropping shot of it revolving above the mountain is simply unforgettable. Even the poster for this movie - an enigmatic shot of a dark road leading to a horizon with a mysterious light - is outstanding. Shot in Alabama, Mexico, California, India and at the astonishingly beautiful Devil's Tower National Monument in the Black Hills of Wyoming. The Dark Side Of The Moon landing sequence was filmed inside a disused aircraft hanger, and was the largest purpose-built set ever constructed at the time. The authorship of the script of this movie is interesting, both artistically in that it has the strangest, most off-the-wall story of a major studio picture, and technically in that it is the only film Spielberg has written completely by himself (although he hired writers to help him with it, notably Paul Schrader, with whom he had a falling out). In that sense, I always consider it his most personal film. Whilst he has made much more acclaimed films, much more serious films, much more mature films, I think this one came straight from his heart, with no filters, no pretensions. It's beautiful. Note - this movie exists in several versions; Spielberg recut it and shot some new footage in 1980 for a re-release, then recut it again in 1990 for the laserdisc release. This review is of the 2001 Columbia DVD print, an excellent version which incorporates some of the 1980 footage (such as the Cotopaxi scene) but removing others (like the shots of the mothership interior). As with all cases of studio / directorial meddling, the original theatrical release is the definitive and best version. "}{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Read all of my reviews at www.midnitcafe.blogspot.com This movie is pure joy to me. There were a few difference with this viewing than in previous viewings. First I have actually been to the Devils Tower in Wyoming. Having actual seen this natural monument takes a little mystery out of it in the film. For years it seemed more like something out of the filmmakers imagination, something of the dreams of Hollywood, than something real. Something made of rocks and dirt. The mysterious glow that surrounded the rock in the film, and especially the first actual appearance in the film on television, has been dimmed a little. Likewise as Richard Dryfuss sculpts the mount in the beginning I wanted to shout at him to flatten the top.Secondly, I am now quite familiar with a number of Francois Truffaut's films. He plays the mysterious French scientist in the film, but is in reality, a gifted director and pioneer in the French New Wave. Being familiar with who the actor is, gave the character more depth and mystery. I wonder how Spielberg talked him into becoming an actor in his film. If he had any influence on the direction of the film. How much English he speaks.I have also, for the past few years, lived in Indiana. Much of the movie takes place in Muncie, Indiana and I found the same joy that I always find when a movie, book, or song takes place somewhere I know or have been to. As if it becomes more real simply because I know the places it occurs.To me, the film is less about aliens and more about a sense of wonderment. In a famous scene, a small boy stands in front of an open door which is ablaze in a fiery glow. You cannot see what is outside, but you have spend the previous minutes watching the boys mother become very frightened as the aliens attempt to enter the house. Yet the boy standing close to these unseen and unknown creatures stands unafraid, even curious. There are many beautiful shots of a night sky with billions of brilliant stars sparkling. Throughout the film Spielberg seems to be using space and aliens as a means to express wonder and amazement at the unknown. Richard Dreyfuss' character loses interest in his family and outside life except for the mystery of the things he saw in the night sky and the recurrent thought of the mysterious mountain. Several times as he builds the mountain out of clay, dirt, mashed potatoes he proclaims that it must mean something, but isn't sure of what. Even in the last scene when he boards the alien craft there is no final meaning given. It's as if Spielberg is saying that it is the search for meaning in the universe, it is in looking with wonder at the great mysteries of the world that we in fact find some purpose, some meaning.I was reading a review of Steven Spielberg as a director and one of the things it discussed was the directors tendency of not moving his camera. That he tends to allow action come to the camera's view instead of following the action with the camera. So as I watched this film I kept a keen eye out for camera movement. I did find this to be true, throughout the film the camera is still allowing the action to to move into view. That's not to say the camera was only in one place. In fact it often was placed in different parts of a room for a scene, but in any given shot there was little movement. No sweeping shots, no long tracking scenes. The biggest movement I saw was when Richard Dreyfuss and Melinda Dillon arrive at the Devils Tower. The camera then sweeps over the car and follows the characters up a hill to reveal, finally, the giant rock in a real shot. I'm not sure what to make of this, but found it interesting.As in many of Spielbergs films there is distress in a marriage. Richard Dreyfuss and Terri Garrs marriage literally falls apart as Dreyfuss becomes more and more obsessed with his visions. There is one scene in particular where Dreyfuss is locked in a shower crying and Terri Garr begins to scream at him and scream at the children to go to their rooms. Spielberg uses several close up shots of the children to show how this fighting disturbs them. Spielberg has been on record to say that his own parent's divorce disturbed him deeply. Many of his films either show the distress of an unhealthy marriage, or the products of divorced. Yet in this film the creator of this unhappiness in marriage, Richard Dreyfuss' character, is the hero, is whisked away in the wonderful alien ship. I view this not as a detraction from the film but as an artistic endeavor. Spielberg takes time out of his alien picture to show the hurt and pain Dreyfuss causes. Dreyfuss's character also shows remorse over his actions yet cannot turn away from his obsession. As he begins to tear down his scrapbooks of alien abductions he tears the pointy top of his clay Devil's Tower and becomes obsessed all over again. Though in reality I wold see such a person's actions in disgust and contempt in the context of the film I see it as a broader artistic action toward the overall goal of seeking deeper meaning and wonderment. Just as I can cheer for the violent destruction of the bad guy in an action movie when the reality which be abhorrent and gruesome.More reviews at www.midnitcafe.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"I Don't Know How To Feel","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Has this ever happened to you? You see a movie in the early years of your life and you really liked it, then after many years you sit down and watch it again and wonder what was really in those Flintstones vitamins, because the show is really a pile.I'm not saying that 'Close Encounters' is a pile, but it definitely is a movie that I will never watch again, and yet I own it on video. Before I bought my DVD player, I saw the video cassette in one of those budget bins at my local video store, and said to myself, I loved this movie. It needs to be in my family video collection. I bought it and put it in my video closet, knowing that I would watch it at some point again. I watched it last night, and I'm glad I did. I will not spend the money on the DVD now.Don't get me wrong, there's some really cool stuff in this movie. The acting is better than you'd expect, the special effects are fairly good for 1977 and the score by John Williams is fabulous, but the story is...how shall I say this...BORING!I know that I'm not the majority in this way of thinking, but this movie is really just a waste of time and money on all counts. Go buy the soundtrack instead. It's worth the money. "},{"Title":"Errant Nonsense","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film, like almost all other Steven Spielberg films is notable only for its infantility and its special effects, a mesmerising combination which sadly set the tone for so much American popular cinema of the 1980's. There really isn't anything more to say. "},{"Title":"Ice cream!","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wrapped around Close Encounters of the Third Kind is the as always necessary human element of it all. This manifests into two people in particular. One is the decidedly more straightforward single mum Jillian, who is driven by the maternal desire to rescue her toddler son after he is abducted by the aliens. The other is the every-man with his loving wife and family - that is until the script dictates the need for him to transform almost overnight into one of those UFO/supernatural phenomena fanatics (those people never have kids or wives/husbands). The most infuriating of his scenes (apart from the one, isolated incident where the pair inexplicably share a brief, awkward kiss) is the infamous freak out where he begins liberally shovelling piles of dirt into his home to the teary reactions of his children and wife who predictably, like always, drives off with them to her sister's (it's always the sister's home they move to). Spielberg does much better with the supernatural side of it all by simply tapping into that natural, human curiosity that we all share for the skies above us, and further more, dumbing down to its purest essence - the childlike wonder of everything around us. With every alien encounter there is also that child perspective treating the flashy lights like a new, exciting toy and crawling incessantly and innocently towards the threat perceived by adults. The most wonderful first encounter is a jam session with the mothership which lights up with flashing colours and tunes like an oversized toddler's toy whilst the humans respond with a giant xylophone - together building a Philip Glass-esque melody and those distinct 5 chords that are iconic enough to make any movie-goer giddy with delight.What is done here is the eradication of the myth that alien contact has to be, in any sense, threatening or hostile. Spielberg does not fully commit to this until the final, blinding heavenly reveals (a re- release even takes us inside the spaceship's cathedral-like interiors itself). There is the usual alien mass of light that peers in through the windows and gaps of the house, an instantly recognisable sci-fi symbol if there ever was one. What adds to the hysteria and horror are these additional elements; the POV barrelling down the chimney like some extraterrestrial Santa Claus, the screws silently unwinding with an unnatural force, the clanging and emitting of hellish smoke from the vents. It builds that unseen presence with the most potency that Spielberg first established a talent for in Jaws. And as always he loves those drawn out, dramatic money-shots with his slow-moving camera - the most iconic of them being the government surveillance site being dwarfed by the mountain, which in turn is dwarfed by the mother- ship. Add to that John Williams' eerie, droning soundtrack that takes it cues from 2001 - before we come to the playtime. Perhaps not as enchanting as another little known sci-fi movie earlier that year. "},{"Title":"In 300 years . . .","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The best compliment ever bestowed upon Close Encounters of the Third Kind, I believe, came from its star Richard Dreyfuss. This is the only film that I've ever done that I know will be studied in 300 years, he said. Standing back and looking at the full spectrum of Spielberg's work, I can only think of three films that will be that important Jaws, for what it did for popular American culture, Schindler's List because of its great vision of human tragedy and triumph, and Close Encounters because of its overwhelmingly positive vision of inter-species communication across space and time.Yet, of all of the films that Steven Spielberg has ever made, this is the one that is the most far-reaching. Others get mired in the moment but this one looks at the broader picture, not of an individual but of the entire universe. What would happen if an alien civilization wanted to communicate with the human race? How would they do it? What signals would they send us? How would we set up a meeting? Sadly, that's a radical idea. Every other movie about aliens from Alien to Predator to Independence Day to Invasion of the Body Snatchers takes the easy road of having brain-suckers who want to turn us into food or slaves. Even Spielberg fell into that trap three decades later with his wobbly remake of War of the Worlds. But why? Why imagine that aliens would fly trillions or centillions of miles across infinite space to our tiny blue marble just to turn us into a midnight snack? Based on the larger view of the universe, that seems painfully narrow-minded.What is so admirable about Close Encounters is that it isn't in a mad rush to get to the big picture. It wants to wonder, to ponder, to build a mystery, to allow us to get excited by the notion that something is calling us out to a distant location because it simply wants to bridge the universal gap, and it does that by bridging the communication gap by talking to us telepathically. That's a big, bold idea if you think about it, it is one that hasn't really been explored since.Close Encounters of the Third Kind was released just six months after George Lucas gave us Star Wars. The great achievement of both is that they, along with Kubrick's 2001, elevated the science fiction to an epic scale. The took sci-fi out of the doldrums of 50s $10 quickies and make it respectable. They made it fun, they made it work by taking it seriously.Both Close Encounters and Star Wars present radical leaps in the genre, but Spielberg's film does it in a more elegant way. If Lucas' film was a great roller coaster, then Spielberg's film was more like a symphony. It's got light and color and music and magic. You can imagine the last half hour of this movie as a great symphonic experience. It's like nothing he, or anyone else, ever had the nerve or the vision to explore again. Luckily, it has lasted and will last, as Dreyfuss suggested, for another 300 years. "},{"Title":"Spielberg's love letter to UFOlogy","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have never been much interested in UFOlogy, and because I knew that it was a topic of this movie, I never made much of an effort to see it. This was dumb of me, for this is a good movie.The movie does circle around the premise of what if there was an actual encounter with aliens, and how the people who witness it aren't believed. But thankfully this is not main focus of the movie, but a theme that is left halfway through it.My main objection to this movie is the casting, or perhaps the characters. I'm not sure if it is Dreyfuss' performance, or the character he is playing - either way, he is uncompelling as a protagonist. Not only the much discussed decision he makes in the end of the movie, but his entire arch. He is not interesting enough to carry the movie, and neither is the plot around the woman and her child. Truffaut's character is interesting, but probably only in limited screen time he gets. Maybe the movie would have been best if cut back a bit on Dreyfuss, and rather split its attention evenly on all the players involved (the military, the general public and the witnesses)?While one could reasonably object to some of the special effects in this movie, I rather find the flaws fascinating and interesting. There are some really beautiful shots in this movie, especially some of the special effects shot. At the same time, it is painfully obvious that the actors (or the director?) is not used to working with acting towards something that is not present on the set. The reactions to the UFOs are at times really off mark - but that just makes it all the more interesting, seeing the early experimentation into this kind of work. It makes you appreciate how far we have come. "},{"Title":"Abducted","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a simple but well-told story about some strange phenomena.From the start, everything in the movie is surrounded by an aura of mystery.I find particularly interesting, in creating a narrative structure which starts with different stories with no apparent connection between them. This scheme provides a greater feeling of uncertainty to the viewer, who will discover the key plot as the movie progresses.One of the features of Spielberg's early films (like ET, CEO3K) and other 80s productions, is the nightly atmosphere in which a large part of the movie takes place. If we add an intriguing soundtrack and a fitting photography, we immerse into the unknown world of UFO sighting.8/10 "},{"Title":"Close Encounters of the Best Kind","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1977 there was Star Wars. But, another fantastic sci-fi film was released that year, and it didn't star Han Solo or Chewbacca. That Sci-Fi film was Close Encounters of the Third Kind, directed by Steven Spielberg. The film follows the story of a man,Roy, who, has had a close encounter. Government Officials try to cover-up the Alien encounters, but Roy refuses to give up. He is positive he was in contact with a UFO. Close Encounters of the third kind is one of the greatest alien films of all time(2nd behind Stevens other film, E.T). The amount of authenticity and realism is quite a treat. Opposed to E.T, these Aliens aren't exactly what you would call nice, giving the film a more realistic than magical vibe. The Score is perfect by the film(thank Spielberg Collaborattor John Williams), and the Special Effects almost surpass Star Wars. Close Encounters deserves a lot more credit then it's given- it's after all Steven Spielbergs second blockbuster.Close Encounters of the third kind is a film that you want to have a first encounter with. "},{"Title":"A groundbreaking concept for 1977","Date":"2 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" We didn't choose this place! We didn't choose these people! They were invited!There is no other director whose films I've given the highest rating to more than Steven Spielberg. Being born in the 80's meant I experienced some of his best films at a very young age The Indiana Jones trilogy, E.T., and Jurassic Park. I cherish each of these films and the experience of seeing them for the first time are engraved in my memory. I might have been too easily manipulated by his films at that age, but it's impossible for me not to view most of them as masterpieces. I didn't watch Jaws until I was much older and that film blew me away, so I was hoping for a similar experience with Close Encounters of the Third Kind, which I had never got around seeing until now, but had read fantastic reviews. Fresh off the success of Jaws, many were expecting Spielberg's next film about an alien encounter to be even more terrifying. But Spielberg had different plans and he wanted his film to stand out from all the previous B-movie alien invasion films. The concept was quite groundbreaking for the time considering his treatment of aliens here weren't what audiences were expecting. The only other film that had taken a similar approach prior to this was The Day the Earth Stood Still (1951).Spielberg's film opens in a Mexican desert where a strange sighting has taken place. Several planes that had gone missing during the World War in the mid 40's have mysteriously reappeared in the middle of the desert in excellent conditions. A French man named Claude Lacombe (Francois Truffaut) is interviewing the locals who discovered the planes with the help of an interpreter named David Laughlin (Bob Balaban). One of the locals is sunburned and shocked as he confesses that the Sun came out at night. The next scene takes place in Muncie, Indiana where a young boy named Barry (Cary Guffey) is mysteriously awakened in the middle of the night by his electric toys that all of a sudden are turned on. He walks out of the house following bright lights from the sky, while his mother, Jillian (Melinda Dillon) runs after him. The entire area is going through an inexplicable power outage. Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) works for the power company and is sent to answer a service call. On his way he experiences a UFO sighting and while chasing the lights he nearly runs over Barry who was standing in the middle of the road. The small group of people that were gathered in the area became entranced by what they'd just experienced. Roy returns home to tell his wife Ronnie (Teri Garr) and children about what he saw, but they think he has lost his mind. Everyone that was exposed to the lights ended up sunburned, sharing similar visions of a strange mountain image, and humming a five tone melody. The film then follows closely Roy's obsession and the effect that his supernatural encounter has on him and his family. By opening with these strange sightings, Spielberg leaves no room for doubt that these confrontations with UFO's are real. The emotions that are evoked from these scenes have more to do with awe and wonder than they do with suspense or fear, which makes it stand out from most of his other films. Once again, John William's score plays a key role in the movie and builds on that sense of amazement. Once Spielberg gets the actual encounters out of the way, he is allowed to focus the story on the family dynamics and that is where Dreyfuss' performance takes center stage. His character behaves in a strange way and it's hard to root for someone who is willing to leave his family behind to follow his visions (there is a wacky scene in which he attempts to build a model of the mountain in his living room with dirt and plants he has gathered from the yard), but somehow he still manages to be engaging. The child actor, Cary Guffey, is also very believable and in a way, we the audience, are in awe the same way as his character is. Melinda Dillon, who was nominated for her supporting performance, stands out here as well. The cast delivers, but it was Zsigmond's cinematography which was outstanding and deserving of the film's only Academy Award win. The build-up might have not been as interesting as the final thirty minute payoff in Devil's Tower, Wyoming, but it more than makes up for it during those awesome final minutes. I imagine that if I'd seen this as a kid I would've loved it, but today it feels a bit outdated and underwhelming at times. I enjoyed this sci-fi movie, but it doesn't rank close to my favorite Spielberg films. I fell for his more family friendly and emotionally manipulative E.T. which came out only five years after this. http//estebueno10.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Time has not been kind to this film","Date":"18 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I last saw this film in 1977 when it was first released. At the time I thought it was one of the greatest in recent years. Now, 38 years later, IMHO, it doesn't quite hold up as well.No, it's not because of special effects, which seem primitive now. I accept the evolution of special effects over time, and attempt to judge them by when they were produced.It's not the basic story man encountering aliens, in this case in what seems to be a positive experience.I have to admit that the print I watched on TCM was relatively poor...which is unusual for TCM...and that may have affected my perception of the film.But my criticisms have to do with the following 1. Too long. Needed tighter editing. There was not enough of plot to last 132-137 minutes.2. Thin on plot, as demonstrated by so many unanswered questions. For example, did the authorities know a lot more about what was going to happen? They seemed awfully well prepared for the unknown. What about those humans coming from the space ship? What had they experienced? Wouldn't it have been interesting to see some segments covering the debriefing? How had they prepared the people going to the space ship? What were they expecting? 3. Marginal acting. The focus is on Richard Dreyfuss. Frankly, I'm not sure he was ready for prime time yet. Or, let's just say he got much better as his career evolved. Teri Garr...well, her performance is okay, but not very memorable.I'm not saying this is a bad film. It's quite good, but I no longer feel it's great. It's just that sci-fi films have changed much so that now this film seems very dated. "}{"Title":"Classic Science Fiction Masterclass","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I went to see this as a young child on the BIG SCREEN, it was a very different movie to any I had ever previously seen before and a real spectacle with superb special effects for the time in 1977 (it is obviously dated thesedays i'll give you but it makes no difference to me)One of Spielberg's best (and if you think not then i'd ask you to take a look again and check out his positioning of the cameras, angles and the use of lighting which is top drawer)The first part of the film is the discovery, those chosen people and what it does to them and their families (this i enjoyed) but it's the second part that's the real showstopper with the finale pretty much bringing me to tears every time (I think it's the combination of what Neary has gone through, finding the aliens are NOT of the bad type and the the crescendo of the music) The pipe cleaner alien is extraordinary, although i admit on the close up shot at the end you can tell it is a puppet but again this was 1977 and makes no difference to me.I watched this on the Big screen again this Christmas 2014 (projected some 120 inches wide) and it still has the same effect on me now as it ever did (if not more so) i even watched it again today again on TV (only a few days later) although it loses the awe and spectacle a little when not shown larger and in it's Original Widescreen Format (C5 UK shame on you)This is a Vintage Classic that will always stir the emotions in me.As a race 'Humankind' has a long way to go, we are childish, love conflict, power and war and are not generally too kind to each other, such a waste...if only we could love each other whatever we are perhaps we could start to focus on what's really important and advancing the Human race for the benefit of all.I feel religion has a lot to answer for too...perhaps one day we'll discover the truth behind this (and it's very likely we're on our own folks...No God as we believe it to be but I'm open minded) and finally then we will be able to progress as a race. "},{"Title":"One of Spielberg's Better Movies","Date":"21 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Over the years, have seen Close Encounters of the Third Kind at least several times, and decided to review it on a recent rewatch. It shows some dated-ness at 1977, but it remains a very good watch. The visualization of the UFOs in concert with the audio concept is a great combination. Of course movie-goers may not remember anything from the movie except the 5-note tune, and in that simplicity Spielberg achieved such a high concept though much of the middle third of the movie seems forgettable. (spoilers) And though the acting is perfunctory, there were at least a half dozen especially memorable scenes - my favorite being the investigators hitting up India with the locals in repetitive chants of the aforementioned tune. A solid effort, 7/10. "},{"Title":"It's easy for me to understand why Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a classic.","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie held two big surprises for me, along with a lot of other things to admire.First were the special effects. This movie was made in 1977?! That's a little hard for me to believe. The effects here seemed at least as good as the original (and not digitally remastered) Star Wars, which came out the same year. Like Star Wars, it could only have used models and forced perspective. Am I crazy if I think one or two of the effects here might have even been better? There are several scenes where the smaller (scout?) spacecraft appear to revolve 360 degrees in midair, with remarkable depth and the appearance of a three-dimensional object. Isn't this at least as good as many sequences In Star Wars, with its more static shots of ships seen from only one angle? (In retrospect, I don't know if the version I saw of Close Encounters was itself remastered or improved.)Second &#x85; was my favorite TV show of all time a rip-off of a 1970's Steven Spielberg movie?! I couldn't believe how directly the 1990's' The X-Files seemed inspired by this &#x96; right down to an international government cover-up. The X-Files, of course, was a horror-thriller series, while this is a family film &#x96; which did rob it of a lot of tension. How much suspense can we really feel if we know that this material is suitable for all ages? Indeed, the worst thing to happen to any of the major characters we follow is that he falls asleep from knockout gas.To make things even more fun, I swear I saw a cameo by (an extremely young) Lance Henriksen, who had a guest appearance on The X-Files. (He's one of the scientists at the end.)There was more about this movie to like a hell of a lot too. Richard Dreyfuss is a damn good actor. So, too, is Terri Garr &#x96; despite dialogue that makes her sound like a hysterical shrew. (Cary Guffey was also a great child actor.)The script is smart, with characters sounding like we'd expect them to sound. Scientists are human beings who get excited over amazing discoveries, instead of being amoral automatons and devices for exposition. The kids here sound and behave like KIDS, a lot like the characters behaved in the later E.T. The Extraterrestrial. And the film did a great job of juxtaposing Dreyfuss' everyman plight with larger global events witnessed by a range of other characters.Plus, Close Encounters was just plain fun. I'm not big into family movies, but even I've got to admit, Spielberg really does project a sense of wonder here. This seems like a great film with which to get a pre-teen interested in science fiction.I had a few quibbles, but they were all forgivable.1) Several characters suffer unexplained sunburns after being near spacecraft, and then joke about it. This was 30 years after Hiroshima. Why on earth are they not terrified? If my skin burned after my proximity to strange object, I'd panic.2) One character demonstrates an incredible lack of vigilance with respect to her son.3) If a government conspiracy is so vast and resourceful, wouldn't it make at least some effort to identify and monitor those who have had close encounters?4) If you think about it, the aliens actually do a Very Bad Thing. Aren't lives destroyed by their abductions? It's 30 years later for the returning humans, who never consented to be absent. Yet we see little concern about this &#x96; or even a single sidearm in evidence in the movie's final scene. Wouldn't this be an especially horrible oversight considering the nature of the scientists? They're presumably earth's best and brightest &#x96; perhaps even the best qualified to inform us about defending against an alien invasion. Wouldn't it kinda suck if they were all abducted?5) A newspaper headline misspells kidnapping. (Sorry &#x97; I'm a former news reporter, and I can't get past it.)6) Am I crazy, or does Dreyfuss' character share a romantic kiss with a woman who is not his wife? This seems slightly out of place in a Spielberg movie.7) Dreyfuss' choice at the end reflects nary an afterthought about his wife and children.Still, this is a great movie &#x96; I'd give it an 8 out of 10.http//ericrobertnolan.wordpress.com/ "},{"Title":"In your mind you have capacities you know > To telepath messages through the vast unknown. Well, okay.","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" It says a lot about a film or piece of work when there are different versions, different mixes, different drafts, different versions of drafts et al. It usually means it was made by people more intent on the receipts and/or by people beset by so many self-perceived intellectual possibilities they didn't care what the great unwashed thought of the final product. This film has gone down in film history as a classic film to most, a classic mess to some and not even Close to a classic to others. Spielberg did better, nearly always!Family man Dreyfuss callously forgets and abandons his loving wife and three loving children in pursuit of his zany obsession to catch up with the alien owners of spacecraft darting about the night sky. What would our brainy Hero find if he made it into outer space &#x96; nirvana or more of the same, only alien? It's cute seeing pre-internet obsessives surrounded by newspaper cuttings and building muddy mountains out of molehills in their living rooms. The co-ordinates tune and Truffaut's intentness about it were laughable even back then, they've become cringe-worthy since. My mind might boggle at the lightspeed the scientists must have gone at to have prepared the massive Devil's Tower in time for the big encounter twirl and fade, but for the most part the soggy plot barely limped along. I saw this at the pictures in 1978 and like everyone else was bowled over by the special effects; getting back home and sans special effects realised I'd just been watching puerile nonsense about as life-enhancing as vacuum. The ending might have been Artier and more Significant if they'd all gone to Macdonalds for a burger instead and looked at each other for five minutes.It's OK film, but depressing that the passage of time can make all kinds of once authentic looking things turn into shams, especially self-proclaimed works of Art. Give me the unpretentious entertaining sci fi b pics of the '50's & '60's any day. Looking at this again after a twenty year gap and with my rose-tinted glasses on and thinking about empty horses apart from the odd unintentional laugh or cringe I find it depressing. At least I could always have a laugh at Calling Occupants Of Interplanetary Craft by the Carpenters, AND it only lasts four minutes! "},{"Title":"Eye Candy!","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is nothing more than a bunch of eye candy! No wonder the original writer wanted his name removed from credit. There's no writing to speak of. At the risk of being hated by a bunch of people who saw this when it first came out and are therefore still awed by it, I honestly see no reason why this movie has been given all the credit it has. It has awesome special effects I'll give it that, but beyond that, this movie is terrible. What story line exists is boring and elementary.Was I the only one who felt Richard Dreyfuss doesn't beat his kids enough? I'm kidding of course, but seriously I hated them. And his wife? What a raving psycho!I'll just close now before I anger too many people. But please before you say what a wonderful movie this is, please take into consideration something more than just the pretty pictures. "},{"Title":"Back Before Spieilberg Knew What Spielbergian Was.","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was lucky to see this in a theater when Columbia brought their selections from the 100 greatest films back for a week, and I was really surprised at what a well put-together film it is, and how refreshing it is to see a movie that is NOT from the 90's!The first thing apparent about this film is that it takes its time-- a la 2001-- to really set up effects and atmospheres. And you can really admire Spielberg's way with composing shots to tell convery information-- and it seems so masterful and exciting, rather than the rather lifelessly formulized direction he gives things now (though I do remember being startled at certain shots in Amistad). You think Wow, he really was a very talented, personal filmmaker at one time. I feel like now he's become more of a public figure, afraid to offend anyone.I was also surprised 1) how masterful the scares are in the first half. Certain aspects of the aliens visits are very scary, and these scenes were terribly exciting. I still love the scene in which Richard Dreyfuss' truck is scanned by the ufo-- leaving him twitching with terror afterwards. The trademark Spielbergian sense of wonder really does seem scary/wondrous here. 2) How real and nasty the scenes of domestic disintegration are. At one point Richard is saying to his wife I'm scared, just hold me while she's screaming I Hate you, that's why! It's really intense and shocking. And when Richard is playing with his mashed potatoes and looks up to realize his entire family thinks he's gone insane-- and his son starts crying at seeing him like that-- it's a scene that might be too intense in a flat-out tearjerker drama.The special effects are also amazing-- much more amazing, I think, than modern, computer-generated special effects, and I don't know why. Even when you can actually see lightbulbs and stuff-- the spaceships here really seem incredible. For some reason the realism and detail of modern computer generated spaceships seem very mundane by comparison. Here they found a way to make a bunch of lightbulbs seem really otherworldly-- now that you can show anything you want, I think a touch of that creativity and imagination has been lost.Also at the heart of this movie is a very sad story. Richard has a very self-centered wife who leaves him, then he hooks up with a similar looking but different wife figure. I think the key scene here is when he says to the surrogate wife I have to (leave you and) go down there (to the spaceships) and she says I know, and wishes him well, where his real wife would have said but what about me? It's in some ways about being trapped in a marriage with a person who inhibits your life and dreams, rather than encouraging you to pursue them. I'd be interested to know what was happening in Steve's life when he wrote this.Anyway, it's too bad people can't always see this on the big screen. It's so nice to watch a film all the way through without answering the phone or talking out loud, and it's wonderful to be with a big audience who is really into what the movie is doing to them. I wish someone would institute a theater to show older films more often. Ah well. Anyway, nice work, Steve.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"This film blew minds","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are some snarky belittling reviews on here. Namely the one by MovieAddict2013 that is stinking up the front page. I would direct the smartass who wrote it to review the rest of the films that were on offer in 1977. See how they compare. Spielberg create a magical experience that was utterly transfixing and a genuine emotional experience for the audiences who watched it. It had scenes that remain to this day iconic. It defined a whole new genre of film making. Yes it did. Of course it looks like a movie made in 1977 today. That is because it was made in 1977, jackass. It will be loved and treasured for all time. "},{"Title":"This movie blows!!!","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" But I do have to say that it would be a great movie for Hollywood to make a comedy out of. Well it kinda is already a comedy..LOL! And Ben Stiller would be perfect for the movie. So I'm told I have to have 10 lines to post my review. So here we go again. But I do have to say that it would be a great movie for Hollywood to make a comedy out of. Well it kinda is already a comedy..LOL! And Ben Stiller would be perfect for the movie. So I'm told I have to have 10 lines to post my review. So here we go again. But I do have to say that it would be a great movie for Hollywood to make a comedy out of. Well it kinda is already a comedy..LOL! And Ben Stiller would be perfect for the movie. So I'm told I have to have 10 lines to post my review. "},{"Title":"Good, Bad, and Close Encounters","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Everyone has an opinion. SPLEEN has about a million. The guy has 1,000,000 reviews. Get a job!The bad parts of Close Encounters, notably the ending and some of the more drawn out sequences, waiting and waiting, indicate a director still working out pace issues. Long spaces of time need more faces and less lights in the sky. However, the European style of the film, the drawn out rhythm, could have meaning against the cadence of the child-like musical tones. The core of the movie is the music message. Few will disagree with that. The viewer one might say is subdued by the languid course of the film and reverts back to a youthful place thru Barry's toys and Barry himself and Roy Neary's compulsive creative urges. Once at a more primal or child-like perspective the music comes to confirm that even here at the most base is communication, universal communication. Close Encounter.  "},{"Title":"duh, duh, duh, duh, duuuuuhhhhhh.....","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I recently saw M.Night Shyalaman's SIGNS, I described it to friends as 'CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND without the flying saucers'. Indeed, whilst watching it, I did half expect a UFO or two to come out of the sky.I was taken by my eager and overenthusiastic parents to see this a week after they did, having been subjected to endless anecdotes. To a 10-year old, it was a revelation.There isn't really any need to reveal the delights in these comments, as I feel the film gradually does that in excellent fashion. The opening of the film has a trio of sequences which are seemingly unrelated. Symbolism and imagination takes over and for a while you wonder whether anything is going to transpire, but your eyes do not leave the screen. John Williams' music is the true victor here (the single note that comes out of total silence during the opening titles and booms into the opening sequence gives me goosebumps even today!!!)When I saw it at the NFT in a retrospective screening recently, I shed a little tear in reminiscence at that first screening in 1978. I am sure one or two others have done the same as well.  "}{"Title":"Visual Delight; Lame Story","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The FX make Close Encounters irresistible to look at again.   And Spielberg shows many flashes of that wonderful style he had in his early days that made Jaws one of the greatest movies ever.So why then do I not regard Close Encounters as the masterpiece so many people think it is?   The same reason why I don't regard 2001 A Space Odyssey as anything more than an interesting visual delight.   The story has some serious problems with it.   And there are too many instances where I see creeping signs of that modern day director's sense of putting visual style ahead of story substance.Unlike 2001, Close Encounters at least has some good actors in fine performances but there are some things that I will never quite understand.   Bob Balaban for instance looks exactly like Richard Dreyfuss did in Jaws and the first time I watched this film, I was absolutely confused as to which one was Dreyfuss.  And Steven, will you tell me why the heck you wanted Francois Truffaut for this film?   Did it ever occur to you that having to hear a major character's dialogue re-translated every minute is going to annoy the audience?Finally, am I the only one who thinks there is something really dangerous in the weak resolution of Roy Neary leaving Earth to go off with the aliens? (and if you look at the special edition scenes, you almost get the impression that the alien in the tag shot is supposed to be a transformed Roy!)  I think it's still a miracle that the NOW never branded Spielberg as the poster boy for deadbeat husbands and fathers after making Roy's escape from the responsibility of family something we're supposed to sympathize with.   Spielberg himself has admitted more recently, now that he has the responsibility of family himself that he probably couldn't make Close Encounters today because of that. I think that's some food for thought the people who love this film too much should stop and consider.The only version I recommend getting is Criterions's out of print CAV laser disc which enables a viewer to see the complete combined original and special edition in letterboxed format.  As a whole it is much better than either version (or the more recent collectors edition).   That way one can better see the great touches and potential that was there for a truly great film that in the end got sabotaged by a lame script and a lame climax.  "},{"Title":"The ending is one of the biggest let-downs in box office history.","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me just say, the movie wasn't that BAD but I fail to see how some people give this movie a perfect rating, when the ending was such a letdown.POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD, DON'T READ IF YOU HAVENT SEEN IT!!The basic plot was alright, millions of people become obsessed with a huge mountain and they don't know why.  Richard's performance in the movie was very good about a father who becomes fixated on building a strange mountain shape and soon realizes it is devil's peak and that aliens are going to arrive their.  The movie keeps building up and building up to the confrontation on the mountain and when the movie finally gets their, the aliens arrive, drop off some people, pick some up, and leave. Thats all. I remember watching this movie and getting all excited toward the end, wondering what was going to happen next. Then the aliens arrive, swap some people around, and then leave and the credits begin to roll.  I sat back enraged thinking, I sat through all of that just to see an ending where nothing happens!  It is without a doubt the biggest let down in box office history! 8/10 for the first three-quarters of movie 0/10 for the conclusion "},{"Title":"A stunning film. Spielbeg's take on alien first contact.","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I must say this is stunning film, and imagine how it was seeing it in 1978. Why this movie is so underrated, I don't know. It's intelligent, exiting and well made. Personally I prefer this movie over Spielberg's E.T.I don't know the opposite word of nihilistic is, but whatever it is it's what this is. It may be a very sugar-coated film, since In real-life I don't think the military would have been so friendly. but then again it's nice to see a film with a more peaceful approach. The first contact scene at the ending is just wonderful.Also I liked how the movie shifted from being kinda scary (or Spielberg scary) and then becoming just simply beautiful. the fear of the unknown is very obvious here, as the small UFO's in the start scares people. And the effect on certain people, literary alienate them from their family and friends. But in the end, the aliens aren't scary anymore. They are friendly and treated as guests. And the effected people are almost treated as enlightened people.Now except for a few untied ends, and slightly over-lengthened scenes, there is nothing wrong with this movie. I really feel that this movie deserves more. i give this movie a 9/10. "},{"Title":"a worthwhile SF film","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought this film was well done. Its funny, I read that some SF writers did not like this movie for some reason...yet I think it is one of the best SF films ever made. Richard Dreyfus is perfect as a man pursued by visions of a place he cannot identify, which would be the landing site of mans first encounter with an alien race, in terms of it being recognized as same. Thought provoking special effects and an interesting plot make this a worthwhile SF film. I have often wondered about the validity of many UFO sightings, and as a person interesting in the idea of extra terrestrials, this film is one that deals with that oft maligned subject very well, in an intelligent and entertaining way. "},{"Title":"Sorry to disappoint the masses,but........","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" How I wish I could go along with the masses and say what a great film I believe this to be,but unfortunately I can't.As of this date I have now viewed the film twice and have failed in both attempts to make a connection.Perhaps if I had seen the film on the big screen all of those years ago,my opinion would be different,but in the end,I didn't.The acting was above average.The cinematography and special effects were great,but in terms of the story itself,I just come away with a dry,empty,unentertained feeling.Perhaps in the future I will give this film another try and come away with a much more favorable opinion. "},{"Title":"Light show","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Since Jaws in 1975 up to Munich in 2005, he's made 29 movies; that's a movie per year. That's certainly prolific. But it doesn't equate to quality. It doesn't matter how talented a person is, there is a limit to how much good work they can produce. Some people just don't seem to know when to stop. Such is Spielberg. He's like Stephen King who seems to have every word he's ever written published. This results in a lot of low quality stuff that should remain in the desk drawer or, in Spielberg's case, on the story board.Close Encounters of the Third Kind claims to be a sci-fi story but it does not stand up to comparison to other sci-fi films, particularly the great ones like 2001 and The Day The Earth Stood Still. It lacks those films' depth, philosophy and ideas. What you have in Close Encounters is basically an amusement park ride, much like many of Spielberg's movies are, and nothing of substance at its heart.One thing the film seemed to have going for it, for its time, were the special effects. But even here the effects in Close Encounters owe everything to 2001. Sure, the zippy, colorful scout ships are cute as hell but the mother ship is a clumsy, overblown mess that crawls across the screen daring you not to go ooh and aah.Close Encounters is certainly not as bad as the terrible A.I. which Spielberg made in 2001, but it's not the great film that it's been made out to be. "},{"Title":"A great classic","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a truly great movie. A big story. I was really surprised, what this movie actually was like I was expecting some stupid space scifi. But most of the movie is really something else. It's brilliantly written and directed. I have to admit that Spielberg really has talent. The special effects and visuals are really beautiful. For example the clouds It's funny how they are clearly much better than in contemporary movies, when they are trying to do the same thing with computers and billions of dollars! (Of course this movie must have cost billions also...) Everything is good, maybe even perfect, in this movie. Except, maybe in the last half hour, I would maybe have done some different decisions... But it's overally so good, that little flaws can be easily forgiven. One of those classics that everyone should see, especially persons who see less than 100 movies in their whole lifetime. "},{"Title":"Too Close of an Encounter","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really like this movie. I think the possibility of life on other planets is such a neat subject. Unfortunately, unless something is sneaking in on another dimension, there isn't going to be any contact. So we have our own whimsy to get us by. The neat effects in this movie are really mesmerizing. We have that magnetic flux going on. There's the cymbal clashing monkey, of course. Then there's Richard Dreyfuss. The reason I can't scrape up a 10 for this film is because of the manic behavior of this guy. There's obsession and then there's obsession. Unless he had a couple loose screws in the first place, how do you account for throwing dirt and gravel into your living room, probably getting your wife to divorce you, and scaring the living daylights out of your children. Did he have to build the damned mountain? Couldn't he have built it in his back yard? This is so contrived that I can't get past it. What really works is that while he's acting nuts, the government has already anticipated the encounter, and is doing what it should do. Using its available methods to try to make a connection. The use of the colors, lights, and music, universal things, is what I found intriguing. Those deep bass notes, honking out into space, and then the response. That's amazing. The aliens were pretty garden variety. Somehow, we've become so smug about what these creatures should look like. We seem to feel evolutionary patterns will lead to elongated bodies and heads, long digits, big eyes, etc. Evolution is a sculptor, working in its own vehicle. It would depend what kind of living place these guys came from, its climate, its vegetation, and everything else that separates species. Nevertheless, it was so nice to see a film where there was a peaceful resolution. If you can stand Richard Dreyfuss, see this again. "},{"Title":"Major Walsh, it is an event sociologique.","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" It would be my hope the above quote would summarize this movie quite well.Close Encounters represents something very different. For probably the first time aliens aren't here to kill us, eat us, or take over the world. Close Encounters represents a fairly unique view at the possibilities of alien life. A view since that not many movies at all have been able to capture as brilliantly.Perhaps the thought of trying to write an interesting movie that has good action and special effects, while not even having alien antagonist scares writers. I don't blame them, after all how interesting is an alien movie where there's no death and destruction? Close Encounters is an adventure of a few special people, who are picked by aliens for a special encounter. The movie follows the tale of Roy Neary, played by Dreyfuss. Early on, Roy experiences something not very easily explained or understood.Roy in his quest to understand starts to see patterns and shapes in various things. He starts experiencing the urge to understand a vision. Often this is rather funny, for example the famous mash potato scene in which he tries to sculpt a mountain out of a pile of mash potatoes! But no matter what Roy tries, it's just not right. Until one day when out of anger and frustration he stumbles onto something leading him in the right direction.At this point, the movie takes a dramatic shift. Roy's wife Ronnie played by Teri Garr, simply becomes fed up with Roy's obsession. She packs up the kids and leaves. Eventually through the magic of television, Roy's obsession with his vision is answered.Roy must simply investigate this to the end, not sure what to expect when he get's there. He is definitely not let down though, with only that of his greatest dreams or imaginations would be fulfilled.What is there say about this movie that isn't great? The special effects are terrific. Acting is all top notch. Dreyfuss plays the fatherly role excellently, and is totally believable as his character. Teri Garr at that time may have been the most beautiful women I have ever scene, and she nails her role as a frustrated housewife. The dialog is witty, fast and interesting. This isn't really an action movie, however, there's always something going on that demands your attention. Spielberg is just beginning the pinnacle of his career.9/10 "},{"Title":"Magic","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" On one level, Close Encounters is an archetypal Spielberg film; breathless, thrilling and awe-inspiring. On another level, it carries a profundity and depth which is unparallelled even by some of his biggest cinematic wonders. One thing's for sure; its brilliant storytelling and a dazzling piece of film-making. The superb Richard Dreyfuss is the down-at-heel electrician who becomes obsessed with the UFOs that one night pop up all over his home town, embarking on a journey which takes him literally towards the unknown. Spielberg's childhood fascination with alien life keenly explains why a third-time director handles this epic with such bruava yet the director's own neuroses over his parents' divorce lends an understated but nonetheless effective layer to Dreyfuss' character. All this is tied into an old-fashioned mythical adventure plot line with many implications. Like Kubrick a decade earlier, Spielberg uses the liberty of science-fiction to deliver a visually stunning and three-dimensional piece of cinema. "}{"Title":"Optimistic Vision of Man Vs. Alien Encounter","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steven Spielberg tends to promote the science fiction of optimism - that man and any outside life can build a relationship, work together, and be fast friends. Certainly this film evokes those regards by film's end(This all notwithstanding Spielberg's new remake of War of the Worlds). The story really is fairly simple and very complex at the same time. A group of scientists open the film finding working planes in cherry condition that are decades old and thought to have disappeared off the face of the earth(cheap pun). We then are introduced to several individuals in Indiana that see UFOs. Eventually these two plot strands will meet, connect, and dissolve. I like the way Spielberg did a lot of things with this film. Much of what we see and understand is built primarily on our imagination. Even at the close of the film, we are left to figure much out ourselves. Spielberg, just off Jaws, does use some tense, special effects like a row of mail boxes quaking, lights going on and off, lots of electrical malfunctioning, etc... to get his audience interested, but after that he gives his audience credit for being relatively intelligent and does not spell everything out detail by detail. Some of the effects work extremely well - some may be a little over done. Richard Dreyfuss plays the lead very nicely, and all the cast members are credible in their roles. I particularly liked Melinda Dillon's performance(I've always thought her to be a undervalued performer). Francois Truffault, the famous French director, has a rare turn as the leader of a group by the UN out to make alien contact. Ultimately when you shed the special effects, the aerobic direction of Spielberg, the fine performances, the haunting images of Devil's Tower in Wyoming(and all the things shaped to its mold), and the familiar, wonderful musical score by John Williams, you have a film with a great deal of heart and hope - Spielberg never even really lets the negative POV rear its ugly yet realistic head into the film. From the beginning man and alien encounters are deemed friendly and part of man's future. "},{"Title":"Great film...","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film has long-since been a favorite of mine, having seen it at a very good age for a strong impression, old enough to understand it yet young enough to suspend my disbelief completely. That being said, I still enjoy the film today. To me, it symbolizes the youthful spirit in chasing one's dream, and the choice between following your dream or following responsible pre-programmed lines expected of us as adults, parents and functioning members of society.I've not liked many films or shows dealing with conspiracy theory. In fact, most of them switch me right off, usually because the ultimate answers are predictably dark and maximum in scale... as the boredom. Close Encounters is a refreshing exception, because it's ultimate answers are benign, which further emphasize that we all are like children in pursuit of our dreams to one degree or another and are just as liable to misinterpret those unknowns as a danger when they are in fact nearly a friend. Films usually deal with the necessary radical maturity of the protagonist, but in this film, it's the reverse.I find the story and key characters very compelling. Now grown and a parent myself, I am in agreement with Speilburg that the story is viewed through the eyes of a youth since a truly loving father would never abandon his young children and family forever in pursuit of a dream and that this film dates him in that, but it still captures well what I find to be a chase to recapture one's innocence. Now viewing the film as an adult of a family, I can now see the message has a second side, nearly touting ego-centric narcissism over one's total measure of self-worth in their personal responsibility. However, it still adds to the whole of a fine melodrama, rich in emotion, personal angst,discovery and freedom.Just be sure to unsheathe yourself and view the film with your inner child for the full effect. "},{"Title":"One of the most brilliant alien films of all time&#133;","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie as well as Star Wars was an icon for science fiction movies, because is brilliant in every kind of way.The story is really personal and universal at the same time about how a man's life is suddenly interrupted by an encounter with an UFO, which takes him to a journey of discovery that nearly makes him go crazy. Meantime the government tries to hide the truth about these UFO sightings. The climax of this movie is really spectacular and eye-catching.The acting is pretty good too, Richard Dreyfuss takes you in his journey to find out what's wrong with him and the rest of the cast give a great performance too.The Visual Effects are very impressive (even for a '77 movie) specially the ones used on the Mother Ship Sequence, and the Kidnapping of Barry which is one of the sequences that scared me the most when I was a child.Close Encounters is for this and for much more one of the most brilliant alien movies ever made.If you like this movie, enjoy it on DVD, and use your Home Theater system, because the soundtrack has been digitally enhanced, and it's so tremendous that I can assure you that in several scenes the windows of your house are going to vibrate a lot.10/10  "},{"Title":"A great movie. Nothing more, nothing less. (spoiler)","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Steven Spielberg knows what he is doing and he does it well in this 1977 sci-fi - drama movie. With that said i think it is important to realize that this movie is from 1977 so don't compare it to the effects seen in movies today. To be so old it is surprisingly well done. Richard Dreyfuss does his best role that i have ever seen him do.  Favorite moment When Roy Neary (Dreyfuss) has some kind of vision and starts ripping up plants and bushes and throwing it in the window while his family tries to stop him. For some people this movie might seem a bit long so don't watch it unless you want to and are interested in it. I rate this movie 8/10 "},{"Title":"I still love this film","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are crap times within this feel-good movie. The cutting edge parts all those strange and weird people on the side of the road who reappear in the investigative RAAF? we know nothing but my child threw a frisbee sequence and who, appear later, in the Huey UH1-D wearing gasmasks. Sorry, but the sequence when the Mother-ship opens and we see this insectoid thing is unforgivable. When the ETs get lovable (i.e. as children), and guide the ONLY one in to the ship; then sorry. It ain't gonna happen. Love is love is love like poison. Candy-apple is so sweet... who knows? They might come back again, and this time their message might not indicate friendship... live long and prosper, Paul )     "},{"Title":"Of the first kind","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spielberg's religious masterpiece. I didn't realise it was so early! It seems to me to be the first in a rough trilogy of films with ET and AI AI is an imaginative extrapolation of current science fact, ET a wonderful fiction as metaphor for (specifically) Elliot's imagination.Close Encounters reverses that fiction, giving the adults idealistic day-dreaming a fictional realm (the messianic visitors) into which it can aspire. It's exultant sci-fi. It's a little odd - whereas the metaphor of the tale of ET piques our imagination and aligns us with Elliot (like the frog dissection sequence), the visitors are not provided as metaphor. Instead they are the meat of the imagination and our wonder is object. If ET gets us to examine ourselves in isolation, Close Encounters gets us to amalgamate ourselves as one.Communication is the drawstring throughout. The chief investigative scientist is French (Truffaut) heading an American outfit. They visit Mexico and India. There is an infant who cannot yet speak, a father whose visions are buried under the noise of his family and a lonely woman. All hear and are heard (I feel like I'm sermonising myself). The martial science of space exploration is rendered redundant in the joyful final sequence, as the astronauts move from the boring (if moving) briefing of prayer to embrace the visitors. Spielberg stretches the 'only connect' sequence that closes the film to a euphoric 10 minutes with John Williams urging on the transfiguration.Bet it was great in the theatre 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Best Extraterrestrial Film Ever Made","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the best UFO related film ever made. It is a classic of the sci-fi genre. It also is one of Steven Spielberg's greatest films. The John William score is also most memorable. The special effects are also very well done. The mothership is simply awesome. One thing I really like in the story is the idea that many people who were missing were actually taken by the aliens (could this be true in real life?!). If you want to see one of the greatest sci-fi movies ever made, then buy the DVD! "},{"Title":"One of the best.","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the best movies of our time. Stunning special effects, sound and acting. This is the movie that started it all. Richard Dreyfuss is superb and Teri Garr is excellent. This is probably the best movie Steven Spielberg has ever done in his career. This movie is a MUST own. "},{"Title":"A magical Spielberg story","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Close Encounters is one of those Spielberg movies where you can really feel the magic. It isn't a downer, and it isn't the kind of movie that makes you think about the world's problems. Even the US government seems to have the best intentions when it comes to the aliens. The whole movie wears a little smirk on it's face. Masterfully done, Encounters has some simple but effective visual effects and a emotional and powerful soundtrack. The casting is good considering it was early in the careers of several of the people involved. Richard Dreyfuss plays his character perfectly. Roy Neary is a regular joe that suddenly is confronted with some life changing events that he can't understand. The messages that he is getting in his head confuse him all the more and Dreyfuss does a perfect job of illustrating that. The supporting cast turns in good performances as well and really give the impression that you are watching a documentary rather than a work of fiction. The best parts of the movie in my opinion is when they are showing you clips from around the world of different UFO encounters and the research team finding evidence of an alien presence. When they're in the Mongolian desert and they find the freighter Cotopoxi. The same ship that was lost for real in the Bermuda Triangle. It still gives me chills. They slowly pan across and you see a huge ship sitting in the middle of the sand. Oooooh man, great shot.Bottom Line This is another one of Spielberg's classics. You must get it on DVD for the multitude of extras that are on the 2 disc set. If you haven't seen it yet and you like either UFO's and/or Spielberg, you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"An absolutely beautiful movie -- this one made my heart glad","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You gotta chalk it up to Steven Spielberg.  He knows how to make a movie.It is an utter masterpiece about UFOs, telling three different stories (one about Roy Neary, one about Barry and his mother and the one about the government investigating some really strange UFO occurences around the world) and how these three stories will come together for a wonderful conclusion.John Williams' score is really what makes this movie so special.  There are countless moments where it'll warm your heart.  Everyone was cast well for their parts.  Richard Dreyfuss, Terri Garr, Cary Guffy, Bob Balaban and of course Francois Truffaut!  Truffaut was a really inspired casting choice for French scientist Claude Lacombe.  He had a warmth and charm to the role that cuts all language barriers and gave a very human face to the whole government and bureaucracy side of the story.The final scene of contact with the aliens and humans at Wyoming was awesome!  Don't tell me you don't get goosebumps when the U.S. Navy members from WWII (not aged) step off that spaceship and give their name and ranks all to the background of Williams' stirring score.  And the scene with the hand signals between Truffaut and the alien are beautiful (also greatly enhanced by Williams' score).There is just so much that is great about the movie.  It just doesn't get any better than Spielberg! "}{"Title":"out in 1977, but still better than things seen lately","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I viewed the special edition DVD version of this movie all the way through for the first time today.  I must say it is better than anything I have been seeing in the twenty-first century.  I enjoy the fact that the movie has a great sense of humor.  The characters are not taken more seriously than they are meant to be.  The things that Dreyfuss goes through in the beginning of the film with his family and outside in his truck and in the dark are very entertainingly and dramatically handled.I think the movie was well-cast.  Melinda Dillon and Richard Dreyfuss were perfectly cast in the right roles.  Richard Dreyfuss is perfect as a person going crazy with incredible information suddenly planted in his brain. Melinda Dillon is perfect as a worried and awe-struck adult mother figure.It is great that this film is more than about five tones.  Seeing pieces of it on TV gave me the impression it is about five tones.  But it is not. It is about giving the movie viewer a sense of wonder.  It is about making the mundane mundane and the spectacular spectacular.  Not much in the film seems forced or very out of place, if anything is at all.  I am usually critical of how music is placed in a film.  John Williams and company gave me no complaints.  When it was supposed to blend in, it did.  When it was supposed to stand out, it did.I see the wardrobe items are think they are great choices for the characters.  They are clothes that say what needs to be said and no more. It doesn't matter to me what decade they are from.I love that scientists are not seen as idiots or weirdos as in other sci-fi films I've seen.  I love that they have some dignity.  Francois Truffaut lends a wonderful air to his role as a scientist, by giving it dignity and good screen presence as well.  I'm pretty tickled to see him in this film.I like the tension put between the characters to show everyday reality vs. possible higher reality, loss vs. restoration, and the comedic vs. the sacred.  I think this film is about what people really secretly want, whether they can have it or not.  And it approaches the subject in a refreshingly innocent way.  It also is about the limits and limitlessness of the human mind and human effort.  And it doesn't matter why things happen in the film.  It just matters that everything does happen.To me, this film is just plain classic.  I see many films, including films that are supposed to be classic, and I just wonder why they were considered classic.  This one hits the spot for me as a personal classic. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Film!","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoiler...I supposeThis fine film does something very few films have ever done.  It creates a world of anti-celebrity.  Richard Dreyfus, along with others, are invited, selected, chosen, whatever by space visitors, for reasons which we cannot understand.  I can think of no more satisfying moment in film then the point where the aliens pass over the government's chosen representatives in favor of the common men they have selected.  Every time I watch this movie, I am amazed at how much joy this brings to me....that anyone, including nobodies, may be chosen at any time for wondrous things.  Not that I sit around waiting for aliens to tap me for adventure or for anything in particular to go bump in the night...It's just the pure pleasure of contemplating the possibility.  An excellent film! "},{"Title":"Not nearly as good as you've probably heard","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The music is pretty good.  And the special effects are okay.  However, the movie itself is not really worth watching.This shouldn't be a spoiler for anyone, given that the movie is about 25 years old now, but if you REALLY care don't read the next paragraph.Watch the movie on fast-forward except when you see blinking lights.  The only part of the plot you MIGHT miss that way is that some people... the ones you keep seeing during the blinking lights scenes... think there are UFOs out there.  Their families and friends think they're, well, crazy.  In the end... well, what do YOU think happens?  Duh.Everyone should see this movie, because it will show you what passed for science fiction at the time, thus pointing up in stark relief how amazingly great the first Star Wars movie really was. "},{"Title":"Awesome film-making","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was the first film I ever saw that made me feel awe. I was lucky to see this in a huge theater during its first release. I had never before experienced such dazzling visuals and intense imagery. The final scene with the mothership had me backing out of my seat.This is Spielberg at his best. There's a youthful, almost naive energy to the film. Among all the spectacular and ground-breaking effects, this is a simple story of a man thrown into a situation beyond his capabilities. We struggle along with Roy Neary to come to terms with the extraordinary circumstances.The cast is first-rate. Richard Dreyfuss gives one of his greatest performances. Francois Truffaut is perfect. Bob Balaban portrays his cartographer with bemused humor. Melinda Dillon does well with Jillian, but her character really doesn't develop much. She's after her son, but she doesn't have Neary's drive to find an explanation. Her character comes off as more shallow, more of a plot device. Other notable performances are from Teri Garr, who struggle to come to terms with her husband's odd behavior, and Cary Guffey as Dillon's wide-eyed son.I'm really glad that the BluRay release has finally restored the film to its original theatrical version. I agree with Spielberg, who admitted that the special edition really wasn't necessary (and actually completely changed the feel of the movie). Now that so many people have seen the movie, it's difficult to express the amazement I felt when watching it for the first time, knowing nothing about the plot. It was an exhilarating and moving experience, a perfect film for me, 19-year-old impressionable kid. It helped to inspire in me a lifelong love of cinema. "},{"Title":"Good film, rather simple story of an alien encounter.","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film mesmerized me as a kid, there was just something about the way it progressed that captivated me. Granted, it also kind of loses its luster a bit as you near the end of the film where it is still good, but not quite as fun as the first parts of the movie. The first part of the film shows some weird stuff, but then cuts to your typical family guy who happens to have a close encounter. It also portrays a woman whose son is basically abducted by the aliens in a scene that is almost fit for a horror movie. Well the father is becoming obsessed with the aliens and the image of a mountain, and ends up losing his family. However, he does get to be present at a very strange meeting between the people of our world and the people of another during a strange musical display. The film has some good humor in it, mainly during the first part of the film. It also has the rather scary and good scene of the abduction during this part of the film too. It has its slow moments in it as well, but it never really loses one's interest like so many other films that run over two hours tend to do. The cast is rather good, however, Richard Dryfeuss is the only one who really stands out and his character pretty much carries the film. The effects are a bit dated today, but still not bad to look at. Had this movie maintained the pace of the first part of the movie it could have rated even higher in my book, however it still is a rather good movie considering the plot is rather basic and simple. "},{"Title":"A great film I return to for comfort year after year","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Comfort you ask? We all have our favorite films we turn to for solace, or to reflect our sadness or to lift our spirits. Close Encounters has always held a special place for me. One does not have to hold a clear opinion on whether or not ET's really exist. The humanity at the core of this tale is attractive enough to mitigate the challenging waters of whether it is a plausible story. I had the chance to watch Independence Day last night and then immediately watch CEOTTK and the contrast could not be more pronounced. Try it yourself. ID is shallow, the holes in the story line are as big as the floating UFO's, the characters reduced to comic book sized lampoons, the inevitable reduction of plot to special effects cheapening the overall effort into complete silliness. CEOTTK on the other hand puts us squarely in empathy with those who have been touched by the most unusual of direct contacts with other worldly beings.What would we do if we were in their shoes? This question draws us into the story. Because Spielberg at his best, is a master story teller, he knows just how to make this a thriller we could all believe in, if only for the sake of the entertainment value of a movie. For die-hard believers of UFO's and ET's, this epic film more than makes heads go up and down with approval. It supplies us with rational explanations for what might happen IF and when a real direct encounter on such an open scale does transpire.Central to this film is Richard Dreyfuss, who probably delivers one of his very finest roles. Important also are the passionately involved characters of Claude Lacombe and David Laughlin. Truffault and Balaban give richly fleshed out portrayals that never veer into stereotypes. Spielberg is also very talented at working with very young child actors and his work with Carey Guffey is superb. Everything about this movie builds suspense from the beginning to the end. We find ourselves quite easily associating ourselves with the main characters as they struggle to deal with their life altering experiences.What is the lasting power of this film? When many other alien based films have a nasty and sinister subtext, this film assures us that there just might as well be a class of benevolent aliens who mean us no harm and will not use their obviously superior technology to colonize or destroy us. This in itself is very comforting. That we see a contact between species that does not devolve to violence but of mutual curiosity and reciprocity and peace is deeply satisfying in this crazy world of ours. It might be a fairy tale fantasy but the idea that other beings could be so gentle with us is a comfort.John Williams uses his genius for soundtrack music to great effect. The special effects, given the time period, still look sharp and wonderful. This is a film that will love long in our imagination. It does so with very good reasons. "},{"Title":"Spielberg's classic sci-fi film...","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roy Neary(Richard Dreyfuss) tears apart his family over an obsession with his experience with a U.F.O.This is Stephen Spielberg's second blockbuster(following Jaws) and is one of the first great sci-fi movies. Although it is seriously flawed in plenty of ways, Dreyfuss plays the role of Roy Neary perfectly. Spielberg captures wonderful visual images that were way before its time. Being released the same year of Star Wars(1977), Close Encounters was totally out done, but Spielberg does not get enough credit for this film. It was an original idea for its time and is quite entertaining without being violent. Overall, the film is just a great movie but not Spielberg's greatest by any means.I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Undescribable feeling!","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film makes you wonder around in an imaginary world where some of its theme could be possible to visualize.The feeling I get whenever i watch this film is incredible...Steven Spielberg is a magician. He plays with our feelings in a nice way and yet manage to disturb and shake our souls.The film is playful and harmless...simple and nice done. Very classic with high technology involved (compare to the 70's very well done).If you wanna think deep, this film could cause a dilemma but its worth a watch! You will feel really good and i don't have any explanation why! Aliens---here we come! "},{"Title":"It's still magical.","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of my favorites and still compares more favorably than the big budget films made today.  Opening scenes hop around the globe as evidence mounts that man is not alone in the universe before the film centers around one man in Ohio who is about to go through a unimaginable experience. The special effects hold up well after 27 years especially the depiction of the aliens.  There are no quick edits and I even prefer the film stock better than the flat video medium used nowadays.Mr. Spielberg succeeds once again to bring human perseverance and warmth into the story.  His is a pleasing What If? scenario that makes our first mutual encounter with being from another world a wondrous thing. "},{"Title":"An absolutely beautiful movie -- this one made my heart glad","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You gotta chalk it up to Steven Spielberg.  He knows how to make a movie.It is an utter masterpiece about UFOs, telling three different stories (one about Roy Neary, one about Barry and his mother and the one about the government investigating some really strange UFO occurences around the world) and how these three stories will come together for a wonderful conclusion.John Williams' score is really what makes this movie so special.  There are countless moments where it'll warm your heart.  Everyone was cast well for their parts.  Richard Dreyfuss, Terri Garr, Cary Guffy, Bob Balaban and of course Francois Truffaut!  Truffaut was a really inspired casting choice for French scientist Claude Lacombe.  He had a warmth and charm to the role that cuts all language barriers and gave a very human face to the whole government and bureaucracy side of the story.The final scene of contact with the aliens and humans at Wyoming was awesome!  Don't tell me you don't get goosebumps when the U.S. Navy members from WWII (not aged) step off that spaceship and give their name and ranks all to the background of Williams' stirring score.  And the scene with the hand signals between Truffaut and the alien are beautiful (also greatly enhanced by Williams' score).There is just so much that is great about the movie.  It just doesn't get any better than Spielberg! "}{"Title":"All this for what?","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CE3K is that kind of movie that starts off rather well and gets you interested in the material but then the film slows down, the plot becomes less believable and you wonder what the conclusion is going to be like and when that conclusion finally comes, you feel let down.SPOILERSThe first 30-45 minutes of CE3K is excellent. The story has a certain electricity about it, the effects are nicely done and you can feel a certain foreboding tension in the air. A lot of strange things are going on - alien spaceships with pretty lights flying over head, knocking out power grids (from their mere presence), and sending some people, including main character Roy, into a state of newfound discovery, awe and bothersome confusion. I liked the pace of the film during these parts and my eyes felt glued to the screen.During the middle part of the film, the pace changes and the material becomes pedestrian. Spielberg spends too much time forcing us watch Roy go nuts, digging up plants from his front yard and throwing them through the kitchen window (while the neighbors just dumbly watch). Then he makes this 10 foot high mountain out of dirt in his living room because he has these visions. His wife Ronnie scurries away with the kids thinking her husband has gone mad. Ronnie was terribly unrealistic and dated. I would never expect a modern woman today to act like she did whining, indecisive, helpless, weak. I couldn't stand her character. Remember how Princess Leia is treated like meat in Star Wars? Same kind of idea here.So Roy travels to Wyoming to find Devil's Tower, the location depicted by his dreams and visions, where the US government has set up shop in preparation for some alien encounter. Roy - along with Gillian, another woman with similar visions - manages to get through to a top security military base aside the mountain, despite military personnel stationed all over the area and flying over head. Night comes, pretty lights fill the sky, an alien mothership lands at the base, the government people play some tunes on a large keyboard, the spaceship replies with tuba-like noises, lost humans from the past come out of the spaceship, then the aliens come walking out, find Roy and encourage him to join them, he boards the ship, the human project leader makes some hand gestures to another alien, then they all pack up and the spaceship flies away. Credits roll.Early on in the film you are led to believe something big is going to happen, but nothing does, unless you think trading human passengers with aliens is somehow exciting. I think not.Perhaps CE3K's special effects had some impact back in 1977 but today the film seems trite and nonsensical. Some claim this is one of Spielberg's best. Absolutely not. A.I.Artificial Intelligence was eons better, though you could argue that Kubrick's influence had something to do with that.I've seen this film twice. That's more than enough. "},{"Title":"Close Encounters of the Third Kind 7/10","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Steven Spielberg wasn't really famous until Close Encounters. Sure, Jaws was out, but this made him famous. The same happened with Richard Dreyfuss.Close Encounters has Roy Neary as a regular married man who sees strange lights in the sky. Soon he starts building strange structures out of shaving cream and mashed potatoes. His wife (Teri Garr) thinks that he is crazy. But, Roy can't stop making things to resemble that structure. And soon he is on a hike out to the West for no apparent reason.Close Encounters really plays like two movies. The first one is a tense sci-fi about spaceships and strange callings. The second is an adventure of running away from the army. It didn't seem to fit well together. Maybe if I wasn't half-asleep (and who knows, maybe I did sleep), I would have liked it more. The adventure part seemed too far away from the true plot of the film.It is wonderous of it's achievement of aliens and UFOs. It takes a subject used too often and puts it in a whole new light. The aliens don't want to harvest us a la Signs. They came out the same reason we would want to go out there-for discovery. Which is what the film is about. The discovery of your true calling and what to do about it. Roy goes out to the West not for a vacation or to see what it's like. His intuition tells him to go there, and that's what he does. But that's where some of the problem of the movie is.As you may know, I like movies that leave us guessing at the end. They make you think. But this left a few too many. Such as what happened to Roy? Did he go back and get back with his wife? And why were the callings made? Were they just so Roy could find a reason to go out there and meet the aliens? But then what about the other people who did have callings but left? And why am I asking so many questions? The ending scene is truly amazing in my point of view. It doesn't rely on special FX (that musical-light board was awesome-I need one of those) or computer tricks. It's a guy dressed up in a suit, except he doesn't look like that. He looks like a real alien. Except he had to be so stereotypical. Maybe Spielberg didn't feel like thinking very hard that day.So, see it if you like alien movies. See it if you like sci-fi movies. See it if you like Steven Spielberg or Richard Dreyfuss. And, see it if you like movies in general. No movie buff should go without seeing this extraordinary achievement of movie magic.Rated PG for aliens and some language. "},{"Title":"Genuine Crap","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Honestly, almost all of the Spielberg's movies, except Saving Private Ryan and the Indiana Jones trilogy, are very well done and immaculately mastered big chunks of Hollywood crap. Close Encounters? Well, a very thought provoking film indeed. What the heck is it all about? The plot is gruesome - aliens snatching earthlings without their consent scaring the hell out of others, mutilating animals, etc. What is the reason for that? Very mysterious and wonderful creatures of high intelligence came all the way from God knows where to swap a batch of humans for another one like they haven't done enough. Very stimulating for human fascination towards the mysteries of the unknown. The camerawork and staging are amazing though. That's what Spielberg is really good at - visualization. Visualization is good and entertainment is one of the main purposes of the motion pictures but please, having all the money in the world and lots of talented people in the show industry is it hard to produce decent movies with decent plots for Christ's sake? How many more Gladiators are planned to be made?P.S. A message recently received from aliens - Do not take humans for fools Mr. Spielberg. "},{"Title":"Schmaltzy, overblown, clunker about losers who have spaceships and losers who don't.","Date":"26 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one film I can see from beginning to end in the most complete indifference, without giving a hoot about anything; about Roy's family falling apart, about Jillian having her son taken away and returned, etc. And it shouldn't be so, as--even if few realize--this is a sad tale, one of helplessness and despair. All characters here, with few exceptions--air controllers, technicians--are failures, have no life and are dumb too. The real hero here is Barry; his is the only story worth telling. The only smart character also. From the beginning, all he wants is to get away from that bore and loner he got as a mom and he finally gets some attention, this time from ET. What the heck, you take whatever you can. So he gladly elopes. But at the end ET returns him and you can see the disappointment in his eyes so, they are no better than us. Left to choose between losers he already knows and new ones...But, boy, he isn't a happy camper. That's the story. Because these aliens are as dumb as humans they got all those war pilots for 23 years and what did they do? Nothing! No wonder Barry is resigned to return. And what ET brings to mankind? Nothing! Only a cheap lights show and an annoying keyboard--tuba rendition of Dueling Banjos. As one reviewer put it well, you can get that and better at a Pink Floyd concert (BTW, I didn't know ETs. were tuba enthusiasts).I said losers. There are two kinds of folks here, ordinary and big shots. Roy is both ordinary and a loser. He got a hell of a family life and a miserable job, which forces him to be ready 24/7 and from which he's fired for no reason. He has no friends; neither his kids--that slap in the butt routine was just tacked in--and his proverbial next door neighbor is an older lady with much time in her hands. And when Ronnie leaves, all his neighbours just stand there, showing no reaction at all, no sympathy. I have seen more warmth in a mob of hungry zombies. So, would you blame the guy for wanting to go away? Problem is, he's stupid--remember how well his Lacombe interview went--and the fact that aliens would want anything to do with him prove their own stupidity. Why any self-respecting alien would want this bush-throwing wacko aboard? If I was one, I wouldn't want him anywhere near my UFO! His stupidity is further proved when he doesn't even bother to ask any of the returned humans how their trip was, what to expect of it etc. Instead, all what's needed is a bunch of ET pygmies to mob him and carry him inside the ship in a Christ-like body position--in one of the worst, most embarrassing, bits in movie History--to make him happy. And to see poor Truffault there, watching the weird scene with that dumb, cherubic expression in his face-what he's doing there, anyway? How did they get him aboard this clunker? Did they have pictures; was his bank about to foreclose his home? Now, concerning Ronnie--what flavor?--no proof is needed. Ditto for (Halloween for grown-ups) Jillian. No job, no friends, no life. Any mom with half a brain would have immediately rushed her boy to the nearest ER, checking him all over, on the way, for any missing parts; but what she does? She stops paying attention to him two second after retrieval and embarks then in her favorite Japanese tourist impersonation! But big shots are no better than small fry here. See, they are all looking up, waiting for some savior from outer space. There is Lacombe, a guy who has spent his entire life trying to make believers out of everyone and all what he gets at the end is a impromptus pop concert. There is Mayor Walsh and his subordinates, who are still licking the wounds of a lost war and who see a good occasion to get even, kind of, pushing people around and scaring them with them choppers. There's also the usual mixed bag of miscasts--bums, migrants, a proverbial elderly couple&#x97;and a crowd of scientists, UFO researchers, who don't have anything better to do than to chase sky lights (BTW, I believe in ETs too, but not in wasting my life chasing after them). But most, we got there those who better embody the pathos of the situation--the U.S. astronauts. Men, women, who proudly march in their flagged uniforms&#x85;to hitch a ride from ET, 'cause they don't even have their own means of transportation. How low we have fallen since 2001! (has anybody here a successful, accomplished life&#x85;?) This is also a reactionary film, nostalgic of times past. In it lost wars are mock fought again--Nam--abandoned causes retaken--Man in space--and the clock is set back in issues as feminism (not one woman in power positions, only token astronauts and clerks) and civil rights (visible minorities practically invisible), not to speak of the old tunes heard sometimes. But in the end this is basically a tale about people whose lives suck and who are expecting salvation from above, from the skies, only to be disappointed again; but they are too dumb to even know that. They don't seem to have any other reason to live, any other existential purpose (Had I been the pilot of the mothership I would have written them a simple message in the sky GET A LIFE!). But bad as the turkey is, one has to admire its internal consistency the ETs bring nothing to mankind because they are losers themselves, but with spaceships. Perhaps the Roys and Lacombes of their own world. That's what takes place, at the end, in Devil's Tower a meeting of zeros. 2 stars, for F/X. "},{"Title":"Laboured Attempt","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Close Encounters' is a laboured attempt. Obviously there's some class sitting in the directors chair and although this is before his success at bringing aliens to life in a humane manner as seen in 'E.T', this film doesn't actually do Spielberg much justice when it comes to him and the sci-fi genre. Believe it or not, the first twenty-thirty minutes had me on the edge of my seat. The mysterious WW2 planes in the desert, the boat mounted also in the middle of nowhere, the strange electrical cut outs experienced in the car and in the house, even the odd question came up such as 'What'll happen now that a certain character has been abducted?' All of these ingredients started to boil up and set the thing up for quite an entertaining ride.Alas, when the film enters its critical point, the middle and the 'development of the initial ideas', it starts to fall apart faster than a piece of space junk entering our planet's atmosphere, this is a shame. This is where the 'laboured attempt' remark comes into play. The mental uneasiness the main character shows is over the top and rather laughable to an extent. The slow, deliberate build up is again, over the top and a lot of it is completely unnecessary. The whole thing felt as if the makers just wanted to mix it in to create a longer film and that was sad to realise as a lot of it was unnecessary.As it draws to a close, some of the earlier questions have been answered but it's either been made too obvious or you just couldn't care less any more. Even when we finally have a glimpse of the aliens, they don't hang around for too long and the whole finale is really a bit of a wash out. Yes, there is that memorable scene involving the communication through the lights and the memorable music but that is just trying to cover the rather large cracks that have appeared. Also, I don't think the writer really thought through the ending as best as he could what with the questions that raise in the form of 'why' the aliens came, 'where' they came from and 'what' they actually wanted. The whole film just seemed to go round in one large circle and end right back at the beginning. "},{"Title":"I Can't Believe I Watched the Whole Thing","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Gag!This movie came out when I was 10 years old - my folks never took me to see it, and I'd always wondered why.  Now I know.  This is a self indulging movie, filled with obsessive characters, and cheap dialogue.  It is the chick flick of sci-fi movies.Very sappy.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A utilities worker named Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) has an encounter with a UFO (in a great scene).  After that he begins to have 'visions' of a mountain.  Also a single mother (Melinda Dillon) and her young son also have their home 'investigated' by aliens while they sleep.  They also start to have visions of the same mountain.  It seems UFOs and strange appearances are happening all over the globe.  Naturally the government tries to cover it up.  Why are the aliens here and what do they want?The same year George Lucas released Star Wars this movie came out.  While Star Wars was about warfare and destruction this film is a very gentle, lyrical movie about a peaceful encounter with aliens.  The government DOES try to cover everything up but, unlike later movies, they have no interest in destroying the aliens--only to make contact.  That's a very positive message...but this movie has serious problems.The human characters are never fully realized.  Dreyfuss and his wife (Teri Garr) seem to have a very dysfunctional marriage with three truly obnoxious kids.  You don't like any of them.  As for Dillon we know NOTHING about her--just that she's a single mother.  That's it.  This is writer-director Steven Spielberg's fault--he doesn't develop any of his characters.  But this was one of his first movies so it can be forgiven.  Also there are gaps in logic and numerous scenes in which three or four people are talking at once making it impossible to figure out what's going on.  And WHY is the TV ALWAYS going at Dreyfuss' house?  It is needed in one sequence but most of the time it's just more annoying background noise.That aside this film is great.  The sequences with the aliens are used sparingly until the end--which makes sense.  And the special effects are just superb--they even work by today's standards!  The last half hour or so at Devil's Tower, Wyoming is just jaw-dropping.  The acting is actually pretty good.  Dreyfuss and Dillon are very good (considering they're just reacting to nothing) but Garr is whiny and annoying.  Also French director Francois Truffaut does a rare acting role here.  Vilmos Zsigmond did the astounding cinematography (the nighttime scenes are just beautiful) and John Williams added a great score.  And the tune used with the aliens was a BIG hit in 1977!  Worth seeing for the special effects and some truly great sequences.  Just ignore the lousy dramatic scenes with Dreyfuss and his family.  Try to see it in a theatre.  I give it a 9.   "},{"Title":"Was there a plot in there?","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Close Encounters of the Third Kind is certainly a well done film, but I'm afraid time has taken its toll on its appeal to the audience.The movie is about a fleet of space aliens who come to visit Earth, and a group of people who feel attracted to the aliens' landing site without knowing why. The movie starts with a group of military officials and researches finding a fleet of aeroplanes which were lost 30 years ago, and then builds up suspense as the aliens come nearer and nearer.But after we finally see the aliens, the humans and the aliens just stare at each other for a while and the aliens leave. What did the aliens want? Why did they come to Earth? How are we affected by their visit? The movie doesn't answer any of these questions, it blatantly ignores them and just marvels at the aliens' mysterique.The aliens themselves might have made for a good plot back in 1977, but now it's 2002 and people have grown accustomed to aliens and expect a more substantial plot to back the movie up.For me, this movie was a little over 2 hours of boredom further flattened by a shallow ending. Had I been born 25 years earlier, the movie might have had the effect the Babylon 5 movies had to me now.  "},{"Title":"Easy climb and the officials are gonna be nice.","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Climbing Devils Tower is not possible without equipment. Unless the aliens took control, everyone involved with seeing the aliens would never be free to mingle with regular people again - that's beyond political prisoners. The movie is so ...... I can't even begin to criticize it. It's fantasy with little plot, and not very good at that. The actors were given roles that are extremely forgettable. This is the director's worst film. If you're going to make a movie about aliens meeting with humans here on Earth, why does Hollywood almost always have to make it look like our government is going to be so aware of it? I guess very little in tinsel town is immune from propaganda. "},{"Title":"Masterfully mounted and presented...but the script is both stale and unfair","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steven Spielberg mounts Close Encounters of the Third Kind, which he wrote and directed, with canny precision. We are introduced to key players in this UFO story with both color and humor, and the cast is extremely good. Richard Dreyfuss is a suburban husband and father who has a seemingly chance encounter with a spaceship and becomes a man obsessed, pretty much shunning his wife and kids in the quest to find answers to improbable questions. On the rural side of town, Melinda Dillon is a single mom whose little boy has been taken by aliens; she and Dreyfuss are linked by their visions of a craggy mountain where they are sure something incredible will take place. It turns out the vision is really an invitation to be a part of something extraordinary, but the secretive government may stop them both from reaching their destination. This is where the picture begins falling apart in preparing the scenario for The Ultimate Interstellar Answer, Spielberg loses the heart of the piece, namely his characters. We are greeted with beautifully-realized special effects, but at the expense of a general understanding of the situation. Close Encounters is never just a light show--it is far more assured and satisfying than that--but in Spielberg's need to be warm and fuzzy, the picture closes with far more questions than any filmmaker would care to answer. That hoked-up, sentimental slant (complete with heavenly choir) is a bummer--and to viewers following this story with any interest, a cheat. What happens to the many obsessive crazies and oddballs (not to mentions scientists and astronauts) at the end is unfair. The movie ends up being a valentine to outer space--but the first two-thirds of the picture doesn't prepare you for that, and I for one felt betrayed. **1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"The emperor's new clothes of film (suprisingly, I'm not talking about Eraserhead)","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is sort of like The Emporer's New Clothes of Spielberg. Every director has his Jaws and CE3K for Spielberg; A Clockwork Orange, 2001 (a film that succeeds despite its pretentiousness), and Eyes Wide Shut for Kubrick, Eraserhead for Lynch, and Taxi Driver for Scorsese. In The Emporer's New Clothes everyone admired the Emporer's new non-existent clothing up until one child points out the overly obvious fact that they don't exist. This can apply to movies with dumb plots that everyone rejoices because of supposed metaphors or something. Except this time, I have no idea why this film is so rejoiced.The plot, well, there is none. Some adults see a UFO, go crazy, which involves building or drawing a sculpture, goes to a place, the big bad government which plays like every other Spielberg villain, threatening the goodness and innocence of every family, then they meet up with aliens that were supposedly the main plot of this film, but they go to Earth for less than five minutes. The end. It's very stupid, I was compelled to see it because of my love for E.T. and everyone saying that it's just like that. Man Spielberg sure sucks at writing. "},{"Title":"Plot very confusing","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, what can I say about this movie. Plot very misleading, more so confusing. The effects for a 1977's movie quite good actually. From what I could gather Alien's are fooling Earth, well more so an area in USA. One father is loosing his mind, literally. Likewise another Mother too. The Mother looses her son to the Aliens and the Father well the Alien's took his mind, hahaha. Then the Father tries to get to the bottom of this, The Mother also tags along with him, while both eventually finds the the truth. Which is quite amazing actually. Its to do with a government Conspiracy. Then again, the aliens to pop out of the Space Ship afterwards. Firstly thou the humans that were abducted including the Mother's son Barry. "},{"Title":"Esoteric meaning","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In my view, CE3K is a fable of a journey to enlightenment (God being represented by the mother ship). The two separate narrative lines meeting in the end tell the same story considered at two different levels Neary's quest (or Jillian's) shows the person as a whole while Lacombe's team shows a microscopic view of the person and details its various mental functions. Here are examples of the same thing told in the two different ways  the scenes where Lacombe's team discovers the airplanes of flight 19 and the scenes where they find the boat in the Gobi desert correspond to Neary's first encounter with the E.T. in his truck and the pursuit that follows. These scenes represent the inner revelation of fascinating potentials - still inoperative (planes that can't fly, boat that can't sail) - as well as the intuition of plenitude. In the words of the poet Arthur Rimbaud, these superhuman promises made to our body and soul.To be continued... "},{"Title":"Damn what a great movie, but UFOs are not necessarily aliens","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" All throughout this movie, I couldn't stop thinking how GOOD it was. The special effects are incredibly seamless. The camera work is impeccable and truly inspired - there are so many iconic images in this movie like the hands thrusting up to the sky, or the living room mountain sculpture. I cared about the characters, who acted more or less like real people, not some pretty but empty cardboard cut-outs. The movie has a certain sentimentality towards average folk that is, to me at least, heartwarming.Last and most importantly, it's an extremely accessible and brilliantly-written story about weird sh*t that science can't explain. People REALLY DO see UFOs. These phenomenon REALLY DO make cars stop working, or leave people with strange wounds that doctors can't explain.BUT. Regardless of how amazingly lofty an achievement this movie is, I believe it's a mistake and a little dumb to insist that these phenomenon are the result of an intelligent race from another planet. It's just... off. Never mind that even if this WAS the case, then why the hell are they kidnapping people in their spaceship? The climax amounts to a light show followed by the scientists and aliens exchanging looks of starry-eyed wonder. Where's the profound revelation about the future of humanity and the nature of the cosmos? It left me dazzled by the effects, but a bit empty, like a TED talk.Anyway, I've been interested in paranormal phenomena my whole life, and the aliens explanation for UFOs has never sit well with me because UFOs always manifest in fragmentary ways that almost never leave any physical evidence behind -- exactly the same as ghosts. That just doesn't sound like a physical spaceship zipping around, which is what people have turned UFOs into in popular imagination because it's easier to understand.Real UFOs, and most paranormal phenomena, are more like these bizarre holograms that blink in and out of existence for reasons no one understands. This is why I think it's reductionist and boring to say they're beings from another planet. They are more like sentient objects from another dimension. I would have liked the movie to have abandoned the benevolent aliens thing for a scarier look into the truly bizarre nature of the paranormal, but then it wouldn't have been a feel-good movie. "},{"Title":"A calm, peaceful, and beautiful sci-fi film.","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is very little real conflict in Close Encounters. Roy Neary(Richard Dreyfuss) is driven slightly insane by his own Close Encounter, and he must bypass an army to get to where the Aliens want him to go. There is no real danger of death, or a real primary antagonist. The thing is, I didn't care. Director Steven Spielberg wants to whisk you along on a journey of boyish wonder, and the film certainly is filled with it. The gorgeous lights, the tense situations, and the beautiful conclusion all present an impressive, sweet, and astounding vision of aliens that are not here to eat us, fight us, or even warn us. They are here to have a conversation. Of course, not everyone thinks this way, but we have a remarkably nice American army here. They don't shoot down the Aliens or make threats. They have a conversation. Another interesting thing that Close Encounters does, is never make us doubt the protagonist. We know what we saw just like Roy knows what he saw. Dreyfuss is in fine form here, he's a mix of funny and crazy, and he sells us Roy's descent into comedic yet a bit disturbing madness. Of course, the lack of conflict doesn't mean lack of tension as a boy goes missing, animals die, and characters run from the army. However, like Jaws before it, Close Encounters takes a bit of a dip in the third act. But unlike Jaws, we're too in awe of the beautiful light show presented before us to notice. OVERALL Close Encounters is dazzling, sweet, and fascinating. It might not have the genius terror of Jaws, but it is brilliant due to it's own beauty. SCORE 8.0/10 "},{"Title":"Aliens are Fascinating - What about Family??","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am not familiar with what Spielberg has written in his filmography, but in this film which he has written he captures the sense of wonder that frequently appear in his early work. It is also a sense of spectator-ship - in Sugarland Express we look at a car chase from the point of view of the media, we see the shark attacks in Jaws from the point of view of the town as a community, now we see UFOs through the eyes of those drawn to them, either by enthusiasm or by a mysterious controlling urge.Sadly, this idea of spectator-ship throughout the script is sort of a fill-in for its lack of narrative. Yes, we like Roy, and we want him to find the answers he is looking for, but this obsession turns him into a bad husband and father, which the film ignores for reasons that are never explained. He tries to convince his family at times of what he has seen - this seems rational - but what is not rational is when he is trying to form Devil's Tower subconsciously with a bunch of dirt, and he is in such a trance that he barely tries to stop his family leaving him.This is a great adventure, but there is almost too much of act 2 since this film has a giant build to its conclusion. That is really the main point of this film, and the struggles Roy is supposed to experience seem feeble to him even though he is an average American. In the scene where he attempts to confront the top man behind the operation, he demands answers, but it is more of an outburst than an argument as to why he needs answers. When they try to send him away, he is able to prove the air is not toxic and run off to the area around Devil's Tower because it is convenient for the plot that nobody is guarding him that well.The best motivation in this film comes from the lead lady who desperately wants to be reunited with her son who has experienced the aliens on a few occasions. This gives power to the image of the single mother, and perhaps it suggests that women are better parents since Roy forgets about his family rather quickly?This film is highly intriguing, but it falls short of Spielberg's best films, even for the era before Schindler's List. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of 1977","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steven Spielberg's Close Encounters of the Third Kind was the perfect film for Spielberg to work on after the success of Jaws (1975) which was a great horror flick, but this film is not only one of Spielberg's best it is also one of the greatest science fiction movies ever made. The movie stars Richard Dreyfuss as Roy Neary a lineman who encounters U.F.O.s for the first time while doing something for his job while the power is out in the town he lives in, after he encounters the U.F.O.s he wakes up his family so that all of them including his wife (played by Teri Garr)but it was too late because they already left,then after-wards he ends up going nuts for a reason we don't know which his wife and children go to her sisters house until about twenty minutes later in the film while he and a friend of his named Jillian (played by Melinda Dillon in an Oscar nominated performance)in which she happens to be looking for her son (played by Cary Guffey)who was taken by these aliens. Spielberg is so good with telling the story to this film (just like the other films he directed that I have watched) even the small details along with the important ones. This movie marked the second film that Dreyfuss did for Spielberg after Jaws and then would do a few more films together, the film also includes a great supporting cast (besides Dillon) there is also the great French director Francois Truffaut as the French scientist Claude Lacombe and Bob Balaban as an American scientist. This is a great film to behold and see from the greatest living director Steven Spielberg and even the visuals to this movie are excellent, and as a result Spielberg got his first out of 7 nominations for the best director Oscar for this movie but lost to Woody Allen who directed Annie Hall in the same year. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi icon","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Aliens are here. There are sightings and encounters. In the Mexican Sonoran Desert, French scientist Claude Lacombe (François Truffaut) and American assistant David Laughlin (Bob Balaban) discover a squadron of Grumman TBM Avengers that went missing more than 30 years earlier but seem perfectly functional. Indiana electrical lineman Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) investigating power outage has an encounter with a UFO. He starts acting strangely to the dismay of his wife Veronica (Teri Garr). In Muncie, Indiana, single mom Jillian Guiler (Melinda Dillon) loses her son into a mysterious otherworldly storm. All of the encounter people become obsessed with Devils Tower near Moorcroft, Wyoming where everybody is converging for the biggest encounter yet. Jillian and her son is one of the most compelling sequences worthy of the best horror movies. Of course, that's not what ends up as Steven Spielberg's visions of extra-terrestrials. It is full of wonder. It's not really a straight narrative action thriller. It is however something special. "},{"Title":"A movie in a time of need.","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was a blessing in a time of need for my family. I was a young girl when this movie was in the making; my family lived in Escatawpa, MS. I came from a household of 9. My father at the time was out of work and we desperately needed the money. I remember it was hot as usual and our next door neighbor told my father about the ad in the newspaper needing extras for a movie scene being filmed in Alabama. Since we lived close to Alabama, my father packed all of us kids up in his station wagon one early morning and we high tailed it to Alabama. When I and my siblings opened our eyes from sleep when we arrived at the location of where the evacuation scene was being filmed; we were in awe at the amount of people waiting to be cast in the movie. We had a great time! I remember seeing famous faces during the filming of the evacuation scene, but at the time of seeing them, I and my siblings had no idea who these people were. We know now of course who they are! I'm honored to say that my father was given quite a few parts as an extra in Close Encounters of the Third Kind, and whenever I watch it; I see a quick glimpse of some of my siblings and a lot of scenes with my father in them. Fun times, great memories and a little bit of fame. Through God, Steven Spielberg helped my family in a great time of need! "},{"Title":"Amazing film","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is almost 40 years old and as such deserves to be recognized for the fact that it was well before it's time. Amazing it still gives me chills after watching for the first time when I was18 years old. The film depicts how we all felt back in the day when aliens were and still are something that we knew nothing about and how they could be just within reach and watching everything we are doing day in and day out. I'd love to see more of this type of film that really gets you thinking about what could be out there. If you were born after 1970 probably you probably won't understand how this film became so iconic, give it a go you won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Other life from distant worlds","Date":"11 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When we do make contact with other life from distant worlds I hope they're something on the order of these aliens. In Close Encounters Of The Third Kind the proposition is put forth that at least these particular aliens have been here before and in fact have taken samples of human kind back to study. In the present day two people have experiences with aliens, both just average folks. One is Richard Dreyfuss who is lineman and while out on a job encounters some whizzing space ships, some strange lights, and the after effects of said encounter, a kind of soft sunburn that leaves one a bit orange. After that he thinks of nothing else and is compelled to go to a certain spot in the far west of the USA. His wife Teri Garr throws Dreyfuss out of the house.The second is Melinda Dillon who got a Best Supporting Actress nomination for being a homemaker whose child is taken by the aliens. She too has a vision to go to the same spot.The journey and what they find there is the sum and substance of the plot of Close Encounters Of The Third Kind. Close Encounters Of The Third Kind is some unique viewing experience. Stephen Spielberg's technical wizardry linked to real stories about people like Dreyfuss, Garr, and Dillon every day people we can universally identify with.Two things I liked about the film very much. The first is the discovery that sound at its basic element is a method of communication. Music's tonal quality is universal. The second is that the aliens might not be human, but they reveal themselves to at least one person in the cast that they are most humane.Including Dillon's nomination Close Encounters Of The Third Kind received a flock of recognition with several Oscar nominations including Best Director for Stephen Spielberg, but not Best Picture. It's a film that is imaginative, entertaining and fun and has a universal message. For another millenia at least this will be classic. "},{"Title":"Each Watch Is Better Than The Last.","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was around the time that Spielberg was becoming a household name, still experimenting with different film genres. Two years before this, he succeeded in the horror genre by creating the movie that still makes people afraid to go into the water Jaws. Close Encounters was his attempt at sci-fi, and boy! Did it work! I have seen this numerous times, each time getting better than the last. The first watch, I found the UFO parts cool but the rest dull. After every other watch, each aspect suddenly became better and not dull at all. Eventually, the dull parts became almost as good as the UFO parts earlier and the UFO parts became even greater than ever before. Roy Neary (Dreyfuss) is a power technician in Indiana who attempts to fix a power outage but sees spaceships that nearly blinds him. Similar incidents occur to others around the world. They become obsessed with a five-note musical number and a mountain. Roy's obsessions put his relationship with his family in jeopardy. Roy's and the others experience a close encounter with the first kind. Roy's obsessions practically turn him into a nutcase, which Dreyfuss plays very well. It may well be his best role. The toll it takes on his family is well-played too as his wife (Garr) and kids also do fine jobs of acting. Everybody else's bits are good too, including a three- year-old boy who wonders off to catch the UFOs and is trying to be protecting by his mother (Dillon). Meanwhile government agents investigate odd physical evidence of aliens and a missing ship that reappeared. That is the close encounter of the second kind. This part is what I found to be the most boring, as I don't like government or politics. But their alien investigations are quite interesting when you pay attention. Eventually, the spaceships land and mankind makes contact with actual aliens. That is the close encounter of the third kind. I loved when the spaceship lands and the aliens come out. As the best part in the movie, it is very lengthly. But the music and spaceships are so nice, you almost don't want it to end. The spaceships are the loveliest UFOs in film history. And the aliens coming out are just as nice. It is like candy for your eyes when you are the most starved. If you find the beginning boring, the ending will not disappoint. Like a regular Spielberg flick, he starts off slow then builds up as the minutes roll. After a few watches, you may agree with me when I say this is the best UFO movie ever and one of the ten best sci-fi flicks of all time. "},{"Title":"Close Encounters of The Third Kind the Greatest science fiction film ever!","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow After the Masterpiece of Jaws the Master of Film returned with a film of sheer beauty, a real sense of reality that these aliens could be real and they are and feel real so do not doubt yourself when you watch this jaw dropping epic alien film I mean the characters feel really in awe as Aliens and Humans make contact and become one equal part of Earth! Richard Dreyfuss stars as Roy Neary A man with a loving family and a wife who will never leave his side no matter what happens to them and because of a supernatural being and a magical occurrence things change for everyone but mostly Roy because of what he believes what he thinks is out there and he understands that there could be other beings trying to come to earth and make contact. There are a couple of wonderful opening scenes where you see a wreckage and a war navy plane and you begin to wonder and speculate what could be the cause of the damage and then you meet Roy's family where there is a wonderful opening exchange between the children and their father about what they want to do at the weekend Roy wants to take the children to see Pinocchio which is a recurring theme of the film because you hear the theme of the animated Disney film when you wish upon a star incorporated into the score at the end of the film. John Williams's remarkable theme that we all know and love is stunning and really comes to a climax in the last 10 to 15 minutes of the film the whole communication scene and the alien addressing the crowds outside the Mothership and Lacombe the french interpreter communicating with the alien as Lacombe does the famous five note signal with his hands and the alien repeating the same five notes with his hands is just so heartbreaking and Roy leaving to go on the mother ship with the aliens that entire 10 to 15 minutes section of the film is scored by John Williams beautifully even the end credits have music in it I just love the last 10 to 15 minutes of that movie! Barry's Kidnapping and safe return at the end is so heartbreaking and when Barry says Bye to the mother ship at the end just perfectly ends the movie with John's Music too! A classic movie just classic! "},{"Title":"It Brims With Spielberg's Passion For Quality Filmmaking","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Riding high on the commercial & critical success of Jaws, Steven Spielberg crafted the most ambitious film of his then young career with Close Encounters of the Third Kind; a cinema about UFOs & extra-terrestrial life. It tells the story of a line worker whose life undergoes a complete overhaul after his encounter with an UFO as he finds himself obsessively drawn to a place where something extraordinary is about to happen.The film presents an even more creative side of Steven Spielberg who leaves no stone unturned to make it a one-of-a-kind experience. Brilliantly setting its staging, cleverly handling its mysterious elements, intelligently creating its uncertain atmosphere & steadily pacing the narration from start to finish, Spielberg is still able to retain the adventurous flavour that now has become so synonymous with his name.For the majority of its runtime, Close Encounters had my unabridged attention, only to lose it in the final minutes as I found the ending far too stretched out than needed. The production design is no doubt impressive, cinematography is gorgeous, editing paces the film really well, performance are fine throughout, visual effects is high quality stuff & music by John Williams provides a heartfelt touch to its story.On an overall scale, Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a highly entertaining film that is brimming with Spielberg's passion for filmmaking from its opening moments & also presents the remarkable balance this young director shows over different aspects of his ambitious project. Intriguing, gripping & mysterious, this sci-fi feature boasts all ingredients of a successful motion picture & even though its ending left me quite unsatisfied, it still delivered what it promised. "},{"Title":"First sci fi film I remember and what a film it was!","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was so scared and fascinated by this film. I was 8 when I saw it. Child being scared of the unknown! I am watching it again tonight on HRT 2. And I am still fascinated. I am about to turn 45, on April 16. My mother and father had the labor induced so I would not be born on April 20. Yes Steven, he almost creeped into me during my infancy. But HE creeped into me anyways. Please see selfie I took on December 31 last year. It is on my facebook page. ;) But it is totally another story.I liked everything about this film, especially participation of Franoise Triffaud. He always impressed me as an actor and director.I could spend many lines glorifying this film, but I am sorry, although I saw it million times right now I am too busy watching it. ) "},{"Title":"Spielbergian in every way, from the face to the quiet ruminations on family","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nobody tells a story using the short, simple language of movie moments better than Steven Spielberg. Close Encounters of the Third Kind may not be his best movie, but it is probably the most Spielbergy of them all. A huge percentage of the 2 and a quarter hours consists of people gaping at something slightly above and behind the camera, which zooms slowly in on their awestruck faces while John Williams's music crescendos the Spielberg face, it's now called. The final twenty minutes of Close Encounters is a smorgasbord of it. These movie-like moments can be enjoyed entirely on the surface as the aesthetically- and emotionally-pleasing vehicles of a story about otherworldly lights and sounds. But what's remarkable about Spielberg is that he finds a way to enrich each scene with more earthly meanings as well. Seeing the movie as a child, the lead character's growing obsession with his UFO encounter seems like a natural reaction to the incredible thing he's experienced. As an adult, though, it's easier to see in his madness (and to a jaded eye it clearly is madness, even if he is also right about it in the context of the film) a metaphor for the creative process. The artist's urge to get the vision out, to see it take shape, can be so all-consuming as to ruin relationships and break up families. It can also bring together like-minded people who share the same crazy determination. The film's alien elements, though visually impressive and iconic and even beautiful, are essentially a MacGuffin, along with classic conspiracy theory elements like black helicopters and mind- altering chemicals sprayed from crop-dusters. On close scrutiny the behavior of the aliens doesn't make a lot of sense. Why, for example, would beings so overwhelmingly powerful need to unscrew a duct or find an open chimney flue in order to access a rickety old farmhouse? Why not just beam through it or laser a hole in the roof? Because Spielberg's way is more dramatic, of course, and the way he films the farmhouse scene suggests again the themes of sundered families and the inescapable pull of one's destiny. That scene is one of the movie's best and most intense, and it perfectly illustrates Spielberg's strengths as a storyteller and an artist. "},{"Title":"Another great science-fiction film from 1977","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" With the enormous box office success of Star Wars, which was directed by George Lucas, Hollywood was brining back science fiction this time as splendid and dazzling as ever before. However, another major Hollywood director would do it again, later in 1977. That man is Steven Spielberg. He wrote and directed an amazing, dazzling and very exciting tale of alien encounter. The movie was called Close Encounter of the Third Kind. The title refers to the third kind as contact between humans and extraterrestrials. Richard Dreyfuss, who worked with Steven Spielberg in Jaws, stars as a Indiana line worker, who experiences an UFO encounter one night on the job. The first time we even see the UFO is when Dreyfuss stops at the end a road and the camera shows Dreyfuss and the back window of his truck. A set of headlights is coming in too close. He thinks that is just another car passing by, but as we watch this scene being play out, we find out that this car is not what you think it is. Meanwhile, an French scientist, played François Truffaut and his American translator are also trying to find out what is going in the third world countries that are also being affected by the UFO encounters. They find several clues to the encounters. Five musical tones is one of the clues. Another one comes from Dreyfuss when he started to see visions of a mountain. In any Spielberg's film, we are drawn in by what he presents to the audience. He plays the audience like a piano. All of the clues come together in Wyoming, where the UFOs are seen at night. But, the one thing Spielberg presents that is so spectacular are the special effects. They fill the screen with wonder and awe. Watching Close Encounters, I was reminded that it captures the same elements that were made in Stanley Kubrick's 2001. This is pure film-making here and Spielberg never let one dull moment get in the way of telling this unique tale of alien contact. This is one of the most spectacular science fiction movies I've seen in a long time. Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a remarkable achievement for Steven Spielberg, telling us that he is still at the top of his game. ★★★★ 4 stars. "},{"Title":"A Classic from the '70s","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When commercials started to air for this film, Spielberg's follow-up to Jaws, there was this calculated mystery surrounding what the UFOs were going to look like. The trailer featured the shots of faces hit with bright lights and heavy winds (a stunning effect that has been copied ever since). But the big draw was the illustration of a highway at night heading toward a hill, and a curious white glow emanating from the other side. Everything in the marketing of this film was draw the audience's curiosity, and it succeeded.Lensed by the master cinematographer Vilmos Zsigmond, somehow takes images of Americana and makes them artful. Perhaps because he was born in another country, Zsigmond looks at our country and and can see it from a different perspective. Another standout in this production is the memorable score by John Williams. He combines traditional scoring arrangements with experimental use of dissonance and other chord structures that evoke an unknown/alien feeling. Those unsettling sounds are couched in the warm tones and creates a sound that I find captivating. By far one of his finest scores. Spielberg was also on a roll, perfecting his technique to make a scene feel natural by featuring mundane/pedestrian dialogue in mostly wide shots. Performances by Richard Dreyfuss and Teri Garr as parents with unruly kids are energetic and engaging.I once read a book about the film, how the first act does a perfect job of hooking an audience in watching the rest of the film. The title credits begin with a black screen and silence. A great way to catch an audiences attention. Then a very slow crescendo develops in the soundtrack, culminating in the opening shot of the film. A shot of bright desert location during the day. The desert is a way to start the story with a blank slate. One of the main characters, Bob Balaban, representing the audience at this point, as we are presented with a bizarre scene of WWII planes in the middle of the desert, asks What's going on?.The audience is hooked into story, and the momentum carries us all the way to the third act. Spielberg wrote the screenplay, and used his experience growing up with divorced parents to help with the realism of some the scenes with the family. The first encounters with UFOs are theatrically intoxicating. The use of moving coloured lights and other practical effects create scenes that are mesmerising. All without CGI. The sense of mystery and adventure brings our characters to the big climax. It is supposed to be the big moment where aliens and humans meet. In UFO conspiracy circles, Spielberg supposedly based this on a real event. But once the aliens are revealed, the mystery unravels a bit. There are two endings to the movie. The version I saw in the theatre had no glimpses inside the big mothership. I subsequently saw the Special version when it aired on TV. It is was the correct decision by Spielberg to keep those scenes out. First, the special effects were obviously miniature. Second Dreyfuss' reaction shots don't connect well.I own the DVD and the soundtrack for this film, primarily because they are mementos of my childhood and the beginning of my infatuation with big event movies. Modern audiences can still enjoy the look and momentum this film, where the special effects are not distracting. "},{"Title":"Spectaular Visual Feast.","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steven Spielberg's famous film about first contact with alien visitors is still impressive, with remarkable visual effects, and a climax refreshingly free of dialogue, just people standing on the mountain in awe of the spaceship communicating in the famous five-octave pitch. This approach did run the risk of being too self-satisfied, but here it works, because it is believable.Richard Dreyfuss plays Roy Neary, who becomes obsessed with finding out the truth about the UFO's he saw fly overhead one fateful night; Teri Garr plays his attractive, but increasingly bewildered wife Ronnie, who just cannot understand his growing obsession, and bizarre behavior.Trashing the house(literally!) was the last straw...If this story has a weakness, it is this section, where we share her frustration and embarrassment, so can't really blame her for what she feels compelled to do. Very risky to make your main hero so unsympathetic, but the payoff at the end is worth it, and film still stands up as a milestone in Sci-Fi. "},{"Title":"Review","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" One day, the UFOs come to the town. A man who is interested in the UFOs and a woman whose child was kidnapped by UFOs try to find out the truth of the happenings. Though computer graphics are not used in this film at all, the descriptions of powerful and real UFOs are amazing. I think that they are more wonderful than those made by computer graphics. I thought that the aliens were weird and violent, but they were not. I like the aliens in this film because they look strange but the small aliens are cute. This film are produced by Steven Allan Spielberg and I think he should have given children all over the world the dreams and hopes of space and aliens. This film is not only Science Fiction but also Fantasy. This also describes the importance of pursuing the dreams. Therefore, I recommend everyone to watch this film. "}{"Title":"A very good movie","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" UFO researcher J. Allen Hyneck made the first measuring of encountering aliens in 1972. The first kind of close encounter is just sighting aliens. The second kind of close encounter is involved by physical evidence. The third is seeing occupants of UFO and around the UFO. This film is about the third kind of encounter and directed by Spielberg in 1977. This film is meaningful in two ways. One is, it breaks our stereotype about alien and successfully showed what he thought about the E.T. He doesn't take aliens' aim to be bad or hostile as other press or novelists described back then. Purely the question begins from what if aliens are also wonders about human beings and what do human search for. When both side(human and aliens) know they both's goal is the same(searching for unknown), they smiles to each other. This goes farther in his 1983 E.TTwo, he inserts American society into the film. Richard Drayfuss acts a layman who is afraid of being divorced and fired. He is weak and vulnerable. But he doesn't lose his ambition for the unknown. That signified American spirit.In the movie a scientist says It is not matter of physics. It is a matter of society.Steven Spielberg's this film is just magnificent they say, and to me as well, this movie is not bad. Rather this is a very good movie. "},{"Title":"Music really is a universal language","Date":"30 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Is there life on other planets? If there is, is this life peaceful or hostile? What could we learn from each other? These and many others are the questions we ask when the topic of extra terrestrials comes up. It's obvious they were on the mind of director Steven Spielberg. A few years before E.T. he gave us another look at aliens coming to Earth. Like that film, it's one of the most beloved of it's kind.Pros Top notch acting. One of Spielberg's best jobs as director and writer. Phenomenal score. Great effects that have held up well. Witty. Suspenseful. Well paced. Moving at times.Cons Conclusion a bit drawn out.Final thoughts Now over thirty years old, 'Close Encounters' is still going strong. It's aged well, it's still funny, still gives chills and is engaging from start to finish. Films like 'Alien' show the darker side of alien life, while this one shows not all intend to harm. It's a film that can be enjoyed by people of all age groups.My rating 5/5 "},{"Title":"Truly A Great Film","Date":"23 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a science fiction film. It stars Richard Dreyfuss and François Truffaut together with Melinda Dillon, Teri Garr, Bob Balaban, and Cary Guffey. It tells the story of Roy Neary, whose life changes after he has an encounter with an unidentified flying object (UFO), and learns that the United States government and an international team of scientific researchers are also aware of these objects as well.It was written and directed by Steven Spielberg,one the his best films in his career. Roy Neary is an electrical lineman who, while sent out on emergency repairs, witnesses an unidentified flying object, and even has a sunburn from its bright lights to prove it. His wife and children are at first skeptical, then concerned, and eventually fearful, as he refuses to accept a logical explanation for what he saw and is prepared to give up his job, his home, and his family to pursue the truth about UFOs. His obsession eventually puts him in contact with others who've had close encounters with alien spacecraft, including Jillian, a single mother whose son disappeared during her UFO experience, and Claude Lacombe, a French researcher who believes that we can use a musical language to communicate with alien visitors. Lacombe's theory is put to the test when a band of government researchers and underground UFO enthusiasts join for an exchange with alien visitors near Devil's Tower located near Wyoming.Soon government agents have close encounters of the second kind - discovering physical evidence of extraterrestrial visitors in the form of a lost fighter aircraft from World War II and a stranded military ship that disappeared decades earlier only to suddenly reappear in unusual places. Roy continues to chase his vision to a remote area where he and the agents follow the clues that have drawn them to reach a site where they will have a close encounter of the third kind - contact with aliens.This is one excellent science fiction film ever made.It is a work that borrows its narrative shape and its concerns from those earlier films, but enhances them with what looks like the latest developments in film and space technology.Also,it is just as gripping and mesmerizing.Clearly,Spielberg has great command and vision as a director wherein he realized his daring film concept which is characterized with its special and technical effects.Due to this,Close Encounters is truly a great film. "},{"Title":"Makes Me Want to Play Simon","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" After an encounter with UFOs, a line worker (Richard Dreyfuss) feels undeniably drawn to an isolated area in the wilderness where something spectacular is about to happen.This film is a cross between Raiders of the Lost Ark and E.T., which is appropriate given that Steven Spielberg made it. But it also puts it in a strange position -- a very serious topic presented as a children's films. Other than a few disturbing moments, it is far more tame than either of the two films I mentioned.While the movie will always be considered great and will remain memorable for the this means something line and the ceaseless promotion of Wyoming tourism, it just does not seem to stand the test of time as well as possible. Particularly with the effects. Spielberg's Jurassic Park, twenty years later, still holds up as the greatest use of CGI ever. Close Encounters cannot make that same claim. "},{"Title":"A good movie to see when you're high","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the Spring of 1966, I had a dream about visiting a site and the UFOs were flying 1950s cars & The Mothership was a 4 funneled ocean liner & the aliens were African-American kids in uniforms & the one who is last to board the ship was a black girl dressed in a sailor girl's uniform and does a 5 hand wave & has a smile on her face and goes inside the mother ship. Among the people they bring back were children from the 1930s and they didn't age & lost people from other stories come back. There was a blonde pony-tailed single mother & her son also & husband was one who was KIA in Vietnam. This was a far-fetched dream. But in 1977 it came back in CE3K. The first version was good & the second version was good with The Mothership Interior. The third one has been covered and I got all three series. - Now the next story that I can do is Close Encounters, 30 years later. In a talk show episode, Various characters would come back. Among them would be Jillian & her son, Barry & Brad Neary, the oldest of the three children & was the one who accepted his father's fate & knew the clues where his father's last where abouts was & to honor his father he has a DVD copy of Walt Disney's Pinocchio & shares if with his off spring. The other two children are not there and neither is Ronnie Neary. Brad, the oldest of Roy's children is the one who accepted his father's departure & said his father was a the right choice. As Brad got older he understood why his father was obsessed with The Devil's Tower. It would be a good story on how the characters survived The 1977 event & return to talk show in 2007 about their roles. When the night sky is out & see the stars, Brad will tell his children that their grandfather is out there. So that's it for now. Marcus Brainard "},{"Title":"The First Really Starey Movie.","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Close Encounters' is probably the first of many movies in which we see the actors persistently gawping in childish awe. We might expect this from children (and professional footballers), but adults? I don't think so. Some, perhaps - but not all. Eventually, the pose was taken to utterly laughable lengths in the Emerich franchise.It is also probably the first movie in which Big Uncle Stevie begins to manifest an alarming preoccupation with young children - especially pretty little boys. What one might call his 'Jackson' phase.Back in its time (1977), the special-effects were absolutely top-drawer. And even today they hold-up pretty well to detailed scrutiny, especially the huge alien Manhattan. But stripped of them, the rest of the fare is a stale plate of junk.For one thing; far too many questions are left unanswered. Who or what are these aliens? What does such an advanced race of stick insects want with comparatively primitive Earthlings? Why would they hijack a cargo ship from the sea, only to return it to the middle of a desert? Aren't they familiar with Archimedes principle? As their abductees were being returned at exactly the same age in which they were taken, didn't these aliens realise how much distress they must cause to the family and friends left behind to grow old and probably die, wondering what had happened to their loved ones? I could go on.The hodge-podge of ideas that occur throughout the movie never really gel into a cohesive plot. In this regard it marks the beginning of that other Spielberg phenomenon What Big Stevie wants, Big Stevie gets, however incongruous it may be. 'Image is more important than story'. Well; I'm sorry - but it isn't. STORY is first and foremost. Set-pieces are no substitute for plausible characterisation and plot.Big screen special-effects entered a whole new league in 1977. This was also the year George Lucas launched his 'Star Wars'. Over 30 years ago, movie audiences were knocked sideways by these astonishing developments. For a while we were dazzled. But not any more. Viewed in retrospect, 'Close Encounters' is a daft, shallow, movie about fractured continuity and largely implausible characters, rounded-off by a spectacular lightshow.If you haven't yet managed to see this over-long piece of experimental tedium, I would recommend fast-forwarding to the final 15 minutes or so. You really won't be missing anything of substance along the way. "},{"Title":"Stop and be friendly","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" What is it about the Science Fiction movie that, after a brief heyday in silent-era Germany (Metropolis, Frau im Mond), it languished in the B-Movie doldrums for decades, before finally re-emerging as a big-budget A-genre in the late 1970s? I guess it is mainly because classic-era Hollywood, for all its virtues, had very strict rules about what a genre could do. All the unreal formats (including horror and fantasy) were not deemed dignified, and thus not worthy of A-bracket attention. Sci-fi was, for the most part, a gimmicky offshoot of the horror flick &#x96; cheap scare stories about men from Mars. What the movie industry forgotten was that sci-fi could be spectacular.Close Encounters of the Third Kind was one of the few motion pictures with a story and screenplay by Steven Spielberg. It is thus a pure expression of Spielberg's childlike sense of wonder, and that bold feeling that, if he could imagine it, he could film it. Spielberg has clearly thought hard about a rarely-developed subject &#x96; the concept of the friendly extra-terrestrial, and just how benevolent aliens might try to make contact with us. Spielberg also adds some dramatic weight by looking at the pressured experience of the chosen man, giving us a believable and strong presentation of his hero's strained family life. And yet herein lies one of the biggest flaws of Close Encounters. Roy Neary is not an easy character for us to empathise with because he turns his back on a young family who clearly need him. It may have been more clichéd, but Spielberg would have been more successful had he made Neary a little older, trapped in some dead-end office job, his kids surly teenagers, with perhaps even hint that his wife is having an affair. Imagine then how much more fitting his compulsion to look to the skies would have been.The script was a fair enough effort by Spielberg, but he should have stuck to directing, and Close Encounters is stylish proof of his proficiency in this area. Of particular note here is how Spielberg uses the width of the screen to lead our attention off in different direction. Take the shot towards the end of the first scene with the old Mexican guy. On the left of the frame a bunch of the scientists are talking, and they are ostensibly the focus of this moment. However the old man sits closer to the camera, rocking back and forth, pulling our attention towards him before we even know why he is there. Early on this gets us turning away from the bluster of the experts and gets us interested in the experience of the ordinary folks. Another example is in the scene where Barry's toys come to life. There is a shot with the animated monkey in the foreground, while in the background, taking up an equal amount of the frame, is an open window with an ominous billowing curtain. Shots like this get us subconsciously scanning the frame for&#x85; something. Spielberg's direction really encourages us to engage with the action on the screen.Of course, this is one of the earliest movies in which a director was aided and abetted by a lavish layer of computerised special effects, something which DVD documentaries will wax lyrical over. And I have to admit computer-generated or no those flashing lights are very pretty. But Close Encouters is about much more than that. It's about the passionate and vaguely sarcastic acting of Richard Dreyfuss; the surprisingly mature score from John Williams, interpolating the five note greeting melody and even a sly snatch of When You Wish Upon a Star; the natural and iconic splendour of Devil's Tower. It's a very astute and self-aware piece of filmmaking.All at once, it was as if the Sci-Fi movie had grown up. Like other genres, it had suddenly become one which could be used for almost any purpose &#x96; fantastical saga in Star Wars, slasher horror in Alien, even satirical comedy in Spaceballs. Close Encounters was by no means the beginning of that trend, but it was a significant part of the movement. Certainly it is flawed, and yet it has a pure cinematic magnificence in spite of its flaws. "},{"Title":"a great alien movie","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" i really liked this one, because you didn't actually see the alien or aliens revealed hardly at all , so the suspense was built up all way, Richard Dreyfuss plays in this as a lineworker who sees these strange lights one night while working,, he gets the side of his face burned,, and he is drawn somehow to find where this alien ship has landed, Terri Garr also plays in this. the military tries to get people out of there, and off of the mountain, because they of course don't want the public to find out what happened, hard to believe that this was Spielberg's first movie. all in all i liked it very much,, lots of suspense and drama,, a very good build up. also the keyboard playing when the ship has landed was excellent. "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking Work By Steven Spielberg","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" With the exceptions of 2001 A Space Odyssey and perhaps Planet Of The Apes (although the latter was a very different kind of movie) this is the earliest of the big budget sci-fi movies that were about to burst out of the starting gates in the late '70's, and in many ways this seems more important than those earlier two, if only because it seems to have had greater influence on the genre as it developed. Before this (again with those two exceptions) sci-fi tended to be either lower budget B movie type fare, or television stuff. Steven Spielberg took hold of the genre with Close Encounters, though, and then continued to build on it - its most obvious descendant being his later blockbuster ET where even the aliens look pretty similar.This was obviously, then, a successful groundbreaker - and a good one. It's very mysterious right from the beginning (at times it becomes more confusing than mysterious to be honest), it has characters you can relate to and sympathize with, and it has the requisite but well developed aspect of government secrecy/conspiracy/cover-up. At first, there are mysterious discoveries (in very unexpected places) of planes and ships that went missing long ago. None of that really gets followed up on until the very end of the movie, but the mystery about how this happened pulls the viewer in right away. Basically, from that point on, the movie revolves around Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) - an Indiana power company official - and Jillian Guiler ((Melinda Dillon) - whose character is less developed; about whom all we really know is that she's a mother of a young son. The two meet after a bewildering encounter with UFOs that impacts both of them. They both have visions of a strange mountain, Neary seems to go insane and eventually loses his family because of his inexplicable behaviour and Jillian's young son is essentially kidnapped after another terrifying alien encounter. The movie recounts how they are both (along with several others) drawn eventually to the mountain they had visions of (which turns out to be in Wyoming.)The early UFO encounters were very well done. Spielberg also seemed to make a very subtle but effective shift in the movie's tone. At first, as the encounters happen, this has a light - almost fun and whimsical - feel to it. The UFOs seem quite benign if also quite mysterious and no harm seems to be done. As the story progresses, though, it gets much darker, as both Roy and Jillian deal with the problems mentioned above and you begin to wonder if these aliens are as harmless as you first thought. It all leads up to a pretty spectacular encounter inside the mountain in Wyoming, where the US government has constructed some sort of huge base, although I also found the ending a bit anti-climactic. There was no real explanation of what the aliens either wanted or gained from this encounter - although perhaps that was the intended point. The whole thing was a mystery - and overall a pretty good one! "},{"Title":"Intelligent and powerful, if flawed","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Silence. Then, an explosion of light, as a body of light moves steadily towards the camera. Is it an alien ship? No; just a car. The opening of Close Encounters immediately inspires a sense of ambiguity and wonder from the first scene. From here,the film follows the journey of Roy, an average Joe who experiences a minor tumult in his life when he happens upon a UFO. The film then follows his journey through psychological struggles, family upheaval and a government conspiracy until the finale, when he finally finds the answers he desperately seeks.The opening is indeed striking and beautiful. It is apparent that this will not be another aliens as baddies scenario. Richard Dreyfuss is fantastic as Roy, delivering a nuanced and multi-layered performance that delivers bewilderment and empathy in spades. The supporting cast are also admirable. There are many striking visual metaphors, playing on the viewers pre-conceived ideas about the aliens. Spielberg ensures that focus remains on the humans until the end, presenting emotion and character over spectacle. Speaking of spectacle, the special effects are admirable in their simplicity (a simplicity which endures until the extravaganza that is the mothership).What a pity then that the film slows horribly in the middle section. Believable characters are thrust unwillingly into thoroughly unbelievable situations. Yes, the film is about aliens, but I was incredulous watching scenes such as the whole garbage mountain section, which seemed totally out of place both tonally and with regard to the plot. As Roy approaches his goal I felt this film was heading for an optimistic 6/10.Then comes the final act. An emotional and visually breathtaking spectacle partially atones for previous sins and delivers a child-like wonder rarely experienced in science fiction. The last 20 minutes in its entirety is sensational film making.Taking everything into account 7.5/10 "}{"Title":"A story of fantasy and self-encounter","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A man named Roy played by Richard Dreyfuss after seeing an UFO,do whatever he cans to contact it.A woman named Gillian played by Melinda Dillon tries desperately to find a UFO that took her son.People from around the world are gathering because of the strange things happening which say that something unusual is going to happen.Roy ,after leaving his family to reach his goal befriends Gillian and together they go to the point where an encounter will take place to see if they can encounter the aliens.Spìelberg manages to deliver a tale that shows that we always have to follow our dreams and leave everything behind if necessary and gives us one of the most incredible and touching encounters in the history of the cinema. "},{"Title":"Overlong, but visually striking","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Steven Spielberg first entered the world of extra-terrestrials with CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND. With great visual effects, from those pint-sized UFOs to the mammoth motherships, CEOTTK's is eye candy to the fullest. The acting is top notch as well, with Richard Dreyfuss playing considerable torment as Roy, a once easy-going man who becomes obessed with the idea of visitors from outer space after a close encounter. The only downside to this great movie is the tremendous length of time the movie takes up to tell the story. And with long length, tedium rears its ugly. No matter; with themovie's stunning FX, and the great acting by the cast helps the viewer rest easy and enjoy CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE 3RD KIND with no problem.  "},{"Title":"Still way ahead of its time","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Next year marks the 25th anniversary of the film that stopped the xenophobic alien monster pictures of the 50's being the norm and enhanced the 2001 view of wondrous things to come for mankind.With the possible exception of the more far out Jodie Foster film Contact, I can't think of another film which seriously examines the circumstances of the inevitable meeting of humans with extra terrestrials.The notion of the little green man pointing his ray gun at an Idaho farmer and saying to him in a voice sounding like Kenny out of South Park Take me to your leader. is gone forever.In 1977 Spielberg could have just made sequels to Jaws and he would have made a mint but it is all credit to the guy he diversified the way he did.It is worth reflecting that since this film was made, the first UFO has been created and is on its way to another star system. I am referring to the Voyager spacecraft which is now billions of miles from Earth. It is designed to be informative to whichever species picks it up. It carries tape recorded messages and images of peace on board. Not nearly as hi tech as in Encounters, but at least its a start.Star Wars nerds can keep their light sabres in their scabbards as far as I'm concerned. When the all important first meeting takes place, a handshake will achieve a hell of a lot more than a gunfight. "},{"Title":"Toys ! Toys !!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw an excerpt of Close Encounters at the french TV, when I was a four year kid. It's still graven on my memory because it was the sequence when  little Barry is waken up by his moving toys and discovers the extra-terrestrials in the kitchen. I was at least as amazed as he was... any four year kid who sees his toys moving by themselves MUST BE amazed !Now I've grown up, but I didn't forget my first cinematographic experience. Close Encounters is my definitive favorite movie, with 2001  A Space Odyssey. Great performances of Richard Dreyfuss, Teri Garr and François Truffaut ( French viewers must see the film in the original language if they want to appreciate the humor and real sense of his dialogues with the interpreter ); a magnificent score by John Williams, the stunning visual effects of Douglas Trumbull ( 2001, CE3K, Blade Runner... no comment ! ), and Steven Spielberg's touch really make this film a masterpiece.  Merci, monsieur Spielberg. "},{"Title":"Classic one-of-a-kind science fiction movie...","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  1st watched 6/16/2001 - 10 out of 10 (Dir-Steven Spielberg) Classic one-of-a-kind science fiction movie that is not just about aliens visiting us from another planet, but also about those on this planet pursuing their dreams with vengeance.  What makes this movie work is not necessarily the aliens and the special effects that surround them(although they are tremendous) but the stories behind the characters and their pursuit of Devil's Tower without really knowing why they're pursuing it.  In a lot of ways, we are a lot like this in our everyday pursuit of life(not really knowing where we're going to end up.)  This pursuit is done with very little fear yet there is much that should be feared.  This wide-eyed optimistic childlike view on this very unknown thing I believe shows Spielberg's view on life at this point in his existence on earth(as is revealed in the documentary on the DVD).  In some ways I wonder if I'm making too much of this movie, but there seems to be so much to talk and think about when this movie's over that it deserves all this praise and attention.  Despite the fact that the movie is not really perfect in every scene, the dream is obviously realized in the whole which makes it a perfect dream movie created by a tremendously gifted and dreamlike director in Spielberg. Bravo !!  "},{"Title":"great","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"   Speilberg crafts a good film about the fascination of UFO's and one man's dessent into obsession. Dreyfuss plays a man who witnesses an alien spaceship but his family doesnt believe him and Melinda Dillon plays a mom who's son is abducted. The emotions in this movie seem real and you sympathize with Dreyfuss as his family walks out on him because he believe his own eyes. **** "},{"Title":"A Great vision of how man could first encounter E.T.'s","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a very satisfying film, especially satisfying because Spielberg does not deprive the viewer of seeing what the aliens look like at the end of the film. It was a great risk and paid off. Richard Dreyfuss is fantastic as the lead and his obsession is so convincing he deserves a lot of credit. Spielberg's direction is genuine, as is his screen writing which is simple and enjoyable, and everything is done very well. Zsigmond's cinematography earned him a well-deserved Oscar and the sound is great. You should see this film, it's one of the best in the man encounters alien genre, next to Spielberg's masterpiece E.T.****/5 "},{"Title":"Honest-to-goodness optimism","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CE3K seems to be one of those films you either adore or detest - me, I'm head over heels in love with it.I'm a little too young to remember the impact it had back in 1977, (although that doesn't stop me from getting nostalgic for the late 70's when I watch it) but I bet cinemagoers back then weren't expecting the maker of 'Jaws' to produce THIS! It's almost as if Spielberg was playing on the fears of those audiences. The first half-hour has lots of mysterious, creepy scenes where nobody knows what is going on. Barry's kidnapping by unseen beings is the culmination of this. That shot of the grate in the floor unscrewing itself unnerves me far more than any Wes Craven movie ever has. But we still get the trademark Spielberg black humour too. Remember when Roy is lost and the car headlights behind him ascend up into the sky?The middle half of the movie does indeed slow down but that doesn't mean the film is any the worse for it. Here we get to see how Roy's obsession affects the lives of his family who just can't understand what is going on in his head. When I was  a kid I found these scenes all-too-boring and wanted to skip right on to the UFO's again. Now, I can see why the director takes his time. Roy isn't a Fox Mulder-style loner. He's married and loves his kids. In other words, he could be you or me. The middle act also gets to show how the government cover-up unfolds in a very plausible manner. Remember this is a good fifteen years before the whole Roswell cult, the X-Files and so on.When it comes, the film's climax is well worth the wait. We're over-familiar with it now, but it remains a masterpiece of special effects, cinematography, music and honest-to-goodness optimism. I don't know about you, but I LIKE movies that put a smile on my face at the end and I suspect that's exactly what Spielberg was after.So if you haven't watched CE3K for a couple of years, go on, treat yourself. Let Richard Dreyfuss's marvellous performance enrapture you, feast your ears on John Williams' score and fondly look back at the world's greatest film-maker getting into his stride. And afterwards, don't forget to watch the skies. "},{"Title":"Spielberg has a lot to answer for","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `Close Encounters' changed our ideas about extra-terrestrials.  If you're wondering what event turned good, honest, flesh-and-blood aliens into vapid, doe-eyed angels, watch `Close Encounters' and find out.  People believed in this movie.  I mean, really BELIEVED.  Since it was released, alien abduction stories and manufactured anecdotes about Roswell have multiplied in the press, and they always feature the SAME aliens the floppy mystics on display here.  Perhaps we can't blame Spielberg; but in his place, I'd be embarrassed.And in a way it IS his fault.  Any sense of urgency this lethargic film manages to drum up comes about only because it seems to be saying, `This kind of thing might really be happening!'  Thinking about the movie as a kind of documentary is only charitable, since it's so dull otherwise.  For the awful truth is that Spielberg's aliens aren't just a blight on the popular press - they're BORING.  They're also incomprehensible.  They rush around doing alien things for three hours or so, kidnap a few people, land, play a Wagnerian motif at us several times, and then fly off.  Does this interest you?  Well, perhaps it would help if we see events from the perspective of a man who becomes (for some reason) obsessed by these aliens.  With any luck some of his obsession will rub off onto the audience.  Obviously it did rub off on some people.  To be charitable to those people, perhaps they were naïvely expecting some kind of pay-off at the end.There is one good thing about this film, and it's the musical score, by John Williams.  (And I'm not talking about the aforementioned five-note motif.)  I gather he liked the movie, and it's just as well, because he poured a lot of real musical material into it.  It's one of his best efforts.  There's one defect even here, though the jarring way he interpolates `When You Wish Upon a Star' towards the end.  It's by this and a couple of other references that Spielberg tries to claim an affinity between his film and `Pinocchio' (1940).  I'm surprised Disney didn't sue for defamation. "},{"Title":"An allegory of a spiritual quest disguised as science fiction","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An average guy suddenly finds himself as a chosen disciple of something he doesn't understand and sacrifices everything he has in order to find out what it all means. It's the ultimate story of mankind - what will you do, what are you willing to go through in order to find meaning in your life?The special effects dazzle, but the story holds up underneath. The disintegration of Neary's family life is staggering - the only inner stability he has is when he stops trying to stifle his borderline psychotic impulses to try and fit into his role in his family. We find out what kind of woman he married, what kind of children he has been raising, what kind of employer he has. The ending is revelatory because it shows that none of these things matter when he follows his instinct. "}{"Title":"Back when sci-fi wasn't routine, wasn't that the good old days...","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Close Encounters of the Third Kind ranks as one of the top Sci-Fi movies ever made, released in a time when Hollywood was still making classics and virtually no cliches were evident. Something else great about this was how they used action as a special effect; for example, Richard Drefuss' character always seemed to be on the edge; that added chills and realism.A true timeless classic, worth more than one viewing.  "},{"Title":"Spielberg's finest","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The most humane, funny, believable, unpretentious yet (hell, there's no other word for it) inspiring film Spielberg has made to date.  Epic but not self-important, child-like but not -ish, here he puts technology in the service of a superb quest.  Who else but Francois Truffaut could bring such authority to the role of the Spielberg stand-in?  Richard Dreyfuss has made a career of using a shotgun to release the energy he dispenses here with laser-like precision.  One of my top 10 of all time.  One caveat  I much prefer the original release to the Special Edition where Spielberg made, to me, the error of taking us inside the mother ship.  I don't know if the original is even available anymore.  Still, superb! "},{"Title":"A Top-of-the-Line Sci-Fi","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters of the Third Kind is definitely a movie classic that I can watch again.What Close Encounters is not It is not an action-packed sci-fi horror like Alien (Sigourney Weaver), which is also a great film series by the way. Nor is it a movie like the cute and very memorable E.T. sci-fi family film.I would say that Close Encounters is closer to the movie Contact (Jodie Foster) - yet both films are quite different from each other. They are similar to each other in the way that both movies are a more realistic (plausible) way of how people (professionals) would handle it if space aliens did come to earth. And both movies are well worth watching.If you have not seen Close Encounters yet - do so! It's a wonderful what if story.10/10 "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, but there isn't anything too special about it","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I understand that this movie must have been on the top with special effects and all, but there isn't too much enjoyable about this movie. All of the characters are rather dull and there is nothing that really makes you want to like the characters. I think this is the biggest downfall of this movie. A bad movie with good characters can still be enjoyable, but if any movie has annoying or unlikable characters it is nearly impossible to enjoy the movie. If it weren't for the characters this movie wouldn't have been so bad.The special effects were pretty good and the scene where the kid gets abducted by aliens was pretty nifty. Overall Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a fairly average movie. There isn't anything that makes it stick out over other movies other than its budget. It has nice production value but that's it. "},{"Title":"Review Of Close Encounters Of The Third Kind","Date":"29 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters Of The Third Kind is the classic sci-fi epic crafted by Steven Spielberg. The film stars Richard Dreyfuss as Roy Neary, an everyman who witnesses strange lights and UFOs while on a job for work. I've heard a whole lot about how unbelievable Close Encounters is and I can say that after watching it, I was not disappointed. Close Encounters is a meticulously crafted work of art. Spielberg's directorial work really shines through this film. His interpretation of extra terrestrial life is something that is uncommon, yet pragmatic. One of the best aspects of this film is it's aesthetic appeal. The film has a very hefty amount of quite breathtaking set pieces that help to give the movie a very unique look. John William's iconic score for the movie is also really well-done. I also felt that the script's use of music as a means of communication with extra terrestrial life to be very innovative technique. Richard Dreyfuss does a very good job with the role of Roy Neary; a character that I found myself identifying with wholeheartedly. In the end, Steven Spielberg's Close Encounters Of The Third Kind was a brilliant film with an awesome narrative and beautiful imagery. "},{"Title":"A moving fairy tale.","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters Of The Third Kind was written when director Steven Spielberg was just out of his teens. It was a project very close and personal to him and after the box office success of Jaws (1975), he was able to receive respect and creative freedom in Hollywood and was finally able to make his dream film as his follow up. Released in Novemeber of 1977, Close Encounters may be one of the best examples of Spielberg's great storytelling abilities ans sensibilities. I find this to be one of the most hopeful films I have ever seen. When the film opens, we are presented with an unsettling set up, we feel uncertain and even frightened and by the end of the film, we learn to have faith in our existence.The story is very simple, a ordinary family man sees a UFO and is planted a message. He then tries to put the pieces together and find what the message means. His wife and kids feel that he is losing his mind as he tries to figure out what his purpose is and why he was chosen. He senses that there is a location that is very important although he doesn't know why, he just knows that it means something. His family eventually leaves him and he is left to find the answer himself. He later discovers that a women he met earlier in the film received the same message and together they try to find the location and discover its purpose. It doesn't come easily though, it's a magical journey that ends with people learning to communicate and return to their inner child. You have to watch the film to understand what I mean.This movie was very moving in a decade that just didn't have many of those. The 70s were confusing times where we had lost faith in the world. When the film begins, we are scared that something isn't right. You get the sense (or at least I did) that we are lost and there is no communication or trust and at the end of the film we learn to see our world and ourselves through innocence and love. It is clearly a fantasy film but unlike Star Wars, which was released the same year, this film is more of a statement. It's a beautiful film about as I say, childhood innocence. I always walk away from this film with hope that maybe we can change and maybe one day, we will learn to fully understand our own self and eventually, our universe.One last thing, if you want to view this film, I would recommend the 1998 director's cut which I feel is the best version of this movie. "},{"Title":"Wonder in the Face of Fear of One of Spielberg's Most Enduring Visions","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film, perhaps Spielberg's best among his more entertaining fair, is essentially about the war between wonder and fear. As human beings, we have an innate sensibility of fearing the unknown as a defense mechanism to combat those things which could be hostile and threaten our existence, be they at the individual level or at the societal level. History is filled with examples, usually of a tragic nature, in which human beings perpetrate against each other the worst kinds of inhumanity in the name of fear, be it religious, economic, or political. In large conflicts, human beings on each side rationalize that their adversaries are heinous monsters intentionally engaging in wrong-doing as an act of evil. Both sides, in other words, believe they are on the side right and vilify the other. In this circumstance, all behavior is dictated by fear rather than wonder.Countered to this inbred fear is also the capacity to engage in wonder. Human beings are also infinitely curious, and our curiosity stems from a child-like desire of wanting to know, to understand, and even to touch that which may be different. Fear and wonder are very incompatible bedfellows which reside in each of us. It is a constant challenge for the human race to decide which emotion will have its say in terms of behavior wonder or fear. Fear is about anger, stereotypes, barriers, burning bridges, and making war. Wonder is about happiness, trust, letting go, being curious, and being vulnerable; it may be ultimately linked to those emotions associated with love. In the brilliant SF film Close Encounters of the Third Kind, Spielberg and co. explore how these two opposing views clash in the midst of our third encounter with aliens from outer space.Early on, the story draws the divisions between those characters driven by fear as opposed to those who are willing to throw off fear in favor of wonder. Claude Lacombe (Francois Truffaut) and David Laughlin (Bob Balaban) are the two investigators who are led around the world by the series of inter-connected coincidences which lead them to believe something extra-terrestrial is going on. They are in the wonder department. And so is Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss), a mid-west suburbanite who has an amazing encounter, as well as a little boy, Barry, in the same geographical region who is enthralled with the coming of the aliens.The US military, Roy's wife Ronnie Nearie (Teri Garr) and their family, and at first Jillian (Melinda Dillon), the mother of the little boy, belong in the fear department. In a simultaneously poignant and revealing scene, when the aliens come to visit the little boy's house one night, his mother shuts all the doors. Then suddenly, Barry opens one of the doors revealing a splendor of light and magic spilling from beyond. Jillian runs to the door and quickly closes it. She will not forsake her child's safety for Barry's wonder and curiosity. Over and over, Barry displays a kind of innocent curiosity for the encounter while his mother can only react in fear. Lacking the fear of his mother, Barry eventually leaves the safety of his mother and joins the aliens.Ronnie Neary not only can't understand Roy's mood-swing from his encounter, she doesn't want to know anything about it. Something has been planted in Roy's mind, presumably by the aliens during his encounter, and he can't reconcile the image and its meaning. But Ronnie only fears what she doesn't understand. Roy doesn't do himself any favors when he turns his family upside down, but neither does his family attempt to find out what's troubling him. Fear becomes her dominating emotion while Roy is desperate to understand. The US military acts similarly to Ronnie as they want no outside interference in regards to the alien encounters, and continually deny the presence of these encounters.Ultimately, by film's end, we learn that all the fears of the characters have been unfounded, a delusion on their part. All consternation and trouble, which are usually required for a story to be compelling, were human-created and not of alien origin. The encounters were designed out of benevolence, not hostility. Only one character, that of Barry's mother, realizes her error and changes from one who is at first fearful to someone who is willing to embrace wonder.I believe fear rarely serves the human race. Certainly, fear has its place if a rhino is charging at you in the jungle. But if all human behavior is dictated by fear rather than a child-like wonder, we will miss out on some of the best of human experience, which I think may be Spielberg's point. The encounters and the close encounter of the third kind are only possible when human beings tear down the walls, throw down the barriers, and build bridges to the unknown. Certainly the unknown may be filled with snakes. But it could be filled with treasure also. The child risks falling by walking on two legs. Maybe adults should learn to do the same. Are we going to be a species who continually hides under the bed in the face of the unknown, or are we going to be the little boy who opens the door into the world of unknown wonders? "},{"Title":"Joe Bloggs meets Mr Gray","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Another Spielberg classic. Helped enormously by Richard Dreyfuss and his understated acting ability. As a previous reviewer has said this is an excellent portrayal of seventies surburban USA meets ET. The childlike fascination of Roy Neary is brilliant and Teri Garr is equally effective as his initially understanding but ultimately frustrated wife. There are some scenes that need little special effects such as where he recreates Devils Tower in his living room from raw materials in his garden. But there is the scene where the large mother ship comes out of the storm clouds and the scene where Barry is kidnapped that are simply amazing and bear comparison to modern movies. Spielberg creates an alien movie that does not need to be stuffed full of special effects but is a brilliant example of how Joe Bloggs would react and how he fails to cope with his alien encounter. Then we see him fall apart initially as he loses his job, his family and then his sanity before his deliverance in the final scene (better shown in the special edition) "},{"Title":"An amazing finale....","Date":"4 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a really interesting, but flawed, film. There are various scenes that stand-out, so much that a lot of the dull scenes are forgiven. Especially the last 20 minutes. The last 20 minutes are in itself amazing, and raise the film's score from a 7.5 to an 8. The performances are good, Dreyfuss is really great here, as are the special effects and the music score. One big thing that bothered me was the way Dreyfuss' character leaves. In the end he is in a way envied for having been the one with the most contact, yet does anyone remember he has a family? I think him leaving without any notice of his family is a really screwball move. It is really not that important but it is an important dilemma. However, the real treat here are the visuals, and overall I give this an 8/10. However, this is no 2001 A Space Odyssey. "},{"Title":"Everyman encounters aliens","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters is one of those films that you grow up with, having appreciated it when you were younger and re-visit it occasionally, when you're feeling miserable. It is a nice reminder of better times, when you visited the cinema, as I did, with your Dad. This is the first Spielberg film I was old enough and fortunate enough to see on the cinema. At the time, I was too young to watch Jaws and Steven was not as 'huge' as he has now become. This was a fairly hyped up movie at the time and given a lot of attention by the media. Close Encounters opens innocently enough with an encounter by a UFO with an airplane, seen from the air traffic controller's perspective. Spielberg wisely used real air-traffic controllers for this scene as they would know what procedures to use when dealing with scenarios like this. The scene is a useful build up for what happens next. Elsewhere, investigators are alerted to an airfield in Mexico where a group of fighter airplanes are found. These airplanes haven't been seen since the second world war and the investigators are curious to know why they've turned up, in extraordinary circumstances. The legendary film director Francois Truffaut is first seen in this section, being chatted to by Bob Balaban who plays a cartographer who turns French translator to help Truffaut in later scenes. Only one clue to this happening remains an elderly man who claims the 'sun came up and sang to him'. It is now that we are transported to the world of Roy Neary, the grid engineer and everyman of the story. Roy is a likable, if slightly crazy father trying to steer his children through school and keep his marriage ticking over. Then an electrical blackout occurs which changes Roy's life altogether. What causes the blackout is a minor UFO invasion by several brightly lit and very fast moving UFOs. Roy is sent to investigate and sort the blackout out and gets a close encounter and gains a sunburnt face and erratic behaviour into the bargain. He also meets Gillian Guiler and her son Barry, who are also part of the UFOs scrutiny, particularly when her house is invaded by the mad electrical interference the visitors bring and her son is eventually 'kidnapped'. After some time, playing out the distress Roy's unusual behaviour has inflicted on his long-suffering wife and family, the film switches to Roy's obsession (as does Gillian's) with a vision both were given by the aliens. This vision is Devil's Tower in Wyoming and both need to get there before the military invade. Both abandon families and everyday situations to pursue the vision and what it means to them both, in Gillian's case, her son Barry and in Roy's case some meaning to his life.This is where the film's real magic begins as Roy and Gillian deal with both the uncaring military, who've put out a 'gas' warning to scare off the locals around the Tower and their own obsessive curiosity. After being captured by the military and almost shipped off home, Roy and Gillian make a bid for freedom (and answers). They find both at the base of the Tower where the military awaits the 'coming' of the visitors by setting out a landing platform in preparation for their visit. The film's finale is both breathtaking and surprising. Roy and Gillian watch as first the smaller ships herald their arrival, then the moment. In a dazzling array of lights and cloud/sky effects, the mothership arrives and disgorges some of its cargo a bunch of missing airmen from various wars and other public and, finally Barry. Barry, with a child's curiosity and fearlessness goes back to his mother in a lovely moment of relief. But the mothership is not finished yet. After more musical interludes, the aliens themselves make their appearance and Roy realises his dream to join these visitors back among the stars. It has to be said that if this was the first film Steven had really made, all those years ago, it was a career breakthrough. The wonder, the imagination and none of the cynicism normally associated with science fiction comes through beautifully. Unlike ET, Spielberg takes this through the everyman's eyes, rather than through a child's. You can sympathise with Roy's frustration and anger at what has been thrown at him. An brilliant film, which doesn't grow old. "}{"Title":"Picture Perfect...","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spielberg's 'Close Enocunters Of The Third Kind' is picture perfect. It's an Incredible Experience! One of the Greatest Science Fiction films ever made! If your a cinema fan, and if your turning into one... then 'Close Encounters Of The Third Kind' has to make it in your wish-list.It tells the story of Roy Neary played by Richard Dreyfuss, an Indiana electrical lineman, whose life changes after he has an encounter with an unidentified flying object. In addition, the United States government is also aware of the UFOs as is a team of international scientific researchers. Spielberg's writing is water-tight and his direction makes a million bucks. Those who deny Spielberg, I request them to watch 'Close Encounters Of The Third Kind', and shut up! This Legendary filmmaker cannot afford a single hater, he's just amazing!Richard Dreyfuss is fantastic, as always. Dreyfuss sucks you into his world with flourish, if this actor doesn't make it to 'The All-Time Favorite Actors', then, it would be a shame. He's a Living Legend! Two Big Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"A wish to live for","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quite possibly the most artistic achievement in movie history. About an ordinary man set through some unrealistic circumstances. A power line worker, Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) is called out to find a problem as to why the power grid has failed. In doing so he comes to a rail crossing trying to find his way through the mazes of the rural farm areas. With that moment a change to his existence presents itself as a brilliant light hovering above him.Although mysterious Roy then decides to follow along a lonely highway in pursuit of the visitors along with the state's finest troopers. Getting closer to his goal, he then meets a young woman (Jillian Guiler) (Melinda Dillon) who is chasing her child across the highway only to stop, and be witness to some more sightings of the would be visitors. Roy nearly hits her son, but then recovers to find him safe before he turns his head to see four strange crafts zip around a bend.Intrigued he starts to see visions, not pictures, but more to emotional senses that moves his body. With a slight confusing hand on his shoulder Roy then begins his journey into the unknown by sculpting a land mark he has never visited in his life. After finding out where this place is, he embarks to see for himself of why the secrecy has been declared off limits to the non military. Paired with Jillian after her son was abducted they venture forth to the Devil's Tower.Finding the base both Jillian, and Roy sneak in to see for themselves why their visions has led them to this point. With the dirty tricks division at the helm Roy figures out that they are no longer looking for him or Jillian. Instead the heads of state are now witness to their guests who fly above in their mysterious crafts for a display of wonder.However that is but the preliminary step to what is to come. A great ship the size of a small city then sets down in front of the base to allow past people from years back to come home, including Barry Jillian's son. Roy is now convinced by this set of strangeness that his questions as to whether or not we are alone in this universe has been answered. This film has been the instant classic in all forms. To see the remarkable display of dancing light as per Douglas Trumbull who has given us the beauty of his art. As well as Steven Spielberg who directed this masterpiece.All in all, fans over the world will never tire of this grand scaled, and beautifully filmed classic. The music is top notch by only John Williams himself who also gave us the sound track for all the star wars sequels. Douglas Trumbull for his special effects, and the actors themselves who have given us the emotional responses to let us all imagine of what is truly out there among the stars.Highly recommended from age 6 on up. Exquisite filming. Worth every award this film has won. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Acknowledging the many skills of director Stephen Spielberg, this particular film, nevertheless, was quite disappointing.The development of the story was far too slow.I could not believe how many times I had to watch Roy frantically trying to create physically the picture imagine in his mind.The time-wasting build-up of the final arrival of the Aliens, however, was even more tedious. In this final climatic scene, for example, Roy and Jillian are together watching the developments from the edge of the mountain &#x85; their dialogue is limited to where Jillian politely declines Roy's invitation to climb down for a closer view &#x85; However, later on and with no explanation she decides to climb down anyway &#x85; so-o-o-o boring. To add insult to injury, the predominately English-speaking American audience has to sit patiently as Claude's French is interpreted sentence by sentence &#x96; and to what end?! And, finally ...I don't know how audiences can cheer or even shed tears for Roy's decision to desert his family (whom he has already put through hell with his bizarre behavior) and join the Aliens in their departure for who knows where. Perhaps part of the explanation is that this movie is obviously intended to be a subtle expression of New Age religion. The mysterious, brightly shinning Aliens are portrayed as god-like, ushering in a new age of peace and love. Roy simply cannot resist the compelling religious power that the Aliens have over him and, therefore, is not responsible for any antiquated Biblical-based moral conduct. This movie was not intended to be a comprehensive story, but rather a spiritual experience. "},{"Title":"Favourite of Spielberg's Early Films","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" According to the film and those that study UFO's close encounters are interactions with extra-terrestrials or UFO's, and a close encounter of the third kind is actual contact with them.The story focuses on two people who have had encounters with UFO's Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfus) and Gillian Guiler (Melinda Dillon), in fact Gillian's son was abducted by the aliens. Both of these characters and others would be strongly effected by what they witnessed on a sub-conscious level and find themselves compelled to take actions they might not otherwise take.I addition to the strong performances from Dreyfus and Dillon we also have good performances form Teri Garr, Bob Balaban and the french director Francois Truffaut One of the strengths of this and several of Spielberg's other pictures from this era is his evocative portrayal of growing up in suburbia.The film featured a memorable score from John Williams of which the most memorable part is a five note sequence that would be integral to the story.While some have praised the special effects I myself found them to be not outstanding but I did feel they served there purpose here fairly well.The result for me was not only an intriguing science fiction plot but also a rather compelling mystery and suspense story which also had a message of a sort.While Spielberg would go on to surpass himself later as a director with such great films as Saving Private Ryan and Schindlers List this remains my favorite of his earlier films of which there are several very good films.The first re-release while adding some good additional material also made the unfortunate mistake of showing the inside of the mother-ship, something Spielberg himself later regretted. The director's cut is probably the best version of the film overall but I found very little amiss about the original theatrical release. "},{"Title":"A Thumping triumph","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Review Steven Spielburg has created a pure, thrilling and riveting adventure film that has moved people ever since it's release in 77. The use of the special effects are brilliant and seem dream-like to imagine. As with any Spielburg epic there comes great and memorable characters, the perfect direction and of coarse the chilling and unforgettable theme music by John Williams.The direction seems effortless through the films two hour running time and clearly shows an effect to keep the audience where they are without making them leave. Spielburgs creation of individual characters is also extremely well done and shows that his direction is as equally impressive.Verdict A sound and memorable classic from the greatest director to have lived. "},{"Title":"Best EVER UFO Movie!!!","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... Hope you're ALL watching the re-broadcast of this GREAT Sci-Fi film ever made-by-Hollywood, on AMC right now!?! - Based on the BEST of Project Blue Book, the US Air Force attempt to DEBUNK UFO's, Close Encounters STILL remains the MOST realistic depiction of such events! ... Enhanced by Director Spielberg's amazing direction & usual, great composer John Williams' music score, it's OBVIOUS this movie is a loving chestnut to those EARLIER classics like MGM's Forbidden Planet (which was JUST on TCM!), Invaders from Mars (the ORIGINAL!), etc.- As a print journalist of 35+ yrs., in both the mainstream-&-gay media on both coasts (17 with Billboard in L.A., Vegas-&-here in the Bflo./Rochester, NY markets), I SALUTE Hollywood for such WONDERFUL films-as-Close Enocunters. It IS film-making at-it's-ZENITH!!! "},{"Title":"My Review","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Strange things are happening all over the world, and especially in small town Muncie, Indiana. Strange aircraft have been seen, causing Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) to go on an almost obsessive search for what he saw.Also in the town, single mother Gillian Guiler (Melinda Dillon) and her young son Barry (Cary Guffey) also see the aircraft outside their home, and Barry is abducted by the spaceships.Meanwhile, they're all drawn to an image they keep creating, and on a newscast they see the monument as Devil's Tower in Wyoming, where a strange virus seems to have appeared. They make haste to Wyoming, where they discover the truth behind what's been going on.Spielberg is pure genius. Close Encounters is one of the best movies ever made in any genre. It's not fully a science fiction movie, but also has aspects of drama and comedy mixed in as well, with an overall riding theme to believe in the unbelievable. Exceptionally well done, especially with the mothership, for a movie made in 1977. "},{"Title":"I love the communication between man and alien!","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" An excellent followup to Jaws for Steven Spielberg. It's a movie about a group of UFO watchers who witness aliens. The story was excellent, the acting was excellent, and the direction once again was excellent. I really liked this movie. I thought it was a great alien film. It's certainly very eerie despite the fact that the aliens are benevolent.My favorite scene, I must say is the scene where the aliens and the humans communicate through music. It's a great scene, especially for the musician watching it. What a great score from John Williams. I wish there could be more movies like Close Encounters where the aliens are benevolent and not malevolent. "},{"Title":"One of the most unique and essential science-fiction viewings.","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" What makes Close Encounters of the Third Kind a great- and one of the best science-fiction movies is its totally serious and honest open approach of the genre. Something that really wasn't too common yet in the '70's. Science-fiction really wasn't regarded as a particular good genre or one that was to be taken seriously. Steven Spielberg's Close Encounters of the Third Kind and George Lucas' Star Wars Episode IV - A New Hope, of the same year, most likely changed this forever and gave science-fiction a good name again. Something that so far had only been achieved by film-makers such as Stanley Kubrick and Fritz Lang earlier.Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a movie that takes a very serious approach. The main character is an average Joe and there are no plots to take over the world or anything of that sort. It also means that it really takes its time to build and set things up. It perhaps makes the ending all the more legendary and classic. In the first half of the movie things still more or less only get implied and we never get a clear good full view of the events that are happening. It sort of makes you feel uneasy and not sure what to think of the events that are happening. Something that also really knows to add to the drama and overall mystery- and especially atmosphere of the movie.A returning theme in several Spielberg movies is family. Family also really plays a central role within this movie. The Neary's are a great but above all realistic movie family. The dialog and characters all feel really real. The way they behave and respond and cope to the situations is done really believable.It of course also really helps that the main character is being played by Richard Dreyfuss. The guy is only in his early 60's at the moment but he hasn't done anything good for such an incredible long time that you would think he is in his 80's instead. It such a shame such he was and still is such a great actor. Perhaps this is his most ultimate role, or it at least is definitely his best leading role. Also French director François Truffaut plays a great role. It's a very unusual casting choice that works out perfectly.The movie is really well made and put together by its crew. Spielberg's directing is peaking within this movie and for 1977 standards its also really good and impressive looking, in terms of its special effects. Despite the fact that the best of the best in the business were busy working on Star Wars at the moment they still did an amazing job with it all. It's of course especially good looking in its remastered and revised movie versions, of which the ultimate 30th year anniversary director's cut is the latest example.The cinematography by Vilmos Zsigmond is also worth mentioning and so is of course also the musical score by John Williams, that quite literally plays a key element within the movie. He once more provided a great, memorable and purely classic musical score with this movie.Simply a must-see!10/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A truly wonderful film","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember watching this as a teen and being slightly bored and uninterested before rediscovering it as an adult and eventually being amazed by it, and baffled by the lack of interest I had for it before. There is a reason albeit not dealing with the Holocaust or historical issues, this is one of the most mature movies Spielberg created. A film in which the sense of wonder is never debilitating. There are some childish moments but they, ironically, help the audience following the mindset of the adult main character. Besides, this is the first Spielberg movie truly dealing with the breakup of a family - a staple in his later works. Everything here is brilliant music, atmosphere, pacing, acting... The direction is terrific and shows better than any other film that movies are much more than the sum of their parts. François Truffaut (the famous French director who plays a scientist here) was reportedly unhappy with what he witnessed onset and feared that the young Steven Spielberg (barely 30 year old at the time) didn't know what he was doing; Truffaut publicly apologized later on saying that he did not truly understand until he saw the movie completed. If you come across these lines and haven't seen Close Encounters of the Third Kind yet and can appreciate a good advice, then trust me when I tell you that it is a great and absolutely unique film, and that you should rent it ASAP. "}{"Title":"Well-crafted masterpiece","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" StarringRichard Dreyfuss as Roy Neary Francois Truffaut as Lacombe Melinda Dillon as Jillian GuilerPlot Strange events are occurring around the globe, such as planes and navy vessels thought lost in the 1940's sudden reappearing in deserts. Soon the culprit is revealed to be extra-terrestrials, who are attempting to make contact with us, and several humans have close encounters with them, being forever changed as a result. Roy Neary is nearly driven insane as all he wants is answers, Jillian Guiler just wants her son back after he was abducted. All the signs are being shown that another encounter will take place in Wyoming. Who are these beings and what do they want?I knew nothing of this film before I watched it. I knew that it was an alien movie, and I knew that some people liked it, but I really didn't know anything else. To me, it was just that Spielberg alien movie he did before E.T. So coming into this with no expectations, I was very surprised to see such a well-crafted masterpiece play out before my eyes. That's right, a masterpiece. I have no bad things to say about this movie. Nit-picking, I'd say the movie runs a little long. But in all fairness, it doesn't really matter because it never feels like it. Sometimes there are scenes that could have been cut because they repeat the point over and over, but again, doesn't hurt the story really. This movie would not be nearly as fantastic without Richard Dreyfuss. He carries this entire thing on his back as a simple man who has an encounter with something extraordinary. I love the way Spielberg had shown what it was doing not only to him, but people who knew him. All he wanted was answers and there was no way he could get it as no one believes or supports his story. The rest of the cast did their jobs just as well. Some of the smaller roles I really enjoyed. Cary Guffey helped us see these events from a child's perspective, and he wasn't annoying or anything. Child actors that aren't annoying are hard to come by. Plus we get a cameo from Lance The Man Henriksen! This movie also excels in the story, which is paced greatly and spends time developing the characters and letting us get to know them, before a big finale that reveals the aliens after basically flashes of color. The score by John Williams is also superb. The special effects, as I've mentioned in the beginning still hold up today and are fantastic. The space ships are kept simple, yet still look good. Little tiny problems are present here and there, as I've mentioned. However, none of it really detracts from this movie. Steven Spielberg finally matures to the level we know him for with this movie after heading in the right direction with Jaws. I can't recommend this any more.Rating ****1/2 of ***** "},{"Title":"When you wish upon a star...","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a truly enlightening and amazing film. The awe and mystery of the story is so, well, awesome that you lose yourself in the film. The cinematography is simply brilliant, the directing superb and the acting was wonderful. People often complain that this was a boring film and that it was a cop out at the end. These are generally people who are of the generation (as I am myself) who grow up on movies like 'Saw' and '300'. They don't quite comprehend the film...But let me just finish with this At the end of the film, my mouth was open and I was leaning forward with awe...and I didn't even realize it. Steven Spielberg you were right on the money with CE3K.10/10 "},{"Title":"None short of spectacular. This movie was made back when good writing matters the same as special effects.","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take Spielberg's pre-ET masterpiece. This film was an early work by the master filmmaker Steven Spielberg, who, in my opinion, never runs out of ideas. After making gold with his blockbuster hit Jaws, Spielberg moves to the genre where he will be most remembered for, science-fiction. This was made before he captured the hearts of millions with E.T., and already has he become a cinematic genius. Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a combination of true-life situation clashed with something no one has ever seen before, which is much of the premise for his many films to come. The story is well inspired with Spielberg's belief that there is something out there. Sure, the alien and UFO staples has been on Hollywood for many decades of time, but what makes this different is that this story expels all the bad ideas about a close-encounter with aliens. Spielberg wants to give as a peace message about the extra-terrestrial beings in his movies (although he turns them back to invaders with War of the Worlds (2005)) This remains to be one of my favorite of Spielberg's films, for frankly, they don't make films today like they used to. Wherein the story matters the same as special-effects.Rating ***** out of 5. "},{"Title":"True Spielberg magic","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A true Spielbergian film, with the sense of magic and wonder that it develops. It's a curious thing, then, that this is one of his most overlooked films. I suppose because it was released so close to Star Wars, it just got ignored, but it's one of the great science fiction films of its time. The climatic scene, at Devil's Tower, is appropriately fantastic, but it's everything leading up to it that makes this film so great. The scenes of the scientists finding the missing planes + ship, Neary building replicas of Devil's Tower in everything, the terrifying abduction sequence - all are iconic moments in science fiction cinema. Richard Dreyfuss gives a superb performance - better than anything else I've seen him in - and he's aptly supported. The score is solid and the effects are superb. The paranoid government conspiracy scenes slow the film a bit, but everything else is terrific. Simply magical. "},{"Title":"Should be on the Sci-Fi Throne with 2001 and Star Wars","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 'Close Encounters of the Kind', Spielberg takes a stab at the tried and true movie formula of Aliens visiting planet earth. In his interpretation, he chronicles the weeks leading up to a Close Encounter with something very unusual and how this affects the lives of several people. The main focus is on Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfus), a line worker who creates tension within his family as he becomes obsessed with the idea of extra terrestrial life. Gillian's (Melind Dillon) son is abducted by the alien creatures. Consequently she becomes determined to decipher the conspiracy so as to find out his whereabouts. The third story concerns a group of scientists and military commanders who are studying the phenomenon. 'Close Encounters of the Third Kind' (Close Encounters for short) is in my opinion one of the best, if not the best, piece of science fiction in cinematic history. No other film sets your imagination whirling like this film will. It is Spielberg in top form; I personally believe this to be his best film. Close Encounters blends mystery, imagination, drama and a stunning combination of audio and visuals to create a film that is completely engrossing. It is simply impossible to tear your eyes away from the screen such is the absolute bliss this film evokes.The dramatic element of Close Encounters is perfect. Spielberg has an unfortunate reputation amongst some critics as being simplistic and lacking the skill to make a film genuinely dramatic. Close Encounters completely contradicts this statement. The growing attraction between Gillian and Roy is superb as Spielberg takes the time to establish their ability to empathize with each other's experience. So many filmmakers simply mash a romance together without developing WHY they are attracted to each other. Also of note is the relationship between Roy and his family. The chemistry and dynamics in the family scenes are wholly realistic. I never thought I'd see such delicate film making in a science-fiction adventure. In addition, the scientists also prove dynamic. Lacombe (Francois Truffaut) and the rest of the team show subtle variations in their characters as their life's work comes towards a spectacular climax.The dramatic subtlety of this film is only outshone by the application of sound and visuals. Emphasis on 'application' not meager eye candy. Close Encounters is one of the most stunning films of all time because of it's cinematography, sound and music. The visuals evoke the atmosphere and mystery of the film perfectly. Of note if the way in which the UFOs are photographed (no spoilers, you'll have to watch it and see!). John Williams plays John Williams to perfection. I need not describe the incredible score he has produced other than to say I have rarely seen a score be so conducive to the film it is written for. The film received a special achievement Oscar for it's sound. The tonal vocabulary is an original idea that is brilliantly executed. Last but certainly not the least is Spielberg's direction and screenplay. Of all his adventure flicks, no other is paced as expertly as Close Encounters. At every turn you find yourself begging to know more. The film is totally immersed in mystery, intrigue and imagination. The combination of suspense and character development elevates this film beyond other special effects laden romps. Spielberg's masterwork.Close Encounters brings so much to the science fiction genre. It combines compelling drama, imagination, atmospheric sound and brilliant aesthetics to a plot that has been done a million times. Close Encounters deserves a lasting place in film history. A perfectly executed movie. "},{"Title":"Didn't really like it as a kid, but loved it as an adult.","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Possible Spoiler, But Has Little To Do With Films Ending. Proceed With Caution.I remember getting the movie taped off the TV when i was a kid ( about 1989, i was 8) . But i thought it was going to be a fun space adventure with either aliens as sidekicks, or wild action sequences. As up until then, i had mainly watched the Star Wars and Star Trek films. So my concept of the Sci-fi Genre was limited to say the least. So i watched it, being totally confused by the planes in the desert, then the guy getting sun burnt at night and the little boy's house being surrounded by lights and stuff. At this point i thought i had taped the wrong movie, as i seemed more like Poltergeist than Star Wars. Soon i got bored and stopped watching. I am glad that in my youth i couldn't watch this film. Why? Simply because it would have been wasted on me. I really loved this film when i watched it properly a few years back. Such an interesting story, done in a way that is believable/real world way. Richard Dreyfus is fantastic, at no point was i bored or disinterested in what was happening to his character. Watching him as an everyman who has the balls to do what he feels is the right thing to do when everyone around him thinks he nuts, is truly rewarding. It goes to show that Spielberg had tremendous talent from the word go. This was his first film after Jaws (one of my favorite films) and it really shows how mature he was as a film maker. I think that in another's hands this film could have easily turned into a campy, cheese-ball, unintentionally humorous movie. But alas, he makes us care about the people involved and in the end i was moved. The SFX are also fantastic, not cheap and cheesy, but elegant and believable (as much as flying saucers can be believable). I guess i'm saying (finally he gets to the point) is that if you haven't seen it, do yourself a favour and check it out. I class it as Sci-Fi for those who want to think. But that's me. Enjoy "},{"Title":"Fascinating!","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a phenomenon! Knowing there's something out there really makes sense. Steven Spielberg did a spectacular job with his work Close Encounters of the Third Kind. Here you have a line worker named Roy Neary(Richard Dreyfuss) who noticed a strange encounter while he stopped at a railroad crossing. He tries to tell his wife(Teri Garr) and kids, but everything is total insanity. After that incident, he really lets himself loose, maybe a little bit too much. And I also like that police chase with the vivid spaceships, at least one patrol car didn't suffer real damage. The real fun starts when the mother ship come by and the scientists plays the famous 5 tones. The synthesizers were really cool in the movie. The mother ship went full blast when the try the tones. For all those who have watched X-Files, this movie is for you! Amazing for people who have been abducted by aliens and having a real close encounter as well. What do you think? 5 stars! "},{"Title":"One of Spielberg's finest","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have seen the collector's edition version of this film and the extended version of this film. It is such a shame that in order to produce the collector's edition, they took out the extended bit (i.e. inside the mother-ship), and put in scenes that were not shown in the extended edition (i.e. the scene where Neary puts bits of his garden and trash into his living room, etc). I love the inside-of-the-mothership scenes. Apart from the fact that was the whole point of Spielberg creating the extended 15 minutes, it is one of the most breath-taking parts of the film. Neary's reaction to the inside of the mother-ship sums it all up. What should be done, is a released version where all bits from both versions of the film is put together, so that nothing is left out! "},{"Title":"Spielberg's greatest fantastical piece of fantasy, however always grounded on Earth","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steven Spielberg's Close Encounter's of the Third Kind is one of his very best films. It's a little surprising in a recent review to hear him say that the film represents him at a much more naive time in his life, and that he wouldn't do the ending the same way if he made the film today. But if anything it's one of Spielberg's most psychologically crushing films, where the deconstruction of a family is used in the form of a 1950s science fiction blockbuster. It uses the amazing special effects it has to great use (via Dennis Muren and Douglas Trumbull at ILM), but Spielberg never loses sight of the power in the plight of Roy Near (Richard Dreyfuss). He sets up a personal story really, where Neary, after having a close encounter (if not the third kind then one of the kinds) gets obsessed with an image implanted in his head of a giant formless blob that he continually feels compelled to make himself. In a sense it's sort of about the power of belief, or rather faith, and how it drives those who don't have it away.Roy's plight into what he saw (spaceships that gave him a facial burn, and nearly wrecked his car) is put alongside a single mother (Melinda Dillon) and her little boy, who also get visited by aliens, with his connection to them drawn into him being taken away by them. Also, we're given the discovery of what the aliens' effects on other parts of the world have been, including planes not seen since 1945, a gigantic ship seen out in the middle of the desert, and how five specific musical notes link it all together. Led by a compelling cast with Dreyfuss in a noteworthy turn, Garr as the distraught wife of Neary and mother of their kids, Dillon as the even more distraught mother of the boy taken away, and Francois Truffaut as the understanding French scientist. As Spielberg builds to his wondrous climax at Devil's Tower, where Roy is led to, the story has some extra depth where in other more recent sci-fi ventures (A.I. and War of the Worlds especially) he loses sight of the real compelling nature of the characters.There's complexity to Roy's decision at the end with the mother-ship- it's not really a happy ending in the normal sense of the term. But it is the best ending possible, and the one that makes the most sense considering what Roy has gone through in the story. With a good percentage of strong humor in the mix (I loved the scene where Roy goes really bonkers and throws everything he can see outside into the house through the window), and an equal amount of pathos and wide-eyed sci-fi film wonder, Close Encounters of the Third Kind doesn't get old some 30 years later because it deals with ideas and emotional connections- as well as the possibility of aliens being peaceful (and not just to kiddies)- as opposed to lots of bloody violence and action. On top of this, the special effects that are used, like in 2001 or Star Wars, have a timeless quality to them too. It's rich in design and scope, and with the ambitions of a filmmaker with nothing to lose at the time (he was on a great high probably after Jaws), it's a real marvel in the genre that transcends into what spirituality means, or family, or what the possibility of life elsewhere does to humanity at large AND in specific American scope. "},{"Title":"They don't make movies like this any more; not even Spielberg does...","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" What can I say, this film is a triumph on every level. It has top notch acting, a rock solid screenplay, dazzling visual effects that hold up even today, and a wonderful musical score by John Williams.This is one of the movie greats, and certainly should never EVER be remade. Spielberg hits every note with this film. Audiences back in 1977 had never seen anything like this and it's almost a shame it didn't beat Star Wars to the theaters. Even though they are roughly two different kinds of films, I think Star Wars stole some of the limelight from this one. Both films are certainly better than Annie Hall (which took the Oscar for that year).I'd like Mr. Spielberg to take a look at some of his earlier work. Lately he's been making more adult films, and while they are also well made, they are not the caliber of the films he used to direct. A lot of themes in his earlier films deal with childhood and not growing up. Peter Pan has indeed grown up now, and I wish upon a star that he'll remember his youth and crank out some classics again... "}{"Title":"The Magic of Close Encounters","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" As we all know Steven Spielberg has always been one of the best directors bringing a story to screen, his ability to tell stories is contagious, touching, wonderful, inspiring and absolutely magical, Close Encounters of the Third Kind is the perfect example of a Steven Spielberg's movie. This is one of the movies which i have seen most times in my life and it grew up with me since i was a little child. About the movie, Close Encounters is like an unforgettable mysterious magical experience who makes us look at the sky in a different way we looked. All along with the movie and to intensify this experience there is Spielberg's favorite music composer John Williams, at his best! The special effects are very good if we consider the fact this movie is from 1977, some 80's movies have worse special effects. Of course there is no need mentioning about the directing...it is Steven Spielberg! A very good story involving love, mystery, fascination and amusement. This is a ''have to see'' movie! A very important influence on nowadays science fiction movies. Truly inspiring! "},{"Title":"The Original Version is Unbelievable !!","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow! This is one of the great performances of Richard Dreyfuss' career. He is awesome. The original version has a scene with him that the Special Edition leaves out, and I think that it takes a lot away from the character, but both versions are excellent. The score is AWESOME, the special effects are AWESOME, and the acting is superb. Oh, by the way, the story, directing, and production are also AWESOME! I think that this movie still stands up to nearly any movie out since it's release, and it is truly a magnificent film. Do yourself a favor, and watch this one again. This AWESOME movie gets 10 out of 10. Desert-Buddha "},{"Title":"A spectacle, beautiful and engaging","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" It seems more and more likely that there's nothing Steven Spielberg can't do. Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a movie I avoided for years but because I frequently watch Unsolved Mysteries and they casually broadcast stories about UFOs and alien abductions, I thought I'd go back to one of the most prized cinematic treasures dealing with the subject.Of course during the 1970s, when Close Encounters of the Third Kind came out, there were a wave of UFO sightings and alleged alien abductions. And let's also not forget the whole crop circle controversy, which was eventually revealed to be a hoax but still, too many unanswered questions remain. With this said, it's nice to see that Spielberg, whether he intended or not, played on people's deepest emotions and fears regarding life beyond our planet, and our first contact with extraterrestrial visitors. Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss), is just an ordinary Joe whose life is changed forever by a chance UFO encounter and his resulting obsession takes him from suburban Indiana to Devil's Tower in Wyoming. It also need not to be said that this all puts a terrible strain on his family and a distraught woman named Jillian (Melinda Dillon) is pulled into it too. Others are following the story as well, including the military and a French scientist (Francois Truffaut) who's leading an operation to communicate with the extraterrestrials.I personally think it's irresponsible of human beings to just so blindly assume that we're the only form of intelligent life in the universe and that's what makes this movie so compelling. It completely changed the attitude towards sci-fi movies about aliens, who up until this film had been characterized as bloodthirsty invaders (Spielberg's later venture E.T. the Extraterrestrial in 1982 would also capitalize on this view). Here, the visitors are shown in a completely new light devoid of the evil alien conqueror syndrome of most sci-fi flicks.Spielberg's script and the special effects work wonders for the imagination. Interestingly enough, he also plays on popular conspiracy theory mythology and the Bermuda Triangle controversy during the opening sequence, including the sudden reappearance of fighter planes from World War II that are in perfect flying condition but the pilots are all missing (these are, in fact, the Flight 19 that mysteriously disappeared from Fort Lauderdale, Florida in 1945). And there's the mystery of the aliens trying to communicate with us using tone sounds. John Williams's classical score is also magical and undercuts the imaginative working of Spielberg's story.I would imagine that if there is life out there, they would be as Close Encounters of the Third Kind has so carefully and methodically portrayed them. They would not be of the H.G. Wells War of the Worlds variety. No. But still, I would hope that we're a little more cautious about broadcasting recorded messages out into the deep void of space.10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters of the Third Kind/1977/****Main Stars Richard Dreyfuss Melinda Dillon Teri GarrI can't think of one Steven Spielberg movie that is bad. This film had (surprisingly) spectacular effects (accompanied by Spielberg) and great acting by Richard Dreyfuss. This movie also had spectacular music (by John Williams) to go along with the movie. I'm guessing George Lucas and the rest of his company did the effects because George is a friend of Steven Spielberg and John Williams. Also the original Star Wars was done in the same year as this movie so George probably worked back and forth b/w both movies. Back to the movie, Richard Dreyfuss basically played someone named Roy Neary that had close encounters of the third kind (meaning had close encounters with aliens). The aliens themselves did not show up till the very end. These aliens were very weird looking and could communicate with humans by using hand gestures or signals. The main alien that got out of the UFO first was very long-legged and skinny (kind of like a spider). Back to the beginning of the movie, UFOs were surrounding the state that Roy lived in. The UFOs' light somehow zapped him which gave him a burn on one side of his face. This so called zapping made him very curious about these encounters (bringing some sort of mountain shape to his mind), which led him to the state of Wyoming. His wife (named Ronnie Neary (Teri Garr) and kids were not as enthused and curious as Roy was so they stayed behind. The mountain that Roy is so curious about is located in this exact state of Wyoming. He and a friend named Jillian Guiler (Melinda Dillon) who was also zapped by this/these UFOs along with other people were very curious about this mountain and wanted to search for it together. I have to say this movie should have just been called Curiosity. Most of this movie is about trying to communicate with these aliens. At the end of the film these alien experts or scientists or ???? communicate with the aliens by musical notes from a keyboard. The aliens respond back with the same notes and one time breaking the control tower's glass window because they responded so loudly and the whole station vibrated. This station that the experts were in was located behind something that the people that were zapped wanted to know about for so long. It's your job to find out. Movie directed by Steven Spielberg. "},{"Title":"A great motion picture that deals with the UFO subject for the public at large.","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" It has been more than 28 years since Spielberg created this classic motion picture Close Encounters of the Third Kind that deals with the subject of UFOs and arguably is still the best all round film to date in that it ranks as high as any of the most remembered and popular motion pictures made by Hollywood. Contray to popular belief the subject of UFOs is not all Science Fiction as many would have you believe as the title of the movie itself is based on Dr J.Allen Hynek's classification of UFO encounter, in this instance of those of the third kind in which beings are encountered. Dr Hynek himself appears for a brief instance along with the more present French investigator/researcher Mr Vallee who in the film does a lot of psychic research with his subjects - well known and real researchers in the UFO field. Hynek himself whose original profession was that of an Astronomer was requested by the US Airforce during its investigation into UFOs to give possible Astonomical explanations to UFO cases and was scientific consultant to the highly controversial USAFs Project Blue Book that ran from 1947 to 1969 that examined the UFO subject. At first Hynek essentially treated UFOs as a lark as he put it with the famous swamp gas explanation for UFO events in Michigan USA during 1966. However over the years his attitude towards UFOs changed amid the growing pile of credible witnesses, evidence that was being recorded and observed by even those in the military and finally its global nature. Dr Hynek's book The UFO Report makes good reading for those in the public who want a fuller story on the UFO field that have seen this film. Spielberg manages however to weave together both the more creative and fictional themes of alien contact such as the climatic plot ending with the Alien Mothership and the personal adventures of Roy Neary to the lay person, all the way to the more intricate complexities of those that are more familiar with Ufology such as psychic and paranormal phenomena. It is the very essence of these varied scenes in the movie that many viewers and commentators of this film sense their fascination,fear,bewilderment and even entertainment that actually form much of the facets of UFO encounters and activity which is more based on fact than fiction. From the Radar Operators and Airliner Aircrew that encounter a UFO, to various individuals from all walks of life culture and profession on a global scale that encounter everything from strange lights to the multiple of Unidentified Flying Objects that swarm in and out before the Mothership arrives much like its actual real world UFO counterparts, like the small Alien beings that all bear an uncanny resemblance to what people over the ages have experienced and reported to this very day,to Nearys encounter at the Railway Crossing and even Alien abduction of the little boy from his mother combined with the strong undertones of psychic and mental telepathy on UFO witnesses that Spielberg uses to form the plot of the story gives this film its powerful and potent message on the subject of UFOs with more than a hint that Governments and their agencies particularly the Scientific community, where UFOs challenged so many cherished principles and foundations in the physical sciences have all not come clean with the subject of UFOs.Hynek clearly makes this point as he becomes a critic in favor of a real on going phenomena soon after he left Blue Book and in his latter work. As in real Ufology the task for us is to unravel the UFOs enigma - its meaning and purpose on the Human Race. However Close Encounters succeeds in making the public aware while at the same time being able to create a Human based drama that proved popular in what is in fact a very difficult and shaded field. The greatest problem so often in new fields is the mental barrier which forced so many including those that should know better to shrug off UFOs and just dismiss the subject altogether. The comprehension of the UFO arena became the grounds for its rejection. Close Encounters of the Third Kind does some justice to rectifying this situation despite it still being classed as Science Fiction. Spielberg even adds a little extra such as scenes of the recovered and lost Aircraft and Ships presumably from the Bermuda Triangle found in the Mongolian deserts such as the Avengers of Flight 19 whose crew we get to meet at the end along with many missing people over times gone by! Perhaps a reminder that the World still holds many mysteries. Spielberg manages to capture the publics imagination and curiosity in a way that no other UFO film has never quite matched and that is what counts. All in all one of Spielberg's best and a constant reminder that while we may not be alone real unknowns still exist in the universe around us. Weather you are curious, fascinated or even somewhat skeptical on such a subject as UFOs you are sure to be entertained as Speliberg has surely already managed with the public at large. Perhaps Spielberg's Close Encounters of the Third Kind has done more for the subject of UFOs than any of us thought possible. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi encounter of the spiritual kind","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I loved the sense of wonder and hopefulness that permeates this film, a sad commentary on the cynical, smug and violent era in which we now live, nearly 30 years after this was made. Were there some weak points? Could the script and dialog have been improved? Yes to both questions. But the wondrous finale makes up for any shortcomings in Close Encounters, which predated E.T. by several years. Richard Dreyfuss was just about perfect for this unique role. Very interesting to view this again after so many years. No, a movie like this would probably not be produced today. (Note This review based on the Special Edition released on VHS.) "},{"Title":"What an awe-inspiring, visionary film","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A wonderful, beautiful film that depicts so realistically humans having contact with alien life here on earth. The alien's communication by mental telepathy and musical tones/notes is logical because of their advanced technologies and shown so well in the way these unfamiliar languages are slowly, and often painfully, learned by the characters in the film (epitomized in the scene when Richard Dreyfusse's character Roy is on the phone absolutely pleading with his wife to come back home, and then sees a picture of Devil's Tower on the television and instantly and completely forgets her in favor of his obsession with the aliens). The aliens physical appearance is logical and beautiful, too, as they have lost the need for crude physical mass such as muscles or hair (makes me think of Yoda talking to Luke about the force).The production design and cinematography of the ships and their effects on our atmosphere are just breathtaking. And the situations are so humanely and genuinely portrayed by the actors (such as when Roy is getting so scared and frustrated with the government cover-up he just starts shouting I want to know what's going on around here!) that the movie's abstract ideas are made into very human experiences.This is a beautiful, fascinating and powerful film, one that I hope a whole new generation will see to know their is another possibility than the doomsday scenarios of alien contact that prey upon that most fundamental of human fears, the fear of the unknown. Space is, like another visionary, Gene Rodenberry wrote, the final frontier, and a virtually boundless wonder for us not to fear, but eagerly embrace. "},{"Title":"Another Spielberg Classic","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" While the movie's pages are dogeared and frayed, and there is a sure sign of wear about the edges, this film still maintains the ability to satisfy.Released the same year as Star Wars 1 (later to be known as Star Wars 4), Close Encounters had its work cut out for it in competition for the box office buck. The result in this skirmish was Star Wars = $11M budget/$798M Worldwide, and Close Encounters = $20M/$300M Worldwide. Not a bad return for either production, if you ask me, but Star Wars is the clear winner.Why? Well, first off, there was the over-Christianized element of a priest (Why was he even IN this movie?!) telling everyone the aliens were angels, and then, as the aliens begin emerging out of their ship, some stupid woman begins PRAYING to them, on her knees! That's always upset me. Are humans really this ignorant? Of course, this isn't Spielberg's fault. These were the days of Eric von Dankien's wildly popular book, Chariots of the Gods, and it must have been considered trendy to chuck this kind of smarm into the movie, but it lessened its worth greatly, in my estimations.And secondly because Close Encounters failed to capture the imagination as firmly as Star Wars did. Star Wars surrendered effects such as would make you believe you were watching something real, where CE dwelled more on the human psyche rather than the effects. It would have done three times as well, had it not had the fierce competition of SW.While it was a wonderful movie then, and is still a wonderful movie now, I'd say it's time for a (definite) make-over for this old girl.She still rates an 8.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"limited validity","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some `spoilers.'This is an afterthought to my post of April 25th, but can also `stand alone.'It occurred to me that another way to summarize the film is that it is a beautiful artistic depiction of the limits (and limited validity) of a mechanical approach to life.The mechanical approach has a limited and narrow range of validity, but only goes so far.  This approach is portrayed in the film-in its `best form'--by the character Lacombe, the international UFO investigator professional. Neary (and Barry) portray the approach of a ready-openness to reality-wherever-it-leads.  Neary, who just walks into it all by chance meetings, has only one desire; he `just wants to know that it is really happening'-at the risk though of everything, including life and limb.Contemporary physics has concluded that the material world itself is not really mechanical.  It is a strange paradox how our sentiments are sometimes so out of step with this reality.  This film, though a visual fantasy, has gone far in putting our imaginations in touch with the world as it really is.  As it is in physics, so it would be with alien encounters-and so it is, and will always be, in life.  Even machines can only be `man-handled' so far (if we want them to work, that is).  If we don't want to fry our microwave ovens by cooking things which don't belong in them, or then go on to burn the same food, by trying to make the conventional oven produce the `instant' results we wanted from the microwave, then we had better make some room for `reverence.'  At any rate the aliens are wise enough to know only to play with our machines, like Barry's toys, since they were not constructed according to their purposes.  After waving hello to Lacombe,  the alien is beautifully portrayed as gracefully awestruck, looking upon all of us.Neary and Barry do have the failing of not being notably articulate. Neary even once quotes Barry in trying to describe the UFOs as `like an ice-cream cone'-adding only that its flavor was `orange.'  Jillian, more sensitive to the interpersonal side of things, calls the visits in the sky `Halloween for grownups.'  Neary was `special' in the end because he was the only one who happened to persevere (in the right attitude) that far--partly by the chance meeting with Jillian, for he was helped by her hand when he couldn't make it on his own.  It's when Barry gazes directly at Neary, then turning up to his mom, that we glimpse humanity in its full dignity.  At the sky-port, Barry's mom, Jillian, had `stayed back' and off to the side with Barry, as she wasn't quite ready to go for any rides and didn't want Barry to wander off again.  Here Neary returns the favor; this was the moment that she was perfectly happy to stay on earth, `at home' Though Neary is about to leave, Barry, this time, does not cry when he sees the ship getting ready to leave! When Barry merely thought the aliens were leaving, before Neary was ready, Barry and (thus) Jillian cried (and cried).  Now Jillian has tears of joy. And Barry, who had gleefully ran after the UFOs though the tall grass and under the night sky, delightfully giggling, is no longer afraid of being an orphan.--John Frederick "},{"Title":"A great film!","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I own the Special Edition and Collector's edition of this wonderful movie, and as some note, it does tend to slow down in the second half, to which I would agree, but the overall impact of the film is tremendous.The abduction sequence was terrifying when I saw it back in 77, and it is still very eerie today. Truly a high point in cinema today.I wonder if those who give this movie a negative review actually saw it.8/10 "}{"Title":"its pathetic.....not the film","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  it's so sad. I saw a post where someone said that his parents never took him to see this when he was young. later, he finds out why....the film stunk. that IS sad. this and many other films were required to be watched in the time period of which they were released. if you were not born until after 1980, you wont get it. if you are 50 and never saw it, you cant get it. this is a fine example. parents just are not guiding the teens through the world of film in the proper way. so very sad. I weep for thee. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was amazed at the special effects, especially considering this was made in 70s. I really liked the plot and the character development. This movie makes you wonder. For a while I was wondering what the structure was and what its purpose was. Truly, a great. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Life-Changing","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The best movies are deeply personal to the individual, and so it is with me and CLOSE ENCOUNTERS.  I saw it shortly after being commissioned as an ensign in the U.S. Navy in 1977, so I wasn't a kid.  Yet it was one of the last times a filmmaker truly made me see the possibilities of out there with an honestly childlike wonder.  Every time I've seen it since, I've gotten in touch with that wonder, and it still affects me every time.I won't get involved in deconstructing this brilliant film.  CLOSE ENCOUNTERS is the very definition of the whole being greater than the parts.  It was not made to be discussed on intellectual levels.  It was made to MOVE THE AUDIENCE EMOTIONALLY.  And it does.  Possibly better than any other movie ever made.I can only say that I feel sorry for the people who dismiss and hate the film.  Maybe they are angry because, on a personal level, seeing CLOSE ENCOUNTERS reminds them that through the years they've lost something very important to them.A sense of wonder. "},{"Title":"Spielberg's Second Best Film","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow! What can I say about this film that no one else has? Calling this film a masterpiece is becoming a cliche because it is so true! I really don't know what to say about the beautiful visionary film from Steven Spielberg. I guess I can explain a few things that I really liked about it; the acting was perfect all around and Richard Dreyfuss was perfectly cast as the lead because he is every man, he can play every man. Very talented actor indeed. Another thing I loved was the story, this has got to be one of the most thought provoking, intelligent films ever made. Never a dull moment, every scene just leaves you awe. It is beautifully photographed, directed, and written. Also features amazing cinematography and the score is a work of genius. I don't what else I can say, you simply just gotta see it. One of the greatest motion pictures ever made and also Spielberg's second best film behind only Schindler's List.Final Grade ***** (out of 5, meaning 'excellent') "},{"Title":"Awe Inspiring","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  He may have made Duel, Sugarland Express and Jaws before making this film, but Close Encounters of the The Third Kind is the film true Spielberg movie.  For starters it is one of the few films he has written as well as directed and is drawn directly from his childhood experience of being woken up one night by his father to watch a meteor shower.  Still, I think the resonance with his later work carries farther than that.  Close Encounters sets up some of his most important themes and subjects.1)The theme of Communication as the device through which one can mediate mutual understanding.  Think about E.T. phoning home, The Ark of the Covenant as the means through which to speak to God, the language barrier in Saving Private Ryan which only Uphan can breach, making him ineffective as a soldier.2)The lost child theme is very relavent here as Barry is lost and Roy abandons his family.  It seems there are a great many children abandoned or lost in many later Spielberg films, most notably Empire of the Sun and A.I.3)The horrors of the innocuous.  Think of Poltergeist, the use of Pinnochio in A.I. or the glass of water shaking in Jurassic Park.4)The power of sheer wonder.  Spielberg, more than any other director today, likes to pull back and let the audience to simply experience something wonderful.  Think about the brachiosaur in Jurassic Park, just about any sight in A.I. or the Alien Spaceships in E.T.Of course, in addition to being a formative film in the Spielberg Oeuvre, this film is just visually breathtaking and surprisingly intelligent and character driven.  I love the musical communication device and Spielberg's ability to just let the audience sit back with its mouth open rather than forcing some kind of bloody confrontation.  This film is simply fantastic. "},{"Title":"A tremendous all-time classic","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't say much more than this is a truly excellent film. What I like about it and why I watch it still at least once a year is the attention to detail.  Every thing is right about the film and the people involved in it's production clearly released the film only when they were totally sure it was complete in the way they wanted it.  Corners were not cut to get the film exactly right not only in terms of the excellent effects but also the portrayal of the characters who had close encounters.You know it is a great film when an actor or actress who didn't even play a major role could be identified years later as the one who operated the tape player at the top secret conference.    "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of all Spielbergs big hits, this one was probably the one that didn't blow me away the first time I watched it, but that was years ago, and watching it now, I appreciate it much, much more. It is a wonderful film, let down slightly by the ending, Special edition or not. Talking of the Special edition, that is actually my least favourite, get the collectors edition on DVD for the ultimate CEOTTK expieriance. I just purchased the DVD, and its superb, tons of extras, including the special edition ending in a deleted scenes option, where it should be.For the film itself, Richard Drefuss, Teri Garr and Melinda Dillon put in career best performances, and the child actor is amazing, Steven Spielberg must have been ecstatic by the responses he got from him, maybe thats the reason Spielberg has used child actors so much in his films since. The Special effects by Douglas Trumbull are awsome for the time, and still look magical today, my favourites being when Dreyfuss first sights the UFO's by the roadside when he first meets Melinda Dillon's charater.This is now probably my fourth favourite Spielberg classic after Jaws, Raiders of the Lost Ark and E.T, and I'd love to see thi one just as much now on the big screen now, just as I am looking forward to the 20th anniversary release of E.T. This film cries out to be watched in the cimema, but I suppose watching it on my DVD with the sound blasting out my stereo will have to do. John Williams music is fantastic, what a run of music scores he had in the 70's/80's, Jaws, Star Wars, Close Encounters, Superman, Raiders of the lost ark and E.T...amazing, what a genius, his music makes these films so much better. The man is a genius and so is Steven Spielberg, thats why I can watch his films over and over again. *** 9/10 *** "},{"Title":"A mystical, awe inspiring film.","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SOME MINOR SPOILERSCETK is a mystical, almost religious experience.  The film focuses on a man named Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) and how he is changed when he sees a UFO. He and a group of other people who have spotted UFOs form a sort of cult. Meanwhile the government and a group of scientists are investigating a series of UFO sightings.  Their investigations will lead them to first contact with aliens (hence the title of the film).Do you remember what it was like when you were a kid and witnessed a fireworks display?  Have you ever gone out into the countryside and stared up at the star filled sky on a clear night?  That's what watching the climax of this film was like for me.  It fills you with an overwhelming sense of awe and wonder.  John Williams' evocative score complements the excellent special effects.For best viewing, I recommend only seeing this film in widescreen format. For even better viewing, turn on the stereo, turn up the volume, and dim the lights.  Then sit back and allow this film to soak you up.  Don't get impatient if the film takes a while to get going, this is just to build up suspense for the climax. "},{"Title":"great flick","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this a masterful piece of storytelling by Steven Spielberg. This showcases his talent to play with the emotions of people that we would later see in his oscar winning movies on a much larger scale. This movie is genuinely suspenseful and it filled me with a sense of wonder. The effects tend to get dated a little, but the power of the story remains the same. The best parts, at least in my opinion don't even require special effects as Spielberg resorts to not showing the aliens or spaceships. By doing so, he does what he did in Jaws which is leave it up to the imagination of the viewer. In so doing, the end result is more frightening than if he were to just come out and show the aliens. Great movie, 9/10 "},{"Title":"Best classic Sci-Fi movie ever...","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can see that movie over and over again and again without getting bored.Dreyfuss is the classic child that doesn't take no for an answer.You are up for a really fantastic experience if you see this movie. "}{"Title":"We Are Not Alone","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Overshadowed somewhat by the mega-successful STAR WARS in 1977, Steven Spielberg's sci-fi film CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND is nevertheless an exceptionally brilliant piece even today, nearly a quarter of a century later.Richard Dreyfuss stars as Indiana power lineman Roy Neary, who is called out one night to investigate a sudden and unexplained massive power failure in Muncie.  But on a dark road, he and his truck are suddenly flooded with the ultra-intense light of an alien spacecraft.  He meets up with a mother (Melinda Dillon) whose son (Cary Guffey) has suddenly run away.  All three of them witness the passage of UFOs mere feet above their heads.  Dreyfuss becomes obsessed with his encounter so much that he loses not only his job, but also his family.  Meanwhile, Dillon's home is laid siege to the aliens; and Guffey is abducted.Both Dreyfuss and Dillon are consumed with this visions each of them has of a helmet-shaped mountain.  When they turn on their TVs to a news story about a train derailment involving deadly nerve gas and see the mountain itself on the screen--which turns out to be Devils Tower in northeastern Wyoming--they both venture there.  The story about the nerve gas spillage is a cover for what is really going on there--the setting up of the first contact between humans and extra-terrestrials, being led by a French UFO expert (Francois Truffaut, the legendary film director of THE 400 BLOWS, THE WILD CHILD, and FAHRENHEIT 451).The final sequence--of the UFOs swarming around Devils Tower, the arrival of the gigantic Mother Ship, the reunion of Guffey and Dillon, and Dreyfuss' going with the friendly humanoid aliens--ranks as one of the most dramatic and heartfelt sequences ever captured on film, bolstered by John Williams' usual excellent score.  Equally superb are the special effects that were supervised by Douglas Trumbull, the genius behind the Stargate sequence of 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY, a film that clearly influenced Spielberg's style here.  CLOSE ENCOUNTERS won a special Oscar for sound, and a Best Cinematography award, which went to the legendary Vilmos Zsigmond (although four other legends--William Fraker, Doug Slocombe, John Alonzo, and Laszlo Kovacs--are also credited).One of the most powerful combinations of drama, suspense, and special effects ever created, CLOSE ENCOUNTERS remains a masterpiece to this very day. "},{"Title":"Possibly Steven Spielberg's finest film","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Close Encounters of the Third Kind is, in my opinion, Steven Spielberg's best film.  Released in 1977 (what a great year that was!), in the same year one of Woody Allen's finest films, Annie Hall, and Star Wars was released, Close Encounters of the Third Kind is one of Steven Spielberg's most personal films, which is odd, considering it's all about making contact with alien life-forms!  I wonder if he's trying to tell us something?  Inspired by when, as a child, his father dragged him out of bed very late night to watch a meteorite storm, Close Encounters of the Third Kind has many typical Spielbergian themes, such as obsession, child-like innocence when entering the unknown, the irresponsible and unreliable father figure, the sympathetic mother, an average person as the main character, an untrustworthy government, and a very strong message of peace.   At the time of its release, one reviewer commented that earlier in the year, George Lucas made a film about an intergalactic war, where as Close Encounters of the Third Kind is about intergalactic peace.  Ground-breaking for it's time, Close Encounters of the Third Kind was the first film to feature friendly aliens in it.  No other film before had ever portrayed them as being peaceful, and very few films, with the exception of E.T, have since.   One of the most controversial elements of the film is that Roy Neary (played by Richard Dreyfuss) leaves his wife and family behind to be the first person to visit the aliens' home planet.  On reflection, Steven Spielberg has said that this is one of the view aspects about the film that dates it, is that when he made it, he didn't have a family of his own, and was idealistic.  However, if he was making it again now, he'd either have Roy staying with his family, or taking them with him to meet the aliens, which I think would possibly detract from character and the film.  The performances, from Richard Dreyfuss's nerdy, manic obsessive Roy Neary, to Cary Guffey's wide-eyed enchanted little boy are all-fantastic.  There are many memorable set pieces to the film, such as the very frightening abduction of Barry Guiler, where everything in the house certainly comes to life, and Roy moulding his mash potato into the Devil's Tower, and building a model of it out of clay in his living room.  The script, written by Steven Spielberg, is deceitfully simple, and has a fairytale like charm to it, something which Steven would later use again in E.T and A.I, which, incidentally, are the few films that he's directed where he's credited as the writer.  The most awe-inspiring aspects of the film are the effects.  Even though the film is over twenty years old, the sight of the Mother-ship appearing over the Devil's Tower is still amazing to look at it, and the best thing is that Steven has felt the need to redo it as CGI.  In fact, in 1980, feeling that he hadn't yet finished his work on Close Encounters, he released a special edition, but instead of adding deleted scenes actually took away footage that he felt slowed down the pace!   The music, composed by John Williams, is also a central part to the plot.  Instead of going for the old, `Take us to your leader,' cliche, instead the aliens use music, a five-note harmony in order to communicate with the Humans.  One of the main themes of this film is the language barrier, and translation.  The only way the aliens and the Humans can communicate is through sounds and music.  In fact, Lacombe (played by famous French director Francis Truffaut) illustrates this point perfectly, as he's only able to communicate through Laughlin, who's his translator, but despite the language barrier, they do reach an understanding, which is one of the essential messages of the film.   I think one of the reasons why this is my favourite Steven Spielberg film is that it's the first time he was given a budget, and told to do whatever he wanted with it.  He let his imagination run wild, and fortunately it ran to the right place.  Close Encounters of the Third Kind, like Star Wars, is a fairytale dressed up as a science fiction film.  It's a masterpiece.   Nominated for Best Director and Best Film, along with Star Wars and Annie Hall, unfortunately Close Encounters of the Third Kind was snubbed at the Oscars, but I think it's influence on the science fiction genre has been huge, and is, in my opinion, one of the greatest films ever made.  But then again, I would think that!  "},{"Title":"this is a classic??","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm detecting a trend.  Whenever I finally rent one of these classics I've been hearing about for 20 years I realize why I missed it.  Either movie buff's intuition or bad word of mouth that I don't remember from when I was a kid.  Why did this compell anybody?  I've heard inspirational, or it's about chasing your dream.  You call an average Joe losing his mind and devoting his life to chasing UFO's inspiring?  Sorry, I was nowhere near that watching any of this.  Perhaps if they had juiced up the god-awful pace with some more points of interest, maybe I couldda gone for it.  But no way could I with the ENDLESS scenes of scientists and military people disecting what it all means.  Because of stuff like that, I can admit, a lot of this movie was watched on fast forward.  I basically checked out the lights show, and even though we're 23 years later, it's still impressive to watch.  As there were some elements I liked, particularly the desolate, middle of nowhere locations.  It added to the film's eerieness and mystery.  But because of Speilberg's reworked script, you really have to love listening to tons of technichal jargon for most of your amusement.  REALLY makes you wonder what Paul Shrader's original script was like.  The cast is fine, though many characters (and scenes for that matter) were totally unneeded.  I let out a major get on with it during that mega-annoying scene of chanting African's(?).  Anywho, I'm mostly disappointed in yet another hailed classic letting me down when I finally get to see it. "},{"Title":"A landmark in moviemaking","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I still remember my awe when this came on the big screen. I was completely absorbed by the story and it was the best thing I had ever seen. The only problem(?) was that I was 6 or 7 years old. It is the absolute tale and a must for kids. When I watched it again today I had a sweet memory of my feelings towards this movie (I was surprised I remembered the plot without having seen it for years!) but I couldn't help spotting tremendous holes, inconsistencies and superficiality that would force me to place this into the ridiculous category. I won't do that though, because it is a pioneer of this genre and mainly because, at least then, it managed the ultimate goal of cinema. To take me to a trip to fantasy land! What I also remember is that it caused the best parody I have ever read in MAD magazine!  "},{"Title":"Close encounter of an artist (cinematheque)","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" What I have learned with this Spielberg festival is that our great movies deserve a screening. You can have the most wonderful TV, nothing compares still with a movie screen. I have seen this movie on VHS and TV but the big screen enhances the pleasure. Thus, the ufo night chase, the abduction at the ranch are particularly exiting and I don't remember even X-files giving such adrenaline. Sure, the family explosion is a bit sad to watch because it's always hard to see a father and an husband turning the back of his family. But we don't have time to ponder about as the devil tower reunion is indeed brilliant cinema it's almost a mute movie no word, just music, light and close-ups of faces and stares. This Spielberg's trick to film reactions rather than actions is clever because the audience grasps the feeling immediately. Here, i really felt a communication, it's evident that something is shared in a crude, childish language and it's a message of love, caring and joy. As it was the special edition, it was cool to see all the additional effects in the inside of the mother ship, that always looks like NYC on a side and LA on the opposite. For those who seeks fun facts from the master himself, take a look at Lucasfilm Magazine n°8 where he gives a great interview about the production.Pairing E.T. what happens during one of their stop. "},{"Title":"Overreated","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a well-known science fiction movie from Steven Spielberg, who was pressured into trying to make a great movie after the success of Jaws to prove that he wasn't a one-hit wonder. In my eyes, this movie isn't as good as it sounds, but Spielberg is definitely not a one-hit wonder. This movie is about a typical family man who starts seeing a giant lump everywhere he goes and believes that it means something.The story was very interesting, but was spread out for too long. The opening and ending were well-done, but the rest of the movie lacked all the special effects. This movie should have made the way it was supposed to be made as a short. The famous five-note song is pretty catchy. In the end, I'd rather watch Jaws, Minority Report, ET The Extra Terrestial, Raiders of the Lost Ark and the other things he made.**/***** "},{"Title":"The First True UFO Encounter in Cinema!","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK! Genius Spielberg continues his amazing works, but this time he is also screenwriter. I am now 20. I watch films since 5. I heard a lot about this film. Some said it is masterpiece, some said it is overrated. But if you want to judge film you should watch film. Am I right?I am a great sci-fi fan. For a long time I could not watch film, because I imagined it like I want to see it. And I afraided that if I will watch the film, I will destroy its reputation on my mind. But last year I have finally watched it and loved it. Film made me to travel to parallel world. There a lot of great shots in film. Spielberg was nominated for Best Director, but film not nominated for Best Film. It is one of the best achievements in directing. And now 35 years after its first release, it still remains one of the greatest true sci-fi films of all time!Watch and Enjoy!!!!! "},{"Title":"The BEST sci fi film you will ever see DO NOT MISS THIS!","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love Sci-Fi films they have this way of taking us into other worlds which are better then our own where things are so much better or the technologies are super times more advanced then our own, Close Encounters Of The Third Kind is in my opinion the best sci-fi film ever made! it was touch and go whether it was this film or Terminator (1984/1990) BUT close encounters won on the grounds of it been a film about hope whereas the terminator films was about carnage and Annihilation, Steven Spielberg in my opinion career started from this film! i honour that man so much for making this film, back in the early 80's & late 70's there was a handful of films that changed the way films are made & peoples attitudes towards films forever! & Close Encounters of the Third Kind did that to me! my ONLY gripe would of been to either to have a longer ending OR some 25+ years later have a sequel... but thats just my opinion...This film is in my list of top 10 films to see before you die & i'd place this as far at the top as it goes!!! don't rob yourself of not seeing this film! BUT in the same breathe please bare in mind the film was created in the 70's so the Special Effects was as good as it was back then! "},{"Title":"Close Encounters of the Third Kind- Overrated?","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters of the Third Kind is often regarded as one of the best science fiction films of all time. Is that really true? Yes and no. I appreciate what it had done for the genre, but it suffers greatly from characters that are uninteresting and scenes that aren't interesting either. I have never been able to see the appeal in this movie. It is good, but it isn't as good as they say. Let's get one thing straight. I used to be a HUGE UFO buff. I studied them, read books about them, and have stared into blank space for hours just thinking about them. Of course, most of that is in my past, yet I am still a believer and I can easily tell you that Close Encounters of the Third Kind is supposedly based on a true event of an alien craft landing at an air-force base that has been communicating with the U.S. government for a long time planning out their voyage of bringing humans to their home-world. It may sound like I am insane, but I have studied all of this kind of stuff. And believe it or not, this movie was SO similar to those certain events that Spielberg was almost forced to have the movie not released. Again, I am not joking. If you ever meet the man in real life, just ask him. He has even talked about it.Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a movie about wonder, an obsession, and secrets and just how long things can be kept secret. If someone is so determined to discover the difference between reality and what is fake, is it possible to find the truth with enough determination and team work from you and many people of the same common goal? How long is it okay to keep something secret if it is destroying the lives of others? Are the people obsessed with finding the truth really care about the truth? Once they find the truth, what then? Go home? What can learning the truth gain if it just means a huge risk of causing harm to you and your loved ones? Close Encounters mainly deals with those kind of themes, yet, it doesn't really do a good job of tightly rapping up those themes.I don't want to delve into too much plot, but because of many UFO sightings, many people's lives are changing. Not in one area. Not in one city. But the world. People are gathering to discover the meaning of these sightings. Are they a blessing or a menace? Are our obsessions worth striving for if it destroys you and the people around you? So just what exactly is wrong with Close Encounters? For starters, the characters are intriguing, but don't do enough to pull me in for over 2 hours and they run out of steam a bit fast and so does the plot. It drags on too much. The filler may provide some more atmosphere, but it doesn't help when it is not very interesting.I do not hate Close Encounters at all. I just think it is a good movie that is a bit overrated. That is my review and I give this movie a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It is simply too difficult not to admire this Spielberg masterpiece.","Date":"31 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Two years before Ridley Scott scared the wits out of moviegoers with the claustrophobic Alien (1979), a young Steven Spielberg had already thought of outer space. He gave us benevolent aliens instead. While Close Encounters of the Third Kind and Alien are undeniably great films about that nagging possibility of life in the faraway corners of our universe, both represent very clearly two extreme ends of the spectrum between good and evil.Close Encounters was made at a time when science-fiction cinema was godly. The late 1970s/early 1980s was the golden period for science- fiction that saw the likes of top-quality films such as Star Wars (1977), Alien, E.T. The Extra Terrestrial (1982), and Blade Runner (1982) being worshipped on the pedestal for cinematic brilliance. Fresh from the box-office and critical success of Jaws (1975), Spielberg pushed the boundaries of sci-fi storytelling with a bold and visionary film that continues to weave its magic on moviegoers more than thirty years on.Richard Dreyfuss stars as Roy Neary, an out-of-sorts father whose encounter with UFOs one night causes him to become inexplicably drawn to a certain image that he tries to make sense of. Ignoring his frustrated family, he builds an entire sculpture that looks like a huge rock mountain out of mud, soil, and brick right in his home. That whole sequence is a splendid example of a set-piece that is not only absurdly hilarious, but also acts as a midpoint bridge between the film's establishing first half and the free-spirited second half.Spielberg intentionally paces the film more slowly than your typical Hollywood blockbuster, taking time to create a strong sense of mystery of the unknown. There is misdirection in certain scenes that suggest that the aliens could be malevolent. The long setup creates suspense and builds to a high level of anticipation. When we eventually get to the climax, we sense something truly special is about to happen. John Williams' unforgettable score is integral to the success of this setup as he plays with variations of the famous five-note leitmotif that would burst into a full orchestral piece in the climax.The majestic finale is awe-inspiring, and a feast for the eyes and ears. Through the use of models, clever use of lighting, and framing of shots, Spielberg conjures up a climatic set-piece that remains one of the best in the history of Hollywood cinema. On hindsight, with Close Encounters, Spielberg has fashioned what seems like a prelude to his most famous film E.T. While E.T. is undeniably an emotional roller coaster ride of the highest order, Close Encounters is a more sensory one that emphasizes on pure visual spectacle. Even then, the film is remarkably thought-provoking. It is simply too difficult not to admire this Spielberg masterpiece.GRADE A+ (9.5/10 or 5 stars)www.filmnomenon.blogspot.comAll rights reserved. "}{"Title":"Great Piece of Artwork By a Master","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is awesome. Yea its starts off a bit slow but when it starts going it doesn't stop. It contains some great performances notably by Richard Dreyfuss but Melinda Dillon is good to. The ending is one of the most beautiful scenes i have ever witnessed in cinema history. The way the whole movie is constructed is great and the visual effects are amazing. I don't believe it is Spielbergs masterpiece but I do believe it is one of his best movies ever.If u want to see a movie that will relax u and make u feel good then this is definitely a great choice.But remember u must be patient for the ending because it will make the first part totally worth it "},{"Title":"Phenomenal Light Display.","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A spectacular film in every sense of the word. This is the sort of thing that elevated Stephen Spielberg to dizzying commercial heights and enabled him to go on to tackle more demanding subjects.Richard Dryfus is a telephone lineman, a suburban husband and father of three living in the Midwest. Sent to investigate a power outage, he undergoes an extremely unsettling encounter with a giant spaceship that appears to have implanted ideas in his head -- something about Devil's Tower, a volcanic plug in Wyoming -- that leaves him besotted. A dozen or so others have undergone similar experiences, including Melinda Dillon. They are all drawn to Devil's Tower for the climax.There are children involved, of course; not just Dreyfus's three kids but Dillon's cute little boy who becomes a thoroughly willing kidnapped kid. The abduction is seen mainly from his point of view. In the middle of the night he's awakened by blazing lights outside the farmhouse. His toys mysteriously turn themselves on -- a plastic monkey plays a tin drum, a miniature locomotive rolls around its track. I was swept up in the kid's experience and didn't turn back into an adult until Melinda Dillon swung her long, slim, very tan limbs out from under the covers to look into the goings on.In the background of all this brouhaha is a gaggle of mostly faceless scientists trying to figure out what's up. They're led by the French director, Francois Truffaut, whose gentle presence is missed in today's cinema. There is the expectable government cover up. J. Allen Hynek appears briefly as himself, bearded and smoking a pipe, in a cameo. He was a thoughtful observer of the UFO scene and the movie's title is taken from one of his easily accessible books.The film is essentially a loosely strung together series of scenes leading up to the final meeting of humans and -- well, whatever they are. Some of the scenes are startling. A mid-size freighter abandoned in the middle of the desert? The discovery of half a dozen World War II era TBMs appearing in a Mexican village in pristine condition? A horde of villagers in northern India chanting a tune and, when asked where it came from, simultaneously jabbing their forefingers to the sky? The plot, such as it is, is only a springboard for these miraculous events. The story itself doesn't make sense and is full of holes. The enigmatic visitors have all sorts of preternatural powers. They not only turn electrical devices on and off. They make window shades roll up, flip carpets over, cause screws to unscrew themselves, run vacuum cleaners without human help (that's a skill I wish I had), and shake mailboxes like crazy -- yet they can't undo a simple door latch. What Zoltan Kodaly's hand positions, or indeed his tonal signals, have to do with communications, I don't know. Makes for engaging listening though. It was turned into a pop tune in hopes of cashing in on the movie's popularity. The person responsible for the score, John Williams, seems to have been more influenced by symbolists like Debussy and Ravel, with their lush, soaring, stringy scores and heavenly choirs, inspiring awe.What they've been doing is subjecting people from all around the world to extraordinary rendition. Zip, and they're gone, vehicles and all. Then, apparently on an arbitrary schedule, they return the kidnapees and take others aboard, voluntarily this time. Why they do this is left for us to wonder about.Richard Dreyfus is one of the volunteers. After his family leaves him because of his self-destructive obsession with Devil's Tower, he drives there, meets Melinda Dillon once again, waves good-bye to her, and, stricken with wonderment and anticipation, he boards the ship. I guess he's still nuts. No power on earth could get me aboard that ship. I don't care how seductive the invitation of the spidery aliens was.The film illustrates what Hynek called the ETH -- the extra-terrestrial hypothesis. They're genuine space craft and carry alien beings just like a peculiar Airbus. Well, that's a leap of faith that Hynek never made. Nobody knows what they are, only THAT they are. This isn't the place to get into that controversy but my own experience is listed with hundreds of others at Peter Davenport's NUFORC web site.Well, it's a landmark film. Not a masterpiece but a gripping display of technical skill and an almost magical ability to enthrall the viewer. If you haven't seen it, you'll be impressed if you do. Just don't go leaping aboard strange space ships just because they offer you candy -- especially when there isn't any candy. "},{"Title":"An absolutely uncompromised cinematic masterpiece, even after 31 years since it's release...","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters continues to stand the test of time and deliver an unfailing ensemble of intensity, suspense, eeriness, and completely detailed satisfaction that I couldn't even begin to scrape the surface of... a production with such heart and passion not seen since it's time. Close Encounters is a classic example of a fun-filled family thrill ride well worth the expenditure of a rental fee at least. h The casting was splendid as each character is developed in their own quirky, brilliant, and heart-warming way which in return offers some of the most engaging performances I have ever seen.The musical scoring is unreal, spectacular, an elite majestic symphony weilded perfectly by the all time most successful movie composer, John Williams. It's one of his earliest major motion picture works and has since been one of his most memorable masterpieces, which has made Close Encounters such an unforgettable experience.My overall perception is that Close Encounters of the Third Kind was a marvelous adventure... one which didn't fret in being completely out-of-the-box and instead offered not the usual hokey pokey scare tactics, but a more down to earth, intensly realistic encounter that surely brought many to begin to wonder that very question... Is there life out there? Once again Spielberg tackles what so many others failed at and succeeds with incredible power through the entire film.This isn't your UFO TV Movie brought to the big screen... this is a legitimate work of masterful cinema that will heartlessly crush your every expectation and hurdle your mind into the far reaches of thought as you scramble to piece together your own theory on whether or not there is life on other planets... Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a spectacle that would be an absolute pity to miss.I saw it on Blue-Ray and it never looked more awe-inspiring, perstine, and crisp. The Blue-Ray 30th Annivs. Edition comes with 3 separate cuts of the film... the Original, the Special Edition, and the Director's Cut. I saw the Special Edition and was greatly satisfied with the extra 2 minutes of footage. However new copies of the 30th Annivs. Edition costs upwards of $40.00, so try finding it for regular DVD or renting it for Blue-Ray. If you're not an avid SciFi fan I would suggest not buying it, but at least rent it because it is a must see. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Sci-Fi Films of All Time","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is a monumental epic about man's encounter with alien life, built in such a smart, witty, and at times unnerving style that it's a completely unforgettable masterpiece. Rumor has it that Spielberg traded shares of Star Wars with George Lucas on this film because he was worried about how it would do at the box office. His worries were totally cured and both made a bundle when Close Encounters opened, and rightfully so.This is a brilliant film, a total gem and the reason that Hollywood films should be made. Beyond its tale about man contacting Alien life, or Alien life contacting man, is a story about faith and belief in the unexplainable. Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) is so obsessive about something he can't explain, the continual shape of a mountain he draws over and over again, that he risks and looses virtually all of the conveniences and stability of a functional man. His wife hates him and walks out with the family, he stops going to work and builds this irrational mountain out of dirt from his yard in his living room. This can be seen as many things, but is certainly in more ways than one a parable about what it means to be an artist, to create at the expense of all the staples of a normal life, to follow your irrational motivation without knowing where it will lead you, even towards possible incarceration and death. Roy Neary comes to even defy the government as he makes his way towards the mountain that he initially conjured in his mind. He knows it so well when he finally reaches it that it's as though he has walked it a thousand times. I can't give away the rest, and can only say that this is a movie that will make your spirits soar without pandering or using cheap tricks. It's a film that is about believing in yourself and the visions in your head no matter what anyone tells you, even those that may be closest to you and seem like people you should trust. It's a reminder that if that kind of belief is real, life will provide you with an answer and with the ability to realize your visions and your dreams. You have to see this film! "},{"Title":"Spielberg's classic still makes You believe in UFO'S","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even twenty years later , this movie is fantastic , awe inspiring and totally believable ; I liked both Richard Dreyfuss in this movie and Terri Garr as his wife . The other cast members were awesome as well . Melinda Dillon was also great here as well as Francios Truffuat too . I loved Steven Spielberg's idea on how first contact with an alien race might actually happen and that they would take human beings back with them to wherever they were going , presume their home world .Close Encounters of the Third Kind , to me stands as one the top five movies of our time , next to The African Queen , Casablanca Gone With The Wind and Empire Strikes Back . Thankyou Steven Spielberg .This was , as far as I'm concern , perfection . Rkallao@aol.comp.s. , if Steven Spielberg reads this or anyone else , why not a sequel A voyage with Roy Neary so to speak , a viewpoint on how he would see the universe through his eyes as he was taking on board the mothership and everything else that followed . It would be interesting to see what ever happen to Roy's children and how it affected them in different ways , especially his wife . "},{"Title":"Nope","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" He's very successful. Are there any directors more successful? He can put together a blockbuster like few others. His love of the movies is obvious. He had Schindler's and Jurassic up the same year.He was Lucas's henchman for the making of the Indiana Jones movies. He met his future wife on movie #2. He's considered one of the most powerful names in Hollywood.But I do not like his writing; I do not think his directing is good; and I am not impressed with his own story lines. Jaws was a very big nothing to me, and so is this one.Close Encounters, forgive me, is not science fiction - it is speculation, speculation in contemporary surroundings. There's a whale of a difference. Both Jaws and Close Encounters lack the one thing Lucas brought to the movies Spielberg made for him fantasy. It is this fantasy which is the essence of science fiction, and Close Encounters has no fantasy.Some people like this kind of movie; I don't. I find this type of movie exploitative, preying on human fears and weaknesses. This type of movie gives us nothing - it only 'takes' - which isn't exactly right, as the dude already got the price of admission, half a billion dollars, and should do more than that - such as truly entertain.Ingemar Bergman once said that the ultimate test of a good director was the ability to 'kill one's darlings' to be able to scrap a particularly favourite scene, no matter how cool, if it destroys the whole. Bergman, as many other European directors and a smattering of US ones, is considered an 'auteur'.Spielberg is no auteur. He can hardly direct. He can put together blockbuster productions and make them work, pull off the most amazing F/X scenes, but directing involves a whole lot more than that.And Spielberg will go so far as to rewrite a movie, irrevocably alter its contents and portent, to squeeze one putrid dirty scene in there that he just can't let go of. That is not professional directing.He's made money; he's a success like few others; most people regard him in the same breath they mention the George Lucas of old, and I really liked at least one of the Indiana Jones movies; but none of this means Spielbergs own efforts are going to be good.The box office may say otherwise, but I say 'no'. This is not good; don't waste your time.PS. John Williams may have written a couple of memorable themes for the Star Wars series, but take him out of his Sousa study and he's worthless. There are few composers who delve to the nadirs this luckless person can drop to. His music for Jaws is regarded as 'so good'; I think that's malarky. Likewise his music for this 'opus'.Spielberg was the one who supposedly recommended Williams to Lucas for the Star Wars movies, and that turned out OK. But Williams was supposed to write a love theme for Star Wars Episode II, and how did that turn out?The man has no gamete glands whatsoever. None. His 'filler music' is notorious and unfortunately his style (or lack thereof) has been copied by others, notably David Arnold in ID4. Some of those scenes would do well with no music at all; this is a kind of thinking lesser gifted people cannot achieve.Listen to the music of Maurice Jarre in The Year of Living Dangerously - or rather do not listen to it. If you know the movie you will know what's behind that comment. People like Jarre have passion; they can create; people like Williams, I am sorry to say, have no passion and cannot create they can only scribble meaningless notes across a page.More or less how Spielberg sketches a movie he's about to author and direct. "},{"Title":"One of cinema's finest moments","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's face it &#150; all of us want to believe in UFO's and, many of us do. Back in those dark dismal days of the 70's we were all largely just waiting for the mother ship to pitch up and whisk us all off to Alpha Centauri, or some such place. In the event, sadly, no one came. However, in 1977 a chap popped up called Spielberg who had decided that he would bring to the screen his vision of what it would be like if a race of benign and benevolent beings from across the universe decided to make Earth a stopover. Spielberg was still basking in the afterglow of the blockbusting success of Jaws, his first major movie released in 1975. This follow-up was to cement his reputation as a deliverer of bankable summer must-see movies and E.T. and Raiders of the Lost Ark were still in the future.Firstly, it has to be said that everything else aside, one of the primary reasons for the success of the film was undoubtedly the public's hunger at that time for effects laden sci-fi which had been kick started by the release of Star Wars. The audience was the same and also, at that time, the event movies were few and far between so movies like Close Encounters benefited from repeat visits. Also, the emergence of new film technologies, coupled with the uninhibited visions of the clutch of new wave wunderkind directors (Lucas, De Palma etc.) was delivering jaw-dropping special effects, the like of which had never been seen before. It is all to easy to forget in these ho-hum days of CGI that, back then, the spectacle of the mother ship turning itself upside down over Devil's Tower and a battered X-Wing taking on a Death Star were hugely impressive, breathtaking, in fact.The release of Close Encounters was premature at the time because Spielberg's vision was not quite complete and when he was given an extra $2m to film some additional scenes he came up with Close Encounters of the Third Kind The Special Edition, which was released in 1980. Following on from that, there have been several different versions of the film but the best and most satisfying was undoubtedly the first theatre release. The extra 15 minutes of footage shot for the Special Edition, largely concentrating on the experiences of Richard Dreyfuss in the alien ship at the end, add nothing to the story and in retrospect even Spielberg has admitted that this was a mistake. It represented the gilding of an already superb lily.Spielberg turned to Dr. J. Allen Hynek, one of the world's foremost UFO experts and between them they attempted to craft a theory of what first contact with an alien race would be like. Interestingly, they came up with the struggle to communicate and understand rather than F11's firing nukes at a craft the size of Manhattan. This is to be applauded and probably illustrates some of the more socialist thinking of the time. Certainly, it could be argued with a reasonable degree of certainty that any race that had managed to collaborate to build the craft required to travel interstellar distances had probably gotten overt the need to make war by then. The magic of the final encounter is reflected in the upturned faces of the awed scientists and not in the faces of hard-bitten marines and is a theme Spielberg would return to at the end of E.T.There are three principal characters in Close Encounters; Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss), the everyman power worker telepathically tuned in to the visitors, Jillian Guiler (Melinda Dillon) whose young son has been abducted by the visitors and finally Claude Lacombe (François Truffaut), a UN scientist. The film follows the path of each of them to the destiny that awaits them at Devil's Tower in Wyoming, the chosen site of the alien visitation.. The casting was pretty much perfect &#150; Dreyfuss had lobbied Spielberg furiously to get the role (Steve McQueen was the first choice) and actually fitted the role perfectly. François Truffaut was a coup for Spielberg who didn't expect the great director to say yes to the part. In the event, he too fitted his part like a glove and was able to play the beguiled and dignified Lacombe at a perfect pitch. Being French also gave it an international air and not US centric, which also helped the movie.Other collaborators on the movie included composer John Williams who has given most of Spielberg's movies their unique cinematic atmosphere down through the years and Douglas Trumbull whose special effects, as mentioned earlier were of a quality not seen before &#150; even in Star Wars. It could be reasonably argued that the real star of Close Encounters is the mother ship; that wow factor ranks alongside your first sight of a Jurassic Park dinosaur, your first experience of Titanic's CGI imagery, when CGI was young, or the climatic battle of Return of the King. In the seventies - it was simply awe inspiring.I was privileged to see Close Encounters in the cinemas the day it was released in the UK and it has stayed in my imagination from that time. It is a film of the cinema and for the cinema. It is diminished on the television and our savvy kids will see nothing but a rather long melodrama with some spaceships. ID4 it ain't &#150; and it's all the better for it! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Great film - time for a sequel???","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was perfect for the continuing story of UFO's, etc. What was the reason for not continuing the story??? The movie got our juices flowing just waiting for the next episode. What a let down! Does anybody else fell this way? What ever happened to all the characters in the film? Steve Spielberg was right on the money back in 1977. Today he is still one of the best directors in the business. A sequel is needed badly. Can you just imagine the sequel today with all the great next technology in filming and the continuing story line. Or is it too late? It is coming up on 30 years since the last film. How many other fan are out there just waiting for the next sequel??? "},{"Title":"Much more important when it came out in the 1970s.","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spielberg made Close Encounters after Jaws and before E.T. All of them have a similar feel to them, rather long, somewhat drawn out scenes and a long time to get to the real meat of the story. At least the meat that remains memorable. Here Richard Dreyfuss plays Roy Neary, who works for the power company, and one dark night has a close encounter. Two others, including a housewife and a French scientist, have encounters also. They all begin to have unexplained visions of a strange mountain, Roy makes sculptures, the housewife draws pictures. All of which are results of some kind of mind control to get them to the eventual landing site, the monument Devil's Tower, the remaining core of an ancient volcano, in Wyoming.While I enjoyed most of the movie, the scene where Roy uproots family shrubs and throws them, plus bricks, garbage, chicken wire into the family home to build the tower just didn't work for me. It seemed silly. I understand that Spielberg released another edition of the movie with this scene cut, and others included, but I have not seen it.SPOILERS, THE ENDING. Everything comes to a head at night in Wyoming. Three scout spacecraft hover for a while to make sure the site is safe, then a giant craft comes and lands, the Earthlings communicate via musical tones. A door opens, a large number of missing people come out, some military, some just civilian, including the young son of the housewife. Fascinated, Roy goes in to see what is inside, and stays as the craft departs. What a thrill for the viewing audience, to imagine being taken away by advanced and friendly aliens after your wife left you for being weird! "},{"Title":"Very Dated, But Still Keeps Its Magic","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although I was a very young child when I first watched it, and was therefore unable to grasp the movie fully, Close Encounters of the Third Kind made a lasting impact to me. Its vivid visual effects, and its deeply humane message were so strong that they could even affect a small kid like me.I saw CE3K again recently, and I have to admit that I was somehow deflated. The special effects that had so much moved me back then, now seemed to be quite simplistic and dull. After nearly 30 years during which the digital technology has done wonders, it is quite natural to find flying saucages that resemble cheap christmas trees quite unimpressive.So, has CE3K lost its magic? The answer is a definite no. As I told in the beginning of my comment, the movie carries a strong humane message, and this message is totally unaffected by the passage of time. The story is about two people, Roy (Dreyfuss) and Jillian (Dillon), who are deeply affected by a close encounter they have with aliens. On the same time, their life changes dramatically, as Roy's wife (Garr) leaves him, while Jillian's son Barry (Guffey) is abducted by the aliens. Together they try to discover more about their experience, while their path crosses with a supra-governmental team head by Lacombe (Truffaut) which is on an ultra-secret mission to make contact with the aliens.The whole point of the movie is not to portray a typical sci-fi adventure, but to depict the indefatigable quest of Roy and Jillian (and of a few others who join along the way) in pursuing their desire to learn more about what they experienced, and their will to meet the unknown but benevolent visitors. The movie may look very dated today, but its message remains powerful. 7/10. "}{"Title":"Spielberg's Finest","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" CLOSE ENCOUNTERS is probably my favorite Spielberg film; his 70s period showcases (with the exception of 1941) the depth of his talent, and makes his rather wobbly career (creatively speaking) in the years since especially unfortunate.Working at multiple levels, the story is (like other films of the era GODFATHER I & II and THE CONVERSATION) a reflection of the post-Watergate paranoia that swept through the collective imagination and collective subconscious of America. Spielberg's handling of this is fairly cynical, and not especially deep (the faked news item of a nerve gas spill near Devil's Tower as a means of getting people out of the area), but - given the time - it was a realistic response; a response important to include in a story so otherwise fantastic and awe-inspiring. Doing so underscores an idea that 'awe' and 'the fantastic' can be found in everyday life, if one looks carefully.At another level, CLOSE ENCOUNTERS strikes me as a radical reshaping of the grail myth, with suburbanites in station wagons replacing knights on a spiritually transformative quest for the holy grail (of a sort Devil's Tower, and the reunion with humans abducted by aliens, in a UFO encounter of mythic significance). Implicit in this is the idea that a sense of wonder, and a need for ritual are essential human elements which - though equated with 'childlike' or 'primitive' sensibilities - are grown out of only at our peril.If only all of Spielberg's work actually descended from such complex ideas. CLOSE ENCOUNTERS has plenty of flash-and-dazzle, but it's the thoughts that count. "},{"Title":"This movie is excruciatingly awful","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Revisiting CE3K is a painful experience. Its almost indescribably awful.Its pretentious and portentious. To view it now is like the cinematic equivalent of nails screeching across a blackboard.The acting is so poor its beyond description. The script contains dialogue which leaves one either cringing or howling with laughter. Example on seeing an alien emerge from the mothership someone says something akin to Einstein was right. Truffaut replies he was one of them (Yuk!)I think this movie now deserves to be watched in drunken groups at parties where its true value as a cult turkey can be truly appreciated.The real tragedy of CE3K lies in the almost incomprehensible decison by poor Truffaut to appear in this trash. If Americans wish to punish the French over Iraq my opinion is that they should show mercy as this is surely retrospective punishment enough.What was Spielberg thinking? I suppose it contains a few iconic images such as the technicians donning dark glasses under the bright lights of the mothership and the spindly benevolent aliens. It would have been a blessing if they'd turned nasty and vaporised all those crass officials and UFO freaksAnd that irritating five note tune dee dee da dum dum which culminated in that juvenile jamming session between humans and the mothership .... need I go on? "},{"Title":"That silly 70's films","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of the many silly films ever made in the name of aliens, this one might well be the worse (or close). The plot ranks among the weakest, and the special effects could have been great in 1977, but not anymore. When you watch that cheap movies with evil aliens trying to conquer Earth, at least you know what are they doing here, which is more than you can say with this film. There is no point on blaming the actors; they have nothing interesting to say.     "},{"Title":"Excellent special effects, no story","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a treat to watch and will always be a favourite of many. However, I was hardly taken in by this film and felt that it had no point, a weak story and a lackluster finish.Spielberg's efforts in this film are nothing compared to the greatness he has achieved in other films such as E.T., Saving Private Ryan and Raiders of the Lost Ark. The only thing this film succeeds in, is in its great special effects. The mothership that makes contact with mankind at the end of the film is a technical masterpiece and a feast for all eyes to see. The cinematography helped this film out tremendously and never failed in getting great shots of these special effects. However the alien space-crafts are not seen enough during the film which strikes me as odd because it is really the aliens of which the film is about.The film starts off right into the lives of the characters, giving the viewer no time to understand who they are and what they are about. Richard Dreyfuss gives a well-played performance in this film as an ordinary family man who is targeted by the aliens and given messages on where to go to meet them again. WHY? There is no solid reason in this film that makes the viewer understand what the aliens want and why they take over the minds of those whom they have discovered. Without any understanding for who the aliens are and what they want with the humans, we are left with nothing but a cute film about aliens (a la E.T.).This film has no guidance and even the ending was somewhat unsatisfactory for me. The aliens came, gave us back all the people they had previously abducted and took more humans back for God knows what reasons. Then the film ends and we are left to wonder what it all meant. What did it all mean? Nothing at all.7/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Boring, boring, boring...","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERS ARE IN HERE.Maybe this movie was okay when it came out back in 1977 but I could barely stay awake.It was so boring! Wow! Aliens come to earth and play an old keyboard that lights up like that old Simon Says music game, whatever it was called, it's almost as old as this movie.That's right the big climax is scientists playing keyboards and flashing coloured lights at the alien space ship and the aliens playing music back, then the ship opens and all these kidnapped people and children come out. Why aren't these people p.o.'d and killing these stupid aliens for keeping everyone for so long? The biggest action packed moment in the film is when a guy is making a mountain out of his mashed potatoes and I'm not even kidding. "},{"Title":"When you wish gives the game away.","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At the end of the film, in the sound track, we get a barely audible eerie quotation of When You Wish Upon a Star from Pinocchio. And that shows the level of this film; it was, however, not nearly as good as the former which was among Uncle Walt's best.Dreyfuss and Truffaut are okay but looking ecstatic over Spielberg's predecessors to ET is not my idea of great acting. E.T. was terrific but this is merely tedious mumbo-jumbo.The film is long and padded (in all versions) and seems longer on each viewing.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An extremely low point in 1970's and any decade's cinema","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Close Encounters Of The Third Kind is widely considered to be a classic. I widely consider it to be classic garbage. If you want pure hokum and badly contrived performances, then this film is one of the pure pinnacles of that criteria. Yet another bad film in the many about UFO's and the people who claim to see them. "},{"Title":"No anal probe or implants today, Mr. Dreyfuss.","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Once Upon a time...Stars Wars and Close Encounters of the Third Kind were both released in 1977, and were enormously successful films, both critically and commercially. This began a new era in Hollywood, in which special effects became much more important as a lure to bring customers to the theater. Thus began the golden age of cinema through the 80's.But anyway, I digress...The plot to Close Encounters of the Third Kind involves aliens visiting the Earth with a fleet of ships. Scientists discover how to communicate with the aliens through musical and mathematical codes. The big bad naughty evil U.S. Government, naturally, launches a massive conspiracy, inventing a deadly nerve gas leak story in order to relocate the local population away from the nearby area the aliens have chosen as the point of contact with humanity.Richard Dreyfuss is well cast as an average joe who happens to coincidently encounter a flying saucer one evening. This close encounter causes him to soon lose his job, his sanity, and his wife (Teri Garr) and kids. Melinda Dillon is a mother of a young child (played by wide-eyed and mute Cary Guffey) who, without reason is abducted by the aliens. Dreyfuss and Dillon are both strongly and deeply compelled to visit Devil's Peak, not knowing or fully understanding why.Steven Spielberg wrote and directed Close Encounters. As with his later film E.T., the aliens are benevolent, and the special effects are used to create a mood of childlike wonder. This mood is ultimately manipulative, however, and the jaded viewer may not be especially impressed with hairless, big-eyed, unisex aliens and glowing spaceships. Ethical considerations, such as the rights of aliens to kidnap whomever they wish for close inspection, are not addressed.Tellingly, Close Encounters won the Academy Award for Best Cinematography, but was not nominated for Best Picture or Screenplay. While it is a very good film, it is not outstanding. The story succeeds as a drama, but there is more form than content. "},{"Title":"Terrible, uneven, depressing.","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" While many people praise Spielberg's CE3K, I find the movie to be an utter mess of a film.Richard Dreyfuss (Neary), who should have received a Most Hapless Oscar for his performance, is slowly driven insane - to the point of destroying his own family - by the titular encounters with alien life. Francois Truffaunt (who, perhaps, should have directed the film rather than perform in it), plays a scientist who is at best a tool of a shadow world government which spends the majority of the film frightening, imprisoning, and then killing those who have had the encounters and are attempting to put their lives back together after the damage done.We, the viewers, are supposed to believe that the complete horror that encompasses Melinda Dillon's (Guelier) son's kidnapping by forces she cannot hope to comprehend is, somehow, uplifting and that the inevitable anger and confusion and depression other returned abductees will most certainly experience is a positive moment.Quite the contrary, the movie would have been a good conspiracy episode for X-Files.The film's apotheosis from perplexing extended chase scene mixed with the destruction of a family and one man's mind to some kind of spiritual experience is jarring at best. What this film and others show is that while people in general seem to think Spielberg is good at schmaltz, his best work is truly in visceral action (the gripping opening of Saving Private Ryan, the chilling Duel, and the incomparable Jaws).Behaving less like a complete film and more like a handful of discarded screenplay ideas collected from the wastebasket and turned in as a rush idea, Close Encounters of the Third Kind does not uplift, it depresses. It does not elucidate, it confuses. It does not thrill, it bores. "},{"Title":"Overrated, drawn out, boring movie.","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Since the beginning of time, man has been looking up to the skies, hoping for and somewhat dreading visitors from space. That's the premise of this movie.  The anticipation of something exciting about to happen wore thin after an hour or less of build ups and let downs. The movie fittingly climaxed with a giant replica of a Simple Simon game and a lame tune. Fine acting by Richard Dreyfuss couldn't save this movie from sleepy tedium. While watching this movie, you may catch yourself looking up toward the skies, hoping the ceiling will fall in and put you out of your misery. "}{"Title":"Boooooooooooooring....","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm far from being an action junkie but, to see a movie where nothing happens, and which does not make you particularly think (unlike Clockwork Orange, or 2001 Space Odyssey) is too much for me... I'm trying to see the maximum number of films from this Top250 and mostly am enjoying it but, this.... Waoow..... this was terribly boring.... no plot, not much to think about, too long (2h11 for ... nothing...) Geez, stay away from this, except if you firmly believe that someday the aliens will come for U... 2/10 "},{"Title":"This movie is packed with action adventure, mystery, suspense, science fiction and fantasy.","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounter of the Third Kind is an atypical movie for its era. This movie is packed with action adventure, mystery, suspense, science fiction and fantasy. Steven Spielberg wrote and directed this movie. The movie starts with a group of scientists that discovered planes that were in perfect condition, which were missing in the desert back in 1945. Shortly after, a couple of commercial flights pilots reported seeing strange bright lights in the sky but they were unable to describe what they saw. Widespread power outage hits a little town in Indiana and an electrical lineman, Roy Neary played by Richard Dreyfus had an encounter with an unidentified flying object (UFO) while driving to a job site. Other characters in the movie also encountered the UFO and were affected by the encounter. This epic movie showed a group of disparate people who attempt to contact and understand the extraterrestrial life form they encountered.Editing was appropriate on this movie because it allowed the movie to flow smoothly. During my research, there were several scenes taken out of the movie because it dragged the scene much longer. Some of the scenes removed from the movie were not as important and were not as appealing on the big screen. The editing team did an excellent job removing unimportant scenes before the movie hit the big screen. In certain parts of the movie, some of the sound effects were appropriate and were used in a manner that engage the viewers of the suspense and drama that is about to happen. The sound effect teams did an excellent job in engaging the viewers to the movie. This film was original for its time, the special effects reminded me of the film E.T., which was also written and directed by Steven Spielberg. This film has a good mixture of characters and film cinematography. The director depended on the characters to make the special effects appear that much more special. The director used several camera techniques that were effective to make the special effects more real. For instance, tilt shots were used to effectively convey the message of power or series of jump-cut to deliver the feel of intenseness to the viewers. The special effect team did an excellent job to capture the audience attention and kept them engage throughout the movie.I am certain when this film was created, the director wanted to engage the viewer's mindset and simply make them think. The director wanted the viewers to think and contemplate the possibilities of encountering extraterrestrial life forms from other planets. I felt that the director wanted to educate the viewers that other life forms may exist from other planets. This film was very interesting and enjoyable to watch; I recommend it to anyone that loves old school actors, and Sci-fi effects. I rate this movie a 5 star for its special effects, plot and its cast. This film won one of seven Oscar nominations. This film was given the challenge of competing with Star Wars which was released on May 25th, 1977 and immediately became a box office hit. Steven Spielberg did an excellent job for making this movie one of the best in that era. "},{"Title":"A Magic Masterpiece long forgotten!","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spielberg had already proved his great talent in the underrated masterpiece The Sugarland Express , but it didn't receive the deserved appreciation at the time. And then he directed the timeless classic Jaws, the first big box office film, which opened doors to him to show his geniality like someone never did before in this forgotten masterpiece! Close Encounters begins at a night as any other in the live of Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) the typical American citizen, working at the power station in their small town of Indiana, playful with his kids and loving to his wife. When one night, the entire city suffers a huge power blackout, and Roy is called to try to identify the source of the problem. In the middle of traffic, Roy's truck is covered by a strong white light coming from above, and then he sees strange bright objects in the sky and the light fading around the city. Days pass and Roy begins to have strange visions of a mountain, and five musical notes start running in his head always at the same pace, taking Roy to have attacks of insomnia and do crazy things, thus losing his job and his family fleeing from home. But Roy finds out later that he is not the only one having these visions when he meets Jillian Guiler (Melinda Dillon) who also has visions and his son Barry was captured during a storm with red lights, and the mountain of his visions exist in the country and is being used by the military as a study center recently. Roy then begins to embark on a research to find out what musical notes means and what will happen on that mountain.This was the first personal project of Spielberg, thanks to the success of Jaws he managed to realize it, and showed his genius as ever. The film from the beginning follows a realistic style, as their characters are like any other human with their own problems, and as if everything was happening in our world on a day like any other (something that had already been demonstrated and guaranteed success the Jaws). Thanks to the realism that Spielberg puts in the film and its characters, we can totally put us in place of Roy and into his confused mind by the whole mystery around them, and our minds begin to take turns asking what the heck is going on.Spielberg in the film, kind of uses the same style that Stanley Kubrick used in 2001, both films totally different but share the same technique. It shows little dialogue and uses scenes and more scenes brilliantly. And the scientific theories used to build the mysterious climax of the film comes from years and years of real mysterious cases that happened in our world, everything come together in small pieces along the film through a brilliant narrative and majestic scenes (as I said , the same technique of 2001 though not better).A story strongly told thanks to the brilliant screenplay (written by Spielberg himself), the film also does not disappoint with a brilliant direction and a superb soundtrack by John Williams. And it contains one of the most beautiful visual effects ever made up, that even today left people speechless.A masterpiece that showed the genius of Spielberg to the world as no other director had ever shown before, mixing facts and more facts of strange cases that happened in our world with a philosophic and religion tone, and the most original sci - fi style ever made. All together with a superb performance from Dreyfuss and a strong script that holds your attention until the great 3rd act where all the mystery and the facts come together and the philosophical symbolism that makes your mind explode and your eyes sparkle when witnesses the best sci - fi ever made and the most ambitious movie of the legendary Spielberg!10/10 "},{"Title":"This is NOT one-star material.","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" STORY 5.9/10EFFECTS 9.2/10MUSIC 8.7/10ACTING 8.5/10A.I.M 2.3/10FUN 7/10Ignore anyone who gives this movie a 1/10 rating. That's saying that 'Super babies Baby Geniuses 2' has a better story/direction than this.Before seeing 'Close Encounters of the Third Kind', I looked at the reviews, and was shocked by the low ratings. Then, I saw the movie. At times, I could see it down to a 4/10 or so, but others just shocked me with 7/10 material. And then... the ending. That's what makes the film memorable. Although it was long, to me it's worth a 8/10 by itself.STORY Yes, it was very weak. Things happened for no certain reason. It was confusing. The biggest flaw in this film.EFFECTS Wow. Amazing. Better than any of this overused CGI these days. Remember This movie was made before computers. And I'm glad it was. Nearly every effect you see is mind- blowing.MUSIC The alien signal tune is rightfully famous. John Williams did an excellent job with this one.ACTING Also very good.A.I.M (AVOIDABLE INAPPROPRIATE MATERIAL) not too bad apart from the swearing. I'm not too sure about the original, but the special edition has a few 'S words' scattered here and there. I don't know why Spielberg decided to add those words in in every new scene he shot for the special edition. How does that make this film any better? Apart from that, nothing bad. Suitable for children 10 and up (some scenes may be frightening).FUN Yes, it was boring at times, and it really doesn't grow to be interesting until the end. If you like aliens and science fiction, you will like it.MAIN PROBLEMS 1 The fact that one of the main characters is french and must speak with a translator the whole film is unnecessary. There will be a long scene where the french man speaks with an English man, and the translator must translate each word from the English man to the French man and back. Wouldn't it be easier to just make the french man English? It would save about 3 minutes of film. (However, the fact that he is french actually does play a significant part in the end, if you think about it...) 2 There will commonly be radios or other items playing voices in the background, and they are as loud as the character's speaking. It is hard to hear. 3 The story, as mentioned above.WHY TO SEE THIS FILM 1 It's a classic. People will talk about it later in life, and you want to be able to know what they are saying. Also, it is one of the first U.F.O films. 2 It is not over the top. The film is very believable. It may open your mind up to questions about our universe. "},{"Title":"A portrait of childlike awe of a mystical universe.","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" For someone watching Close Encounters for the first time today, some context is needed. While images of large-head, black-eye aliens are common today, along with movies and documentaries about UFOs and abductions, they were not in 1977. There was the Star Trek television series in the Sixties, 2001, and Star Wars, but that was it for recent alien-related science fiction until Close Encounters. Even E.T. was five years in the future.On the other hand, the Fifties were filled with all sorts of alien- related movies, mostly very, very scary, such as Invaders from Mars or Invasion of the Body Snatchers. There was the famous Twilight Zone episode To Serve Man, and the more benign The Day the Earth Stood Still, which for some reason kept showing up, over and over, on NBC's Saturday Night at the Movies, so that kids like me must have seen it a dozen times. The reason there were so many UFO movies in the Fifties was because there were a lot of news reports about UFO sightings, beginning in the late Forties, so people were nervous, even if they didn't talk much about it. But in the Sixties and Seventies the UFO scare subsided, mostly. It wasn't until 1987, with the TV version of Shirley MacLaine's memoir Out on a Limb, describing her UFO encounters high in the Andes Mountains, that there was a resurgence of interest and open talk about UFOs, with many books being released not long after. Yet Close Encounters was released 10 years earlier, 20 years after the Fifties wave, so that the ideas of abductions by UFOs, of seeing a UFO at close range and actually meeting its inhabitants were shockingly radical. At the same time, Spielberg tries to fulfill the fantasy in detail of what this might be like. And why not? We were sending spacecraft to other planets, including sending back the first pictures from the surface of Mars in 1976. So the timing was right for this bigger than life fantasy to be taken seriously. Nowadays, Close Encounters no longer stands alone, and for younger viewers, some may shrug and say, So what? I think it still holds up reasonably well, especially in light of the many mass UFO sightings that have since been reported, particularly on programs like Larry King Live. On the other hand, the day when a UFO arranges a more or less public meeting with government officials seems more remote than ever. If aliens were to monitor our news and understand it, the last thing they would want is to have anything to do with our leaders. But back in 1977, we could hold a naive hope that perhaps aliens would honor us with a visit, one intelligent species to another. Today, it seems more like Klaatu and Gort watching humanity collectively fall into a pit of quicksand, and saying good riddance. We don't need aliens to destroy the Planet Earth; humanity is doing the job just fine by ourselves.This is not a movie made by a skeptic; Spielberg believes UFOs are real, and he tried to imagine what the reality of an encounter would be like. He examines the history of the UFO phenomena in much greater detail in the remarkable mini-series, Taken, starring the amazing Dakota Fanning. It mixes what are believed to be true elements of the UFO phenomena with a fictional story line and some fantasy. Close Encounters, on the other hand, should not be taken so seriously. The references to the Bermuda Triangle are nice devices, but the whole Bermuda Triangle mysticism is a lot of hokum based on some old bogus stories by a proto-tabloid AP reporter. I don't think Close Encounters wasn't intended to be very scary, like a Fifties horror movie. The scariest part was the humans, the government officials, the sense of power and unknown conspiracy that Neary encountered. And, of course, having a small child torn from your home is scary, a fear lying deep in the subconscious of some viewers. There is the element of adventure, a road trip to Devil's Tower, a la North by Northwest. But most of all, it was intended to fill you with a sense of childlike awe at the mystical possibilities of a universe filled with intelligent life beyond our imagination. I hope Close Encounters can still do this for young viewers today. Asides on people Keep an eye out for Roberts Blossom, who plays the character who announces that he has seen Big Foot. He died last month. For such a minor part, he gets pretty high billing, suggesting the respect people had for him. He was also in Slaughterhouse-Five and The Great Gatsby. Speaking of Gatsby country, it is a mystery how Julia Miller Philips managed to function so well as a producer, given her self-professed copious consumption of drugs. Cary Guffey was the real star, the embodiment of the childlike awe and trust we should all feel. "},{"Title":"Very Creepy","Date":"19 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This could possibly rank as one of the creepiest movies I have ever seen. It has all the things that make a film very creepy and disturbing. Flashing lights from a source that you can't see, hiding the aliens until the end, strange loud sounds, and my favorite, hearing someone or something outside and not knowing what it is.The only real flaw with this movie is that it can be really slow at parts. For me I only get interested when something involving the aliens, and don't care much for the relationships between characters. Some might think it's slow near the end because it spends a lot of time just showing special effects.But unlike 2001 A Space Oddysey, this movie actually has talking, and a plot, it isn't just a special effects demo reel, as great as the special effects are the best part is the story. I love alien invasion movies, especially when they are set in a house in the middle of nowhere, so you can probably guess my favorite part of the movie. The use of music is probably the best use of music in the history of film, or at least one of the best. The music itself is a pretty big part of the story and feels more like a part of the story than just a sound effect. The characters are good, not the most memorable, but I really felt sorry for Roy Neary in the middle when his family left him.Close Encounters is one of Spielberg's best movies, it's very creepy, has memorable scenes, great music, amazing special effects, and likable characters. "},{"Title":"A feeling of awe","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" If there is one single emotional response triggered by Close Encounters of the Third Kind it must surely be that of awe. The scene of the alien mother-ship towering above the mountain remains one of the best uses of special effects technology in the history of the medium. When seen on the big screen this moment is quite frankly incredible. It always provokes an emotional response no matter how often you see it.CE3K is of course about first contact. It's told from the point-of-view of a man called Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) who one night experiences an encounter with an extra-terrestrial spaceship. It turns out that he is one of many people who were targeted that very same night. This leads him to the brink of insanity as he tries to understand the experience and the strange compulsions that are now within him.What Steven Spielberg achieved with this film was to present his special-effects extravaganza within the framework of a psychological drama. While the dramatic element is fairly compelling for the most part, it does sometimes lose its way with perhaps too much emphasis on Neary's obsession with the mysterious hill. While the climax which sees him not only display romantic feelings towards another woman he briefly meets along the way but also board the alien mother ship just doesn't ring true for a supposed family man; certainly there is no indication that he is doing anything untoward, it's presented as completely normal reasonable behaviour. The fact is that he essentially is abandoning his family.But these above issues are not deal-breaking here because the mysterious moments of extra-terrestrial contact are the true strengths of the film. Aside from the famous climax there are details such as the moonlight shadow of the space-craft dwarfing Neary's pick-up truck, the ship in the middle of the Gobi desert and the abduction of the little boy in the middle of the night. All of these moments consistently present the alien intelligence as mysterious and maybe even malevolent. But of course, the latter proves ultimately not to be the case, as this is basically a very optimistic film with really no villains; even the government people prove to be essentially nonthreatening. I'm sort of on the fence about seeing the aliens at the end, while you really want to catch a glimpse I'm not certain that it works, as they just look like children and a giant puppet. I can't help but think that Spielberg might have been better adopting Stanley Kubrick's approach from 2001, and left them unseen.I don't think I will ever tire of the majestic finale to this film, so it's always going to get a bit of appreciation from me on that front. Definitely a very good science fiction movie and one of Spielberg's best. "},{"Title":"Maybe I'm too old for magic","Date":"24 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was in my mid 20s when CE3K came out, and I loved it. Now, in my late 50s, there is still much to like, but there is also much which I now find tiresome. Heading this up is Neary's single-minded pursuit of the landing. Yes, I know it's the central element of the story and, yes, I know that Roy Neary is the audience identification figure, but I'm afraid I don't have the interest in his mania which I had when I was younger.I love the early encounters, though, and I love the whole Devil's Tower sequence. I'm glad I got to see the interior of the Mother Ship even though it doesn't really fit, and even though it seriously screws up the music editing. Still, with the 3-version box set, I can watch the closing section with or without, can't I? Most of all, for me, CE3K is all about John William's gloriously emotional (and occasionally off the wall) music, and the stunning visuals which go with it. The emotional heart of the movie - and I accept it has one - no longer speaks to me in the way it once did.In 1977 I thought this was simply brilliant - Now, I find it fun to look out and listen to, but Spielberg has done an awful lot better - and often - in the years since. "},{"Title":"In an early draft of the script, there were no abductions","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw an early draft of the script in which there were no abductions. The film ended with the very first contact ever between earth people and aliens. It was a lot more dramatic, and made the aliens a lot more sympathetic. In the version that was shot, the aliens had been interacting with abductees for years. Why were we supposed to like aliens who had separated from humans from their families for years and years? Why are we supposed to like aliens who would take an baby away from its mother? The script that I read did not have the character portrayed by Francois Truffaut and had nothing about the devil's triangle. I'm sorry they didn't film that script. "},{"Title":"Spielberg likes his aliens!","Date":"8 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spielberg makes a lot of films about aliens. E.T. The Extra Terrestrial, War of the Worlds. There were even aliens in the latest Indiana Jones installment. But this film in my opinion comes in second, beaten by E.T., which will always be my favorite of the alien flicks.This film is amazing. The special effects were awesome, and the story was well constructed. I think the aliens in this film are some of the best I have ever seen on screen. The acting is great too. Richard Dreyfuss does a fantastic job as the main character, Roy Neary, a man driven under the influence of the aliens.And if you like weird, exotic films that you may not understand, but in reality make sense, this is the movie for you. There is enough in this film to last you eons. So in conclusion,Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a science fiction film that sticks out like a sore thumb, but in the end is one of the best sci-fi films I have ever seen. Look for astronomer J.Allen Hynek. "}{"Title":"No single complete version available","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a former film-maker, heavily influenced by Art House movies and the noblest efforts by the classic auteur directors, I have a very eccentric reaction to Close Encounters. I've read Spielberg's numerous statements about his reasons for, and objections to many inclusions and deletions of scenes from one release of the movie after another. For my own enjoyment, and that of film-buff friends, I once undertook to build my own special edition. All that this entailed was the restoration of every good and memorable scene that I had ever seen in every version of the film I could remember. Such scenes as the charming quarrel among the Neary family over going to a Disney flick vs, goofy golf, the great conference room gathering of UFO witnesses testifying about their various experiences to the authorities, and assorted spectacular closing scenes that are never found all together in any available edition. In total, it was nearly 150 minutes long. When creating it, I had the notion that such a great craftsman as Spielberg had probably decided against creating anything similar due to some certainty that it would either be simply over-long, or would not play well for reasons he would understand better than I. We ran the thing for a group of friends on a giant screen, with the appropriate surround sound gear, which is the way I usually present movies. It was a great success! I tried it out repeatedly, over a period of years, for numerous different viewers. It was always a hit. Everyone always seems to remember scenes that are deleted from one version or another and they feel cheated that these were omitted.On some artistic level, this may indeed be deemed a greater film when honed down some from the all-inclusive thing that I threw together, but I, for one, would love to be able to own a DVD quality edition that leaves nothing out. For me, it is somehow in the nature of this particular movie that it prompts one to anticipate one old favorite moment after another. It is part of the special joy of seeing it again. As you eagerly anticipate a particular sequence, it is distracting and somewhat frustrating to find it missing. I can't help but feel that I probably share this frustration with a good many other fans of the film. "},{"Title":"Zey belong 'ere Mozambique","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the 1970s, a decade in which the industry changed forever, CE3K is a great example of what studio-backed 'auteur' film-making delivers - a personal film with the volume turned up to 11. From a story point of view, writer-director Spielberg presents material which won't win any prizes for originality, but his direction creates an impressive feeling that something big is happening, and his cast delivers something of the right emotional punch. It's also true the film's pacing is leisurely, but is punctuated by some impressive moments of tension such as the Air Traffic control sequence and Gary's abduction. Unfortunately unlike the near-perfect 'Jaws', this movie relies heavily on effects rather than interplay between characters. CE3K's somewhat episodic structure gives its ambitiously broad story chance to widen out away from the main characters and go for a truly global scope, but this contributes to weakening the emotional weight of the key players. As it stands, I agree the movie is strongest in the first two acts, but everyone remembers the light-show climax when humans come face to face with the visiting extraterrestrials, due maybe to 1980's ill-advised 'Special Edition'.A challenging, evocative score from John Williams and some really innovative pre-CGI technical aspects lift this movie head and shoulders above the contemporary fare of the period, but somehow history ensured that 'Star Wars' became the most popular film of the 70's. Seen 30 years later, CE3K has matured along with its audience, but it is what it is, a kid's movie for grown ups.The Collectors Edition DVD has a very informative making-of documentary covering the entire production, which all the key personnel contribute to. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi with a Heart","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's impossible to recreate the feeling audiences at the time of this film's release likely had watching it. Special effects and movies about alien visitors have become so commonplace as to make this one quaint. But one of the things I admire most about Close Encounters is its hypothesis that aliens could possibly be friendly, and that a visit from them could be an occasion for awe and delight. Up to then, most alien visitor movies (and really alien visitor movies still today, for that matter) positioned aliens as beings to fear and kill as quickly as possible, before they had a chance to strike at us.As for the rest of Close Encounters, I have to admit that I don't remember it that well, as I've only seen it once a long time ago, but what I do remember is finding it ever so slightly dull, whatever else its other merits.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Close Encounters Of The LONG kind","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some say that this movie is based on a actually event and my brother vaguely remembers a nerve gas scare not too long before the movie came out. So I believe they based it on actual events. How many of them I cannot say with how the Government like keeping aliens away from us. Which is just BS. But back to the movie, for 1977 I think the effects were amazing, the story was amazing, the characters were well written. Everything is amazing. It's very long and drags in places, I know a good movie can never be too long, but this movie is kind of long for my taste. 8 STARS. But as for the cast and the movie, I think it's pretty cool and worth watching if you have around 3 hours to kill. "},{"Title":"The Definitive Version!!!!","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters of a Third Kind -The Special Edition is the definitive version of this very enjoyable movie. The final entrance by Richard Dreyfuss into the Mothership has been removed to the betterment of the whole and certain scenes that explore further his descend into madness have been restored. This film represents a Spielberg oozing with talent and confidence. The only reference he makes to another director is to Kubrick and these are in the first reel. After that we are left with Spielberg the visionary not the successful journeyman we have today.At the time of release no one had seen anything like this on the big screen and I feel the film holds up remarkably well today. The effects are faultless and jaw dropping. The music is inspired and profound. It is a shame Spielberg can't find that unselfconscious talent he once had in abundance and so produce another film of this quality in the new millennium. It is about time because he has made us suffer a lot in the last few years.The DVD features the most in depth Making Of documentary of any film I have ever seen. It is nearly as long as the feature itself yet well worth watching. It is a shame that Spielberg and Dreyfuss could not find the time for a commentary track but I suppose everything had been covered in the documentary. "},{"Title":"Well done by Spielberg. Special effects are great with a believable story.","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a film that's clearly well done in terms of special effects and imagery. Plus the sounds and musical themes played during the course are both wonderful and entertaining. Most of all director Steven Spielberg makes this film seem believable and down to earth so many can relate to it. The story centers in a small Indiana town with Roy Neary(Richard Dreyfuss) who's a common hard working family man as an electrician he and his town start to see strange things. Up in the night sky strange lights, shapes, and objects as images of space crafts. This film showed that the strange and unexpected can have an emotional and stressful impact on anyone and anywhere it makes one wonder too are we really alone, or do aliens really exist? Great job by Spielberg his special effects are memorable and dazzling he really had the guts to explore thru this art about UFO's and aliens and at the same time make a memorable film that makes us all wonder and feel amazement. "},{"Title":"He says the sun came out last night. He says it sang to him.","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the early thrills of 'Duel' and 'Jaws,' master Hollywood director Steven Spielberg directed his career towards various more family-friendly pictures. 'Close Encounters of the Third Kind' is one of his most remarkable films, a truly magical science-fiction story which still possesses the power to incite wonderment and awe in children and adults alike. Partially inspired by an amateur feature-length film that Spielberg produced in his youth, 'Firelight (1964),' and no doubt influenced by Robert Wise's 'The Day the Earth Stood Still (1951),' Spielberg's film documents the visitation of benevolent extra-terrestrials to the Devil's Tower in Wyoming, USA, and how the aliens' appearance affects the lives of certain people all over the world.The film was initially titled Watch the Skies, after the final words from Christian Nyby's sci-fi classic, 'The Thing from Another World (1951).' The newly-chosen title referred to the three types of alien encounters, detailed by author Dr. J. Allen Hynek in his 'The UFO Experience (1972),' upon which the screenplay was based (Hynek was also the film's technical adviser, and has a cameo appearance in the final scene). A Close Encounter of the First Kind refers to a sighting of a UFO; a Close Encounter of the Second Kind refers to physical evidence of UFO visitation; the third kind of close encounter, with which Spielberg's film in concerned, involves actual contact with extraterrestrial beings.'Close Encounters of the Third Kind' centres primarily on three groups of characters, with each being inexplicably drawn together to the Devil's Tower for the film's brilliant climax. The first character is Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss), an everyman who is representative of all middle-aged men in America. He has an uneasy relationship with his wife, Ronnie (Teri Garr), and three children for whom he has very little time. After a spectacular UFO encounter in his car alongside a railway crossing, Roy becomes obsessed with a specific mountainous shape he keeps seeing in his mind, and his growing obsession begins to spell trouble for his marriage and his family.The second key set of characters in the film are struggling single mum, Gillian Guiler (Melinda Dillon), and her young, intelligent, bright-eyed son, Barry (Cary Guffey). Gillian was also present at the time of Roy's startling UFO encounter, and it is soon apparent that her own son is of particular interest to the visitors from outer-space. During a chilling, brightly-lit, absolutely dazzling sequence set in their home, Barry is harrowingly abducted from Gillian's arms, and she comes to realise that her only chance to see her son again will be to identify the mysterious mountain image that has also been strangely implanted into her mind by the visitors.The third group of characters are a team of world-travelling scientists, headed by Frenchman Claude Lacombe (played by acclaimed French director François Truffaut, and based on real-life UFO expert Jacques Vallee) and accompanied by cartographer-turned-translator David Laughlin (Bob Balaban). Throughout the film, these men travel all over the world tracing the bizarre movements of the suspected extraterrestrials, their search ultimately leading them to the eerie shadow of Wyoming's Devil's Tower, whose silhouette had been planted into the minds of Roy and Gillian.Not surprisingly, considering the time it was released &#150; not too many years after the Watergate scandal &#150; Spielberg's film harbours a healthy dislike for the intervention of the government, a general theme he would continue for his highly-praised 1982 film, 'E.T The Extraterrestrial.' Notably, however, the film is one of the few science-fiction films to portray alien beings in a positive, nonthreatening light; indeed, even his own precursor, the aforementioned amateur film, 'Firelight,' detailed a town terrorized by UFOs. By using his film to inspire wonder rather than fear, Spielberg showed extraterrestrials in a light they had rarely before experienced, something he would repeat, once again, five years later in 'E.T' (Interestingly, in 2005 the director would turn the tables for his spectacular thrill-ride of destruction in his remake of 'The War of the Worlds.')Along with 'Star Wars' &#150; released in the same year by fellow filmmaker and friend George Lucas &#150; 'Close Encounters' was responsible for the insurgence of visual effects in Hollywood films in the later 1970s. The effects themselves are stunningly orchestrated by Douglas Trumbull, who was the talented mind behind the effects of such films as Kubrick's '2001 A Space Odyssey (1968)' and his own 'Silent Running (1972).' While Trumbull's outstanding model effects work (most especially for the alien Mother Ship in the final scenes) missed out on an Academy Award, it won for Vilmos Zsigmond's cinematography and Frank E. Warner was awarded a Special Achievement Award for his sound effects editing. In total, the film received a respectable eight Oscar nominations, including Best Director and Best Actress in a Supporting Role (Melinda Dillon). John Williams' wonderful score contributes greatly to the overall tone of the film, with the noted composer weaving the film's familiar five-tone motif re - mi - do - do (octave lower) &#150; sol into various parts of the soundtrack.If I were to refer to any one film as being simply magical, Spielberg's 'Close Encounters of the Third Kind' would most certainly be it. Spectacular and awe-inspiring from beginning to end, here is a film that really makes us question whether or not we are alone in the universe. It also undoubtedly makes us wish &#150; and, indeed, hope &#150; that, in our lifetimes, we are lucky enough to experience something as joyous and remarkable as the events depicted in the film. "},{"Title":"Close Encounters Of The Third Kind - 8/10","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A classical Sci-Fi film about Aliens, now the film's point of view of ET seems to be a bit old-fashioned, but 30 years has passed, we still cannot have obvious evidence to prove their existence, quite a sad thing. The development of science and technology is far from what people expected several decades ago, we cannot make the moon liveable, cannot cure cancer, cannot find more efficient fuel, what a disappointed result! and plus the environments are worsened day by day.We'll definitely be cool when we face UFOs now because it's just a different form of life even though we don't know exactly the essence of life, we can research organic life precisely, but I always believe there's a more mysterious form of power that determined the uniqueness of lives. We are just too blind to see it.The grand specific effects in this film is simply stunning, hard to imagine how Spielberg made it work at that time! I think Spielberg assumed the way of the communication between human beings and aliens as a matter of course which was unreasonable, but who knows! Glad to see Francois Truffaut played a quite big role in this movie, the cast is good but I don't like they put too much emphasis on the obsession of UFOs by Richard Dreyfuss's role, intended to be dramatic but too over.Citizens can not do anything to government's lies which is ironic because truth is always hidden, we just sit at home, enjoy the news on TV and we think we know everything but we're definitely not.I believe extra-terrestrial, if not we are just lonely leftovers of the whole universe, a truth too cruel to accept! "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is usually considered one of Spielberg's best, and I have to agree on some aspects. The direction and shots are breathtaking, the use of light is brilliant, but some of the conflicts should have been more developed. The screenplay is mostly good, but not the best thing about the movie. The three story lines balance each other. My favorite was the one with the little kid, and my least favorite the one with Richard Dreyfuss playing Roy. I think the characters mostly lacked a background, which made them less believable. The dialogs are very often clichéd, but they can sound cute. The pace is amazing; the stories take time, and all the pieces come together in the amazing ending, as if it was a circle closing itself slowly.The storyline with the mother (Melinda Dillon) and the young son was brilliant and remarkable. This is the one where you can most easily relate to the desperation and confusion of the mom, so the characters are really well written. It's the one with more suspense and it's pretty gripping, too. The story of Roy, his obsession and his family is not so good. I mean, I liked the way the relationship with his wife is portrayed, but his obsession is too sudden and childish, so unbelievable. Claude Lacombe and his investigators is just the technical story; its characters have close to no development, and all they do is explaining you in a concrete way what's happening.The shots and special effects are both great and the best thing of the movie. Every sci-fi shot is fascinating, and the use of music in those is mind blowing. Just the way the ending scene is done makes the movie much better and very thought provoking. The use of light and darkness is brilliantly surprising; the ETs are signed with a hard to look at light, and the rest of the time, there's mostly darkness. The UFO's are just lights of different colors, and that works. The special effects are mostly light, but the control of the wind and perfection with which everything's done make the stunning.The acting is good by Melinda Dillon, Teri Garr and Cary Guffey. The first one shows such a desperation and affection that you can only like her and root for her. Teri Garr portrays the not understanding wife, and she does that amazingly. I found myself connecting more with her than with Roy, who was just mad. Cary Guffey had the right cuteness and fresh look to make you love his character, and he has a good delivery for someone so young. Richard Dreyfuss is quite ridiculous, because he just sounds mad and I could barely connect with him. The actors from François Truffaut segment weren't bad, but they didn't have much to do.The cinematography was truly great, with all the impressive lighting, and the editing makes all ends meet beautifully. In the end, this is not a very equilibrated movie, but technically it's a masterpiece and it has one of the best endings ever. "},{"Title":"How to change your oil","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" STEP FOUR Now take the newspaper and spread it under the car. Make sure to cover where the oil filter sticks out, because it drips after removal. Look up into the engine. See the oil filter? It looks like a miniature, upside-down version of the mountain from Close Encounters of the Third Kind. Get the drain pan (or kitchen basin, or kid's pail) and slide it under the drain plug. Position it so the stream hits it just right (if the plug points to the side and not straight down, the oil will shoot out sideways like from a fire hydrant). Loosen the plug and set it aside. Most of the oil will drain in about two minutes.<3 "}{"Title":"Undecided","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I cant really decide what to think of this film. I loved the script, the script was amazing, well done to Steven there.Also, Richard Dreyfuss was fantastic as he was in jaws, i didn't realise it was him until near the end! The supporting cast was good, couldn't be better i suppose.Then comes the storyline. Very good. Very simple. Kinda predictable. But good.The directing was as always perfect from Steven, couldn't be better.I don't know what let me down though. I just thought this film was very average. It wan't amazing, or greatly exciting, just in the middle. "},{"Title":"I have opinions, and you know I am right!","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is probably my favorite movie of all time. It doesn't need the aliens and lasers to be a great movie, you barely see aliens, but it works. It is suspenseful and intrigueing, purely genius. The cast seems to just work very well together. Plus having a film superstar, Francrois Truffaut, really works in it, i love the fact the he is almost always speaking in french, no wonder, yet there is no purpose for him to be a frenchman. The special effects are unbelievable, who cares about star wars, i would want to see the clouds form around devil's tower. It is funny that Richard Dreyfus won best actor for 77', but not for this movie. His insanity seems so real, his anguish is so real, and then his child like delight when he reaches the tower. "},{"Title":"CE3 (Contains some spoilers)","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although Close Encounters of the Third Kind succeeds on certain levels, it subtly fails on others.Steven Spielberg, himself the product of a broken home, depicts in some detail the destruction of a working-class family headed by Richard Dreyfuss' character, Roy Neary. Neary's UFO-induced psychotic behavior, the bitter arguments between him and his wife, and the obvious traumatization of their young children would, in a real-world context, be supremely tragic; to Spielberg, they were mere transitional elements to be exploited. (The painful disintegration of the Neary Family is particularly evident in the director's cut.)An essential idea behind CE3, i.e., that aliens could be benevolent, is flawed by the concept that human beings (such as the lost aircrews of Flight 19) might have been abducted over the course of decades or even centuries. That these lost humans were returned as part of the film's climax overlooks a significant fact i.e., kidnapping inflicts horrific, long-term emotional scars on the victim and her/his family members. It's hard to believe that a highly intelligent, interstellar-traveling humanoid species could be unmindful of this. Roy Neary's willingness to fly away with the aliens at the film's end - evidently without a thought for the impoverished, traumatized family he would leave behind &#150; may well reflect Spielberg's attitude toward his own father. (Separated or divorced parents is also a small-yet-significant part of E.T. The Extraterrestrial.)For me, one of CE3's most irritating moments is the scene where government-approved pilgrims are prayerfully exhorted to regard the aliens as angels sent by God. (Were those folks recruited from Oral Roberts University instead of NASA?) Another annoying fly in my mashed potatoes is the scene where a kneeling Melinda Dillon clasps her hands in seeming worship when the colossal Mother Ship arrives. Perhaps Spielberg cannot be faulted for introducing the Aliens-as-God shtick into CE3; after all, Erich Von Daniken's Chariots of the Gods and similar books were rather popular in the 1970's. Nevertheless, the hokey religious elements are cloying, to say the least. "},{"Title":"Slow-moving, but thoughtful (spoilers)","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a typical Steven Spielberg movie.  It doesn't have the runaway heroics of the Indiana Jones films, or the harsh seriousness of Schindler's List and Saving Private Ryan yet this is certainly one of his more mature pictures, up there with other early work such as Duel and Jaws.  The story is basically about alien visitation with elements of psychic phenomena and alien abduction thrown in for good measure.The plot is very simple.  All over the world (in India, Mongolia and America) there are increasing signs that aliens have paying regular visits to Earth and that a planned landing may well be underway.  Scientists and government agents work that this landing will take place on Devil's Tower, Wyoming and begin making preparations, all the while trying to keep the operation secret from the general public.Meanwhile, a group of a ordinary people, among them family man Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) have been receiving visitations of their own and they begin a race against the government to get to Devil's Tower and witness the final landing...All of Steven Spielberg's hallmarks are on show here.  The ordinary mundane setting as a basis for slow suspense-building, an emphasis on family values, an everyman hero (in this Neary) and a carefully-instilled sense of wonder.This is achieved through strong central performances from Dreyfuss and Melinda Dillon as a mother whose infant son experiences his very own 'close encounter'.  The music score by John Williams is excellent as usual, and there is some wonderfully fluid cinematography, especially towards the film's climax.  The film's special effects have dated well, although the garish neon colours of the alien ships look a little tacky now.Close Encounters of the Third Kind was made at the same time as Star Wars and uses many of the special effects the latter film introduced.  However in theme and pacing, it is far closer to 2001 A Space Odyssey and the gentle pace would be quickened up considerably were the film being made now.This thoughtful, slow-moving classic easily stands out above most the brainless science-fiction films being dispensed by the cinema today. "},{"Title":"A touching case of product placement","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie yesterday night on German TV. The first three three quarters are great; I especially liked the scene of the boy's abduction and the multi-lingual sequences with François Truffaut. Unfortunately towards the end the film became more and more cheesy. Already the idea that humans and aliens should be able to communicate aurally struck me as improbable, and the final manifestation of the aliens themselves added something ludicrous to the otherwise very serious movie. But I was strangely touched by one of the various cases of product placement The camera used by Melinda Dillon to take shots of Dreyfuss's departure with the aliens is a Rollei 35 B, a model I have been using myself since 1979. I suppose Close Encounters of the Third Kind was the last Hollywood movie to display a camera that was nominally German (but in fact, like my own, made in Singapore). "},{"Title":"man, machine and the northern lights","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A few `spoilers;' beware.`To the child the tree and the lamp post are as natural and as artificial as each other; or rather, neither of them are natural but both supernatural, for both are splendid and unexplained.  The flower with which God crowns the one, and the flame with which Sam the lamplighter crowns the other, are equally of the gold of Fairy Tales...In the middle of the wildest fields the most rustic child is, ten to one, playing at steam engines.  And the only spiritual or philosophical objection to steam engines is not that men pay for them or work at them or make them very ugly or even that men are killed by them, but merely that men do not play at them...The evil is that the childish poetry of clockwork does not remain...The wrong is not that engines are too much admired, but that they are not admired enough...The sin is not the engines are mechanical, but that men are mechanical.'  -G. K. ChestertonClose Encounters is an ingeniously directed and choreographed visual-musical fantasy about a child and man (Roy Neary), who, having kindred spirits, are providentially (non-mechanically) brought together as family, a new family which feels completely at home with itself and in the cosmos.  Film starts out with feigned `documentary' style but gradually shifts-effectively helping the audience identify with main characters.  Said child, a toddler named Barry, steals the show-reportedly nicknamed by Spielberg as the `one take' kid.  Though outwardly a movie about aliens, they ultimately have the simple role of introducing the child (and his widowed mom) to the man. (The man was already married, but wife abandoned him, valuing life in the suburbs more than him.)  Though its occasional use of profanity was perhaps gratuitous, film was also rich with religious themes; the man and mom risk life and struggle against opposition to climb a not-well-known and mysterious U.S. mountain-monument in Wyoming (symbolically, the meeting place of earth and sky, the cosmic pillar or ladder on which angels ascend and descend) in order to pursue a vision/recover a missing child (who had wandered off with new playmates from space).  Honorable mention given to Einstein while visually depicting light in relation to time and eternity. Eventually standing at the end of a line of volunteer astronauts, Neary is chosen and playfully caressed by Barry's playmates, solidifying, confirming and celebrating the new family bonds (the most moving moment of the film, with music from Neary's favorite movie, Pinnochio, playing spaced-style ala John Williams).  A truly remarkable cinematic accomplishment; taking nothing away from `alien' contact, it still trumps it with a family reunion. Dazzling visual effects have role of helping the viewer see technology with fresh eyes, as a part of nature-a pivotal theme role modeled for the audience by main characters Barry and Neary (by profession, an electrical line worker).  (Barry calls them toys, Neary compares them to the aurora borealis, the northern lights.)  UFO seems to rise over the mountain when seen for the first time, rather than descend from space; UFOs also seem more to be composed of light, than to reflect it.  `We are not alone' is the tagline of the film, not its message.  Its message we are at home.Close encounters of the third kind?  First kind, plane through the sky, mailbox in the wind, highway under the stars or CE3K on the screen. Second kind, you see Sam the lamplighter or Neary the line worker.  Third kind, contact.  Your next-door-neighbor.  Your child/your spouse.  Your dearest friend. -John Frederick  "},{"Title":"The Visitors","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here's one of Spielberg's classics; just as happy as his weaker works, less effective.This is your only spoiler warning...To confuse this with '2001' is a grave mistake.  Kubrick's film was focused on the environment, the setting, and the visual attitude.  Here Spielberg is all about wowing the audience with childish effects and dry acting.  Kubrick didn't rely on a performances, so drama was unnecessary to make suspense.His two best works of this time period, 'Raiders' and 'Jaws', worked because they were generally downbeat.  Indy doesn't get the ark, it gets locked away forever, and he doesn't even have revenge on Belloq.  Brody kills the shark, but no one is there to celebrate; a lonely victory made evident by the credits on an empty beach.Here we have his fascination and fear of the unknown.  It's just as dated of a conspiracy idea as 'Andromeda Strain', as sloppy as the 'X-Files' movie.  This is Spielberg's 'JFK', but it comes off as threatening as a Disney cartoon.And yet it's the most interesting light show ever conceived.  Spielberg few scenes in the desert hold more cinema prowess than every Dreyfuss moment put together.  From here it's on to the visual power of 'Empire of the Sun.'  That was when Spielberg showed real daring, having American soldiers be a strange, mystical force that the Western hero doesn't identify with.  Instead he clicks with the Japanese, the enemy.'Close Encounters' doesn't have that level of interest.Final Analysis = = Midrange Material "},{"Title":"Close Encounters of the Third Kind!","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters of the Third Kind is really a unique movie! I don't want to spoil it so is all I'll say is Steven Spielberg did a great job here and John Williams score is great! The special effects are tremendous! I just love the sky views in this movies! It a fantastic movie and I strongly recommended anyone to watch it!Movie Nuttball's NOTEIf you like alien movies and/or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films The Thing from another World, The War of the Worlds (1953 and 2005, The Day the Earth Stood Still, The UFO Incident, E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial, John Carpenter's The Thing, The Deadly Spawn, Time Walker, My Science Project, Mac and Me, Explorers, Invaders from Mars, Communion, Fire in the Sky, Independence Day, The Arrival, Mars Attacks! Stephen King's Dreamcatcher, Xtro 3 Watch the Skies, Mission to Mars, Impostor, Stargate, The Puppet Masters, John Carpenter's Village of the Damned, Life Form, The X-Files Fight the Future, Signs, The Forgotten, Alien, Aliens, Alien 3, Predator, Predator 2, The entire Star Wars saga (A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, The Return of the Jedi, The Phantom Menace, Attack of the Clones & Revenge of the Sith), the entire Star Trek movie saga (Star Trek The Motion Picture, The Wrath of Khan, The Search for Spock, The Voyage Home, The Final Frontier, The Undiscovered Country, Generations, First Contact, Insurrection, & Nemesis) and Stephen King's IT! "},{"Title":"Not a captivating viewing experience","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While CE3K may have captured the imagination of audiences at the time of its release I found it a labor to view. Rarely was I captivated by events transpiring onscreen and I am big fan of Spielberg's other sci-fi films E.T., A.I., and especially Minority Report. What more can I say? It just didn't engage my interest. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really don't get what the big deal about this movie is. Why is it considered such a classic? I don't see how anyone outside of hardcore sci-fi buffs who've always been obsessed with the idea of coming in direct contact with aliens could love it. Don't get me wrong, to have such a thing happen in real life would certainly be exciting beyond description, but when I see a movie, I like to see conflict. Other than the family problems Roy goes through at the beginning that results in his wife leaving him and taking the kids with her, the woman whose son is abducted, and the escape from the army base near the end, there didn't seem to be any real conflict. Sometimes movies about aliens who are friendly can be entertaining. E.T., The Abyss, and Cocoon all struck the right cords with me. But this one...I don't know, it just seemed like not enough happened. The scenes with the flying saucers were good, but the rest of it was a chore for me to sit through, especially as it's more than two hours long. Why this one was so popular and how it came to be seen as such a masterpiece I'll never know.    "}{"Title":"A close encounter of the decent kind","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before `Spielberg' decided to drown his movies in sweet sugary syrup, he was able to make films with a bit more edge. `Close Encounters of the Third Kind' is one of these successful efforts.Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) works fixing electricity lines. One turbulent night, while on the job, he has a close encounter, along with some other people. After that he is haunted by a need to be somewhere else, and a strange vision he cannot comprehend. People all across the world see and hear mysterious things and the world stands ready to greet visitors from afar..That's all fairly conventional but thankfully `Spielberg's' script (check out the trivia for that) has a nice global feel. Most of Hollywood's concept of global is having America vs. Some Evil Foreign Country, or Americans running around in Some Silly Foreign Country. Here the script embraces the world - one of the leads is a Frenchman. who even speaks French! Shock! At the same time of feeling that events are shaking the world, Spielberg also allows us to concentrate on the human level. This is most present in Neary's storyline. His visions become a case of OCD, which causes very real family problems. They're refreshingly free of the sentimental twaddle that he sometimes coddles his movies in, and actually have a very believable air to how a family would act given Neary's increasingly odd behaviour after his encounter. The government plot strand, about their own efforts to contact the alien life forms, does not need to have the irritating current trend of paranoia. Thank God for that. And the aliens themselves? Sure, they pander to the generic `glowing-things'. but given the background story its acceptable and portrayed quite well.Acting wise there's nothing out-standing here. Dreyfuss is the most noticeable, due to his screen-time, and capably gives us the image of an ordinary man caught in (cue Hollywood voice) extraordinary circumstances. As the characters that are being played are all relatively normal, free of the gravitas that films generally imbue in them, there's not as much room to push the limits of character acting. What we have though is typically fine, except for a somewhat mawkish performance by Melinda Dillon (Oscar-nominated or not, I still didn't care for it).Spielberg does the old `imbue-a-sense-of-wonder' trick here that he does so well, in the likes of `E.T.' and `A.I.' There definitely is a feeling of something fantastical, and wonderful in this movie. One of the key elements is the simple intonations done to signal the aliens - perhaps the most famous musical moment from a movie that isn't actually a soundtrack moment. Simple, but effective, and Spielberg matches it by keeping such scenes pure and uninterrupted. The cinematography is great (it won a deserved Oscar) with a great sense of scale about the whole effort (particularly at the end), as well as some superb lighting moments (the command centre, for example, really does feel like it's in a hollow from the way the light falls). Kudos to Spielberg for doing a polished effort again.`Close Encounters of the Third Kind' deserves respect for being a more polished and intelligent movie than the majority of its peers. It has wonder that is sorely lacking in the flash-bang quick-edit of today, and a finale that, as a result, ultimately works and makes you look up above. It may lack in a on-the-edge-of-seat tension, but it should be seen. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked Close Encounters of the Third Kind pretty much... There were some good special effects in the movie... and it's quite 'realistic' (even if it's SciFi). I think it's one of the better movies. There's enough action in the movie and you can see there was research done on some of the SciFi stuff. Great movie, a well-deserved 8! "},{"Title":"Total Excellence.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Outstanding film which yielded Spielberg the first of his five Oscar nominations for direction and also brought him his lone nod for screen-writing. Richard Dreyfuss and Melinda Dillon (Oscar-nominated) are each visited by a UFO and soon start having visions of a strange mountain. Each becomes obsessed with their visions and Dillon struggles with the abduction of her young son (Cary Gaffey) by the aliens. Dreyfuss' wife Teri Garr believes that her husband is going crazy as he starts doing all these strange things (sculpting his vision with mashed potatoes being the most famous example). The journey will lead to the visions shared by the two individuals and the mystery will continue to get more complicated as the movie progresses. An out-of-this-world performance by French director Francois Truffaut (he has no lines in English) is one of the many great things to talk about when discussing this excellent motion picture. Spielberg's follow-up to Jaws is a bright success and this film would lead to even better work in the future. E.T. is one of several of Spielberg's films to benefit from Close Encounters of the Third Kind. A world-class cinematic accomplishment. 5 stars out of 5.    "},{"Title":"It still works 7/10","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In essence, Close Encounters of the Third Kind is nothing more then a bunch of musical aliens and scientists rocking out on some weird looking mountain.  Simplicity aside, Encounters still manages to be surprisingly fresh -- and always entertaining.  I like the fact that the Richard Dreyfuss goes with the aliens, as opposed to the typical Spielberg hero who would want to go back to his unsupporting family.E.T. is far superior, because Spielberg ran with the same idea -- but made it his masterpiece.  This film is solid though. "},{"Title":"Brilliant but not Perfect","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It shames me to admit that when CE3K was released at the same time as Star Wars although i read rave reviews of both movies i did not go to see either one,and only caught up with them years later on TV. One review said CE3K was a life changing experience and while i wouldnt go that far,in comparison to the leaden turkey that is Star Wars he was probably right! The plot is fairly basic; missing planes and ships turn up in the desert years after they were lost,a plane has a near miss with a UFO,and a dull telephone lineman has two sightings of fying saucers,which plant a vision in his brain of the the site where an encounter of the third kind-an actual meeting-will occur.From the start Spielberg teases us with ever closer glimpses of what is to come culminating in the superb Third Encounter.Trouble is that although scenes like the railroad crossing and my favouritethe fly by from the 3 saucers are awe inspiring classics which have never been surpassed,the movie is too long and has too much padding such as tare the tiresome scene where Neary is building the model of the Devils Toweribleiii.Add to that the obligatory Spielberg Cute Kid and you have a movie which is brilliant but flawed.The final encounter is breathtaking,magnificent etc.,but why -possible SPOILERS-are the aliens as usual naked and lacking genitalia? #2 could they not detect the huge mothership with radar as in the air control scene? Nice music too! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Looks dated, but still engaging...","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The best sci-fi films never look dated -- for example, Blade Runner looks like it could have been made this year (at least to me).Close Encounters is really starting to show its age -- in the special effects, equipment used and so forth... however, the story is still endlessly entertaining and engaging.  Most sci-fi films are pretty emotionless, but Close Encounters has quite a few moving scenes.  A nice balance -- not too soppy like E.T. and not too dry either.I'll echo some of the complaints... the tuba sound from the 'mother ship', Roy Neary just leaving his family behind (and no explanation really why he was even chosen for the journey), and a bit too much screen time for François Truffaut (although I like his acting and his character).I didn't find the film long by any stretch of the imagination, nor did I find the ending abrupt.  Movies can't win in this department... if they wrap things up neatly people complain about the Hollywood tendency to tie things up too well, and if they end like Close Encounters people complain there's no payoff.  Oh well.The worst release of this film was the one where they showed Neary entering the ship at the end, that release ruined the film IMHO... kudos to Spielberg for removing that scene, it simply doesn't belong in the movie.  The Collector's Edition also ties together Roy Neary's journey much more effectively -- unquestionably the definitive release, and redeems the movie again in my eyes.I saw Close Encounters in the theater in 1977 (I was 13) and loved it.  Seeing it a few too many times has decreased the enjoyment somewhat, but that isn't a criteria for rating a film.  Superbly entertaining movie -- 8/10. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and interesting","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this movie. It stars Richard Dreyfuss, as citizen Roy Neary and a few others including Lance Henriksen (seen in one of the Alien movies as well as the TV series Millennium) and Justin Dreyfuss (what connection to Richard?).Anyway Steven Spielberg proves he can both write and direct in this flick. Overall this is a good piece of work and I can recommend it to all Sci-fi lovers out there. Entertaining indeed. "},{"Title":"Holds up well after 20+ years!","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just watched the new DVD version of the movie. Well worth the purchase price. I was very surprised about the scenes that were deleted. Usually deleted scenes are fairly unimportant, but most of these made the whole subplot about the Dreyfuss character make a lot more sense. They filled big chunks of what his situation was at work and that he went AWOL on a repair job, that he went to the Police Station to file a report and the cops that chased the UFO's with him were going to get canned if they filed honest reports, etc.. It really sets him up as being on his own with no one to back him up. If you like the movie get the Collector's DVD it's worth it. "},{"Title":"Spectacular film that hasn't aged one bit.","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spectacular film with Spielberg and Dreyfuss shining through. The effects are amazing, and hold their own against recent releases, this was made in 1977! The story is gently paced, and yet manages to build tension right up to the spectacular ending, and if you're lucky enough to see the proper final sequence, well it rounds it off much better than the standard ending. "},{"Title":"More Fantasy then Sci-Fi","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although it was done before Spielbergs other alien yarn (ET), this film is less ominous. It has more of a fantasy element, where the aliens are like small gods. Although the ships are masses of flying light bulbs this adds to the fantasy element, with the craft defying the laws of gravity and flying all over the place. The only scary part is when the young boy is taken, showing how the aliens can get to him anyway, despite locks on doors etc. Richard Dreyfuss is a great actor, with the manic obssession he develops over these aliens, and I thought that his wife was very cruel in leaving him just like that, but still........... The end is what the film builds up for, and one does feel all the nervous anticipation for first contact. The mother ship is great, with all the lights, and also the size of it.Just remember that this is a film completely opposite to the city destroying earth shattering ones, where here they are benign teachers and travellers. Overall entertaining. "}{"Title":"Spielberg's Best Creatively","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Schindler's List, Saving Private Ryan, Jaws, E.T., Raiders of the Lost Ark, are just some in the list of movies that Steven Spielberg made as a director.  They are great films in their own right yet somehow they don't seem suited for the director.  Schindler's List and Saving Private Ryan seem too intense for the director who made E.T. and yet E.T. seemed like it had a rather adult theme not suited for younger children.  Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a standout among his most creative works.  It was made when he was younger and in a time when his creativity meant success.  A fantastic fantasy that has something to offer for everyone and special effects used to dazzle and not to overwhelm.This is the film which truly should be considered his greatest for it expresses the director's talents and doesn't show them off.  Spielberg's honest ideas seem ridiculously simple minded in Saving Private Ryan and too complicated to be understood by the target audience of E.T..  The speeches and mannerisms of the soldiers during the quiet moments in Ryan feels out of place and takes away feelings of distress that the battle scenes had.  The whole adults versus kids routine in E.T. feels right but gives a negative view of adults to the children watching.Close Encounters is by no means a perfectly executed film.  The scenes with Richard Dreyfuss' character's family seem uneven and unexplained.  Nevertheless it is Spielberg's best work for it's amazing depth and wonderous nature.    "},{"Title":"Truffaut had an extraordinary meeting !","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A group of common citizens and scientists' handle establish the contact with an extraterrestrial civilization. One of the most beautiful success of the magician Spielberg, who allies here intelligence of the comment, the consummate art of the story, the sense of the supernatural and the beauty of the special effects. A fascinating and charming spectacle. "},{"Title":"Beam me Up Scotty.........","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The headline commentary Wonderful Fantasy says it all...so lets join the bandwagon as this movie supports 1. Aliens. 2. UFO's. 3. Time Travel. 4. Psychic contact from aliens and alien abduction. 5. Cattle Mutilation. 6. Area 51. 7. Black Helicopters. 8. Government/Military/Officialdom Cover-Ups and Conspiracies. 9. If you are one of Life's Losers You will be The Chosen One... 10.Aliens are hairless and anorexic....with round heads and lovely eyes. (this list is not exhaustive....feel free to add more...). We humans sometimes either have too much imagination or too little...so whats wrong with sometimes being in the former group??? rbrb. "},{"Title":"Peaceful, uplifting, and unique.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's the only movie where I was in so much of a peaceful trance, I sat there for the whole credits. The family scenes are remarkably real. The plot is excellent, but it is the finale that really made it what it is for me. It also had THE coolest alien spaceship you're ever gonna see in sci-fi, and in the directors cut, amazing interior shots of the ship. I give this a 10. "},{"Title":"OK??","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not very entertaining. This movie can be develop better actually by creating more climax and suspense so that the audience's heart can pound faster and keep guessing of what's going on.The good point about this picture is the sand scene where the story about missing fighter plane since year xxxx and that make the guessing and suspense even more. That's the one that this movie i like most.Overall, good movie. "},{"Title":"What else can be said?","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Everything about this film is beautiful, from the inspired acting of Richard Dreyfuss as the frustrated and distraught Everyman to the special effects which still hold up well next to today's computer-generated films.This is not a movie about science fiction -- it's a movie about people, and a story of hope.  This may be Spielberg's finest.  To anyone who hasn't seen it, don't let the sci-fi aspect keep you away.  You owe it to yourself to see it. "},{"Title":"This film is a part of me","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was a child when this film was released. And 1977 was a wonderful year in my life, although I didn't notice it until many years later. In 1977 two films were released Star Wars and Close Encounters Of The Third Kind. Those two films set my future as a cinema fan. Both of them are magic films. They lit a fire inside me which today still exists. And they also set a precedent for many many aspects in many many films shot in the next years.Close Encounters Of The Third Kind is an excellent film. It tells you a story and you really get it. As if you were touched by the aliens' mind you understand everything without further explanations, so by the end of the film you just confirm what you knew from the beginning while you enjoy the paradise on Earth. That's what this film is for me a paradise on Earth.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A MORE INTERESTING AND INTELLIGENT SCIFI FLICK THAN STAR WARS","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Steven Spielberg's Close Encounters of the Third Kind is the kind of science fiction film that you either love or hate. I should know because this is a film my family is divided on. My mother hates this film, mostly because of its' snails pace. As for myself, I have a tolerance for long, slow films and I happen to love science fiction, so it worked for me.But I could be biased due to the various versions that have been issued throughout the years. While my mother saw the original 1977 cut, I have only seen the 1998 reedited Collectors Edition, which uses all existing footage. So my rating only applies to this version.What I think makes this film work is that it is not built on special effects like most alien films. And Spielberg does not resort to the standard evil alien cliche. Instead, he gives us a group of aliens who just want to observe human nature and are not malicious, but peaceful. Spielberg is more concerned with human nature and characterization, and that's why this is such a successful film. **** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"The lights in the sky gods angels and demons","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One variant stay away from the alien grey...yet this film posts a hypothesis...there may be life out there in Christ of the HOLY TRINITIES creation that we don't know about..perhaps. This film is about friendly aliesn and is just a movie it also deals wirth bermuda triangle myth and folklore...it also features a UN jeep rat patrol homage. Great movie. Fox Tare 19 is my script treatment . "},{"Title":"Space Brothers vacation at Devil's Tower","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this right after it was released, and figured, wrongly, that it would be corny and dated by now. The huge space ship was still impressive and the finale, the meaning of which still goes over my head, was, once again, striking. Good acting and a strong story keeps this classic very much alive into the 21st century. I suppose that is because we still don't know if anybody is out there or not. This film, like Contact, may have made me wonder some, but I will have to see a little green man to become a believer.  "}{"Title":"Masterful. NOT a New Age movie!","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It saddens and angers me how some people have become so numbed by modern ills that they can't see something beautiful without putting some bogus PC twist to spoil it. It's true the times have changed since Close Encounters debuted almost a quarter-century ago. Stories of Alien obsessions, abductions and cults have been so saturated on us by the tabloid media it's easy to get  irked by this fantastic film If one is seeing it for the first time only now. We must remember, however,  Close Encounters was made in a totally different era, with radically different attitudes. ( for the most part loftier, in my opinion. ) It's true Spielberg himself said he wouldn't make Close Encounters today, but I'm hoping he means he would just have unfolded it differently, perhaps. ( I hope ) I can see his, and some others, more mature observations about Neary, the Dreyfuss character, abandoning his family. That WOULD be selfish and cruel, but look again. Dreyfuss DOES NOT leave his family, HIS FAMILY LEFT HIM! There's the difference. There's an explicit scene where Neary desperately tries to get his family to come back to him, and they refuse,( At least his wife does) so that accusation simply doesn't hold.As far as the pacing goes, it's just another indicator of the  MTV pace   mentality that has been plagueing us over the past couple decades. Events trickle in drop by drop, then bucket buy bucket, then the levee breaks. ( It's quite sexual actually ) So many people have to have everything happen right away these days, it's pathetic. I saw this movie when it first came out,( I was nine ) I wasn't bored in the least. In fact, I personally prefered it to Star Wars because it felt like something that could actually happen, however remote. The narrative is RICH with detail. It takes several viewings to catch all the little conversations that take place. ( It's pretty easy to tell which parts were written by Schrader, and where Speilberg did the re-writes. Speilberg has a much lighter touch, Schraders is more on the technical and scientific side. )Francois Truffut was wonderful as Claude Lacombe. There's a sweetness and intelligence to him that was perfect for this role. What's with that bashing about him?I could go on, but I'm limited to 1000 words.Maybe one had to experience this film in a theater, upon initial release, as a child, to feel the imagination and majesty of Close Encounters. Seeing it on a TV screen, reguardless of size and sound, just doesn't match the movies.   "},{"Title":"Masterful. NOT a New Age movie!","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It saddens and angers me how some people have become so numbed by modern ills that they can't see something beautiful without putting some bogus PC twist to spoil it. It's true the times have changed since Close Encounters debuted almost a quarter-century ago. Stories of Alien obsessions, abductions and cults have been so saturated on us by the tabloid media it's easy to get  irked by this fantastic film If one is seeing it for the first time only now. We must remember, however,  Close Encounters was made in a totally different era, with radically different attitudes. ( for the most part loftier, in my opinion. ) It's true Spielberg himself said he wouldn't make Close Encounters today, but I'm hoping he means he would just have unfolded it differently, perhaps. ( I hope ) I can see his, and some others, more mature observations about Neary, the Dreyfuss character, abandoning his family. That WOULD be selfish and cruel, but look again. *WARNING- POSSIBLE SPOILER*  Dreyfuss DOES NOT leave his family, HIS FAMILY LEFT HIM! There's the difference. There's an explicit scene where Neary desperately tries to get his family to come back to him, and they refuse,( At least his wife does) so that accusation simply doesn't hold.END OF SPOILERAs far as the pacing goes, it's just another indicator of the  MTV pace   mentality that has been plagueing us over the past couple decades. Events trickle in drop by drop, then bucket buy bucket, then the levee breaks. ( It's quite sexual actually ) So many people have to have everything happen right away these days, it's pathetic. I saw this movie when it first came out,( I was nine ) I wasn't bored in the least. In fact, I personally prefered it to Star Wars because it felt like something that could actually happen, however remote. The narrative is RICH with detail. It takes several viewings to catch all the little conversations that take place. ( It's pretty easy to tell which parts were written by Schrader, and where Speilberg did the re-writes. Speilberg has a much lighter touch, Schraders is more on the technical and scientific side. )Francois Truffut was wonderful as Claude Lacombe. There's a sweetness and intelligence to him that was perfect for this role. What's with that bashing about him?I could go on, but I'm limited to 1000 words.Maybe one had to experience this film in a theater, upon initial release, as a child, to feel the imagination and majesty of Close Encounters. Seeing it on a TV screen, reguardless of size and sound, just doesn't match the movies.   "},{"Title":"close but no cigar.....Steven Pielberg is a liar. Like Henry rollins.","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There's another part of the story he's missing. It is possible when the universe was CREATED, that God made more than one race....in theory. However, he does not go into the confusion over the alien greys. Have I seen them? Have I had a close encounter with them? You be the judge. ) They are shall we say, one of two opposing forces in the universe. The first is of the one true God, the rest are demonic spirits of confusion. I've seen the good lights and i've seen their evil counterparts. I've also seen the possibly man made ones, using astounding technology. (the soviets don't have) Who am I? I'm nobody. However, when you tap into the one true God of the KING JAMES BIBLE....you needn't fear the greys. Their technology is based on metaphysics which is a bunch of bunk. For everything God has the devil has a counterfit. It is important to stay away from UFO/alien/angel worship cults. There are many legitimate groups who study this. However, I sometimes wonder if Whitley Streiber is possesed by demonic spirits? I wonder. I found communion interesting....however, those beings in my opinion are not of God. When you have it forced on you it's never of God and when it isn't sometimes he grants a one time only viewing with a warning. this is pure conjecture. Would I ever go public...no. Fiction tale, perhaps if I had a good agent. There is a correlation between these demonic manifestations and child abuse of the ritualistic nature. The greys are just a demonic smoke screen to distract people from the true splendor of God's creation. "},{"Title":"Can you think of a better UFO visits Earth movie?","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved it as a teen, still love it as an adult. One of those enduring movies. Especially love all the references to Pinocchio. Only one negative comment - do NOT watch  the special edition, only the collector's edition. For some reason the S.E. took out most of the scenes of Drefuss making the Devil's tower model in his living room...even the bit of throwing the shrubs through the window. What do we get instead? Shots of the inside of the spaceship. Now there's a fair trade. "},{"Title":"It kept me on the edge of my seat","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen this film numerous times, and it's just as refreshing to watch it again and again. The whole scenario of UFOS appearing in a town to different people was frightening, especially the scene when the aliens abduct the young boy. I keep hearing the Johnny Mathis recording in my head. I do believe in aliens. Also, the government cover-up moves in the vicinity of the X-Files. I love Richard Dreyfuss, near the end, who has the sheer wonder and amazement of meeting the aliens. For those who have closed minds in the area of science fiction, it will probably be tedious. However, knowing that they're out there somewhere watching us is intriguing.  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece like only Spielberg can do","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember first seeing this in the Bourke Street Cinemas in Melb when it came out (oh how long ago that was) and came away just about on another planet, and I wasn't smoking anything.It has such a stunning sense of it could really happen (despite your beliefs) simply because of the Mr. Average characters and realism that was used. Remember that this film came out at the same time as Star Wars and in fact was wrapped up quicker than expected to beat SW into the cinemas, otherwise it would probably have been lost in the euphoria.The effects were quite stunning and ahead of their time, some maybe a little weak now but it was the ability of Speilberg to make this film tangible with things like Days of Our Lives playing on the TV, the neighbours reactions to this looney (not the noseybody's next door), and the normal people experiencing strange and unexplainable sensations.The musical score by the maestro John Williams is priceless and I like the use of When you wish upon a star throughout which blends in so well.There are some classic moments in the film one in particular like Baaaarrrrrryyyyy which I laughed at believe it or not and still do when I watch it, sort of a running joke now.The bringing back of some of the Bermuda disappearances including the pilots was a major point of the people swap which I overlooked the first few times, it makes the movie so much more plausible. (I am not a UFO freak).But I must agree with some others here, the climax was a bit fake, the mother ship coming in was sensational but looked like it couldn't fit into the landing pad where it was supposed to.The re-release ala Editors Edition did little to enhance it and it may have been better left alone.All in all a classic film and really cannot be compared to any other as there hasn't been one like it either before or until now. A must see in stereo. "},{"Title":"Truly inspirational stuff","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have used this site for about a year, and the type of film fan who doesn't pretend to know a great deal about the method of film making. But I had to write about this film after I saw it for the first time today (yes, I know it's a little late).The whole film had me gripped from the first few frames until the end of the credits, and the climactic sequence made me shiver.What made me write about this film rather than any other over the last twelve months is that from reading the user comments, there really is not much mention of the real message behind the film yes it's the film is on the surface about an ordinary bloke and aliens, but it needn't be.To me, it's about a man's struggle to find himself, a burning desire to get to the end of his personal journey, and meet his destiny at any cost, to either himself or those around him.The only downsides are the horrendous product placement within the movie; the aliens were a little disappointing after the build-up; and some may say it has an idealistic, irresponsible  view on life.But it met my own personal criteria for a truly great film - it took my breath away completely while watching, made me feel for and with the characters, left me empty of any emotions other than those created by the film, and had me sitting thinking about it long after it had finished. "},{"Title":"It was just like the biggest wish of meeting the outerspace beings.","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie really was like a dream come true for many people, it was just like a fairytale.  The plot, soundtrack, and the story was really amazing. It's one of those movies which have made me cry, that maybe there is life out there, and we'll be first ones to meet them. "},{"Title":"Spielberg's REAL masterpiece","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Every shot in Close Encounters is perfect; there's not one moment of this movie that is unnecessary or uninteresting.  It's been 23 years now since this movie came out, and it still looks as fresh and as modern as ever.Sure, Schindler's List and Saving Private Ryan may tackle serious historical issues, but Close Encounters inspires a wonderment and joy that few other films ever have.  The chills run down my spine every time I see it.Close Encounters is most likely the best science-fiction movie ever made, because, like Contact, it feels more like science-fact.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a fantastic movie this one is.  It treats a science fiction subject realistically and believably.It works on so many levels that it is hard to pinpoint just one.  I enjoyed the impact on Roy's relationships, the development of the imprinted message on him and the others, the workings of the cover-up, and the neat special effects.This may be an oldie, but it is definately a goodie! "}{"Title":"experience the wonder, pretend it's 1977","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When Close Encounters of the Third kind was first released, I, along with many others, thought it was a wonderful film. Up until then, most movies involving aliens from outer space, with the exception of 2001, usually portrayed them as sinister beings intent on taking over Earth. Usually in a schlocky way. This was the first time extraterrestrials were looked upon with wonder, and the notion that they may really be out there, and this is how we would meet them. However, upon repeated viewings, the movie has begun to seem dated. Not so much the special effects, which are still remarkable, but the storytelling. It is filled with Spielburgian cliche's that attempt to be funny, but fall flat. And while the events in the film take us on a convoluted course to its climax, I realized there should have been a bigger payoff. And there's one scene that bugs me more and more every time I see it; when Richard Dreyfuss is in the truck, stopped in the middle of the road, he waves on the motorist behind him, and gets yelled at. He responds by saying, can you tell me how to get to route 31?...TURKEY! Now who really says that? It is soooo stupid.  "},{"Title":"A Classic.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Close Encounters is one of those films that immediately broke it's way into the collective unconsciousness of the world (the USA, specifically.)  It's a story of wonder, hope, paranoia, fear, and ultimate redemption. Of all the movies made, if I had to list them, surely this movie would rank in the top percentage.  "},{"Title":"The one true Spielberg masterpiece","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a movie.  This captures the spirit of Steven Spielberg like no other movie he has made.  Sure some people thought it was boring, some people didn't get it.  But this should be regarded as Spielberg's 2001.  The people who didn't get it are probably those people who only looked at the surface of the film which is a story about human's first encounter with extra-terrestrials.  The deeper meaning of the movie and one which elevates this film to greatness is the struggle of man's search for meaning, wonder, magic, and ultimately God.  It is no accident that the aliens in this film have an angelic glow to them.  Richard Dreyfuss' character goes on a spiritual journey where he is trying to escape his mundane life.  He is searching for meaning in his life.  One of the main elements in the movie is the idea that one must be as a child before God.  The little boy in the movie is completely receptive to the aliens....he sees them as toys.  The adults in the film, some are frightened, some curious, others trying to be practical about it, finally let go of their adult inhibitions and become open as well.  Spielberg adds some wonderful touches.  John Williams music is as usual magnificent, and the addition of legendary French New Wave director Francois Truffaut in an important role is great.  He is known for his films about children (Small Change, The Four Hundred Blows) and his presence adds to the childlike qualities of Spielberg's film.  It has one of the most spectacular and beautiful endings ever committed to film and it is a movie that everyone who has a little magic in their hearts should see. "},{"Title":"A Great, Confusing Masterpiece","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently had a unique opportunity.  I got to see Steven Spielberg's Close Encounters of the Third Kind with someone who had never seen it before.  Indeed, it was thrilling to put myself in his shoes and realizing just how confusing the movie really is.  The plot jumps around dangerously from one (seemingly) unrelated scene to another, leaving the audience in the dust several times.  More often than once, my friend turned to me and said, What the heck is going on?  I never did tell him, of course, partly because I didn't want to spoil the surprises, but also because I was watching it for the very first time, again.  And then, there were the scenes that still leave audience members breathless, those scenes that pull us into the screen, as if our eyes have become magnets.  It is not until the end of those scenes that we realize we've been holding out breath the entire time.The film is great across the board.  It was especially effective for Spielberg to write the screenplay himself, because for the first time, the script and the film shared the same marvelous, disjointed style.  This is also one of John Williams's finest scores.  Seriously, it beats the living heck out of more familiar soundtracks like Star Wars and Indiana Jones.  Also, the acting is absolutely superb, especially Richard Dreyfuss as Roy Neary, the innocent bystander who is suddenly thrown in the middle of all of it.I do have one slight criticism, and I fear that it really damages the overall effect of the film.  My rating on the film would be higher if this one thing had been changed.  (Warning  This is sort of a spoiler!)  When the alien vessel is communicating with the humans, why did Spielberg decide to use a tuba sound?  Seriously, it throws away the idea of the aliens being so out of this world, and sounds altogether silly, in my opinion.  Still, considering that this is my only complaint with the film, it's still one of the great ones.  Do yourself a favor and see it.***1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie ever Made!","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Close Encounters is the best movie I have ever seen. It has a place in my heart that no other movie can have. The story, the music and the magic surrounding this movie is very powerful. The hidden subplot of the UFO's bringing out the artist in the people who saw them is very clever and many people do not catch that! I am looking forward to showing this movie to my kids, and my sister's kids when they are old enough. I think everyone needs to see this movie! I give this movie an A+. "},{"Title":"Spielberg's finest.","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  We are not alone, that question has been answered many times now. But what movie is the best one?The answer to the question is Steven Spielbergs; Close Encounters of the third kind. Spielberg is the best director ever and this is one of his finest work of art.See it, believe it, experience it. "},{"Title":"Very well done","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was very imaginative and actually stumbles on some sort of THEME! This is surprising to me since most of Spielberg's movies are a lot of nonsense and special effects.  Close encounters has great special effects but it has so much more.  Unlike other alien movies this tries to make a statement about how all life forms can actually have peace.  The part when the aliens and humans are playing music in harmony is a great metaphor for living in harmony.  There might even be an extended metaphor for the whole movie!  I am very impressed with Spielberg and hope he makes other movies like this one. "},{"Title":"Superb direction, acting, music, cinematography, etc...","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently had the opportunity to view this movie in the theater.  Before then, I had seen it on video and liked it a lot, however, it is truly one for the BIG screen.  I love the film now and consider it not just one of Spielberg's finest, but one of the greatest films ever made.  It is rich in thought-provoking dialogue and beautiful scenery.And, for its time (and our time, also), the special effects are magnificent. If at all possible, make sure you see the official, definitive director's cut of the movie.  A lot of great scenes were cut from the original, and any true Spielberg fan will love to see them.   "},{"Title":"A masterful fantasy that improves with each viewing.","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has always been my favourite Spielberg film. Even after having grown up with this man's remarkable vision, and imagination, this film remains as fresh as the first time I saw it.With effects which still make you believe 22 years after the fact, and a superb cast, Spielberg explores the idea, reprised in ET, that our inability to understand something need not mean it should be feared and hated. This film has the ability to turn stubborn cynics and jaded realists into children again - if you are one of the unfortunate few who have never seen this film, I urge you to see it.  "},{"Title":"My two favorite lines","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Claude Lacombe (Trauffaut)  Listen to me, Major Walsh, it is not scientific.  It is an event socioligcal.But even better Neary/Dreyfuss to Lacombe/Truffaut  He can't be in charge.  He's not even an American.So much of this film's dream like quality (noted by others) gets better with its and my age.  But I've only just noted, after immersing myself in 70's paranoia, such as The Parallax View, and Hitchcock, the North by Northwest bits do just jump out, the high level of of course they whoever they are are going to lie to us, it's their job attitude that jumps out and presages X-Files, etc.A perfect film for 1999 - 2001. "}{"Title":"My two favorite lines","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Claude Lacombe (Trauffaut)  Listen to me, Major Walsh, it is not scientific.  It is an event sociological.But even better Neary/Dreyfuss to Lacombe/Truffaut  He can't be in charge.  He's not even an American.So much of this film's dream like quality (noted by others) gets better with its and my age.  But I've only just noted, after immersing myself in 70's paranoia, such as The Parallax View, and Hitchcock, the North by Northwest bits do just jump out, the high level of of course they whoever they are are going to lie to us, it's their job attitude that jumps out and presages X-Files, etc.A perfect film for 1999 - 2001. "},{"Title":"Spielberg is great at what he does.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Steven Spielberg knows what he likes to see in a movie and usually the audience feels the same way. Spielberg doesn't seem to make very many mistakes at all. I'm not as big of a fan of this film as I am of other Spielberg films, but it is very good all the same.  "},{"Title":"pure beauty","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie, unlike the scores of other e.t. movies with killer space ships and gruesome mutilations, gives hope that somewhere out there in the universe, a race exists that doesn't have big teeth and a voracious appetite for humans.  This movie is the kind that the whole family can watch, and if you haven't seen it, you don't know what you're missing! "},{"Title":"A man encounters a UFO and everything in his life changes.","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A wonderful movie for anyone who loves sci-fi and for UFO fans. Special Effects are realistic, and the performances by Richard Dreyfuss and the cast are outstanding!  The collector'sedition and the special edition are the best of the two versions. "},{"Title":"Provocative science fiction movie is far from fantasy.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You might get used to the mysterious details up to the film's conclusion after a few showings. Soon, you will get the idea. C.E. OF THE 3RD KIND was a different approach to sci-fi movies that doesn't apply to imaginative fantasy such as STAR WARS and ID4. Rather, this one is provocative as sci-fi goes while trying to be realistic and make-believe in one entire universe. The graphic visuals have shown its age recently, but the gigantic UFO at the end still fascinates. Watch this the first time and you may discover that the strange things happening in little boy Barrie's house is extremely meaningless to the plot, but you will later get the point. In other words, interesting and not far-fetched compared to tons more films in the sci-fi genre. "},{"Title":"One of the Best!","Date":"4 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an excellent movie that I grew up with in my 14 years.  I've seen it ever since I can remember.  The Spielberg/Williams collaboration is at one of its many high points.  This is one of Steven Spielberg's classics that shows the average man going up against out-of-this-world experiences with brilliant music by John Williams and fantastic special effects by Doug Trumbull.  The movie is underrated and deserved to be in the Top Ten of the AFI's 100 Films 100 Years list. "},{"Title":"Wonderful fantasy","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" While the film is disguised as sci-fi, it is really a moving fantasy. It is a fairytale about our dreams to encounter something mysterious and wonderful in a universe that is too often measured, weighed, and spoiled by science and technology. "},{"Title":"Jules Verne and Georges Melies Contemplate the Universe","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" What seems to have made the lasting impression in Spielberg's landmark 1977 film is that with vanguard special effects, it implies that humankind has achieved the stage where we're equipped to penetrate the society of the universe. While it's a computer interface which makes the uncannily brilliant ultimate musical tête-à-tête with the alien guests achievable, the traits bringing Neary to make his way to Devil's Tower---he and Jillian climbing the rock slipping, arms extended, hands touching in a straight rip from North by Northwest---have little to do with scientific skill or computer literacy. The film also calls characteristic sci-fi standards and patterns to mind. The film depicts new technologies as an inherent and anticipated result of human growth and sign of strength and evolution.But there's something else at the heart of what makes it so impossible to remove from our minds, like most Spielberg films. What the world has taken from him as a commercially and culturally indelible filmmaker is a revolution of special effects technology and the tradition of the colossal summer event movie. But the force of the imprints of his early milestones, arguably the best of which is Close Encounters of the Third Kind, is his unafraid, unembarrassed immersion of himself into these films. Like ET, Close Encounters bears as little filter between the unsullied unique imagination of a director as an individual and what cast, crew and millions of dollars go into as any of only a precious few I've ever seen.Just think about how delicate a premise this is for Spielberg He gets to use those early 1950s sci-fi films he internalized as a child like model trains on big scale sets under his control, and with his own era's progress in movie and space technology. While Close Encounters is firmly a '70s creation, its spirit is in the '50s. This is clear from the first scene, when a troop of WWII fighter planes, gone missing more than three decades earlier, reappear unharmed in the Mexican desert. In abiding sci-fi style, Spielberg's script then cuts from this broadly mysterious prologue to encounters with the unknown by ordinary people of Muncie, who pull us empathetically into the voyage. Neary's kids mention and watch The Ten Commandments on television. Could their dad ever be a Moses figure bound to a quest up Mount Sinai? Spielberg's father was a computer engineer, his mother a concert pianist, and when the spaceship lands, they make music together on the computer, Roy Neary's boarding the spaceship being a longing to be reunited with his parents preserves since youth, which is the movie's life-force. Barry Guiler, the intrepid kid who mentions the UFOs and their trappings as toys, acts as a logo for naive simplicity and candidness facing the mysterious. Spielberg has always been remarkably acute in his specific, sensitive empathies with children in his movies, but in the most starkly contrasting way of possible all his work he evokes the desperate conflict between day-to-day adulthood and the forward-looking daydreaming of childhood.Richard Dreyfuss' utilitarian Neary, a manual worker and family man, brings that clash to fraught measures after his life is transformed the night he witnesses the UFOs over Muncie. As do several of the others who shared his experience, Roy is infatuated with recalling it, while his wife and three children think he's lost it. Another character likewise fixated is Melinda Dillon's young mother, whose four-year-old son seems to be in some sort of extrasensory bond with the UFOs. Roy's wife Ronnie tries to conceal the sunburn from Roy's contact with the UFOs and wants him to put his encounter with them behind him. She's humiliated and confused by what's happened to him and frantically wants her life back. The illustration of his disoriented life is seen when he's carving his enormous replica of Devil's Tower in his living room, with his family abandoning him.These are just my thoughts, and this film inspires many. With respect, I'm of the opinion that it's held much better than Star Wars owing to its transcendent vision and craftsmanship. Spielberg's tongue is not in his cheek. Though Lucas was armed with great vision and influences of his own, by comparison Star Wars is almost an omnibus of a diverse but basic array of parables and picture books. Close Encounters is science fiction that intends to illustrate the way our relationship with the universe could be.The movie's ultimate half hour is its awe-inspiring visionary core. This sequence, as humbling as anything in cinema, has been meditatively conceived to evoke a spiritual encounter of the supreme kind. Whether or not you accept it as possible, this culmination engages the mind's eye in startling, once-in-a-lifetime ways. It's most dramatic when it's drawing on sight and sound in the naturalistic style of American films in the 1970s. Each scene is a hysterical commotion of voices, languages, technical jargon, weather and vehicles. In the way Jaws was more tense and chilling because of the naturalistic humanity of the shark's victims and ultimate hunters, the remarkable psychedelic light show of the UFO that frighten and fascinate Muncie, Indiana, when the black night sky is unexpectedly awash with flashing lights and numerous luminously colored forms, are so starkly uncanny because we're otherwise being treated to an ultra-realistic world. "},{"Title":"great flick but not without remake potential","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" So I watched Steven Spielberg's close encounters of the third kind from 1977 yesterday, and I hadn't seen the movie since I was a kid. I guess the two things that always stuck with me from the movie were Richard Dreyfus shaping the mashed potatoes at dinner into a mountain, and saying this means something, this is important. The other was the aliens at the end, they were very cute and child like. So there is now a whole generation of people who may have never heard of this movie, and as it gets older that will only increase. I mean the movie came out in 1977 and well is great but its not a mythological magnet like star wars which came out about the same time. I said in an earlier review I hope they don't remake this movie (referring to some like it hot), well I would say why not remake this movie. The special effects are terrific, but still we could do so much more nowadays with effects on such a grand level that we couldn't do then. The acting is great but, I don't identify any one of the characters with a specific actor like say Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lector. Its a great movie though, and if you are feeling nostalgic, or are a youngin' not afraid of watching something that was done before you were born, this is a great movie. However, me personally I am waiting for the remake before revisiting this yet again, directed oddly enough by Steven Spielberg, but starring Johnny Depp (hey why not he made for a great Raoul Duke!). if you like concise reviews of interesting films please read my other reviews at http//raouldukeatthemovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Close Encounters is a fun alien adventure","Date":"8 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters of the Third Kind was the film that confirmed Steven Spielberg as a top Hollywood director. The film keeps a fine sense of suspense, Spielberg does not convey too much about the aliens too early. Suspense is all about timing, Spielberg understands that and puts it to work. The story pieces together different human stories and their (as the title implies) close encounters of the third kind. Starring Richard Dreyfuss and Teri Garr, alongside a welcome Francois Truffaut, it certainly is an essential. Though outdated in parts, Close Encounters of the third kind remains one of the best extraterrestrial movies in Hollywood. "}{"Title":"Spielberg at his best","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hot on the heels of the success of Jaws, Steven Spielberg brought us the first of his many sci-fi films with Close Encounters.Amid strange findings, such as a ship in the Gobi desert and missing 1945 airforce jets in South America, a small town in Indiana has a black out and a few experience an encounter with something unexplained. One resident, Roy starts to feel something that leads him to the verge of insanity; a sense of a place that is at first unknown. He is joined by a woman who's son went missing and together they try to work out what it means. Roy's antics tear at the heart of his family as they look on helplessly. Eventually he works out what or where he has been sensing and with the woman, Jillian, they travel to Devil's Tower to experience an extraordinary encounter.Spielberg showed with Jaws what a superb film maker he is, but he is also a superb story teller. Opening with seemingly unconnected events the film aims at alluding to something happening without giving too much away early on. The film gathers pace once Roy has his encounter in his truck, which highlights Spielberg's excellence as a film maker, the scene is full of fear, excitement, intrigue and a little humour. The film never plays too seriously, but never becomes too like later film E.T. and as Roy's obsession becomes stronger, so the film's tone becomes more serious with the desperation, confusion and fear his family feel.By the time we reach Devil's Tower, the films epic nature comes to the fore, with the arrival of the spacecraft and the playing of the musical notes between them and us; the film ends with both an unknown and uplifting style.Brilliant for the most part, it is a sci-fi film that isn't scary or full of horror or terror, simply it is more to do with the intrigue of humanity and it's fascination with space and what might be out there. Set pieces are excellent the road chase of the aliens through the hills; the arrival of the crafts at Jillian's house and of course the ending with the first arrival of multitude types of craft before the huge mothership slides into view. Richard Dreyfuss is excellent as Roy and there are fine performances from Terri Garr as his embattled wife and Melinda Dillion as Jillian. That the aliens are for the most part presented only through their craft adds to the intrigue and that there are no battles or fighting between them and us makes this perhaps more real.I did find fault in the film; the aliens when finally seen are poorly executed, children walking around in costumes with very visible gloves with pointy fingers that no amount of clever lighting or smoke can conceal is a disappointment and I also struggled with the notion that the mothership arrived then 180° which means the humans inside must have been upside down when the ship first arrives! My main issue though was the obsession of Roy in the middle of the film, whilst it's not perhaps that he his obsessed it's more the length of time we spend seeing him in this state, I find it detracts from the flow of the film and slows it down. But these are really minors complaints against an otherwise brilliant film.It is also interesting to note that the film's ending with Roy being chosen to board the mothership and therefore leaving his family behind leaves a wonderful opening for a sequel - his return, something that would work well if done now. Spielberg has stated that had he had a family at the time he wouldn't have let Roy enter the ship, which also adds interest to the possibility of how the film could have gone. Spielberg of course has continued his fascination with sci-fi, many with alien elements, with a host of films including E.T., Jurassic Park and Minority Report and no doubt more to come.More of my reviews at iheartfilms.weebly.com "},{"Title":"Domestic problems? Phone ET at 1800-get-me-0utta-h3r3.","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Paul Schrader was one of the earliest writers on Steven Spielberg's Close Encouters of the Third Kind. Schrader wanted to turn Spielberg's alien movie into a flick about Catholicism, the film's hero on a deeply religious quest. Schrader's aim was to tell the tale of an ordinary man who is driven crazy by his obsession with communicating with God. Eventually this man, because he is a steadfast believer, gets chosen and receives a calling from what he initially thinks are UFO hallucinations. Eventually he realises that his encounters with aliens and UFOs are really visions of angels and messages from God. At one point Schrader even talked about the film ending with, not UFO as metaphor for Christ, but an actual image of Jesus lifting our hero up into the heavens.Though mostly wiped away by Spielberg, these themes of communication are still present in the final film. Scientists struggle to communicate with Mexicans, air traffic controllers spew gibberish over one another, our hero is a telecommunications repair man who has problems talking to his noisy family, whilst academics communicate with sign language and machines which look like a kid's giant xylophone.With the absence of religious metaphors, though (Spielberg is Jewish and had hated Schrader's serious religious approach), the arc of the film's hero and constant communication metaphors now becomes strangely meaningless. In the final film, our hero receives messages from aliens, leaves his annoying family, climbs a mountain, meets a UFO and blasts off into space for personal reasons. Other than a vague, very human desire to communicate with the unknown, there's very little logic in the final picture. Why is our hero obsessed with the aliens? Why does he leave his wife and kids and have an odd romantic relationship with a stranger? Why do the aliens want humans? What are the scientists doing? But such questions don't concern Spielberg. To Spielberg, Close Encounters is about far simpler things. It's about toys. It's about playing. It's about a child's wonder in the face of a vast cosmos. Spielberg has a kid's toys come to life, has scientists rolling giant globes like gleeful kids, has professors playfully making hand gestures, casts Francis Traufaunt &#x96; renowned for his films about childhood &#x96; and ends his film with scientists and aliens literally playing a series of musical notes. This is a film in which every character is a child and every special effect, every bit of machinery, a toy. One character even looks up at a UFO (all the film's UFO's look like a kid's spinning top) and yells Toys! And how did Spielberg famously get a child's face to light up during one scene? He dangled a bag of toys off screen until the kid grinned.We've seen Signs and Knowing and know that Schrader's film would have likewise been a heavy-handed slice of evangelism. What Spielberg give us, despite also being what Jonathan Rosenbaum calls dopey Hollywood mysticism, is far more powerful. This is a celebration of man's naivety, his unbridled, gleful exuberance. I've seen some serious sci-fi novelists condemn the film for being anti-science - and it is resolutely anti-science - but it also celebrates the child's view of science. The child's view that machines are like toys and that scientists and dinosaurs and aliens are the coolest things in the world and gee whiz woop-dee-doo, when I grow up I want to be just like them! So perhaps it's better to say the film isn't anti-science, rather, like Jurassic Park, it portrays a kid's enthusiasm for science.Whilst the film's plot is muddled, it also works well as a kind of UFO anthology, Spielberg regurgitating every Twilight Zone episode, sci-fi B movie and pulpy alien story he digested as a kid. And so we have the myth of the country homestead being invaded by aliens (the scariest thing he's ever directed?), of the town losing electricity, of the pilots returning with their memories wiped and of the lost ships and planes mysteriously popping up in the desert. In UFO and paranormal lore, these are all famous myths (or incidents, if you believe them to be factual). The film itself looks like it belongs to that 1950's golden era of UFOs, Roswell, Greys and the Bermuda triangle. It's a lost world of arid landscapes, farms, barns, tractors, pickup trucks, country folk and faceless military men. In a sense, Close Encounters, like the Indiana Jones Movies, is 50s trash made classy by money, simultaneously retro/nostalgic and cutting edge.The film ends with a jaw-dropping light show, perhaps the most dazzling thing Spielberg has ever shot. But this sequence also epitomizes Spielberg at his worst. Rosenbaum calls it the fascism of spectacle; here is a director who literally uses flashing lights, dancing gizmos, loud noises and giant special effects as a substitute for content. The distractions look great, of course, but when the pyrotechnics are over, you can't help but wonder what the spectacle is actually in the service of. No surprise, then, than both Spielberg and Lucas' early careers were influenced by Lenni Reifenstall; pomp and pageantry as the ultimate form of misdirection.Incidentally, Encounters is, at its core, also about a man who escapes the annoying communication breakdown of Earth by wishing upon a star and hopping aboard a giant toy. With several references to Pinocchio, the film is thus helpful in reading Kubrick's AI, which is a kind of meta-scifi deconstruction of Spielberg, and by extension, modern cinema. It's yet another example of Spielberg's trauma avoidance, of childish characters &#x96; like David the robot &#x96; deluding and placating themselves with fantasy. These foibles suit fantasy movies fine. It's when Spielberg ventures into the real world (Amistad, Schindler etc) that schizophrenia develops, the little machine boy becoming stuck in a programming loop, perpetually whispering to the alien God's, whisk me away and make me a real director.8.5/10 - Worth multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"When does Spielberg make a Bad Movie......Never!","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Steven Spielberg is my all-time favorite director. I liked every single one of his movies made from Jaws to the latest Indiana Jones. This is no exception. This is a classic science fiction film that has a sense of awe. This picture really is the godfather of science fiction. If this film was never made, I'm sure that sci-fi movies would suck in today's age.This film stars Richard Dreyfuss who was previously in Jaws. Basically, his mission is to find out what's going on with the appearance of UFO's and airplanes that have been missing since 1945 even if that means getting in the way of the government.As I said before, this film is a beauty. It's not perfect, but it's close. John Williams is my favorite all-time composer and he has another perfect score under his belt. I also loved all the set designs of the film. This is an amazing film. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Journey into imagination","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A real journey into the mind and imagination of Steven Spielberg, this flick is his very own interpretation of life 'out there'. Unlike E.T., which was written by Melissa Mathison, Spielberg himself has penned this story of Roy Neary's incredible Close Encounter with beings not of this world.So many films like this, both before and after 1977, come off very hokey and contrived. Spielberg however always manages to give his pics a realistic edge that is not easy to doubt, and a professional feel that's hard to ignore. In short, he makes you believe! Most young people who saw Raiders thought Indiana Jones was an historical figure, and who can forget the terror we all felt at the beach after seeing Jaws. The master film maker of his generation is every bit as convincing here thanks to the expertise of cast and crew.John Williams has provided one of his most effective, emphatic yet not so well known scores. As a musical accompaniment though it is a piece that is more than worthy of its inspiration. Camera work is outstanding, with Vilmos Zsigmond impressive as director of photography, while effects genius Douglas Trumbull astounds with the cinematographic wizardry he creates. Behind him is a most accomplished special effects crew that present an awesome show. Editor Michael Kahn has done a most serviceable job on the special edition.Leading the cast is Richard Dreyfuss, very strong as the married father of three who finds his world in tatters and feels his sanity slipping after a rather shaky run-in with some strange craft. Teri Garr gives good support as the confused wife who is at a loss as to what to do with her crazy obsessed husband. And as the woman who has lost her son to the visitors, Melinda Dillon delivers a very well weighted showing of quiet emotion and desperation. Also stars Francois Truffaut as the Frenchman in charge of the 'project'.Spielberg will make those that are unsure think a lot about the possibility of life on other planets, but for the most part this is merely pure entertainment from a man who knows how to deliver. His convincing middle American story is told with style and substance, and is sure to have you fully engrossed form scene one. A real pleasure, especially at the cinema.Monday, September 16, 1996 - CinemaSteven Spielberg's vision of Close Encounters of the Third Kind is a visual spectacular featuring Douglas Trumbull's amazing special effects and superb cinematography from a five man team comprising Vilmos Zsigmond, William A. Fraker, Douglas Slocombe, John Alonzo and Laszlo Kovacs.Sound is also superb, as is Spielberg's intricate plot and the powerful performances from Richard Dreyfuss, Melinda Dillon, Teri Garr and good support from Francois Truffaut. A must see at the movies.Sunday, October 18, 1997 - Video "},{"Title":"We Are Not Alone!","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Along with 'Star Wars', 'Close Encounters Of The Third Kind' broke with the tradition of '70's science fiction movies. 'Soylent Green', 'No Blade Of Grass', 'A Clockwork Orange', 'Zardoz', 'Rollerball', 'The Final Programme' - good though they were - were bleak and depressing in that they predicted a grim future for Mankind, as did 'Logan's Run' and the 'Planet Of The Apes' sequels. Woody Allen's 'Sleeper', though a comedy, followed more or less the same pattern.'C.E.' was Steven Spielberg's first film since 'Jaws', then the biggest grossing movie of all time. How to top it? With '2001 A Space Odyssey' still regarded as the pinnacle of science fiction cinema, he decided to marry that film's intelligence to a more human story. The main character, Roy Neary ( Richard Dreyfuss ) sees a U.F.O. on a country road at night, and becomes obsessed to the point where his family think he has gone mad and eventually abandon him, and he seems not to care. The Neary stuff is interspersed with the exploits of a team of investigators, headed by 'Lacombe' ( Francois Trauffaut ). Neary teams up with fellow U.F.O. watcher Jillian, and they cut through the web of secrecy put in place by the U.S. Government over the sightings. The film ends in spectacular fashion ( all the more remarkable seeing that C.G.I. was two decades away ) with the landing of the Mother Ship at a secret base in Wyoming. Great visual effects from Douglas Trumbull ( who had worked on '2001' ). Ditto John Williams' evocative music.Dreyfuss is excellent as the everyman figure 'Neary', as is Teri Garr as his wife. The U.F.O. watchers are not nerdy, bespectacled types, but drawn from all walks of life. The 'cover-up' stuff probably registered with the original U.S. audience ( this was four years after Watergate ).I was at school when news of this film broke. 'Starburst' magazine ran a somewhat portentious review by Ray Bradbury in which he virtually canonised Spielberg. 'C.E.' did not open here until 1978, meaning that speculation in the run-up to its British release was rife. What did that title actually mean? Were the aliens friendly or hostile? Would 'Jaws' make a cameo? Sci-fi fans split into two groups; if you admitted to liking 'Star Wars', you were regarded as a moron, but if you said you appreciated 'C.E.', you were a towering genius. I always said that I preferred 'C.E.' ( without mentioning the 'Star Wars' novelisation tucked away in my satchel ). That fan followings had developed for a couple of movies no-one had actually seen in the U.K. was fairly bizarre.Then, months later, the films opened here. Unfortunately, my local theatre chose to play them on the same week, meaning I had to decide which one to go and see first. I plumped for 'Star Wars'. Funnily enough, who should I bump into in the queue but all those 'C.E.' fans who dismissed George Lucas' movie as rubbish.I saw 'C.E.' on its final day, and was blown away. It was funny, thrilling, scary, and beautiful. I have watched it on television many times since and, believe me, the goggle box does not do it justice. The scene where Barry runs out of his house at night, for instance, is followed by a shot of a worried Jillian looking out of a window and calling his name. Over the house you can see a dot of white light moving up the night sky. It drew gasps of terror in the cinema. On television it is barely noticeable. If you get the chance to see 'C.E.' on the big screen, do so.In an era where sci-fi movies warned of the terrible dangers facing Mankind, 'C.E.', with its positive message, came as a breath of fresh air. It remains a true cinematic landmark. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When i first saw Close Encounters Of The Third Kind,i was absolutely flabbergasted. Seeing this film when your a teen back then almost made you think,did they really contact the extraterrestrial race to make the movie?. It's as almost as real looking like you were standing right near the ships when they land. And the mother ship was something to behold,massive in size or traveling city in space. The actors were fantastic,Richard Dreyfuss played a confused but bewildered electrician who was sent off to check power lines because of a mysterious blackout. After that he began a wild ride to find the answer to his question.....Is it real?,or am i crazy?. Throughout the film the scenes of space ships flying around seemed fluidic without mistakes in the flight paths. Thanks to Douglas Trumbull's brilliant special effects in the film,harnessing traveling mattes in such a way you would think they were real. And last but not least,Steven Spielberg who has been in the last fifteen years probably the most exacting director of all time. His work on this film was flawless,giving us a way to dream of life elsewhere and to have kids of all ages to wish upon a star,or for that matter,Roy neary's dreams to help us wish it. "},{"Title":"After 30 years... it's still important.  It still means something...","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had only seen this film on television before tonight, usually as an ABC Sunday Night at the Movies as a child. But tonight I was lucky enough to see an original 1977 archive print on a 2.35 screen in a large theater as a special AFI screening, and it makes all the difference. There were details and images I'd never seen before, especially because of the numerous TV and special edition edits that distorted the pacing and vision of the original film.What is fascinating about this film is it presents an image of alien encounters not seen before or since. The aliens are not out to kill us, nor are we out to kill them. There was no distrust at all (a far cry from the overreacting government agencies in ET). And in an era where audiences were used to cheesy space battles and moonmen with guns and pod people, it was brave of Spielberg to present a movie that's climax is a nothing more than two men completing a quest and one disappearing into the sky.Held to today's standards, the ending is a bit slow and could be trimmed down (but not as slow as the extended edition they showed on ABC one time, with 10 minutes inside the mother ship). But put in context of the period, there was nothing like it at the time (Star Wars being entirely different). And I imagine the audiences at the time were so fascinated by what they were seeing in terms of imagery, it didn't feel slow. But it was a little self- indulgent nonetheless, so I can't give it a 10 because of this.On a side note - Something else that always impressed me about the film and still did tonight was the way Spielberg, a young man at the time without a family, could really capture the family dynamic. In CE3K and ET both, he gets real performances out of children and parents from real dialogue and interactions, and creates real households (not the dingy reality of some filmmakers nor the plastic suburbia of others). He brings a level of humanity to the characters in this film that makes you feel for them and want them to find the answers. There are no stereotypical heroes, no overly witty children. Just ordinary people in an extraordinary situation, which is why so many people connected to this film and to ET. I think the later Spielberg lost this connection with humanity (too rich, too many years in Hollywood?), or maybe the actors he's forced to use by the studios can't make these character choices anymore.PS - I don't know what movie Haradrim from Far Harad has seen but nobody was killed in the film, and it was only because of Neary's wife's unwillingness to believe him despite the evidence around her that split up their family and made him doubt himself, not a madness. "},{"Title":"One of my first real memories of wonder and awe in a movie theater!","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember as a kid, my family was divided over which movie to attend one night; reaching an impasse, my sister and I opted for STAR WARS (for about the 5th time), while my father went to a UFO movie called CLOSE ENCOUNTERS (CE3K). Back then, I was a lot less adventurous in my movie tastes! But after the fact, my dad came out of the theater babbling! Trying in vain to explain to us what he'd just experienced! I'd never seen him so in awe of a film at that point! He'd even said he'd be willing to watch it again just so WE could view it (and my poor dad was NOT a movie buff, by any stretch). So, we went. The opening flash from dark to light in the Mexican Sonoran desert caught my attention! A simple trick, no matte work, no star-ships, but it had me! Then the rest un-spooled; I saw very ordinary people, like my family and I, who were witnessing these extraordinary sights. These were NOT just flying saucers of '50s invasion flicks; these were flying sculptures of light! And the hero, Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfus), was a working-class man (with a loud, obnoxious family), just like my poor dad! No wonder he related to this more than STAR WARS or STAR TREK! At the age I was then (10 or so), I was not as sympathetic to the on-screen adult-domestic strife, but when the characters beheld the UFOs, it was cinematic transcendence! As much as STAR WARS awakened my adrenal glands, this one awakened my first stirrings and feelings that I lived in a universe that was far grander and more vast than ANYTHING I could comprehend. Spielberg has said in interviews that a youthful experience of seeing a meteor shower inspired him to make this movie; for me it was the reverse. This film (along with other sci-fi epics like ROBINSON CRUSOE ON MARS and a few others) inspired my love affair with astronomy (which is still very much alive, incidentally). Seeing the film more recently, I was amazed at how much power it retains; the image of Devil's Tower against a dusky sky, the visions of the mother-ship arrival. You can really FEEL its mass and energy. And for those who deride the musical light-show sequence, it's meant to represent universal themes and music is the language of the soul. While communicating in mathematical or binary coding of some kind might have been more realistic, ala CONTACT, music is more cinematic. And at the end of the day, it is entertainment. While an incredible film, CE3K is not without issues of questionable morality, however. The aliens, while seemingly friendly, think nothing of violent child abduction or disruption of our primitive lives (much as we don't mind taking a kitten from it's mother to have as a pet, I suppose). Or Roy leaving his wife and family to follow a vision. OK, his brood were not exactly the Brady Bunch (no family is), but he seems to show NO feeling of loss or remorse over this (Spielberg has said that this film reflected his relative immaturity at the time; fair enough). Those (and other, lesser) nagging points aside, there are still so many terrific bits to enjoy in this film (and not just the eye candy of the gorgeous UFOs); Carey Guffey (3 or 4 at the time) is totally natural as the abducted child, Barry. Melinda Dillon is very real and earthy as his mother, Gillian. Francois Truffaut brings an honesty and openness to what could've been a one-note role as UFO-logist Claude LeCombe. Some of the best scenes involve no special effects at all; the early air-traffic controller scene is so eerie because of what is NOT shown. Also, the looks on the faces of the returning Flight 19 WW2-era pilots speak volumes. They're not merely shell-shocked; they've seen things that have transformed them forever (I always thought their re-assimilation into the world would've made a fascinating sequel). The aliens themselves are well-executed, especially the older alien that shares hand signal communication with LeCombe. But ultimately, they are beside the point. CE3K is not ABOUT aliens and spaceships; it's about humanity forcibly realizing, as I did sitting in that theater 30 yrs ago, that the universe is a much larger place than my 10(or now 40)year old brain could possibly imagine. CE3K, while indirectly inspiring X-FILES, or even MEN IN BLACK (especially in CE3K's government conspiracy scenes) has one ingredient NONE of its progeny have; a real sense of wonder and scale about the universe. A feeling that didn't really return to cinema until the aforementioned CONTACT, another film of this type. But CE3K still inspires us to watch the skies. And to this day, I still do every now and then! "},{"Title":"Still The Best Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Close Encounters of the Third Kind remains at the top of my list of my all time favorite movies. It has invoked a sense of wonder that no movie has ever come close to. And now that we have the 30th anniversary edition on DVD, we finally get to experience the movie in the original release as well as the two other cuts.The movie involves the government searching for UFO evidence and the everyday people who see the UFO's who didn't go seeking them. While the government searches merely on scientific facts to make contact, the everyman characters develop an artistic talent either through art or music to lead them to contact. Those two sides finally clash before both making contact and realizing how they came together and how they were all invited to make contact.I think what makes this movie so special for me is how little you see of the UFO's during the entire movie and how it affects the characters throughout the film. Then we are rewarded with the best final 20 minutes of any film made since. And the music...not just the 5 notes but the entire soundtrack by John Williams is so haunting and is a character in itself.Having the original edition again is a thrill and I believe I have to give it the edge, though the Director's Cut is a very close second. The Director's Cut has the better Neary introduction but everything else I like better in the original cut. Don't ask me why, but the pillow scene was always a haunting scene and I liked it. And I like the order of the scenes between Roy and the government officials better. Though, as a whole, the director's cut isn't bad at all, I just like the original. When I was younger, I was thrilled to hear about the Special Edition to see inside the mothership. And as a kid, I loved those scenes but was so unhappy that the building of Roy's Devil's Tower was left out and as a result, it ruined the movie for me. Now, I am glad the mothership inside scene was removed from the Director's Cut as it does take away the sense of wonder if what it would be like from our minds.Close Encounters has stood the test of time and it is a film that always will and could never be remade. "},{"Title":"30 years later and still worth watching again","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A fantastic movie that has endured the test of time. Fine acting, and for the time, special effects that were enjoyable. If you are one of the 200 people on this 3rd planet that haven't seen Close Encounters of the Third kind, then do so now. It is one of my few must see movies of all time.It is simply fantastic for the entire family. Regardless of age, its an uplifting movie for all. This movie allows us, even today to question, Is there anyone out there?30 years later and I find this movie worth watching every year. I'm almost certain my personal tradition of watching this movie every year will continue for another 30 years. It is one of the God Fathers of Science-Fiction movies of the modern era. "}{"Title":"Close Encounters of the Third Kind","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hollywood runs 10 years behind the times. My friends and I were watching for UFOs in 1966. Somehow, Dreyfuss got into the 3 biggest movies of the 1970s. In Close Encounters, he becomes obsessed with an image in his mind. It turns out to be Devil's Tower in Wyoming, a vertical monolith created by erosion. Teddy Roosevelt proclaimed it the nation's first National Monument. Dreyfuss is being drawn to an alien landing. The Third Kind indicates actual contact with UFOs. The film makes every effort to bring a sense of realism. There are many believers. So far, UFO stories have been hoaxes and science fiction. Where does Dreyfuss go with his alien friends and what becomes of him? "},{"Title":"Against the blue book!!","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The best of Spielberg alongside The Schindler's list,from the already classical poster showing a rising highway leading to the strangest mountain of all the times until the epilogue,this movie is out of this world.An average guy Roy Neary(Richard Dreyfuss)starts to find out the unveiled truth about weird lights,cars shaking up,incredible tales about UFOs and even from never-believer people,his curiosity will come up to the new reality always denied by the government(please remember Rosewell,Bermudas' Triangle,missing jets and abductions never explained),it's amazing the photograph set by all the Steven's crew the boy in the door,the car bouncing,colored houses by the star ships, sudden flashbacks and blue effects so credible for those times.After the discover of the real thing into the mountain,the new believers will watch the hidden enforcement of the NASA to investigate and make contact with the aliens,the first and second kind were over the visions up in the sky and the physical evidence left behind,they saw an UFO's landing with the tunes of electronic keyboards in a kind of unusual communications with the extraterrestrials,one big-headed midget extended his awful hand in a sign of salute for everyone,his look was so similar to the Roswell's guy,the lights glittering and shining,but the scariest scene happenspeople of all the centuries went down from the outer aircraft,Perhaps Were these the strange lights, chariots of fire and unknown gods told to the mankind year by year for so long time ago?A magnifier movie,Dreyfuss won't do it better anymore,Melinda Dillon and Teri Garr didn't disappoint anybody,and a long as exceptional cameo of luxurythe celebrated and talented french director Francois Truffaut as the main researcher adjoined to the US Air Force;playing only in his own waya real master and guide(but never to forget the great soundtrack scored by the wizard of the films Mr.John Williams!),but this time to contact with the alien visitors,after to say goodbye they took off again through the blue sky to follow their endless mission.When i got out from the theater with my father(and even he didn't believe in UFOs,but this time he thought in a positive doubt!!),PEOPLE WAS CONFUSED BUT SURPRISED and for then i was a child making questions but only stared the sky to find answers.After all,we are not alone in the universe............ "},{"Title":"Surreal encounter with plodding suspense build up","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's been some years since I saw this science fiction classic, so have forgotten many of the details, but do recall its drift and of course dramatic closing scene. Richard Dreyfuss is convincing as always, here in the role of Roy Neary, a power company cable man and ordinary guy.One night Neary experiences a close encounter with a UFO. His truck is caught up in a blinding light, with items inside whirling around inexplicably. Strange experiences follow, including his obsessive desire to build pyramid shaped structures (even from shaving cream and mashed potatoes) and an unusual repetition of the same five note sequence. Other individuals around the world seem affected by similar odd experiences and compulsions. Also, around this time, a little boy named Barry is mysteriously abducted by the aliens. The military is (not unexpectedly) somehow involved in all the drama, either in conspiracies, cover ups, or nefarious plots (I've forgotten which). All this leads via a tension building (but slow moving) plot to Neary's obsessive quest in seeking out the extraterrestrial source of these unusual happenings, culminating in the final close encounter of the third kind...that is, contact with the alien species.Fabulous special effects here. The wonder filled landing of the Mothership and the alien encounter are surreal, the beings ethereal with huge heads and large slanted black eyes, communicating only through the five note sequence (sort of a nifty concept). The intent is to portray these creatures as intelligent and curious, but non hostile, beings. However, I do not consider kidnapping a young earthling boy for study purposes a particularly friendly act! Also, being of the Christian faith, I found connecting these aliens to religion, having a woman kneeling in front of them etc., quite irreverent and unnecessary. (Keep God out of such fictional drivel, please.) Yet otherwise, the encounter itself is admittedly unforgettable, even these many years later. Personally, however, I prefer the Vulcan encounter in Star Trek's First Contact, a movie I enjoyed but also had a few problems with. (See my review, if interested)As for Roy Neary, he elicits only limited sympathy from me. As his alien induced obsessions grow, Neary's distressed typical suburban wife (Terri Carr) finds herself unable to support his mission to seek out these aliens. Personally, I could sympathize with her misgivings regarding her husband's bizarre behavior. Neary thus abandons his family (including two sons and a daughter) and hooks up with little Barry's determined and plucky single mom (Mellinda Dillon). This really isn't very heroic, is it? I call this the 'My wife just doesn't understand me' syndrome, although fortunately, the sexual attraction is only implied here. However, I just read that Stephen Spielberg has himself repented of having his hero abandon his family to pursue the aliens, so he's forgiven, I guess. Also, I disagree with those who insist the story is dependent upon that action, as revealing Neary's driving obsession. A clever screenwriter could have thought of another means.In summary, the film is entertaining enough, though the plot is a bit plodding, the hero somewhat likable if flawed. However, Close Encounters is indeed a classic of its genre, with a concluding legendary encounter that is worth the long wait, and one that's a must see for fans of science fiction. "},{"Title":"The Truth Is Out There","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND (SPECIAL EDITION) (1977) **** Richard Dreyfuss, Francois Truffaut, Melinda Dillon, Teri Garr, Cary Guffey, Bob Balaban.  Breath-takingly realistic and intelligent approach to one of the big questions in life Is there intelligent life out here in space?  Surprisingly thrilling in execution and humane with humor, suspense and some eye candy brilliant special effects.  Steven Spielberg's charming fantasy of benign aliens making contact set the stage for his masterpiece in 1982's E.T.  Memorable performance by Dreyfuss as a model of obsession and Guffey as the personification of innocence.  Waycool soundtrack to Oscar-winning composer John Williams.  This version offers added footage including a continuing ending aboard the mothership.  Academy Awards also went to cinematographer Vilmos Zsigmond and shared a Special Achievement in Sound Effects with Star Wars.  Look sharp for Lance Henriksen in a small role. "},{"Title":"One of my personal favourite Steven Spielberg films","Date":"3 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like a lot of Steven Spielberg films, such as Schindler's List, Raiders of the Lost Ark, ET, Jaws and Jurassic Park and Close Encounters of the Third Kind is no exception. Although I have given it a very high score, I do not think this film is perfect. The script isn't the best in a Steven Spielberg movie, but it is serviceable enough. Also Close Encounters of the Third Kind starts off a little slow, but once it gets going, it is exciting and it never stops being exciting.So why have I given it a high score? Well when I was a kid, it was a personal favourite of mine. I especially loved it for the special effects and score. Years later at 18, I dug my old video out and those memories came back. It isn't quite as good now, but I still consider it one of Spielberg's best. The special effects are absolutely spectacular, the cinematography is excellent and John Williams' score is outstanding and one of his better works(Jaws and Star Wars being his best). The story is also quite engrossing, there is a great mixture of mundane everyday life and of course the extraordinary events such as the kidnap of the young child which I still find quite terrifying to this day and Dreyfuss' slip into apparent insanity.Spielberg's direction hits all the right buttons, and while protracted for me the climax is impossible to not get caught up in. The acting is fine, Richard Dreyfuss is perfect as Roy, particularly with the childlike inquisitiveness he brings to the role and Francois Truffant makes for an elegant UFO expert. Overall, this is a fine film and one of my personal favourite films from Spielberg. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Extraordinary, but what's the point?","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know that Steven Spielberg has always had a feeling inside himself to try and bring to life the human fantasies of aliens coming to Earth and what that experience would be like for us. This idea flourishes in Close Encounters of the Third Kind, as Spielberg gives us visually stunning scenes to explore the concept of alien contact with humans. Still, I felt that the actual story lacked heart and soul. Certainly the alien contact with humans was well-played, but contact between the humans, between Roy and his family; it's almost as if Spielberg is trying to say that aliens are more important than family. This is not to say that this film isn't extraordinary, because it is, but Spielberg's lack of consistency and depth to the supporting characters keeps this from being one of his best pieces of work. It is extraordinary, especially for 1977. However, I started to watch this expecting more, and the only highlights for me were the brilliant special effects and John Williams' masterful score. It's good, just not great. "},{"Title":"Classic Spielberg","Date":"27 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even back in 1977, Steven Spielberg's name was one with a certain amount of cachet. After all, he was the man behind Jaws, which was then the highest grossing movie of all time. So, when Columbia put all of the tools at his disposal to create his dream project, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, movie-goers knew to expect something special.The film's protagonist is Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss), an everyman whose life is turned upside down by a spectacular UFO sighting. His experience leaves him with persistent visions that he instinctively knows are important even though he can't pinpoint their exact meaning. Meanwhile, government agents are attempting to orchestrate a close encounter of the third kind contact with an alien life form.The movie sports some fine performances. Supporting actress Melinda Dillon may have received the only Oscar nomination but the film also features fine work from Dreyfuss, Teri Garr, François Truffaut & Bob Balaban. Meanwhile, youngster Cary Guffey supplied the ideal note of childlike wonder that typifies the film's feel.Spielberg's direction of his own screenplay is expertly handled and the special effects are also well done. There may be a few bits that aren't completely convincing but that's unsurprising given the film's vintage. Musically, John Williams produced a moving score while also contributing to the narrative with the iconic five tone motif used in communicating with the aliens.All things considered, Close Encounters of the Third Kind is one of the best science fiction films out there. While there are some minor imperfections in the script and the effects they detract only slightly from the film's unique sense of wonder.(Interestingly, there are three versions of the film in existence the original theatrical version, a special edition from 1980 and a director's cut from 1998. The first two versions were both compromised by studio demands but the director's cut brings together the best of the two previous versions. Thus, the director's cut is the version that I'd recommend, though the original version is perfectly acceptable as well.) "},{"Title":"If you like movies about people getting into strange space ships, then watch this movie.","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's corny. It's contrived. It's silly. The phony-baloney special effects are a joke. Yet ... I liked this movie. Yes ... I LIKED this movie! I liked the idea of a bunch of people who receive some kind of telepathic message from who-knows-where and converge in the middle of nowhere in search of something that they can't even describe. THAT is an original story, and one that at least in this case Hollywood did not completely trash, though there are signs in this movie that they tried. Such as when the close encounter finally occurs. A huge spaceship shows up out of nowhere and before long the earthlings and the visitors are communicating through music - CORNY! Or what about earthlings lining up to get inside said spaceship - CORNY! Yet the story does survive these shallow attempts at evoking some kind of feeling of awe and wonder. Well, actually it did evoke those feelings, especially as I wondered why anyone would want to take off in that spaceship and awe that despite the theatrics of such a contrived scene, I still liked the movie. "},{"Title":"Comment","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Since this film, along with another, Raiders of the Lost Ark, deals in imagination and the supernatural, this  comment is appropriately offeredAs our three-fold nature of mind-body-spirit parallels other realms as past-present-future and conscious-subconscious-superconscious, so our intuitive perception often comes into play in evaluating artistic stimuli.Abstract criteria as feelings may provide less concrete reasons as more deeply felt emotions; however, such energies may come from somewhere deep, begging attention.This dramatic opus yields a reaction of strong negativity and distraction.  The usurption of our focus on an ultimate internal power offers a skewed substitute, draining knowingness and awareness at the highest level.With self actualization being unconcerned with technical achievement, its purpose points toward a profound remembrance of genuine origin.  The said dramatic presentations seem good examples of emissions alien to that infinite objective. "},{"Title":"Amazing to Those Who Wonder and Believe","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I read a lot of UFO/extra terrestrial books in my 10 years of life and many about the Bermuda Triangle. Once I first saw this movie I knew Spielberg had the same theory as me. That the aliens performed some type of place in this world. Mostly visited by ships and planes. That if anything is transported to the right demension or world, they would cremate, using mysterious thing to, and then put in 2-6 white specks or dolphins that are sent to earth to inspect or spectate what happens. Also the communication between us. The crop circles are very complicated and amazingly huge and can only be done from above not from the ground. The dolphins are shot into the atmosphere, glazing an invisible light ray or scanner that puts in a special chemical into the crops so when they go down, they still live. Yet, there are many things to think. Scientists can have theories from the government (which is stupid because they might work for them) or to life outside this crowded, round planet. But the answers will surely be here in 2010.That is the year we contact and will be a small step for man and a second leap for mankind and mankind out of this world. "}{"Title":"wowie zowie, folks!","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Can Steven Spielberb crank out a film or what? This is one of the absolute classics of our time. He chose the perfect Roy Neary, which was necessary for this film to work. Richard Dreyfuss was absolutely perfect as Neary. The remainder of the cast could have been played by other good actors/actresses and been OK, but getting Neary right was crucial. The special effects in this film are spectacular and I recall the soundtrack being exceptionally clean of extraneous noises, especially during the encounter. The story is powerfully written and Spielberg is probably one of the greatest directors in the world today, so it was directed perfectly. The story has been covered by countless other reviewers, so I'll not bother with it here. Suffice it to say that this film is a truly great one and will remain a favorite for many years to come. "},{"Title":"Great Classic!","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The world's hardest working most talented artists produce two or three masterpieces if they're lucky. Due to the myriad conflicts they face mainstream feature filmmakers have a chance that is scant at best of producing even one masterpiece. To create a masterpiece a filmmaker has to have an honest pure vision that they are able (despite studio interference) to communicate with their assistants, who must have complete mastery of their crafts the extent of which must allow for them to realize the filmmaker's vision technically. This almost never happens.Stephen Spielberg has been blessed with circumstances of which few filmmakers can claim to have had the luxury, for most of his career. He is usually in a better position to create a masterpiece than anyone else. These circumstances allowed him to make Close Encounters of the Third Kind.Most good filmmakers have one film that, whether their best film or not, most accurately describes their vision. Woody Allen has Annie Hall. Tobie Hooper has The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. Brian DePalma has Femme Fatale. David Lynch has Blue Velvet, etc. Stephen Spielberg has Close Encounters of the Third Kind.Close Encounters of the Third Kind may or may not be a masterpiece. If it isn't a masterpiece it is definitely close to being one. This is particular of the original 1977 version. The 1980 version simply tries, like most of Spielberg's weaker work, to show too much in the end.The original Close Encounters of the Third Kind perfectly expresses Spielberg's purest raw vision. It IS cinema. This means something. This is important. Richard Dreyfuss could be Spielberg when he says that line. Spielberg's madness runs full throttle in Close Encounters of the Third Kind. It's a disease I beg to have. "},{"Title":"Those hand signals...","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, so everyone knows about the song, hand motions, and mud mountain. All in all, Close Encounters of the Third Kind is one great movie. Nearly every scene is impressive. I'm never able to decide whether this movie or Mr. Holland's Opus was Richard Dreyfuss' best movie ever. But he does a great job in this movie as Roy Neary, who becomes convinced that he is needed somewhere, and leaves his family to follow his dream. Bravo also to Melinda Dillon as Jillian Guiler, who feels the same pull as Roy. Further kudos still to Francois Truffaut as scientist Claude Lecombe, who at first participates in a government cover-up but then has second thoughts. Maybe a few parts are a little sentimental, but Steven Spielberg created a masterpiece here. A great movie if there ever was one. "},{"Title":"Close Encounters of the Third Kind","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was another great box office success for Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated director Steven Spielberg, the first being Jaws. This is a really good story showing how powerful belief can be, and also giving an idea of Spielberg's childhood past. The only actor I recognised was Richard Dreyfuss as Roy Neary, one o the many people looking out for beaming, humming and flying crafts going around his area. Basically many crafts were flying around, and then obviously the big mother ship came to contact with us. Also starring BAFTA nominated François Truffaut as Claude Lacombe, Teri Garr as Ronnie Neary, Oscar nominated Melinda Dillon as Gillian Guiler, Bob Balaban as David Laughlin, J. Patrick McNamara as Project Leader, Warren J. Kemmerling as Wild Bill, Roberts Blossom as Farmer, Philip Dodds as Jean Claude, Cary Guffey as Barry Guiler, Shawn Bishop as Brad Neary, Adrienne Campbell as Sylvia Neary, Justin Dreyfuss (Richard's nephew) as Toby Neary and Lance Henriksen as Robert. A magical story with nice aliens and a nice story. We Are Not Alone, a good slogan for a good classic extra-terrestrial idea. He obviously did it well again with E.T. It won the Oscar for Best Cinematography, and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Visual Effects, Best Film Editing, Best Music for John Williams, Best Sound and Special Achievement Award for Frank E. Warner (sound effects editing), it won the BAFTA Best Production Design/Art Direction, and it was nominated for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music, Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing, Best Screenplay, Best Sound and Best Film, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama, Best Original Score and Best Screenplay. Steven Spielberg was number 56 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, the film was number 31 on 100 Years, 100 Thrills, it was number 81 on The Ultimate Film, it was number 58 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers, and it was number 64 on 100 Years, 100 Movies. Very good! "}]