[{"Title":"''You'll Forget Every Other Love Story You Ever Saw....''","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Slipper And The Rose is a beautiful version of the classic Cinderella story. Made in England and released in 1976, it retells the familiar story with warmth, humor and wonderful songs by the Sherman brothers, who also did the music for countless Disney films, notably Mary Poppins. Prince Edward (Richard Chamberlain), heir to the throne of Euphrania, is expected by his father the king (Michael Hordern in another wonderful performance) and his mother the queen (Lally Bowers) to choose a wife and settle down. To this end, they plan a court ball to which all the princesses they can locate will be invited. Meanwhile, young Cinderella (Gemma Craven) has just lost her beloved father. But things go from bad to worse for her, when her selfish stepmother (the great Margaret Lockwood, in her first film in over 20 years, and her last) and spoiled stepsisters (Rosalind Ayres and Sherrie Hewson) reduce her to the status of a servant in her own home. Thankfully, however, her fairy godmother (Annette Crosbie) is waiting in the wings to see that she goes to the ball and meet the prince. The rest is up to them... With an excellent cast and fine support from Kenneth More, as the Lord Chamberlain, Christopher Gable as the prince's friend John, and especially Dame Edith Evans as the dowager Queen, The Slipper and the Rose is magical film-making.A few twists in the story keep it fresh, while all the charm of the original is preserved. The lavish production, handsome location photography beautiful costumes and a witty, sophisticated script has appeal for all ages.And enough cannot be said for the Sherman's music, which is, in turn, delightful, hilarious and, when the occasion calls for it, heartbreaking. Craven's ballad ''Tell Him Anything-But Not That I Love Him''is a perfect example of the latter. This film just gets better as the years pass,and it's truly one of the best film versions of Cinderella ever made. "},{"Title":"The best version of Cinderella there is!","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Slipper and The Rose is a beautiful version of the Cinderella story with picturesque scenery, excellent design and costume and lots of 70's soft-focus romantic-type shooting. This isn't a run-of-the-mill Cinderella story. You actually get some depth of character motivation. The characters are generally extremely believable - the wicked stepmother not being hideous enough for one to question why anyone would marry her and the ugly sisters, both slim and quite pretty, but instead ugly from the inside. This film is brilliantly cast with some of the finest British actors/comedy actors of all time (Kenneth More, Annette Crosbie to name two!). Richard Chamberlain acts, dances, sings! Gemma Craven is radiant. She has a beautiful voice and does a great job with a very passive character. Let's face it, in the traditional story of Cinderella (as this is), she doesn't really make any decisions except that she might quite like to go to the ball. It's just great to see people cast on ability, not solely looks/cleavage/plastic surgery, (although I suppose the features all fit a certain time-period of what was considered beautiful.) The script is very witty and intelligent and I love the songs.. Fantastic music. Lyrics aren't dumbed down at all! Words of more than one syllable. What other musical has a song with the title Protocoligorically Correct in  it? None, I should imagine!Incidentally, I believe Sherman & Sherman who did the songs/music also did Mary Poppins (i.e. supercalifragilisticexpialadocious). Perhaps they just like long words. This is believable escapism, and apart from the odd haircut here and there and occasional choreography, doesn't really date. I love it. It's magical. A great family film.  "},{"Title":"A Childhood Treasure rediscovered","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  My parents taped this movie from TV for me when I was young, and it has always remained one of my favorites.  I've worn the tape out over the years, because even now that I'm a (supposed) grown up, I still get the urge to go back and watch again and again.The film is beautiful, filmed on location in Europe (Austria, I think?) with a whimsical and richly romantic air.  What I love most about this movie is that it makes the effort to flesh out the characters into three dimensional figures and to set against an (at least plausible) historical backdrop, while still maintaining a tiny bit of tongue-in-cheek self-awareness--a live-action period piece that enjoys the fact that it's really a fairytale and a musical.  I've always thought that gave it just a hint of sophistication.  The movie also explores more of the complexities of the stories and the characters' motivations.  It carries us past the classic slipper moment and allows for a more complete ending, which I found more fulfilling.As for the characters themselves, I loved Cinderella, neither the modernized girl-power of Ever After (which I loved, by the way) nor the blank goody-goody-ness of the Disney classic, but a very human and lovely blend of the two--with a gorgeous voice thrown in for good measure.  Prince Edward, played flawlessly by Richard Chamberlain, gives us a hero to root for, in addition to our traditional heroine.  You don't just wait for her to be found, you cheer for each of them to find the other.  The rest of the cast is filled in with real people that the viewer comes to care for and value in the story almost as much as the main pair.  You are not left with the typical stock characters that you see so often in fairy tales.  I especially loved the Fairy Godmother, the Prince's Companion, the Chamberlain, the senile King, the Dowager queen...okay, I really love them all.  Even the dog.  )I despaired of every finding a real copy on VHS until recently.  The VHS retained a few scenes that were edited from the TV version (I assume) for time, and I have to say I think that I liked the short version better.  I thought that the it flowed more smoothly, and I found that I did not miss the musical numbers they cut.  I was especially disappointed with Find a Mate (yes, they're serious) and the scene in the Fairy Godmother's house...very contrived and corny.  They really don't equal the rest of the film.  Although the Prince's prayer at the end is wonderful, and was cut from the TV version.All in all, I just have to say that I love this movie, and always will. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie finally coming to video in America!!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This story of Cinderella is the best version I have ever ever seen. Richard Chamberlain is wonderful and Gemma Craven is positively charming.Filmed partly on location in Austria, the scenery is beautiful and the sets and costumes very authentic.  Part of what makes this movie so great is that the music helps tell the story.  The music is beautiful and the lyrics, although at times very comical, are very important in building the characters, and expressing their emotions.Perhaps one of the most interesting points of this movie is the fact that they address the question of Cinderella not being of Royal blood.  It actually adds a nice twist to the story, but of course, Cinderella eventually gets her Prince.This brilliant musical has been my ultimate favorite since I was about 12 years old.  And at long last, it is finally coming to VHS and DVD.  "},{"Title":"Love this version","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I couldn't believe it had Richard Chamberlain singing! I really was impressed by the production though some of the singing and dancing sequences seemed a bit long, it was, overall, a well made version of the classic Cinderella story.  I thought it told the fairy tale 'to perfection'.  I had just recently bought the video and was pleasantly surprised by all the extra footage it included.  My daughters all enjoy it and like watching it over and over.  The sets and costumes and the lovely landscapes were exceptionally beautiful. I thought Gemma Craven was the perfect Cinderella including a beautiful singing voice. But the one I thought stole the movie was the fairy godmother, played by Annette Crosbie. Her grumpy affection towards Cinderella made her a more interesting character. A must-see for anyone who wants to escape for a couple of hours with an entertaining tale. "},{"Title":"The Long-Lost Top-Notch Musical that I Never Got to See Again","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I, too, have been longing forever (since VCRs appeared) for this musical to become available on video.  The Sherman & Sherman (& Morley) songs are perfectly good, and the choreography is super, but what I remember best is the great, iconoclastically non-chalant Fairy Godmother character (Annette Crosbie).  I put her among the greatest steal-the-show supporting characters of all time, right along with Nicol Williamson's Merlin in Excalibur. "},{"Title":"A Forever Favorite","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Picture my little sister and I dancing around our living room, gleefully singing  and delighting in the wonderful Cinderella-story called The Slipper and the Rose.  Add to the picture the fact that we were living at the time in the depths of Africa, Kinshasa, Zaire to be specific.  It makes a funny picture- two little American girls in the middle of Africa madly in love with Prince Edward (Richard Chamberlain) and his right hand man John (Christopher Gable).   To this day (we're now in our mid-20s and living in the States) The Slipper and the Rose continues to be one of our biggest in-jokes.  We rejoice in the fact that we know every line, complete with the gaudy inflections of the wicked step-sisters and the droll intonation of the King and Queen.   I will proudly admit that we show no shame in breaking out in complete renditions of songs such as  Position and positioning. which is the perfect song to accompany laundry-folding.  We still howl with laughter at how much we love The Slipper and the Rose.Although, the movie is a musical, it is by no means a 'fluff' version of the Cinderella Story.  Much like Ever After, the more recent Cinderella film starring Drew Barrymore, The Slipper and the Rose approaches the tale with a vigorous bite.  It fulfills everything that makes Cinderella the compelling fairytale that it is.  The wicked Step Mother and her two vile daughters are truly vicious and conniving.  Their sniveling, whining, and shrieking make Cinderella's plight heart-felt.  Prince Albert is plagued with a desire to be his own person, not trapped into the confines of his princely status (Why can't I be TWO people.?).   The endearing King is struggling to avoid a possible war (For we MUST be Protocoligorically Correct.'Else the kingdom will be wrecked!)  And Cinderella's glittering gown, slippers and carriage are as beautiful as can be imagined.  Decked out in shimmering pink, Cinderella's entrance to the Bride Finding Ball as Princess Incognita is truly memorable.Those of you who love the Slipper and the Rose as much as I do might want to check out the TV series (now on Video) called Faerie Tale Theatre.  This series depicts fairytales such as The Princess and the Pea, The Emperors New Clothes, and yes, Cinderella.  Well known actors such as Liza Minnelli, Matthew Broderick, Jennifer Beals, and Joan Collins portray our favorite fairytale characters without pretension.  "},{"Title":"This is great film in both DVD and VHS versions having been restored to full length.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I have recently purchased the DVD and VHS versions of this film.  I love the music, the dancing, the story line and the humor.  The dancing is the best I have seen in a long time.  Gemma Craven and Richard Chamberlain are excellent in the rolls of Cinderella and the Prince. I love the sound of Gemma's voice both while talking and singing. She brings a freshness to the roll in that she is the personification of the girl/woman that I have always imagined Cinderella to be.  She is petite and very lovely in her roll.  The all star cast really helps when you see the fully restored version.  The costumes are excellent.  The DVD is nice in that it also has a trailer on the Making of the Slipper and the Rose.  There is also a voice over capability by Brian Forbes that can be activated during Film.  He provides comment on various aspects of the film that are a real plus.  There is also an interview with the Sherman brothers, who with Brian Forbes were responsible for the initial script and of course they wrote the music and provided the lyrics for the film script.  My only regrets are that I had ignored this Gem for so long and that there were no other films in which Gemma Craven was allowed to sing in. "},{"Title":"Creative Take on the Classis Cinderella Story","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a very clever and entertaining remake of Cinderella, with wonderful music, beautiful costumes and scenery, and a very talented ensemble cast. It also has a good deal of dry wit, particularly from the King, played marvelously by Michael Hordern, which sets it apart from other productions of Cinderella. It also features Richard Chamberlain trying his hand at his first musical, in the role of Prince Edward, the royal heir to the throne of Euphrania, who simply wants to marry for love, not political expediency. He is terrific in this role--handsome, aristocratic, with a very pleasant singing voice, and extremely graceful on the dance floor--he looks very much The Prince. Gemma Craven is good in the role of Cinderella, and I particularly like her singing in the haunting Tell Him Anything. The song Secret Kingdom with Richard and Gemma is beautiful, and one of the highlights of the entire movie. Though the film itself runs a little too long, I still love all the fine performances from this very talented cast, and recommend it to anyone who enjoys the musical genre. "},{"Title":"Rainbows raced around the room when I saw this film!","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time.  I just wish they'd make a soundtrack so I could listen to the songs in my car.  This isn't your average Cinderella story; it's so much better!  And this version has added scenes and songs that were omitted in the television and first release versions.  I would very much recommend this film if you like fairy tales and humor. "}{"Title":"Under-appreciated movie","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Slipper and the Rose is entirely under-appreciated. Though this film may be very romantic, Bryan Forbes' direction and the performances throughout are sensitive and and the music is beautiful and moving. What's interesting here is that even though this film has fantastic elements (i.e. the pumpkin turning into a coach, the Fairy Godmother suddenly has a translucent horn), Forbes manages to draw us in to the serious feelings of the characters in their situations through very close and personal cinematography that, at times, can expand to lush, majestic wide angle shots of mountains covered in snow or hillsides of green. Spoken and sung lines are also not rushed, which allows the viewer to be brought into different moments gently or feel like the action is taking place all around them. There is one scene of note - the Lord Chamberlin tells Cinderella that she has to leave (incredible performance by both actors) - and it is done with great intimacy and delicacy. I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"A wonderful fairytale romance","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a long-term fan of this movie. I love musicals anyway, but was totally blown away by 'The Slipper and the Rose'.The score by the Sherman brothers is wonderful, particularly the Oscar-nominated 'He/She Danced with Me' and all of the cast cope well with the singing, despite most not being singers primarily. Gemma Craven's debut is an excellent one, as she manages to play the very well known character of Cinderella uniquely and with skill. The movie is well directed by Bryan Forbes and excellently choreographed (Position and Positioning being a prime example), and this rounds out an overall wonderful cinematic experience.Margaret Lockwood is a joy to watch as the venomous stepmother, but all of the British greats present (Edith Evans, Kenneth More, Michael Hordern, Annette Crosbie et al) add class and gravitas to the proceedings.Well worth the effort!  "},{"Title":"Will they live happily every after?  What do you think...","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A magical and musical romp through the tale that is Cinderella.  The mythos gets a little tweak and it's quite refreshing.  Beautiful, hummable songs, gorgeous locations and production values are topped by first-rate performances from a very dashing Richard Chamberlain (perfect as the Prince, just trying to be happy) and the lovely Gemma Craven (also perfect as our heroine).  Annette Crosbie nearly steals the show as the over-worked Fairy Godmother and she's quite a hoot.  Anyone who loves the story of Cinderella will enjoy this variation. "},{"Title":"Good Family Fare","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"    This English Musical managed to make an impression in a time when the musical was all but a dead art form in the US.  This is  largely due to wonderful performances of the supporting cast(especially Michael Hordern as the King and the underrated Annette Crosbie as the Fairy Godmother), and some really wonderful moments in the script (as it happens Crosbie and Hordern get some of the best lines).     The leads (Chamberlain and Craven) are sweet, but their performances are lacking something.  Chamberlain looks pained at times like he is not enjoying himself.  There are also moments where it sounds as though he is giving a straight reading of the script.  He can sing, though, and not too badly.   The score by the Sherman Brothers (responsible for the music in Mary Poppins) has its moments (Protocolicorically Correct and The Slipper and the Rose Waltz When He/She Danced with Me), but the songs tend to be a little odd and forgetable.  Overall though, this film is worth seeing and is an excellent film choice for family video night. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The film is excellent brilliantly acted,you fall in love with both Richard Chameberlin and Gemma Craven immediately.The songs are excellent and will leave you humming them all week, Your film collection is not complete without the slipper and the rose.What has love got to do with getting married....... "},{"Title":"I love this film!","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I used to love this film when I was little, and I loved Richard Chamberlain in it! I just got this on DVD the other day, and it didn't fail to make me still think how fantastic it is!I think modern day costume movies don't have the same touch as older ones do, and the costumes in this are amazing. The whole look of the film makes me feel as if I'm actually there!Richard makes the perfect prince, stunning as he is, and Gemma Craven is wonderful as Cinderella. Most of the songs are brilliant, and memorable.All of the cast are fantastic in it, and the Stepmother and sisters are perfect, and the whole story works so well.But of course, Richard to me is the star, he's absolutely brilliant. I wish I'd been Cinderella!Watch this film!  "},{"Title":"Favourite film, great performances, music and setting","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is my favourite film of all time - I could watch it again and again and again (if only I had it on video!).  The musical score is excellent and the scenery and setting capture the moment.  There are lots of great performances, particularly Julian Orchard as the Prince's cousin, and the cast list is full of British actors of calibre (plus Richard Chamberlain of course who does a good job of disguising his American accent).  This is a really good family movie and has a great twist to the traditional Cinderella story.   "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies!","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Lyrically this movie is very fun! If you haven't heard Protocoligorically Correct, then you haven't lived!  I am waiting for a copy of this movie on video, but fear I will wait forever. "},{"Title":"Lush retelling of Cinderella","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" As someone who has become rather disillusioned with the story of Cinderella, I appreciate any film that puts a unique spin on it. My favorite example is 1998's Ever After with its feminist protagonist and more in-depth love story. I was happily convinced that that was the only version of Cinderella for me. Yet, after recently viewing The Slipper and the Rose, I've decided this lush, 1976 musical comes a close second. Despite its daunting length of 143 minutes (parents of kids used to the breezy Disney cartoon may want to think twice about showing this to the little ones), The Slipper and the Rose is a beautifully photographed (filmed in Austria), immensely enjoyable lark of a movie that is a must for any fairy tale fan. It dares to address issues that other Cinderella adaptations fail to acknowledge the futility of trying to find the maiden who fits this slipper (that's right, our prince doesn't find Cinderella in the way you'd expect), the hard knock life of a fairy godmother, and the difficulties of two people from different ranks in life to marry. Strangely enough, The Slipper and the Rose is almost more about the prince than Cinderella. This isn't our grandparents' Prince Charming. Our handsome prince, Edward, isn't some vapid mannequin of a human being, but an idealistic, humorous, earthy, passionate young man with his own ideas of how to live his life and find his queen. He also loathes the idea of being the grand prize in the ball. Edward is brought exquisitely to life by Richard Chamberlain, who lends his softly handsome face and supple singing voice to this charming tale. Gemma Craven as Cinderella is hit or miss, but she's a pleasant singer and game dancer, and brings a serene maturity to the part. We are also treated to a perfectly smarmy wicked stepmother, a doltish, Mel Brooks-like king, and an eccentric, cranky fairy godmother. The songs are catchy and delightful, written by the Sherman brothers, best known for their work in Mary Poppins. Protocol-igorrically Correct won't easily leave your head, and When He Danced With Me is sung by Craven with infectious joy and passion. This a fine adaptation of Cinderella full of surprises, romance, and even a layer of complexity. If you like unique re-tellings of your favorite fairy tales, The Slipper and the Rose is just the film for you. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A well directed and lively choreographed music with dance version of the Cinderella story, it is generally enjoyable to watch, with great songs and music, however it is ultimately overlong and too verbose, and this may particularly be a problem for the younger viewers. Forbes' opening shots establish the atmosphere well, and there is interesting mirror work throughout. It has excellent period costumes, a great set design. and Horden is a delight in a BAFTA nominated role. It is surprisingly witty at times and rather funny, but otherwise a touch stale between the dance and music numbers, especially towards the end. The film tries to say something about how it is right to marry for love, but it does not succeed, however this is mainly due to the original material, which has an underdeveloped romance. But what can one say overall here? This is a strong vision of the classic story and good viewing in general. It could arguably be improved upon, but it is still fine as it is. "}{"Title":"A lovely classic!","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of my favorite 'comfort films'--I associate it with being home from college at Christmas, when I first saw it on late-night TV. I now own it on DVD and watch it almost every Christmas. The 18th-century costumes are absolutely superb (love that moment when Margaret Lockwood as the Stepmother removes her black widow's cloak to reveal her scarlet gown), the script witty (especially when Julian Orchard as the prince's camp cousin shows up), and the performances delivered with a light touch (Annette Crosbie and Kenneth More are the best at this). Richard Chamberlain never looked so dashing--the way he gazes adoringly at Cinderella!!--and Cinderella herself, Gemma Craven, is sweet and lovely, with an excellent voice.A couple of the songs clunk a bit (you decide which ones), but the dancing is great, especially in the ball scene and the 'Position and Positioning.' The dancers come from the Royal Ballet (the dancing mice, too), so the dancing is a delight. And Richard Chamberlain has a dance number with Christopher Gable of the Royal Ballet, and he certainly doesn't suffer by comparison! And oh, the costumes! I first saw a rather faded copy of this movie, and I loved the frosty pastels of the ballgowns (in fact, I thought Cinderella's dress was white); I was slightly disappointed by the brighter colors on the DVD. But not too disappointed--this is a beautifully-dressed film.My favorite scene is Cinderella's flight from the ball; she runs down a series of staircases as the clock tolls midnight, rose-petals fluttering down all the time, and her pale-pink gown and frothy white wig gradually darken into her ragged blue dress and chestnut hair. It's a stunning effect. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, inspiring, and a shining light!  This is one of my top 3.","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Beautiful, inspiring, and a shining light! This is one of my top 3. I discovered this film during my teens, the 90's. I can barely remember what the AMC informer said, but I remember nonetheless. He talked about how much of an impact it made upon the musical film industry. It was an awe inspiring effort! Location, Austria was beautiful!I have heard some compare it to large quantities of sugar... Just a spoon full of sugar, helps the medicine go down. I can understand this point of view. To present my side I am a Judy Garland fan. I enjoy an occasional Barbara Streisand film, she can be a bit too much (small quantities). I enjoy most of the films during WWII and those following until the mid 60's and on, as well as the performers accordingly. After the 60's it becomes selective. Although, this description does not fully describe my tastes, I do fall into a certain niche. This film is everything that I enjoy out of a transitional period in history. Cinderella has been retold over and over. This incarnation is heart-warming. I can feel the love they shared. I will forever be great full to have been given the honor of the experience that is, The Slipper and the Rose.This week I was singing the songs while walking to the mail box, doing my errands, and making breakfast. I will leave it on the shelf for a month or-so at a time. Eventually, I feel the craving for Richard Chamberlain (Prince Edward) and Gemma Craven (Cinderella) to belt out Rainbows raced around the room, Don't let him know, why I must leave him, why I must go so far away, Position and Positioning, are socially conditioning, There's a secret kingdom all my own. With no vassals and no hassles and no Throne. Just two subjects, you and me. In our private Monarchy.It comes shining into view, When the one you love, loves you. Alone together, we will reign forever. In that secret kingdom, Where Love's dreams come true. "},{"Title":"An Almost Perfect Movie of its Type.","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This version of Cinderella is one of the best musicals ever made.  The cast is superb, the music is enchanting, and the story line offers some improvements on the traditional Cinderella story.  It is great fun seeing so many distinguished and serious British actors (Kenneth More and others) dancing and cavorting and having such a good time.  Richard Chamberlain was excellent as the prince, and Gemma Craven was almost perfect as the young. unsophisticated Cinderella. "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite work","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a beautiful retelling of the Cinderella story, with lovely costumes, imaginative sets, and great songs.  The script was well written by the Sherman Brothers and Bryan Forbes - and all in all, this should have been a perfect movie.  Somehow, it's not.  It's rather hard to find exactly where the problem lies in this movie, mostly because there are so many good points to this film.  Richard Chamberlain looks as if he's having the time of his life with his role as the Prince, Margaret Lockwood is a commanding screen presence and obviously enjoyed her role as the Stepmother.  (Sadly, it would be her last.)  Michael Hordern is a riot as the king, and Christopher Gable is adorable as the companion at arms.I hate to point a finger at sweet little Gemma Craven - but I really don't know where else to put the blame.  She's a lovely young actress, sings and dances well, but she simply seems too young for the lead role.  It's not necessarily her fault - it's quite a lot for a first-time actress to carry the entire weight of the film on her shoulders.  She tries very hard, but she doesn't quite succeed.  Her chemistry with Richard Chamberlain is a little off, and although he looks like he's never had so much fun - she can never quite seem to relax.Overall I'd recommend the movie - especially to someone who loves fairy tales.  It's beautifully photographed and lovingly directed.  The Sherman Brothers did an amazing job with the score, and I think Once I Was Loved, Secret Kingdom and Tell Him Anything are some of the best songs they've ever written - yes, even better than MARY POPPINS.  So enjoy the movie, despite a few flaws, it's a ton of fun.   "},{"Title":"Wonderful retelling of the classic fairytale.","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This film may be long but it is thoroughly worth sitting through to the end.The story starts off in the palace, where we are introduced to the Prince and the royal family.  There are some great songs to get the film off to a bang and I had some fun spotting all the wonderful British actors who have bit parts - and believe me there are lots!  Then we are taken to Cinderella's residence where her stepmother and stepsisters have taken over. (Margaret Lockwood does a super turn as the evil stepmother!)  Here we are introduced to Cinderella aka Gemma Craven, who plays the part to perfection.  She has a lovely voice and is ideally suited to the role of the young girl who is down on her luck but granted her heart's desire by her very own fairy godmother.  It's a shame that Richard Chamberlain, in my opinion, couldn't have brought more to the part, although his scenes where he believes he has lost Cinderella forever were genuinely touching.I do think that the film could have been cut in length slightly, especially the scenes in the palace but overall it's a beautiful retelling of the classic fairytale.   "},{"Title":"highly enjoyable","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A very enjoyable film. Richard Chamberlain is excellent as Prince Edward and the English supporting actors are wonderful. It is especially fun to see many of them having a go at singing and dancing.  I really enjoyed Kenneth More as the Lord Chamberlain and Michael Hordern as the king.  Annette Crosbie is a great fairy godmother and Margaret Lockwood good as the wicked stepmother in her last screen role.The main weaknesses are the film's excessive length and Gemma Craven as Cinderella. She looks lovely and sings and dances adequately but has little screen presence. The role needed a stronger actress than she was in her first screen appearance.  "},{"Title":"Good, but not great, musical version of Cinderella","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a good movie with a good score, a cast full of recognizabe faces, nice costumes and beautiful sets.  While certainly not a wonderful film, it is more than worth seeing.  The principal problem here is that the movie drags a bit in spots.  A bit of judicious editing to shorten it about ten minutes would probably improve the pacing remarkably.  The leads actually complement one another quite.  A cut above your average costumed musical with more than a few good moments.  Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Despite the Sherman Brothers' involvement, the handling is too heavy for whimsical romance","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Cinderella tale retold, this time with as much emphasis on the prince as on the would-be princess. Setting this magical romance among the snow-covered mountains of Austria--in ancient castles with expansive, echoing rooms--and placing its older actors in white wigs and cumbersome costumes, the familiar fairy tale isn't so much transformed as it is embalmed. The chilly milieu is too realistic for a magical romance, and Tony Imi's cinematography is coldly bright (with cheap and intrusive interior shadows). Working with director Bryan Forbes on the screenplay, songwriters and Disney mainstays Robert B. and Richard M. Sherman probably didn't expect such an impersonal treatment (the project certainly misses the mark of their previous studio); Forbes keeps the camera at such a distance from the merrily crooning actors that all we see are the half-empty rooms they're standing in. Juxtaposing the prince's vapid, romance-starved existence with Cinderella's troubles dealing with her step-family was obviously meant to give Richard Chamberlain the same amount of screen time and substance as his romantic counterpart, but the wealthy royals are an ungodly bore (especially when they're 'dancing'). The picture simply does not look magical, with colors that are either muddy or mildewy, and Forbes' stiffly-directed action exudes no personality. None of the Shermans' songs can give the narrative a lift (they're distinctly unmemorable anyway) and, instead of happily awaiting for this tale to unfold, one instead becomes glumly anesthetized by the entire misjudged conception. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw this movie when i was around six years old. my grandmother gave it to me amongst a whole lode of other videos that she was clearing out. it is easiest to say that i have never been so grateful to her in all my life than when i discovered this movie. This is a masterpiece of movie magic, although it may be based on one of the most over told stories ion modern media, it is like no others in its field. with extremely talented actors and an amazing soundtrack that makes you want to laugh, sing and cry,and I'm not ashamed to say that i know all of the words. It is by far my all time favourite movie, and a must see. "},{"Title":"If you know the story of Cinderella than you will probably know this version too","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Cinderella as you probably know is one if not my favorite fairy tale of all time. Why you may ask well for starters Cinderella works her butt off with her step-mom and stepsisters making fun of her and she meets a fairy godmother who makes Cinderella's dreams come true and she wins the heart of the prince at the ball and then clock strikes twelve and she leaves a glass slipper behind her and the prince searches for the mysterious princess who really is a servant girl and he finds her and they live happily ever after in the end.This version has this formula Richard Chamberlain plays Prince Edward who must find someone to love but his parents wants to pick out someone for him and thinks that the prince shouldn't marry for love. Of course his father's henchmen wants to throw a ball for the prince and it happens of course. Meanwhile we later meet Cinderella who lives with her step-mom and sisters and like I have mentioned in the start of the review what happens next. I found this version charming and sweet. I had no idea it was going to be a musical(and I will go to the negatives in a few minutes about the songs)and like I said I am a Cinderella fanatic. I don't care how many times I have seen a adaptation of Cinderella(I even loved the 2015 edition of Cinderella as it was a feast for the eyes and even though it was predicable unlike ALL Cinderella movies I still loved the movie)but I love the story of Cinderella as its a mixture of romance,sometimes music,drama and of course fantasy. I haven't seen this in a long time I must have been a kid when I last seen this movie I can't remember so I am going to tell you the good and bad on this movie.Good The story is charming and it was a beautiful movie.The cast was nice too and like I said I am a Cinderella fanatic.Bad The music was forgettable I don't know any of the songs and its in one ear and out the other. But still though I liked it as it reminded me of Drew Barrymore's Ever After with a hint of the 1950's Cinderella movie.Also Cinderella's story itself is very predicable. You know what is going to happen once the ballroom scene is shown but hey I will always love Cinderella.If you are like me a fan of Cinderella since you were a kid and your not sick of the same old tale been done a billion times then check this one out. "}{"Title":"A  Fairy Tale is the Life to Live!","Date":"23 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Richard Chamberlain is the Prince and Gemma Craven is Cinderella in this version of the timeless story, that not only is modernized but embellished as well, with further complications (as it would play out in real life.) And not only that, but music is added. To start off with, I love the Lesley Ann Warren version, and the Julie Andrews version is good too, but this is better. You know how people love pizza or guys football, well I have discovered an all-new (to me) all-time favorite movie musical. Up there with Show Boat, Brigadoon, Easter Parade, The Band Wagon, and Singin' in the Rain is The Slipper and the Rose. The songs are out of this world, especially the love songs. The settings and landscapes are to die for, and the mood and romance between Richard and Gemma are just wonderful. Gemma Craven makes a perfect Cinderella and Richard can really sing! Also of note is the supporting cast. Margaret Lockwood, as the stepmother, was especially good, and Annette Crosbie is memorable as the fairy godmother. Dame Edith Evans sings too! Today's generation (those 25 or younger) may find fault with some of its corniness and the older men's (the King and his royal subjects) songs and their dancing. But, I challenge anyone who says they love musicals not to get carried away with this. A more perfect film there is not. "},{"Title":"A lavish musical version of the story that is severely underrated","Date":"11 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Some stories can be told and told again and never lose their magic. That's part of what makes them timeless, but the same can not always be said of movies. There are films we love when we're young that we hope will hold up forever, but sometimes it's not meant to be. This can be a crushing disappointment when it happens, but other times it can be like a wonderful visit from an old friend. This 1976 screen adaptation of the Charles Perrault tale of 'Cinderella' received several award nominations and was a hit in it's native UK, but some critics were not kind. Despite this the film has many fans who loved it as children and still do to this day. I'm happy to say I'm one of them.Pros Stellar performances from all involved, which includes acting and singing. Beautifully scored. Rich, elegant costumes. Production design that'll knock your socks off. Full of whimsy and magic. Most of the songs and musical numbers are memorable. Lovely scenery and nice cinematography. Moves at a good steady pace most of the way through.Cons At 132 minutes the film does feel a little too lengthy. Some of the songs are forgettable and though the big dance/musical number with the servants is very well choreographed, the sequence is too long and really doesn't add anything.Final thoughts They don't make them like this anymore and that is a shame because this is the stuff dreams are made of. What could have been a bloated, dull, and pretentious 2+ hours in the wrong hands is instead a fabulous and thoroughly entertaining experience that'll put a smile on your face again and again. A treat for the eyes and ears that has held up beautifully.My rating 4.5/5 "},{"Title":"Mr Forbes' chums shine like a good deed on a dull day.","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Step forward and take a bow Mr K.More,Mr M.Hordern,Miss L.Bowers,Miss A.Crosbie, Dame Edith and Miss M.Lockwood,for your combined efforts in turning a saccharine Sherman Brothers musical from a pumpkin to something a little more substantial.The slipper and the rose suffers from the rather basic defect of having no memorable songs whatsoever. Some of the lyrics are clever in a Cole Porter - ish sort of way,but the melodies are distinctly of the ho - hum variety.The dancing - from Mary Poppins out of Oliver - is no more than adequate ,with the honourable exception of those members of The Royal Ballet who appear as various rodents and reptiles in a sequence redolent of their Tales of Beatrix Potter production. Mr R.Chamberlain strides about in long boots like Dandini in the pantomime,his performance verging at times on the arch.I waited - sadly in vain - for him to for him to stand,arms akimbo,and toss back his head before laughing manfully and asking members of the audience onstage to take part in a sing - song. Miss G.Craven is a little too mousy as Cinderella and she is not sufficiently eye - catching as Princess Incognito to have caused such a furore at the Palace Ball. Unfortunately Mr C.Gable makes absolutely no impact as the Prince's companion and it is only the remarkable cast of British thesps that Mr Forbes gathered round him rather like a security blanket that save the The slipper and the rose from children's TV movie status. I must single out Miss A.Crosbie,an actress not particularly well - represented on film.She is beautiful,smart and has a wonderful speaking voice.She does not normally do cockney,scouse or geordie - the staple of Brit TV casts - and I doubt if she'll ever be in a Mike Leigh movie,but she shines here as the Fairy Godmother.Unfortunately her performance totally eclipses that of Miss Craven in all of their scenes. She is quite captivating and - along with Mr K.More - the main reason for watching this movie. There is a rather moving scene near the end where Mr More, as the Chamberlain,has to tell Cinderella that she cannot marry the prince because she is a commoner.It takes just a couple of minutes screen time but Mr More - quietly spoken and with a minimum of facial gestures - turns this brief moment into something true,speaking with genuine compassion and knowledge of human frailty,the burden of power resting uneasily on his shoulders.I would be very surprised if Mr Forbes didn't have a bit of a blub at that. The slipper and the rose is really two movies;the Cinderella story told competently,without great directorial sweeps,with adequate performances and dull songs and the serio - comic tale of an embattled kingdom surrounded by predator - nations waiting for one false move to justify war.This is told with wit and affection and performed by actors who play off each other with the ease and apparent spontaneity born only of years of experience and directed so well that they hardly seem to have been directed at all.They shine like a good deed on a dull day. "},{"Title":"If you find it - get it","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Where do i begin? Probably the most underrated musical ever !!! Cinderella with the elegance and class of My Fair Lady and Gigi. Gorgeous scenery, costumes, music - this movie had it all and yes - totally perfect and appropriate for children (except boys of around twelve years old may get a little bored). Even the approach of looking at the familiar story from the perspective of the prince as opposed to Cinderella's point of view was somewhat original.The wonderful songs and choreography were by the Sherman Brothers and Mark Breaux respectively - the same who did similar tasks for Mary Poppins Sound of Music Chitty Chitty Bang Bang and The Happiest Milllionaire - that should give you a clue.The cast could not have been better starting with Richard Chamberlain as the prince - with a surprisingly good musical comedy presence complete with a great singing voice, new-comer Gemma Craven as Cinderella and a list of the cream of British theater including Michael Hordern as a slightly befuddled king, Margaret Lockwood as the stepmother who's mere voice is enough to give you chills, Kenneth Moore as the totally sympathetic Prime Minister and Annette Crosbie as the slightly daffy fairy godmother.The only thing that got me was early in the film, there seemed to be a preoccupation with death. The first song ends with the word die, Cinderella's first song is in a cemetery and there's a rather strangely hilarious song and dance featuring the prince (Chamberlain) and his friend played by Christopher Gable in the royal crypt. Hmm ! Maybe the film had to take these two through their loneliness (believe me - i got married in my forties so i know how empty ones life can be) for one to really appreciate the happiness they ultimately feel.Finally - the ending (I'm not going to tell you) is somewhat different than you might expect - I was rolling on the floor.By all means, if you can find this one - Cherish it. It really was the last of a dying breed.Thank you Sherman Brothers - I wish that you can give us more of this. "},{"Title":"Buy it for all your girls!","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This has been a favorite movie since I was a little girl. The music and costumes are incredible. It is the perfect switch from the little girl animated Cinderella tale to a grown up romantic movie. The words captivating and spectacular are the best to describe it. I find it a perfect film to sit down with a bowl of popcorn and get a little laugh, a little cry, and a lot of romantic smiles out of. If you are looking for a gift for a girl or woman in your life, this movie is the perfect choice! No one could have played a better heroine than Gemma Craven and the prince is as charming as any fairytale. You can sing along with all of the songs and you might even get up and dance with your daughter. You'll watch it a thousand times! I love this movie! "},{"Title":"A most charming Cinderella","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a Hollywood musical. It is light and fluffy, a true fairy tale. I found the music to be more fun that the Rodgers and Hammerstein version. Richard Chamberlin is a standout as the prince. Deep drama (or rather, melodrama) is present, like a dash of salt in the stew. The King is a bit goofy, adding to the fun. A nice touch is the play of the fairy godmother, who assigns her dog to keep tabs on Cinderella. The plot device of having the royal family con Cinderella into giving up the prince for his own good is very reminiscent of the Bing Crosby vehicle of a few years earlier, The Emperor Waltz, but does play guite well. It leaves some tension in the plot regarding the (inevitable) happy ending. Watch and enjoy! "},{"Title":"A lovely addition to any Library","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I received this movie as a gift from a good friend. I was wonderfully surprised. If you love the Fary Tales, you will love this. It is unique enough to keep you interested and the music is written well enough you don't feel the need to skip to the next scene. Although it is an older version, I didn't feel that that detracted from the charm, it's still works today. It will be a movie you will watch again. The filming is decent, with beautiful scenery, and the actors do a good job. Richard and Gemma have a good chemistry that works well together. Richard gives Prince Charming more personality than your Disney version - Thankfully. Gemma's Cinderella has a deeper role that shows why she was everything the fairy tales hinted at.Really a lovely addition to your Library.Enjoy "},{"Title":"What a wonderful film!","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I absolutely LOVE this film! I used to watch it at Christmas time as a child when it was on TV and pretend I was Cinderella. I recently bought it on DVD and watched it again last night. It made me feel 10 again! (I'm now 30!!) It's such a lovely feel good film and I've been singing the songs all day. It's pure escapism and it takes me right back to my happy childhood memories. It's a shame there aren't more films like this around. Richard and Gemma are both Ace in it as are the rest of the cast. Can't wait to watch it again now. Rainbows raced around the room and shooting stars began to zoom (when he danced with me!) Ah! Pure bliss! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Fantastic","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This has to be the best version of Cinderella i have ever saw.  I suppose it is because of the music and the fact that i cry at anything with a great ending. I can say nothing bad against The Slipper and the Rose, to me it is fantastic. "},{"Title":"Once I Was Loved again and again...","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great film with great music.  I am sorry that it didn't win those Oscars...I guess you just can't beat You Light Up My Life  and A Little Night Music.  The soundtrack just came out on CD earlier this month and the video came out earlier this year...I urge you all to get them.  They are definitely worth the money!  I collect all movies Cinderella and Slipper and the Rose is the pride of my collection. "}{"Title":"Fantastic and brilliant","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I have never seen such a romantic and fantastic movie! The songs are so touching, so is the story and the language is excellent! If you have not seen this movie, you have missed excellent actors and a really romantic scene. If you love fairy tales, you will love this movie! Hope I will get this on video!  "},{"Title":"True love never runs smooth","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  As Lawrence Welk would have said wunnerful, wunnerful. Here is a different take on an old tale, and a well done one. Most of the film concentrated on the problems of the Prince and his family instead of the other way around. The fairy godmother was played very unusually in that she was so imperfect....and she had a dog. Great costumes and props, and lush color throughout made for a spectacular event. Love is simply grand! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I think the Slipper and the Rose is a brilliant movie!It has a wonderful cast and beautiful music. The costumes are amazing and I think its the best movie in the world!Richard Chamberlain is a great Prince Edward and Gemma Craven is brilliant as Cinderella. The movie is taken from the Prince's point of view and is a lot deeper than the typical Cinderella Story and the love between Prince Edward and Cinderella is a lot stronger!It's an example of how life should be-full of love and happiness! I have been watching this movie since I was tiny and I still love it! I happen to know a lot of people who think the same way and we all love the film to bits! Love, Dympna x ) "},{"Title":"A timeless classic!!!","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  No matter how many times I see this film I never seem to get bored. I am always amazed how a Fairy Tail brought to life could still be so magical. This film includes outstanding performances from Gemma Craven as Cinderella the young girl forced to keep house for her wicked step-mother and two Ugly sisters and Richard Chamberlain as the dashing Prince Charming who is forced to be a prize at a bride finding ball organized in his honour by his father The king. The small kingdom in which the prince lives faces the prospect of war unless the Prince marries a Princess from the neighbouring kingdoms. Yet this is not so simple as he falls in the love with Cinderella at the ball where she attends as the Princess Incognita after being transformed by her Fairy godmother Played by the fantastic Annette Crosby, but I won't insult your inteligence by telling you the whole story of Cinderella for I'm sure you already have a fair idea of how it goes. Along with brilliant acting and upbeat musical numbers this film is sure to leave you believing in fairy tails. Oh yeah and just like in all fair tail They lived happily ever after!!! "},{"Title":"The best Cinderella movie ever made!","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A must see film for those of you who love Cinderella movies. The Fairy Godmother just about steals the movie. I love the way she talks about all the other fairy tale characters she has helped or is helping.The songs are the greatest reason to watch this wonderful film. They're all great. Since the movie has been released on VHS/DVD, I can only hope that the soundtrack will be released on CD soon. "},{"Title":"Overlong but lavish musical!","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is definitely underrated. I managed to find this on video and I fell in love with it. It is overlong, and there are discrepancies with the script, but the whole film looks gorgeous, with the lavish costumes and breathtaking scenery. The songs are actually really pleasant, but the staging is a bit long, and the whole film unfortunately lacks magic. The performances were very good though. Gemma Craven was a bit too young, but her sweet voice and doll like face gave Cinderella a certain charm. Richard Chamberlain was perfect as the prince, and there is scene-stealing support from Margaret Lockwood, Kenneth More, Michael Horden and Edith Evans.Don't forget Annette Crosbie's funny performance as the Fairy Godmother.There were some touching moments, and the costumes are the main reason, why this movie should be watched. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"If it had been an American film, people would hate it.","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I should clarify that I actually love Cinderella stories. I think what I really love is the challenge of how each subsequent version is going to differ from (or somehow outshine) the last one. Each Cinderella story is infused with new things, old things, and just plain bizarre things. In this telling, there is much more emphasis on the prince- after all, Richard Chamberlain is top billed. Unfortunately, the characterization of his prince Edward is no different from any other fictional depiction of royalty born of privilege, but hating it and wanting to live like 'regular people.' (If these were actual royal figures, such a wish would never commence.) The story also expands roughly a half hour beyond the glass slipper finding its rightful owner, and for me this dragged the film out considerably. Nevertheless, it's still the quintessential fairy story.Yet I am amazed that so many posters hail it as some sort of Kirousawa-like masterpiece. Is this because it's a British film? We always seem to rate European films just a little higher than American ones, calling them high art and so forth. And as critical as so many are especially about musical films recently- RENT, CHICAGO, THE PRODUCERS, and perhaps most acerbically and nastily, DREAMGIRLS- they all seem to turn a deaf ear on this one. I did like the costumes and set pieces, but was not thrilled with most of the Sherman Brothers' score- save two rather exquisite songs. It paces a bit sluggishly and, at 143 minutes, is about 43 minutes too long. There are two saving graces One is in the name of Annette Crosbie. Her fairy godmother is a dream and a scream at the same time. Possessing incredibly dry wit and very sly on the subject of magic, it appears that she works with other famous fairy tale heroines (some of whom are referenced throughout the film). Her introduction to Cinderella as a simple, practical woman who shuns the sparkle and glitter, and seems to want to unionize fairies worldwide, is hilarious. And the rags-to-riches sequence built around the song Suddenly It Happens is magical indeed. (How could it not be, with mice that turn into ballet dancers even before they turn into horses?) The other saving grace is the ball easily some of the most exquisite costumes ever assembled for a period film, all in an amazing rainbow of sherbet-like pastels. The ball sequence is climaxed by a glorious grand waltz, which begins with two dancers on an empty floor, then adds other couples- two and four at a time- joining into the swirling and spinning choreography, until all are waltzing in the same direction and having a marvelous time. A truly breathtaking sequence. I almost wished the film had ended right there. "},{"Title":"sugary but fun","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  When we talk about early movie memories, this has to be one of mine.  I think I first saw it at the age of 5 or 6 after my mum (a Dr Kildare fan) introduced it to me.  So repeated viewings bring back memories of constant Christmas Eve tv showings through the late 70s and early 80s.  The film itself is like being force-fed a huge lump of sugar, but there is much to enjoy along the way.  Gemma Craven's songs are a bit twee (and a couple of the others suspiciously mirror some from Mary Poppins, also written by the Shermans) but the cumulative effect is a feelgood one and I can't fault anyone in the cast at all.  I wonder how it appeals to kids these days who have a higher level of cynicism than we did? "},{"Title":"What a great musical!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is probably one of the best written, and well casted movie/musical I have seen yet.  Every character is played by the perfect person, even the characters like the singing guard and the Cowherd and Milkmaid.  The songs and lyrics are beautifully written, and the people who sing them sing beautifully as well.  I thought it was going to be a boring movie, until i heard the first song, then I was hooked.  Once I even watched it three times in one day!! It's that good.  Tell him that it wasn't love, Secret Kingdom, Suddenly, Once I was loved, Protocoligorically Correct, What a comforting thing to know, are just a few of the wonderful songs in this wonderful movie.  Let's just hope we get a CD soundtrack soon!.   I definitely give this 10 stars! "},{"Title":"Absolutely perfect!","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Absolute perfection, I first saw this movie as a teenager and it just gets better & better every time I view it! I never get tired of seeing it. Richard Chamberlain & Gemma Craven are ideal in the leads. (Was Richard ever more gorgeous than in this flick?)  The music, Annette Crosbie, Michael Borden?(the King), and the Lord Chamberlain are all excellent.  Euphrania rules!  "}{"Title":"Favourite for an adult as well as for a child.","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Help me with something here.  Why do all the critics hate this film?  O.K, so artistically its not the best one ever.  It never has been and never will be.  Yet so many people (and the other comments on here show it) love it to death.When I was about six my parents recorded it for me from television.  I kept that video for ages, but it was eventually taped over (a complete catastrophe that I will for which I will never forgive my brother). Having not watched it in eight years or so I assumed that the magic would fade, as it does with so many other childhood loves.  Then I watched it on T.V. again yesterday (naturally too stupid to set the video recorder) and realised how fun and sweet it still was.Everyone on this site is saying that the video is coming out this year. Does that include England?  If anyone knows, please email to let me know. "},{"Title":"WOW!!!","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This musical is my All-Time FAVORITE.  The first time I saw it I was only 8 years old (18 years ago) and I still know all the songs by heart.  I have been searching for a copy of the musical for years and am excited at the prospect of it being available in 2000.  Does anyone have any information as to when in 2000?  Also, is it available as a sound track?  Here's hoping that all the lovers of this musical will be able to enjoy watching it for many more years to come!! "},{"Title":"My all-time favorite","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is romantic, musical, funny and just plain wonderful.  I am dying to find a copy of it. I recorded an awful version off of TV, but I don't care how fuzzy it is, I still watch it.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone who is as much of a hopeless romantic as me. "},{"Title":"What a wonderful movie!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is not only one of the greatest musicals of all time, but a beautifully told and presented version of Cinderella.  The story focuses on the stories of both Cinderella and the Prince, and gives us an insightful look at a beautiful time period.  It's absolutely amazing.  Congratulations to everyone whose hard work has culminated in Slipper being released on video in 2000!  I love this movie and I suggest that everyone view it once - after that, you won't be able to stop yourself from watching it again. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Musical!!!","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is by far a great film.  I enjoyed the music.  It is lively and fun. The costumes are excellent.  And the acting is superb. When this film comes on television, tape it.  Many have been waiting long for this film on video.  We can only hope that Suddenly, it happens to end up there. "},{"Title":"Best film I have ever seen !!","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I agree with everyone.  I love this Cinderella movie.  My husband knows that when it is on tv, he is to leave me alone.  I have also gone through a couple of tapes. Some how, we have to get them to release this movie on video.    "},{"Title":"I wish they release this film to video.","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Slipper and the Rose is a great musical. Fun for the entire family. The music is wonderful. The story is entertaining. I wish they would release this title to video. I have worn two tapes out.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic & very romantic!","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  My wife Alissa knows all the words to each song in this film by  heart.  Slipper & the Rose is really one of her very favorite romantic movies.  Whenever the film is on TV she watches it over  & over again with so much pleasure.  I really wish I could find  a copy to surprise her. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie I Have Ever Seen","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie 18 years ago when I was 19 years old, and I have never forgotten it.  Great music, great acting, funny, cute, splendid - a truly feel-good movie. "},{"Title":"A sheer delight.","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A sheer delight. One of the best tellings of the Cinderella story I know. "}{"Title":"Very '70s, But I Still Love it!","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This was one of my favourites when I was a kid. I had a major crush on Richard Chamberlain, I loved Cinderella's clothes, I imagined myself living in that cellar, it was me singing those songs, and of course, it was me going to the ball.Now I have grown up, and seen the truth. This is a decidedly 'naff' film (I hate the word, but it best describes it!), which I still absolutely love. The cinematography has 1970s written all over it, the costumes aren't actually that attractive, and as for Richard Chamberlain - don't even go there. My obsession with this film will never end - I have just bought it on DVD. Watching it for the first time now, I know I would hate it. But there's something about films you watch when you're young - however crap they are, they always mean so much to you. This is one such example. "},{"Title":"For the Chamber(lain) pot!","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is the absolute worst Cinderella version ever made. The songs are sappy and unmemorable, the choreography tasteless - for instance there's a scene where Chamberlain dances on the coffins of his ancestors! What WERE they thinking? There's nothing unique or special about this in any way. Moreover Chamberlain can't sing or dance, so why did they cast him in the part? One would think that because of his looks, he'd make a good Prince Charming - and yes, he is charming, but that's where this ends. There are so many versions of this story out there that this one becomes totally forgettable, and I wouldn't even have written this review if I hadn't been suckered into seeing it in a theater back when it came out in 1979. There's a couple of hours of my life I'll never get back!Sorry, but if you want a good version, watch any of them, but not this one. Disney's old one is still the best, if you ask me. There's also a Hallmark production from a totally different angle, called Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister which is marvelous with Stockard Channing. "},{"Title":"Tedious and disappointing","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Honestly, I really wanted to love this film. The Sherman Brothers (Mary Poppins, Chitty, Chitty, Bang, Bang etc.) write great tunes. Somehow, I missed this during its original release, and now I know why. The new DVD transfer is pristine. However, it reveals a typical mid-70s film, with a muted color scheme, bland score and surprisingly inept choreography.Not a single song creates an impression. While the locations are indeed lush (Austria), I feel they are often misused. The acting is adequate. Several performance numbers grind the production to a complete halt. (The mice dancing their way to the pumpkin coach is ridiculous, as is the kitchen hoedown scene.) The special effects are sub-par, especially by late-70s standards.Having watched the special edition DVD, I understand the Shermans unique take on the legend - from the Prince's point of view. However, attempting any kind of musical retelling after Rodger's & Hammerstein's classic, is dubious, at best. Frankly, I kept hoping to hear those R & H classics against this more sophisticated background. My only complaint with the R & H versions (all three), is the slight campiness of the material.A few surprises in this Slipper version.......the opulence of Cinderella's late father's castle; it often looks nicer than the Prince's abode. The ball scene is strangely stilted. The first reunion of Cinderella and the Prince appears an afterthought. The peppy dance number in the royal family's mausoleum is quite bizarre!! The dog's presence is unnecessary (apparently he was owned by the director).In a nutshell, considering the talent involved, and the $5 million budget (a LOT in 1976), I really expected a classic. It is not.Yes, worth a viewing. If only I could remember ONE of the tunes. "},{"Title":"Love a good 'Cinderella' re-telling - Do NOT Love This Movie.","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" First off, I love just about any re-telling of the classic Fairy Tale of Cinderella. From the beautiful Disney Film, all the way to Shelley Duvall's 'Faerie Tale Theatre' version with Jennifer Beals and Matthew Broderick. So back in 2000 I bought this DVD sight unseen. I figured, 'C'mon, it's Cinderella!'. Also, I had heard about this UK produced film for a long time, and knew it had established a cult following. Right up my alley people. WOW was I disappointed. Dis-a-pointed!! Twenty minutes in, and I was bored out of my mind. Not one single song had a strong melody, and the lyrics were forgettable. Nothing was engaging me. I kept telling myself 'It will get better - It will get better'. It just didn't. I have never seen a musical where the camera stayed so very still. There was none of that 'flow' that most great musicals have (See My Fair Lady, Funny Girl, Oklahoma, Grease, The Sound of Music, Oliver, Chicago, West Side Story, etc.) You know, that uplifting spell that only a special musical can cast. Remember what it was like the first time you saw My Fair Lady? THAT's the feeling. I do love The Sherman Brothers' people. I do. So Imagine my shock at how bad the music was. These are the guys who did Mary Poppins, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, and even The Parent Trap! So I just could not get over how dead and uninspired every single song was. The minute the song was over, I could not remember a note. Most good musicals leave you with at least ONE song you are humming by the end. Even so, I carried on, and forced myself to watch the entire movie, and found it utterly painful to get through. When I was done, I went on line to see what others thought, and I was shocked to read all the raves, and I wondered Did I watch the same movie? Upon further investigation I found out that the film was universally panned by critics and audiences alike, both in the states and the UK. Phew. Which then made me question all these other people on the internet who were calling this The BEST MOVIE EVER! What? The best movie ever? Huh? God no! I tried to then look at it as a 'guilty pleasure', but I found no pleasure in watching this movie. I've been known to like a guilty pleasure or two myself...I mean I own Grease 2 on DVD. But at least I was humming 'Cool Rider' on the way out of the theater people! Time passed, and I re-discovered the Lesley Anne Warren version from 1965. That brought back wonderful childhood memories for me. While the show does not hold up well by today's standards, it was warm and fun, and every song is a winner. Rodgers and Hammerstein wrote such a lovely score that stands the test of time. Then came the 1997 version on ABC. To my complete shock and joy, I loved it. I mean, LOVED IT. The movie has wit, color, style and heart. I was completely moved and entertained from beginning to end. I laughed out loud at Whoopi Goldberg's hilarious Queen, and appropriately loathed Bernadette Peter's inspired evil Step Mother. Actually, I was surprised Bernadette was over-looked at Emmy time. Brandy brought a sweetness and a modern twist to the role, and Pablo Montalban was literally perfect as the Prince. Every aspect of the production was top notch, and stunning. This production was the first real endeavor from the wonderful artists that would eventually bring us Chicago. So THAT'S why the choreography and camera work was so amazing! Bravo to the entire company for finally producing THE DEFINITIVE MUSICAL VERSION OF CINDERELLA.So anyway, a few years passed, and it was time to give The Slipper and The Rose another go. I got all comfortable and cozy on a lazy Sunday and put in the DVD. WOW, it was even worse then I remembered. The choreography and staging was stunted and amateurish. I felt embarrassed for the filmmakers at ever attempt of wit and cleverness that flopped miserably. This film was directed by Bryan Forbes, who just came off of The Stepford Wives at the time, which had the same slowness to it, but that worked for that film. It's as if he is a one-note director who attempts different genres, but uses the same techniques. He clearly had no passion for this project. If he did, he was then definitely 'miscast' as the director, and not the man to be behind the camera for such an obviously large production. I will say this though, the gowns / costumes were beautiful to look at.The sets were empty and over-sized. The cinematography was motionless and the color palette was dull. The acting by all was two dimensional and wooden. The singing was, oh god, the singing was horrible. Every single joke just fell flat. Again, I felt so bad for the filmmakers! If I can sum this review up in one sentence, I would have to say Dull, uninspired, forgettable and a waste of two hours and twenty three minutes - Twice!!! Do yourself a favor, watch the DVD of the 1997 Rodgers and Hammerstein version. It has magic in it, and is destined to become a classic. "},{"Title":"Pretty good for a musical","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Like everyone else, I saw this movie when I was younger.  It is not the best movie or even the best musical I have ever seen, but it is great fun for the whole family.  3 or 4 of the songs are absolutely fantastic!!!  I have to admit that the first half hour is slow.  But the movie gets better after that.  My only other criticism is that Richard Chamberlain has NO acting ability (sorry to be so blunt about it) but Kenneth More is hilarious.  It is a lighthearted movie that kids would enjoy, as long as they get the dry British humor in it.  I would recommend it to anyone.  Very glad it came out on video. "},{"Title":"Overlong and merely pleasant adaptation of the Cinderella story.","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This work has garnered many devoted fans - just read the other reviewers on this page and on Amazon's page - the video was just released (4/00) and I looked forward to seeing it.  Without wishing to offend anyone, I found it vastly disappointing.  None of the twelve new songs written by the Sherman Brothers was at all memorable (despite the Oscar nominations if received for Best Scoring and Best Song).  The production was terribly inflated and overlong (2-1/2 hours) and although the cast performs well, it all seemed an exercise in futility - why make the film at all - the Disney film of 1950 and the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical of 1957 had musicalized the story quite well enough - no need for yet another adaptation.   About the only interesting aspect was the practical view it took of marriage and happy endings.   Annette Crosbie was great fun as the overworked and underappreciated godmother and the script was quite amusing when it got away from all the romance.   It is certainly not a bad film but it fails to lift one magically into the realm of the fairy tale.  I came out humming the costumes - which were splendid. "},{"Title":"Oh, how I wish it were better.","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  As a true fan of the Sherman Brothers music (Chitty, Chitty Bang Bang, Snoopy Come Home, Aristocats, Mary Poppins, Jungle Book, etc.), I was let down by this score.  Many of the lyrics seemed contrived and not one composition seemed to be inspired.The extended plot line was forced, unimaginative, and resulted in an unnecessarily long runtime - on top of the fact that it really did not serve much of a purpose except for a place to insert a few more songs.Annette Crosbie (Godmother), Michael Hordern (King) and Kenneth More (Lord Chamberlain) all performed superbly considering the mediocre dialogue with which they had to contend.Gemma Craven (Cinderella) had the best singing voice in the bunch, however she lacked the star qualities one would expect from a Cinderella.  Too cute, too short, too mousey, she was unfortunately very miscast.Richard Chamberlain looked great as usual. As a woman, I found it difficult to get swept up in the romantic fantasy of him as a Prince Charming when his own romantic proclivities tend more towards Cinderfella.Costumes were lovely.  Sets were missing most of the furniture.This move rates a C+.  The plus is for the dog, Fred. "},{"Title":"My least favorite version of Cinderella","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  One word  miscast!  Gemma Craven as Cinderella was too weak an actress to carry it off in the lead role.  Her singing voice was lovely but she was too short in stature and simply too shy in all of her leading scenes to convince me that she was the woman to become royalty.  On the other hand, Richard Chamberlain was perfect as Prince Charming nice singing; graceful dancing and fine acting, in fact, very commanding in all of his scenes.  The biggest disappointment for me was the climax of the film when Cinderella appears at the ball and the prince sees her for the first time.  Craven does not stand out at all (many other guests also have white gowns) and she was, simply, too short.  Ever After still remains the best adaptation of the Cinderella tale in my opinion. "}]