[{"Title":"An excellent family film","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"27 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I worked at the Disney Studios when this film was made. It was given a wide showing to Studio employees prior to release. At that time there were no main titles. We were also given a list of potential release titles, the simple Candleshoe winning out. The employee comments were overwhelmingly positive and the movie went on to do good business.One reviewer commented that the movie contained a high level of violence for a live action Disney film. It is no more violent than many such Disney movies (just see the final fight in Blackbeard's Ghost for example). There are several general brawls in Candleshoe, (including the climatic battle between the good guys and the bad guys), but it all done tongue-in-cheek; it is totally unobjectionable, and meant purely for fun. This last battle is played so broadly in fact that one might even say it nearly goes over the top. David Niven is wonderful in a variety of roles, from the butler, to a gardener to a retired army colonel. (The role was originally set for Laurence Oliver.) This was the first of two Niven films for Disney, the other being No Deposit, No Return.The nice thing about Candleshoe is that it continues to entertain more than 25 years after its release.  "},{"Title":"I Love It","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"19 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure exactly why I love this film so much. It's not like it has shockingly wonderful performances, story, or setting. But it never fails to warm my heart and make me smile.Fans of Jodie Foster will recognize her as the young teenage star of this film. She plays Casey, a foster child and juvenile delinquent. A British con man recognizes her as being strikingly similar to a young heiress who disappeared years earlier and offers her anything she wants if she will pretend to be the missing girl. He is certain that there is a treasure hidden in the house of the girl's grandmother, and he wants Casey to find it for him.The story of how Casey becomes a part of this odd British family is heartwarming and sweet. It is classic Disney fare, without the pathetic romance that often destroys modern Disney films.Watch this film if only for David Niven's performance as the butler, gardener, grandmother's best friend, and chauffeur. "},{"Title":"teddy and piggywig","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie as a kid and watched it so much that i had all the lines memorized and wore out the betamax tape.  I love David Niven in this movie and it was actually the reason I wanted to see the David Lean movies... my favorite scene is where Lady St. Edmund and Priory share a last dance. Some of the puzzles have remained in my head (For the sunrise student there is treasure among books) and have formed a long-lasting obsession with pirate treasures and real-life hidden treasure stories (oak island and rennes-le-chateau). Too bad movies of this type are no longer being made. "},{"Title":"American girl deported to England, whereupon meeting two crooks is forced to co-operate  in finding treasure belonging to an old lady.","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Another Disney classic, a definite for young children and a movie I would recommend for families.The country setting helps this film along as it reinforces the atmosphere being an old age film, set in the past, but not to far back. The acting by Jodie Foster in this film is delightful to watch as the tomboy cliché is used but to great effect. Another brilliant performance is by David Niven, the butler, but who undergoes changes in his personality to acquire different identities as to accompany his mistress in disguise, giving her a sense of many friendships.Any fight scenes are classically in Disney fashion, amusing and inventive defences and preceding this, even a car chase magnificently manoeuvred by Mr. Prairy the butler (Niven)and much to any child's delight.A film guaranteed to be loved by young children and even appreciated by the open-minded of older years but without a doubt, a family film enjoyed by all the family, including the grandparents!! "},{"Title":"A great family film","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Possibly one of the best family films ever made by Disney. Jodie Foster is brilliant as the wayward teen who's going nowhere. Even at that early age you can see why she has gone on to become one of Hollywoods most successful actresses - she's definitely underrated.Candleshoe is packed full of memorable one liners that just stick with you for months, even years, following watching this film.I grew up watching it and have never stopped! Also, 'Grandmother's' accent is perfect, considering the actress herself is American.Watch this film, you won't be disappointed!Unfortunately I had to surf the Net and order it from America to get hold of my copy, but if you DO find it to buy, don't hesitate. "},{"Title":"Sentimental fun","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies I know inside out after watching it on HBO every time it was on (which was quite often). These live-action Disney flicks don't seem to get a lot of attention nowadays, but when I was a kid I was more into movies like Candleshoe than the animated Disneys.Obviously the charm of Candleshoe is the talent involved. Helen Hayes and David Niven are on hand, and Jodie Foster is splendid as the American orphan who becomes part of a con man's plot to swindle Hayes's Lady St. Edmund out of a fortune that is hidden somewhere in her very own manse. Goaded by Leo McKern, Foster poses as Hayes's long-lost granddaughter in order to gain admittance to the mansion, where she must follow up on a series of clues regarding the hidden treasure's location. Although definitely made for kids, the best thing about Candleshoe is that it's just as fun watching as an adult. The plot has a certain giddy excitement to it--after all, who could resist a treasure hunt in an old mansion?--and David Niven's many disguises are pretty funny (especially his grouchy Scottish gardener who has an amusing argument with Lady St. Edmund). The other kids in the movie are enjoyable, too. What really strikes me about the film today are the two surprisingly adult scenes between Hayes and Foster. The way Hayes wins over the distant Foster is a little abbreviated, but the film's denouement between the two of them at the train station is genuinely touching. "},{"Title":"Jodie Foster is wonderful!","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the movie that made me truly fall in love with jodie foster! I don't particularly know why but there is just something about her in Candleshoe that is different from even Freaky Friday. The acting in this movie is generally very good, with stars like David Niven and Helen Hayes (Of course Jodie), to liven up the cast. This movie is great for younger and older audiences! The fight scene at the end is a bit long, but other than that the movie is awesome!  "},{"Title":"the best film EVER!!!","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film has become cult viewing amongst the students of Birmingham, England, with its quirky Disney humour, its cracking one-liners (they're nice and squashy! whats grandmother going to say when she finds out! better take the garlic! ) top performances, (why did Bobby never work again? ) and a storming soundtrack by the fantastic Ron Goodwin! Parties of students have been found wandering through the Warwickshire countryside on a pilgrimage to Compton Wynyates, aka Candleshoe!The walk was 26 miles in the rain but everyone agreed that it was definitely worth it!!!Candleshoe is quite possibly the best film ever made and Disney at its finest!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the BEST Disney Live Action Family Movies Of Its Time","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Before this vehicle became contrived, Disney did it while it was still fresh. A group of orphans must save the castle in which their adoptive grandmother has housed them. This work involves some intrigue and a very young Jodi Foster as a nearly incorrigible ruffian girl.This is a lot of fun, but it also bears some touching moments, endearing characters, and a great script. Honestly, this is one of my favorites of the Disney Family series. It offers you hope, love, and a promise of better things to come.This is truly good.It rates an 8.9/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Well done.  Bravo","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of Jodie Foster's first roles, but she succeeds brilliantly despite a script with some corny verbatim.  Very tomboyish but still gorgeous and her demeanor and acting ability far surpass her years.  Niven is great fun playing several roles, all while trying to keep a straight face.  Fight scene near end perhaps a bit overlong and typical, but maintains some humour.  Average script is made up for with strong, tender performances in a children's movie (which probably only appeals to adults, now)which surprisingly is not emotionally manipulative.  7/10  "}{"Title":"Kim Jong Il's favorite live-action Disney films","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Time has not dimmed the appeal of this refreshing film. It may not be fashionable for a film to be heartwarming these days, but Candleshoe IS heartwarming, and I like it fine that way.Banner performances are found here from Helen Hayes, David Niven, and the young Jodie Foster. Hayes is great in her old age, and there is already visible in Ms. Foster the greatness she will achieve later on. David Niven is extraordinarily versatile (doing work every bit on the caliber of Peter Sellers).Candleshoe is a family estate in England. There is a rumor that there is a fortune hidden there. Most think it is just a myth but Harry has found a clue to the fortune. But he needs someone on the inside to figure it out.As Lady St. Edmund's granddaughter and only living relative disappeared at birth, Harry finds a waif with a past to pass off as the granddaughter. He and his girlfriend, Grimsworthy, instructs her on the family history and then takes her to grandmum.The estate has fallen on hard times and become a foster home for a group of orphans. They take care of the tours and hold events to raise money to cover the operating costs. When all else fails, they sell an antique. The estate is run a by the family butler, Priory, who poses as the family chauffeur, the family gardener and Colonel Dennis.When here is nothing left to sell, they cannot pay the taxes and the county is about to foreclose. Of course, Casey finds the treasure and saves the day.In the early 70's studios would not release major films during the summer, so Disney made low budget films specifically aimed at school kids on vacation. This was one of the last of these summer films.Jodie Foster would go on to make great films but she got her feet wet at Disney making four films. This and FREAKY Friday showed her potential.Helen Hayes was a major star in 20's and 30's and had a resurgence after winning her second Oscar in 1970 for the HAPPY HOOKER. But she wanted to make family oriented films and found a haven at Disney and a new generation found her irresistible. This is probably her second best Disney performance after HERBIE RIDES AGAIN.David Niven was a star in virtually every decade from his debut in the 30's until his death in 1981. The summer before Candleshoe, he played a different type of butler in Disney's ONE OF OUR DINOSAURS HAS TURNED UP MISSING. Therefore, he was the first choice to play Priory and gives his usually great performance.This is a great for all family film. It's no Gone with the Wind but it's not meant to be. This is a chance to see an up and coming star plus two classic stars at the end of their long careers.DVD EXTRAS None "},{"Title":"Excellent Disney adventure","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched Candleshoe when ITV screened recently and enjoyed it very much.An American orphan girl is sent to England by a conman and goes to stay at Candleshoe Manor, where some other orphaned children live as well. She makes out to the owner, Lady St Edmond that she is a distant relative but she is really there to look for some treasure that the conman is after. After several adventures, Lady St Edmond finds out about this and the conman and some of his cronies manage to get into Candleshow and a big fight ensures and the police are called and the baddies are arrested. The orphan leaves for America but Lady St Edmond catches up with her at the railway station and makes her make Candleshoe her new home as they have grown rather close to one another.A lot of Candleshow was filmed on location in the Midlands Warwickshire with the railway scenes being filmed on the Severn Valley Railway.Now to the excellent cast a young Jodie Foster plays the orphan Casey Brown, David Nivern (who has four roles in this), Leo McKern as the conman and Helen Hayes as Lady St Edmond.Candleshow is a mixture of drama and comedy and is Disney at its best. Great fun.Rating 3 and a half stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Unusual story elements make CANDLESHOE a delightful film...","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm not a JODIE FOSTER fan, but she's well cast as the tomboy posing as a wealthy aristocrat's long lost daughter, really on a mission to discover where the wealth is hidden.David NIVEN is the aristocrat's butler, but forced to assume many different disguises to keep HELEN HAYES from realizing that she has almost no household staff other than him. Seems they are facing hard times just keeping up with the payments on the castle called Candleshoe, an elegant British house in the countryside that provides a handsome setting for the story.Foster, Niven and Hayes give delightful performances and keep the film going whenever it runs out of steam--which, unfortunately, happens toward the end when the slapstick becomes something better left to the likes of a Buster Keaton or a Charlie Chaplin.Neverthelss, kids and adults will be drawn into the story, deftly played and well directed with enough humor and excitement to keep any viewer interested until the wacky finale.And that Candleshoe house is something to see. As Jodie Foster says, What a shack! "},{"Title":"The Best Live Action Disney Film EVER!","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I cannot possibly say enough about this film. The cast is legendary...Helen Hayes, David Niven, Jody Foster, and Leo McKern...the plot will have you on the edge of your seat, and the locations are beautiful. Jody Foster is superb as the tough as nails (I ain't deprived, I'm delinquent. There's a difference, you know) Casey Brown who is swept away to England to play the part of the long lost granddaughter of Lady St Edmund of Candleshoe. Her partner in crime is Harry Bundage, who has long been searching for a girl he can use to infiltrate Candleshoe, the St Edmund family estate. The home was built by the notorious ancestor Joshua St Edmund, a pirate, who had allegedly hidden clues to a treasure that was hidden in the house. Mr Bundage's sister who was once employed at the home found the first clue in the man's long lost will, which she discovered hidden in a bedpost. To the sunrise student, there is treasure among books. Once Casey is accepted into the family, she sets about searching for the subsequent clues to the treasure. Unfortunately she also begins to soften after learning the secrets of the 'family' The old lady is almost broke, but doesn't know. The butler Priory and the orphans who she has taken in are working very hard to make money to save the house and most importantly the old lady's feelings. All of the other 'staff' are actually Priory playing the different parts in order to save money and make the old girl think she has a full staff. He even plays the part of her best friend, the Colonel, who comes to tea. Casey finally realizes the meaning of family and also that the treasure she's been looking for could save the home of the people she's come to love. This leads to a fantastic train race with an edge of your seat climax and a great battle scene between the orphans/Priory and Harry/his thugs in order to get to the hidden treasure! This is a great family movie and my favourite of the Disney live action films. I used to watch it on the Disney Channel as a kid, back when the Disney Channel was great! Because of it, I even became a huge fan of Robert Gray, whose Elegy Written In a Country Churchyard is used as one of the clues in the film (The paths of glory lead but to the grave.) So much of a fan that I begged my mother to buy me an old leather-bound Victorian copy at an auction, which I treasure and always reminds me of Candleshoe! Such a lovely and memorable film! I love it so! 10/10!!!! "},{"Title":"Helen Hayes Is One Of Disney's #1 Film Stars.","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are so many rave reviews here by so many who cherish this film that it hardly seems necessary to add anything because everyone said it so well. But because I have always truly loved this film and have always tried to endorse it as one of Disney's finest classics, I'm going to add my two cents worth. Heck, I've added a review when there were over 750 reviews of a film already. I find reviewing our movies is good mental exercise for us all. Especially the ones that are near and dear to us like this film, are an obligation.I have always raved 'Candleshoe'. Even when most adults thought I was crazy for heaping so much praise on such a simple children's film. I think that Helen Hayes was one of classic Disney's best stars, and at the time one of their most bankable. She has all the charm, sweetness, and above all, wholesomeness, that is most appropriate for Disney family films. Any true classic Disney film buff will recognize her right along the other Disney stars like Fred MacMurray, Dean Jones, Don Knotts, Haley Mills, and of course Jodie Foster, who was also one of Disney's very best and most profitable money makers. The film is almost flawless to perfection which always impresses me since, anyone who knows the classic Disney live action product, knows they were usually produced on a modest budget with lots of cost cutting. You can never really tell since the films always look neatly and tightly crafted. Everything clicks. Even the obligatory 'Donald Duck' slapstick ending that is trademark Disney formula, doesn't taint the sweet gentleness of this film. Sure it's a little low level to see villains getting hit on the head with frying pans (funny how in many ways the ending here pre-dates John Hughes 'Home Alone' film)and just a little creepy to see small children being chased with knives and maces and things, but it all works out well in the end. There is also toward the end one breath-taking moment with a train and a Helen Hayes staging a stand off.It's nice to know the film is obtaining some cult status in England. It is a funny little film. But it deserves much more than cult status amongst adults. This film should be thought of as a family classic and a true perennial. It really does deserve it for it seems to have acquired some faithful and loving fans. "},{"Title":"A fun and entertaining adventure.....","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Directed by Norman Tokar with an hysterical screenplay from David Swift and Rosemary Anne Sisson.Candleshoe is a fun and surprisingly touching tale of childhood adventure and one of the best non animated films to come from Disney.The story is all about young orphan Casey Brown(Jodie Foster)who lives with foster parents in America.One day she is taken to a posh hotel by a private detective and there she meets con man Harry W.Bundage(Leo McKern).He tells her all about a scam he has going on with his cousin Grimsworthy(Vivien Pickles),to find the mysterious treasure hidden in the sprawling English mansion Candleshoe.Casey must pretend to be the long lost granddaughter of the owner Lady St Edmund(Helen Hayes).Once she wins the old ladies trust she can start to follow clues on a piece of paper to the treasure.When Casey gets to the mansion the old lady believes her story and she actually finds herself loved for the first time in her life.The highlight of the film though is David Niven as Lady St Edmunds butler,gardener,chauffeur,cook and best friend Priory.He goes through various disguises to prevent his mistress knowing her money is very nearly gone and all the other staff have left her.He's helped in this by some local orphans adopted by Lady St Edmund loyal and feisty Cluny(Veronica Quilligan),sweet floor slider Bobby(David Samuals),shy Anna(Sarah Tamakuni)and natural leader Peter(Ian Sharrock).Jodie Foster gives a fine early performance as the lonely teenager and David Niven and Helen Hayes are perfect.There is also more than a touch of the Ingrid Bergman film Anastasia here.In which Helen Hayes plays the Dowager Empress Marie the grandmother of the murdered Romanov children who believes the young woman is her youngest granddaughter.Yes it's cheesy and some bits look dated but this is a good film about friendship,family,adventure and fun this is one to watch whether your young or old. "},{"Title":"Teenage Jody Foster in Nostalgic Family Movie","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jodie Foster plays an American hard-knocks-life kid who travels to England, and together with a small-time crook tries to swindle an old lady (played by Helen Hayes) out of her fortune. Foster passes herself off as the child of a long lost relative (now orphaned), which makes Hayes feel responsible. Although the hoax is soon discovered, the two grow fond of each other, and when there appears to be no money at all in the estate, they band together to save the place from the tax man. The predictable ending is nonetheless satisfying.This film makes for pleasant family fare, and incidentally features 3 Academy Award Winning actors (Foster, Hayes and David Niven). "},{"Title":"A happy film for adults, who forget their time as children","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In this film Jody Foster is a typical tome-boy, who acted more than a boy than a girl. She is more adult than the adults and in her point of view you must shoot first or you would be shouted. Her life is a great fight and she have no time to coming nearer with people. Thats her problem to - this fight distance - she never can give it up - and the grandmother - who talked to her see this problem clear. The other girl in this film - do what girls do - but Foster never do this. There is a strange fight between them  before they like each other.This is an adventure Disney-Film for children but adults can learn a lot of it. I think it's more seriously than Pippi Langstrumpf or something like this. The film played most of time in England and you can feel this. So it's the story of an American girl in England too.    "},{"Title":"A fun family movie","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a Disney live action family that, unlike The Parent Trap (either version) has a lot of sappy moments. (Don't get me wrong though, I love The Parent Trap). Not to mention a level of violence not normally seen in a live action Disney flick - I'm referring, of course, to the fight between Cluny and Casey, and the fight of villians vs good guys. The storyline is simple, and yes, done before and after, but it is done well, and that's what counts. Acting is great, considering the main characters were mostly kids, and there are some great lines to quote. Overall, it's a simple, fun, family movie. One that I think could appeal to almost everyone. "},{"Title":"Good fun film","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The only thing I wasn't clear about in the film was whether Jodie Foster really remembered a loose brick in the fireplace (this was not in her initiation) or just got lucky making it up. She stares at the fireplace as though she really remembers. So little is made of this. And the ambiguity of whether she guessed the box was a musical box that played Greensleeves (a tune she'd been tipped off about) or also remembered the box for real... But then she ate a strawberry at the beginning and didn't like rice pudding, so .. maybe not.Maybe I'm analysing this too much as this scene is the only scene I remember as a 9year old - it really made an impact on me ... I have since watched the whole film again and loved it ... and if it is meant to be ambiguous as to whether she could be the long lost grand daughter, I suppose that's an unusual thing in a Disney film. The end is open, the grandmother says herself at the end that maybe she is the real granddaughter and we never really know. "}{"Title":"Good and Entertaining","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The storyline bears very little similarity to Michael Innes's novel and the fight at the end is a bit infantile but this film is good. The story in the film is a bit like one of those cheesy and awful Children's Film Foundation films I detest so much, in fact it's like the Disney organisation found a discarded CFF script and turned it into a better film. Everything in this film is idealised and this is what makes it so cosy. Even the portrayal of life on the streets in Los Angeles at the beginning is very sanitised. Jodie Foster is transported from this idealised American urban deprivation to an idealised England where butlers who look like David Niven work in stately homes and where people in awful 1970s fashions still travel by steam train. It is a good film for youngsters as the plot is not hard to follow. It may not be a great film, but it is beautiful to look at. Ron Goodwin wrote an excellent score, very reminiscent of Ralph Vaughn Williams, which really adds to the film. Yes, do a remake, but keep the English setting. Helen Mirren would be great as Lady Gwendolyn and Tom Hanks would be my choice to play Priory even though he's American. I can think of a few good British actors to play Bundage. How about Hugh Laurie? Or better still Rowan Atkinson. Jodie Foster could play Clara Grimsworthy this time. "},{"Title":"You can peel and core the apples, Queenie!!!!","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I absolutely love this movie. When I was a kid, I wanted to spend the summer at Candleshoe, though I would have ended up never leaving. This is Disney at its best. The story is great fun, a treasure hunt, clues, good and likable characters(even Cluny, who isn't trying to be a bitch. She is just smart and realizes there's something screwy with the new kid. Keep in mind that Casey is there to Rip these people off.) and a well paced plot. David Niven, Helen Hayes, Leo McKern, Veronica Quilligan and of course Jodie Foster(Hell the whole cast.) are great in their roles. Two of my favorite moments in this film are when Casey sees the clue in the library and when Priory and Lady St. Edmund begin to waltz and the sound changes from the scratchy gramophone record to the full orchestra and crowd of the past. Little touches like these make this movie magic. I love the score and still think it would be cool to live in that house. "},{"Title":"Excellent classic for young and old alike","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Excellent movie. This was one of my favorites as a teen, and my children and grandchildren love it as much as I did.  I still laugh just as hard, and enjoy wataching it with them. I found the story to be as good for today as it was in 1977, it never gets old.Outstanding performances by Helen Hays and David Niven, who are a couple of my all time favorite actors.  David Niven shows off his talent by playing several characters. A young Jody Foster gave a believable and heart renching performance as Casie Brown.This is a must see movie, a Disney classic, and is just as enjoyable for adults as kids.  The movie is laugh out loud funny at times, and heart warming at others.  This is one of those movies that you can watch over and over. "},{"Title":"One of Disney's better from the 70's","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw Candleshoe when it was new in the theater.  Disney in the 70's was a pale shadow of its former self.  Walt's death seemed to take the soul out of the company and much of the creativity.  Most of the Disney films of this era are entirely forgettable; but not this one.  Jodie Foster turns in a fine performance and proves she can keep up with masters, like David Niven, Helen Hayes, and Leo McKern.I was eleven when this movie came out.  I was a sucker for movies about hidden treasure and castles/manor houses with secret passages.  The setting was perfect and the characters were fun.  Yes, most of the other child actors are rather bland, but that is not unusual for these kinds of films.  Thankfully, the main cast makes up for it in spades.Foster is at her cynical, tomboy best here.  I grew up watching her in movies and on tv in these types of roles, and she always handled them well.  McKern is both comical and menacing as the crook Harry Bundage.  Helen Hayes is the kindly grandmother, who is far stronger than she lets on.  David Niven gives one of his better performances of this era as Priory, the Butler.  He gets to indulge in a bit of character acting as he assumes his many disguises.Unfortunately, the bulk of children's films produced today are forgettable fluff, often vulgar, with little to redeem them.  At least Robert Rodriguez is trying to make films in the spirit of old Disney.I find it curious that Disney has seemingly abandoned many of their live films to other distributors.  They seem to want to be remembered only for the films produced when Walt was around, and not all of those.  Still, some us enjoyed those films, even if Walt Disney or Michael Eisner weren't involved.I still enjoy this film as an adult.  It brings nostalgia for my youth and the dreams I had.  It also makes a pleasant departure from a much darker world.  If you have kids, forget Air Bud.  Show them this. "},{"Title":"Disney filming at its finest","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember this film from its original airing, and while I have not watched it in years, I still list it in my favorites. This only shows the strength of the movie and its acting. I loved Jodie Foster after seeing her in it, and have enjoyed her acting ever since. I am on the hunt for it for my newborn son, for him to enjoy it like I did! My many thanks to Disney,Helen Hayes,Jodie Foster,Leo McKern and all of the rest of the crew for a wonderful story and great memories. I give the movie a 10 for any parent wanting a good clean movie for their young ones, and even for a young teenager to watch something other than the sex,drugs and violence that is so prevalent in today's movies. "},{"Title":"Good Disney kids movie","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Casey Brown (Jodie Foster) is a foster kid and hustler in L.A. Con man Harry Bundage entices her to find Captain St. Edmund's treasure which he believes to be buried on the Candleshoe Estate in England. He tries to convince Lady St.Edmund that Casey is her long lost granddaughter. Priory (David Niven) is the butler. Along with four local orphans adopted by the Lady, he tries to maintain the flat-broke estate by scrounging up any extra cash.It's a fine Disney family movie. Jodie Foster is a terrific tough kid as always. She was simply one of the best child actors around. The treasure hunt is really aimed at the little kid level. It is heart-warming with a little bit of humor. "},{"Title":"Treasure Hunt","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Norman Tokar directed this appealing family film from Disney that stars Jodie Foster as Casey, who is enlisted by con man Harry Bundage(played by Leo McKern) to infiltrate the household of Candleshoe, led by an old woman(played by Helen Hayes) who Casey pretends to be the granddaughter of in order to locate a valuable treasure said to be located somewhere in the mansion. David Niven plays the butler of the house, who has concealed the fact of their bankruptcy from everyone, and who would also love the money derived from the fortune, if they can find it. Meanwhile, Casey finds herself becoming a part of the family, and decides to help them, and work against Harry. Entertaining film with bright direction and good cast, with a most charming story and setting. "},{"Title":"A con game or a reunion?","Date":"30 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I adore this film. It's silly, kinetic, delightful, and funny. The plot con-artist Harry Bundage (Leo Mckern) hires an American orphan and lookalike named Casey Brown(Jodie Foster) to go to England and pose as the long-lost granddaughter of Lady St. Edmund (Helen Hayes), who resides in the Candleshoe estate. Harry believes that there's a valuable treasure hidden somewhere within the estate and wants Casey to retrieve it. As Casey grows more attached to the residents of Candleshoe, the question remains, will she betray them or will she have a change of heart and grow to love her newfound family?Jodie Foster is very good in the role of an anarchist tomboy. Her vibrant screen presence makes the film exciting. She's not simply delivering her lines like a lot of child actors but her movements, facial expressions, and eyes do the talking as well. She plays a smart, mature, and tough character. The youngsters who watch the film would probably look up to her as a role model and leader because she stands up against the adult establishment; at times outsmarting them and making them look like bumbling fools. There are other elements kids would identify with as well. For example, the villains are harsh and hostile, and probably similar to how the adult world is seen through kids' eyes. The two seniors at Candleshoe are easy for kids to identify with because they are akin to grandparents. They are amiable, lovable, and adore the company of kids.Many colorful characters are introduced. Some of them are three dimensional and mostly goofy. The shots, action, and images in the film are inventive and amusing, at times are akin to the frames out of a comic book. The story is multifaceted with many plot developments and subplots. The estate, locations, costumes, and sets are elaborate, pristine, and gorgeous.There are minor flaws. By the end of the story, some major questions are never answered. Some plot developments seem contrived and sidetracked. As well, some characters can be better and more thoroughly developed. However, there are enough in-jokes and sophistication that adults will enjoy this film as well. It's a fun and classy family picture. "},{"Title":"A young Jodie Foster at her best.","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Lately I have been watching some old Jodie Foster movies, and that brought me to this one, a Disney film make at Pinewood Studios in England. Here Jodie Foster is boyish street urchin Casey Brown.The premise, a con man Harry Bundage finds street-wise delinquent who looks like she could be the 14 year old version of a granddaughter that disappeared at age 4 from the British mansion Candleshoe. Her father and mother died, and her old grandmother, Helen Hayes as Lady St. Edmund, would love to find her again.Harry's angle is this, he found something which makes him believe a treasure of old Spanish gold doubloons is hidden somewhere on the Candleshoe property, and he rescues Casey from the cops, and makes a deal with her, he will give her 10% if she finds the treasure.So, much of the movie is Casey doing everything she can to keep her distance from Lady S Edmund, and the several orphans there, while trying to figure out where the treasure is. Then she eventually finds out that the property will be lost if they can't come up with money for taxes, and eventually Casey begins to understand what family means.David Niven is good in several roles, as Colonel Dennis, Mr. Gipping the gardener, and Mr. Priory the butler. Of course we know each is him, but he does that to make the old lady think she still has a staff.A nice, clean, funny movie which showcases Jodie Foster's considerable acting talents as a 14 year old.SPOILERS. In a madcap ending, while the crooks are trying to find the treasure in the old mansion, and the good guys fight them off, the gold is accidentally found inside a fake treasure chest upon which a statue rests his foot. The cops show up just in time to make sure that the treasure gets to the rightful owner. Casey tries to leave town quietly, but the old lady finds her and makes her realize that she really belongs at Candleshoe, even though she probably isn't really the granddaughter. But she might be! "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Oh My Gosh!  I remember this movie from childhood when it came out on HBO. My brother and I (to this day) still talk about this movie!  I just recently bought it for my personal video library.  When my son is old enough to watch it, I plan to show it to him, although he may think it's cheesy and stupid. This was one of the first Jodie Foster movies (next to Freaky Friday) that I saw and I have been a fan ever since - she's awesome! "}{"Title":"better than the filth disney puts out now","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those disposable disney films made in the 60's and 70's.  Titles like Escape to Witch Mountain, and The Gnome Mobile come to mind.These movies were cheesey, featuring annoying child actors, at least one person with an english accent, and usually a nail bitingly bad song.  Fortunately Candleshoe has no song.Despite their flaws, these movies are still entertaining.  They are fun, mindless entertainment, without being trashy.  The kids in this movie might be sickeningly sweet, but hey, wouldn't we all love to have our kids act like that once in a while?  Today's disney shows basically consist of kids running around saying whassup alot.  At least the disney films of the 60's and 70's had plots!When I have kids I don't think they'll be watching the disney channel, instead they'll be watching the disney films I grew up with, wholesome family entertainment. "},{"Title":"Wonderful vintage live action Disney film","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really adore this film, and greatly recommend it for anyone who enjoys live-action Disney movies from the 70s. It has a wonderful cast, especially Jodie Foster, Helen Hayes, and David Niven. I'm a Harold and Maude fan, but several years before I saw that, I saw Vivian Pickles (the actress who plays Harold's mother) in this movie. It's a really good film for a Saturday afternoon, especially being a mystery. "},{"Title":"Jodie +Disney for Kids equals classic kid flick","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the first movies I ever saw with Jodie Foster in it. It still is one of my favorites from her, and easily one of the best kids movies made, including the animated ones that are so prevalent today. Jodie's street wise girl going to London to pull a con at the force of Leo McKern's character, and her learning to love the family that she is to set up for a big fall was done in a less pandering fashion than you see in today's kids movies. Also outstanding was David Niven's performance as Priory the butler. "},{"Title":"A sweet vintage film","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A Disney children's movie at the time, today it would be more cultish both for its stars and its dialogue.I cannot imagine any child of my acquaintance getting involved in its very 70s script. David Niven is wonderful in his multi-roles, as is Helen Hayes.Jody is terrific at the beginning but bogs down in a a heavy handed and overly mawkish script once the action is moved to England. I liked her as a very tough and conniving street kid. Her conversion to sweet is a little too sudden.A 7 out of 10 for the sweet sentimentality and predictable ending.Light viewing for a wet weekend. "},{"Title":"A Nicely Entertaining Package Stew from Disney","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The long lost heir(heiress) gambit has been used in theater and film it seems like forever. In this film conman Leo McKern has heard of and searched out a 15 year old girl who could be the heiress to a minor title of nobility in Britain. He flies her over from Los Angeles to rural Britain and has her meet her purported grandmother Helen Hayes.Of course this is old stuff for Hayes. Ingrid Bergman was also to be her granddaughter in Anastasia. Here it's Jodie Foster. I don't think even Jodie Foster now would compare herself to Ingrid Bergman, but Candleshoe is a great deal lighter than Anastasia. Still Helen Hayes is a less formidable grandmother than the Dowager Empress of Anastasia, but as it turns out not quite as dotty as everyone believes she is.So now we've got elements of Kidnapped, Anastasia and now to add to that mix, a sprinkle of Kind Hearts and Coronets. David Niven as her devoted butler Priory also gets to play a chauffeur, a gardener, and a neighbor. And come to think of it, the neighbor character is a bit of a spoof on what Niven won his Oscar for in Separate Tables. It's a joy to watch David Niven do these nice little turns as other characters.So Disney taking the best of at least four films I count now and other viewers might spot some more. Candleshoe is a nice little stew of an entertaining film. And incidentally the title is the name of Helen Hayes's estate. "},{"Title":"A hunt for buried treasure? In this day and age?","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hard to believe the Disney branch of the mid-'70s thought kids would be interested in the kooky nuns of One Of Our Dinosaurs Is Missing, the church-lady super-snoopers of The North Ave. Irregulars, or in the plot of this talky, sentimental comedy starring Jodie Foster as a delinquent teen transplanted from Los Angeles to the English countryside. Foster's in cahoots with a thieving couple, trying to find a treasure hidden somewhere on the property of an elderly woman and her gaggle of orphans. Despite a few missteps, Foster's work here is admirable, particularly in the quiet scene where she walks the grounds with Helen Hayes (You have to keep your dukes up, Foster says. When you wake up in the morning, the first punch is yours.). Her introductory scenes being 'bad' are enjoyable, though she seems to bond awfully fast with the other kids in the English manor, and I didn't quite buy it when she has a complete change of heart and becomes part of the family. We are not spared another Disney car chase--I don't know why I thought we would be, I supposed since we were in England and searching for treasure that wouldn't happen--but by God if the archaic Disney brass didn't shoehorn a nick-of-time auto-and-train race into this thing. Still, Jodie's performance, Ron Goodwin's wonderful score and some lightly amusing set-pieces make the film entertaining. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Run-of-the-mill Disney outing.","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This one is an adequate time-filler, but, surely, it won't be hard to find many other films to watch when you just need to sit back and spend two hours painlessly. It's an uninspired, undistinguished Disney comedy, with OK performances but a predictable storyline. The brightest moments are contributed by David Niven, who gives some class to the whole production. "},{"Title":"Fantastic kid's movie","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie for kids, or it used to be anyway.  I caught it on cable the other day and it sure was dated.  Jodie Foster was in those awkward teen years and looked like a boy, her hairdo could go in the bad hair day hall of fame.  Helen Hayes and David Niven are both excellent. Some of the verbage is so outdated, kids today probably would consider it very geeky.  Definitely one of the better Disney films from that era.  "},{"Title":"A Bit Disappointing","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The main problem I have with this film is that it's not a patch on the book and characters are changed beyond recognition (to the extent of changing their names). Michael Innes was one of my favourite authors and it's a shame that just about the only film made from his considerable output has been mucked about so much. Having said that it's much better than a lot of Disney stuff and is a lot more entertaining than, say, Home Alone. I don't think Helen Hayes was right for the old woman (based on reading the book) but, while Jay in the book is a boy, I can understand Jodie Foster getting the part because she is really good. It keeps the kids quiet for a bit but it could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Candle with care, Clarice.","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" In between the time when Jodie Foster played a prostitute in Taxi Driver and made* John Hinckley decide to shoot Ronald Reagan, she starred in some kid-oriented movies, of which Candleshoe was one. In this one, she plays street urchin Casey Brown, whom gangster Harry Bundage (Leo McKern) sends to pretend to be the granddaughter of aristocrat Lady St. Edmund (Helen Hayes). As expected, Casey gets too much into character, and Harry decides to get nasty.This movie's nothing special, for the most part. However, I will admit that it was my introduction to David Niven. In fact, when I saw Leo McKern, I recognized him as the guy chasing the Beatles in Help!, and I wondered if HIS name was David Niven. Within a year, however, I saw The Pink Panther and figured out which one David Niven was. I later saw Leo McKern in The Omen (that horror flick is supposed to be sacrosanct; WHY did they have to remake it?!).I admit that it's weird to review a cute Disney movie and mention a movie like The Omen. But the truth is, I take pride in doing those sorts of things (and today is 06/06/06 - or 666 - after all). As for Candleshoe itself, it is a kids' movie, but I guess that it's harmless. The only other cast member whom I recognize is Vivian Pickles (Grimsworthy); she played Harold's mother in Harold and Maude. Weird.Who ever would have assumed that the girl from the late '70s Disney flicks would later play an FBI agent interviewing a cannibal? *I find it hard to believe that John Hinckley shot Reagan to impress Jodie Foster. The whole thing seems kinda sketchy. Oh well. At least it led to the Brady Campaign Against Gun Violence (sign yourself up at bradycampaign.org). "}]