[{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"48 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I discovered Werner Herzog first through his remake of Nosferatu and then through Fitzcarraldo and Aguirre The Wrath of God. Though the brilliance of those movies is unimpeachable, Stroszek, at least for me, stands at the apex of Herzog's oeuvre. This intensely moving and satisfying film which begins in Germany and winds up in Wisconsin is solid through and through. There's not a weak moment or weak element to be found. The acting, especially by Bruno S., is completely unaffected and without over-stylization (there is, perhaps, a reason for this - they aren't acting, simply being). The story itself deals with melodramatic elements without steering into soap opera territory and the film's ideology is not black in white. There's subtlety and complexity to the ideas put forth in this film about America, Germany, human beings, life, etc. Moreover, Stroszek avoids beating the audience's brains with its ideas; Herzog presents them in the context of the story, smoothly integrated. And then there's the beautiful photography, particularly of the American Midwest; Herzog and his cameramen capture perfectly the cold, stark, desolate magnificence of the upper-Plains. To draw a weird comparison, the photography here is the equivalent of Husker Du's New Day Rising - crisp, harsh, and gorgeous simultaneously. Stroszek also has a justifiably well-known ending, both surreal and completely sensible. Though any other director would be unable to top an ending such as that in Aguirre (the slumped conqueror, floating on a monkey-covered raft), Herzog does just that here. Truly, if you have not seen any Herzog, this is a great place to start; then go see Aguirre, Fitzcarraldo, Nosferatu, Woyczek, and Invincible. The man is brilliant and I await with bated breath Grizzly Man, his new project. "},{"Title":"About Infant Gymnastics....and then some.","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Admittedly, I was hooked from start go by Werner Herzog's Stroszek. This film's weird and unpredictable rhythm intoxicated me. From its arresting images (reflections from a hanging glass bottle) to the hypnotic sounds (Chet Atkins' guitar strumming languidly along a highway), these cinematic hallmarks of the great Werner Herzog flooded Stroszek mysteriously, unobtrusively and most of all, very lovingly. Strange enough, the kitschy surreality of this film's music (a good example will be that iced lake radar search sequence) reminds me strongly of those 70's Classic Taiwanese Beach Dramas. You know, the kind where a pair of arms-outstretched love birds would run in slomo towards each other via opposite ends of a sandy seashore? I know, the cultural reference may be lost to non-Chinese readers and I apologise. But yes, this flick stirs and stimulates my free associative imagination with wild and insane glee. I kid you not, people. I kid you not. However, major credits need be given to the lucidity and forceful presence of one Bruno S. Sample below quote.The Bruno to Eva And now comes the question. All my friends waited for me, but this is my best friend....my Black Friend(a piano). What's going to happen to my friend when Bruno goes dead someday? Where are these things and these instruments going to end up? What's going to happen to them. Someone must answer this for me. (And then, they just stared at each other, throughout and after.....)Above affecting sequence punctuated the bittersweet vulnerability of one Bruno S. As a simple, slightly challenged man-child, Bruno had very limited human relationships all his life. As such, he guilelessly transfers his genuine feelings onto placebo objects. But despite of his checkered past (years of physical abuse and institutional upbringing), this socially inadequate man ably exudes generosity, kindness and unguarded honesty. Given half a chance, he will just as likely shower his unconditional love onto those whom he cares for, namely Eva. (As was shown in one scene set to the haunting tinkles of Moonlight Sonata). All in, Bruno is thus an exceptionally good man. But will there yet be more to this Bruno than meet the eyes? I dunno.... Throughout this film, I am captivated by Bruno's earnest glow; so refreshingly tender and devoid of artifice. In reaction to his search for meaning in life, love and other myriad mysteries (like birds confiscators or speed-talking men - don't ask.), Bruno's expressive face never lies. I felt immensely privileged to share in his bliss (or despair) at any given points in time. This fascinating creature tugged at my strings more often in this movie than the combined twitches of so many affected actors out there. I friggin' love this charming dude and hence, I cannot help but root for the guy. You go, Bruno! Like the best of Herzog's works, Stroszek boasts of many scratch head-worthy moments. (Especially considering my having seen the Enigma of Heart of Glass.) But these pecularities only serve to propel my viewing experience into mystical realms. For buried within its seemingly artful surfaces, lies aching balms of cinematic capsules. They will randomly burst and engulf the inclined and willing. They will seep into one's consciousness and never let you go. I hence don't think I can ever erase the wonderous memories of those stolen moments already, from Peddling Sabine to Infant Gymnastics, from Not 4, but 5 to $32. Most infamously, how can I not mention that Dancing Chicken? Brilliant! At this point, I will like to urge all to venture forth into Herzog's film universe. For if you're willing, or foolhardy enough to take that plunge, you may yet discover a film like Stroszek to be ceaselessly beautiful and effortlessly moving.   "},{"Title":"A treat for Herzog fans","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just had the opportunity to see Werner Herzog's Stroszek for the first time in its new DVD edition.  It's certainly a bleak scenario, but I'm not so sure it was meant to be as critical of the United States as many viewers both here and abroad suppose.  In his commentary for this film, it seems to me that Herzog plays down that aspect of it.  He expresses a strong affection for the typical Americans seen in the film -- non-actors who just happened to be on the scene and were prevailed-upon to more-or-less portray themselves.  The unfortunate protagonist of the film, played by longtime Herzog protégé Bruno S., leaves for America with his friends to escape a brutal and oppressive existence in Berlin.  While misfortune comes to them in a different guise in America, it's hardly more barbaric or degrading than their lives in Berlin.  To me it suggests that human nature is the same everywhere, and the weak are always preyed-upon.  Bruno and his companions are just innocent enough to believe the old legend that in America the streets are paved with gold.The running commentary that Herzog has recorded for the recent DVDs of his films are among the most interesting and engaging I've heard, and they're one of the reasons I especially appreciate the DVD medium.  That's not to say that he lets the literal-minded viewer off the hook by providing handy explanations for every peculiar image or bit of dialog.  When asked what a certain image or phrase signifies, he will sometimes simply say that he cannot explain it.  But I find it fascinating to watch a scene, and then scan back and listen to his comments about the location, actors, technical details, and yes, even sometimes the intended effect of a puzzling image. Many of the people seen in his films are non-actors, people he simply ran into, found interesting, and intuitively knew would be effective on film. Some of the players in Herzog's films are the very people that most directors would chase from their set with security guards, but he sees something interesting in them, and finds a way to tap into it.  I can't help liking the man for that.  Some people have suggested that his use of the unfortunate Bruno S. as a film actor amounted to some sort of exploitation. But it seems to me that his befriending of Bruno, and his artful and patient use of him as a film actor, must have given Bruno some sense of the dignity and worth as a unique human being that was denied him for most of his life. If this means nothing to you, and you don't know anything about Bruno S., the commentary tracks on either Stroszek or The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser explain his background nicely.  It's a remarkable story.If you're unfamiliar with Herzog's work, he has done some especially exotic films with the volatile actor Klaus Kinski.  Cobra Verde is a particular favorite of mine.  But his films do not have the relentless pace or hyperactive editing typical of mainstream American films.  They are unforgiving of those with short attention-spans, so be forewarned. "},{"Title":"**** out of ****","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fascinating, unique look at the American dream follows three German social misfits (Bruno S., Eva Mattes, Clemens Scheitz) as they travel to Railroad Flats, Wisconsin to seek a better life.  Strange comic moments mesh together well with some extremely sad and moving moments.  Superbly performed by everybody, although the cast is mostly non-actors.  The documentary style shooting works well with the story.  One of Herzog's best. "},{"Title":"Where would we be without Werner Herzog?","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Before I address the film, allow me a quick paean to its writer/producer/director. Thank Christ for Werner Herzog. It's tough being a cineaste these days, with such creative geniuses as Michael Bay, McG, and whoever directed Deuce Bigalow 2 ruling the Hollywood roost. Even Spielberg and Lucas have lost their mojo...OK, Lucas moreso--much, much moreso--than Spielberg. But what about Coppola? What's Scorsese done recently? Did P.T. Anderson fall off the face of the Earth? It's a bit frightening to think that no one is at the helm of the ship, and nothing good and/or original is being made. Enter Herzog. The guy IS a genius, and besides that, he is not only prolific, but he still has it. Grizzly Man is just as good as anything Herzog made thirty years ago. Coincidentally, Stroszek was made thirty years ago. It is brilliant. Herzog knows how to use music in films, and here is a prime example. Herzog always has one or two bits of indelible imagery in his films; in Stroszek, we have the premature babies and the dancing chicken. (Another Herzog staple is unforgettable characterization. Who else wanted to punch the banker in the face? The guy's performance as a glad-handing vulture with a big sh*t-eating grin was spot-on.) Now I can see some viewers giving up after fifteen minutes and saying, This is pretentious, Euro-arty bullsh*t. Fair enough...not all movies appeal to everyone. But I hate pretentious, Euro-arty bullsh*t too (e.g. The Perfect Human), and this ain't that. Stick with it, or wait a few years and try it again (just like reading Ulysses). This film will make demands on you...don't expect Hollywood pap. Last thing the accusation of anti-American has been leveled at this film. I'm a white, male Republican (i.e., evil incarnate) and I do not--NOT--find this to be the case. This film is not about bashing America it is about the other side of life's coin, and how no man truly decides his own fate. "},{"Title":"The Glory of America","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film provides Americans the opportunity to see what the USA looks like through a foreigner's eyes. It's no picnic, according to Herzog. Even more, the title characteris played by Bruno S., a certified schizophrenic that Herzog befriended. His acting style is nothing of the kind and adds a sense of honest bewilderment to the roles he has played. This story is the antithesis of the Horation Alger American Dream story. It is bizarre and moving in spite of itself. Herzog hits upon one of the greatest endings to any film attempting to sum up the character of the US it takes place at a roadside carnival of sorts, that features the antics of trained animals, who dance and play the piano on command (not nearly as impressive as it sounds, just like America). "},{"Title":"Preemies & dancing chickens","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie has been described as Herzog's take on the American Dream, and there is some overt USA bashing, but it is much more complex than that, as societies are not easily characterized. For instance, the gangster-pimps that terrorize and brutalize Bruno and Eva in Berlin are very much reflections of the Gestapo mentality and the feeling of being trapped and helpless in your own homeland. They are more fortunate than Nazi victims in the ease of their escape to America but unlike most of those refugees in the 30's and 40's, Bruno is unable to assimilate and contribute. He expects instant riches and does a little work for the horny hillbillies that give him a job but is still full of anger and paranoia. This is due primarily to his obvious faults, alcoholism and maybe paranoid schizophrenia, and not to the American system. All 3 of the German transplants are shown to be highly intelligent and cultured beyond the hellish railroad town they are plopped down into, and the obvious solution would have been for Bruno to seek employment as a musician, as he is very talented in that regard, but the dramatic arc of the story demands that he lose everything including Eva, and blame America and the insipid characters he is forced to deal with, and do something drastic, which he does. Eva knew that America is the same as every place if you want a good life, you've got to work hard for it, using whatever tools & gifts you possess. But Bruno is too damaged to apply this principle, and this is the tragedy of Stroszek and of Bruno S.The scene with the premature baby and the doctor is one of the greatest I've ever seen. It is just amazing, the character of that tiny infant, and shows Stroszek the fundamental power that he lacks, the tenacious nature of humanity to hold onto not only fellow human beings, but also to life itself.The coin-operated live animals in the end represent not only cruelty and lack of compassion, but the obsessiveness of the American pursuit of entertainment. I personally felt more compassion for these creatures as victims of a system than I did for Bruno, who was pretty much doomed before he came to America. "},{"Title":"Grizzly Men and Dancing Chickens","Date":"26 September 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A person needs a little madness, or else they never dare cut the rope and be free. &#x96; Nikos Kazantzakis Amerika ist wunderbar! - RammsteinMany of the films which comprise New German Cinema, a period in German cinema which lasted from the late 1960s to the mid 1980s, explored and attempted to come to terms with the cultural colonisation foisted upon Western Germany by America in the aftermath of WW2.Wim Wenders, Margarethe Trotta, Rainer Fassbiner and Werner Herzog were the big names in this movement, with films like The American Friend, Kings of the Road, Storszek and Fear Eats the Soul. But while Herzog's Storszek may have been thematically typical of the movement, it's a bit of an anomaly in Herzog's own filmography, whose films, at least at the time, tended to be set in the past and were often structured as allegories or medieval fables.Storszek opens with a mentally unstable musician, Bruno Stroszek, being released from prison. This character is modelled on the life of Bruno Schleinstein, the actor who actually plays Stroszek in the film. Typical of Herzog's work, Storszek thus effortlessly blends fiction and documentary, Bruno, who always seems uncomfortable in front of Herzog's camera, acting as himself in a fictional story based loosely on his own life.Like most of Herzog's films, the tale is told via several symbolic episodes. First act a wet and oppressive Germany populated by violent pimps and prostitutes. Symbols like a shrinking boat and a bird which is confiscated are then dished out, after which Bruno rescues a prostitute and travels to America in the hope of making a better life for himself.Vast and seemingly unrestrictive, America is initially portrayed as a place of possibility and freedom. Gradually, though, Herzog begins to populate this world with his usual assortment of freaks and grotesque characters. More symbols and symbolic subplots are then revealed the story of a local murderer and body snatcher, the fact that Bruno's new hometown was the hometown of Ed Gein, warring farmers who fight over a thin strip of land, obsessions with metal detectors, a crazy old man's insistence that people are magnetic and that the dead emit magnetic fields, dangerous walks on frozen ponds, salty pretzels, mobile homes, a ski lift etc etc.End result by the film's final act, Storszek's faux-documentarian edge completely gives way to a kind of overt surrealism. And so Herzog has Bruno lose his home, lose his girlfriend (who returns to prostitution and leaves him for an obese trucker), and mount an incompetent robbery, all for 32 dollars and a Thanksgiving turkey. Chased by the police, Bruno then flees to a depressingly tacky town whose chief income is a large amusement park operated by Native Indians and awash with machines, neon signs, glitzy diversions, kitschy plastic facades and an assortment of fun-house fakery.Seeking escape, Bruno hops on board a ski lift. He thinks it'll take him up into the mountains, to some heavenly getaway, but of course the ski lift is stuck in a loop and can take him nowhere except right back where he started from. Realizing that the American dream is the German reality, Bruno shoots himself, committing suicide off screen.The film's final shot is of a solitary chicken, trapped in a fun-house, dancing (automatically, seemingly without thought) in a cage and making a fool of itself for bird-seed. This, of course, is Bruno's own trap the Myth of Sisyphus in poultry form, life reduced to a circus act too grotesque to contemplate. Joy Division lead singer Ian Curtis would hang himself in his kitchen moments after witnessing this very sequence.Herzog's cinema is a cinema of madmen (Timothy Treadwell in Grizzly Man, Klaus Kinski's numerous starring roles, the various mystics and deranged prophets peppered throughout Herzog's filmography etc). What's great is that you're never quite sure how nuts these guys are and how sympathetic Herzog wants you to be toward them. But while it's easy to dismiss Bruno as an endearingly simple man-child with a couple screws loose in the head (he is), Herzog's ultimate point is three fold. Yes, the amusement park may violently spit madmen out of its machinery, mad men like Bruno who either reject the illusion or are too damaged to cope. But those chickens whom the machinery doesn't reject are far more insane. Normalcy is irrational, and in Herzog's filmography it is often the mad who see this clearest. Or as Harlan Smith once said Fantastic insight into the true nature of Reality is isomorphic to insanity.8.5/10 &#x96; Fittingly, this film was made the same year as Lynch's Eraserhead. Lynch would use a similar filmic language or meta-story decades later with The Straight Story. The film is too ambivalent to be taken as a jab at America and late capitalism. Herzog is primarily an existentialist, and whatever fingers he points at the US he points at Germany as well.Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"From Berlin to Wisconsin","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I recently watched Michael Winterbottom's 24 HOUR PARTY PEOPLE, where Ian Curtis hangs himself while watching the chicken dancing sequence in STROSZEK. He'd probably done that anyway, but Herzog's portrait of three eccentric oddballs trying their luck in America, is a sombre film, the most downbeat Herzog made. The only copy I own is a rather dark VHS-copy, which shows some of the interior shots in Berlin even darker than they already are, to the very limit of watchability, so perhaps it's time I update this beautiful film with a proper DVD.The film handles the story of former asylum inmate Bruno S. (THE ENIGMA OF KASPAR HAUSER) as a Berlin street singer (in a role where he basically plays himself), who joins with his prostitute girlfriend Eva (Eva Mattes) and ageing eccentric friend Scheitz (Clemens Scheitz) to embark on a memorable journey, leaving modern Berlin, for the golden opportunities of America. The 'promised land' is represented by the dreary, austere town of Railroad Flats in rural Wisconsin, where they settle in a mobile home bought on credit, but it turns out America is not gonna fulfill their dreams that easily. Shot in winter, Berlin is shown as a cold, forbidden and lacklustre place. Not a ray of sunshine. The dark facades of the battered apartment blocks, downlit bars filled with smoke and shabby characters, the only goal the folks in Bruno's world seem to have, is merely make the best of things. Often read as a critique of how capitalist American society destroys the individual, Herzog sees the film as less a critique of the United States than as a eulogy in the wake of the American dream, for such shattered hopes could develop in virtually any country (see Herzog on Herzog, p. 144). He does throw in some of the eccentricities of American life, but above all, it's a somewhat surreal account of three simple folks, short-changed in life, desperately trying to make ends meet. From the start it's clear that these three are made for each other. They simply do not fit in any stratum of society really. They're too fragile for the world of pimps and low lives that formed the background of their lives in Berlin. Although not dumb, Bruno is too half-witted to be taken seriously by most people. Eva's background is not fully explained, but she's emotionally fragile and dependent, while elderly Scheitz's chances to get ahead in life seems to lay in the past. It's a bleak and uncompromising film, this tragicomic account of this odd trio in pursuit of a better life outside the dreary confinements of Berlin's lower casts of society, but it's so intensely moving and honest with its subjects, that alone is something to admire.Camera Obscura --- 9/10 "},{"Title":"Cinema of truth","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A friend once commented to me that what made a painting more interesting than say, just the oil on the canvas, was the story behind the painting and the story behind the person who painted it. This works ideally when applied to this wonderfully, deeply affecting film. IF you've watched this film then you must know a little about the back story and if now read the twenty other reviews posted here. The truth is what makes this film great! The truth it takes to mix this film with fact and fiction, to script or not to script! To style or not to style. This is wondrous. Herzog is one of those film makers that only come along once in a very very long time, And of course you all know about the ending. It's fitting I suppose perhaps prophetic if you really think about it. Never How! Let the beauty of this film pass down from good friend to good friend. FIVE STARS! "}{"Title":"the story of man's incredible/mundane downfall, in one of Herzog's best","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What an unclassifiable hybrid/whatever movie Stroszek is. I'd wager it's the kind of picture that Gonzo the Great (yes, the Muppet) would probably make if he were from Germany and looking to make a tragic-comic look on one man's journey in the rural side of America (after all, the last sequence would make perfect sense, wouldn't it). In truth, it's Werner Herzog at his most focused and un-hinged, a work of wild, original art where the tone ranges from harsh reality, documentary realism (or so we might think), to drama stripped of its 'melo', and a brand of satire that goes beyond the usual realm and is satirical only in the sense that you know something is being made fun of. In fact, I'd say the last twenty-five, thirty minutes of this picture are the funniest, and even in these minutes there's a sense of sorrow to what has happened with Bruno Stroszek (Bruno S., sort of as himself, I suppose, the line between fiction and fact is so blurry that it's the only way Herzog can get things done) and how his girlfriend (Eva Mattes) leaves him, and his best friend and neighbor gets arrested after armed robbery of a, uh, store in a basement next to a bank, I guess.But whatever weirdness and sort of everyday mundane qualities that go hand in hand with the film Stroszek are given a greater context. I actually had a little more interest in what was going on after having just seen Chaplin's Modern Times, and seeing how there could be a comparison made to the two. Of course, Herzog could never be one to induce the silly physical comedy that makes up the bulk of Chaplin's films, but there is a similarity that struck me, and helped make me really care about what was going on with these characters- Herzog, for all his showing the ultimate follies, loves Stroszek, or at least does not try and show him off as being a complete waste of life. And if it does almost come off that way (Stroszek is, after all, a perpetual drunk who got released only recently from the mental hospital, and can never get steady work aside from being a mechanic once in the US), it's off-set by how much he even cares about the much more flawed Eva, too. He sees them in a context of society and civilization as well as just stand-alone outcasts (outcasts being another Chaplin comparison) not to mention the other side characters, both wretchedly cruel and mean like the Germans who bully Stroszek and beat up on Eva, or the wacky co-workers and very formal mortgage/loan people. So, in a way, Herzog takes on the other side of what we might usually find in a Chaplin effort, which includes cynicism (at least skepticism), despair, and replacing morality with a truly twisted sense of humor. Not that the form of documentary, more than anything, peeks its head into the work.There isn't much story to report, aside from the bulk of what I've already mentioned- Stroszek, Eva and their elderly neighbor escape from the harsh and cruel state of being they're at in Berlin (a brief but interesting commentary on Germany too), only to find in the small-town Wisconsin life not much more in line of prosperity. Soon, Stroszek is on his own when he loses his trailer-home, Eva leaves him after a drunken ramble he goes on, and of course the aforementioned botched robbery. He heads off randomly to another small town, tells his story to a random guy, and then as his truck goes up in flames, he gets caught on a ski-lift after passing by a dancing chicken. All the while Bruno S. plays this guy with no punches pulled, and is as intuitive a non-professional actor as any given others in the old neo-realist days. Eva, too, wasn't that much of an actress yet when she took on this role. And a lot of the time (David Lynch mentioned this in an interview as he started watching the film in the middle) it's like watching a documentary of these people, showing in all the ordinary working-class ways how they get stuck and any chance of the American dream gets squashed. One's never really sure who's an actor or not, but it makes no difference really. A lot of it is some of the most harrowing cinema that I've seen in a while- the tone is of a bitterness at the system, any system, and of a sorrow that is everlooming, that is, perhaps, until the ending.Remarkable then is really how much I laughed during the film. Even in the earlier scenes, when it was dreary, the sort of behavior in parts, and especially notes of the dialog, rang of the complete randomness that is all abound in Herzog's work. But one only needs to look at Stroszek to see the Herzog sense of humor working full-tilt amid the social commentary and despair. The two funniest sequences- not withstanding the armed robbery- are the auction scene (that guy, wow, just wow is all I could say after that), and the dancing chicken. A big chunk of the dancing chicken scene's bizarre appeal is the music, with a true absurdity to the harmonica playing and wailing vocals. Many over the years have wondered the significance of the dancing chicken, most particularly as the ending to the picture. While Herzog himself claims it to be a metaphor for something he can't place, a friend mentioned that it could be capitalism, or the chicken as a representation of Bruno Stroszek, or of an American in general. I wouldn't want to jump to any conclusions just yet, and I'm glad that way- all I know is that it's one of the funniest three minutes of film to ever come out of Europe. It's Herzog's ultimate, tragic-comic tale about a man in the lower depths of himself and his society. A+ "},{"Title":"Images Speak a Thousand Words","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stroszekanalysis by Philip BrubakerWerner Herzog's Stroszek (1977) is a film both in German and English. The three main characters flee Germany for the promise of opportunity in America. In Berlin, they find themselves victims of vicious brutes, who prostitute Ewa, Stroszek's friend. Stroszek himself is just released from a mental institution. The two outcasts hook up with an eccentric old man and decided to move to Wisconsin, where the old man's nephew lives. Stroszek has been called Herzog's most accessible film, a distinction due to it's time-worn fish-out-of-water premise. But the archetypal humor of the situation turns black as Ewa begins to revert to her promiscuous ways, and the group's double wide gets impounded and auctioned off by the bank. Stroszek's life is falling apart, so what does he do? He attempts to rob a bank.The failure of the American Dream is the story of every criminal in the United States. By turning to crime, the criminal hopes to regain the hope of being rich, by any means necessary. The American Dream failed Stroszek, and this idea is represented by many striking images. The most overt symbol in the film are the two farmers who mow their grass toting shotguns. The tractor-riding farmers are both watching over a strip of land in between their properties, making sure neither one is attempting to mow it, and therefore claim it as their own. The scene is played for laughs, but it is a pointed reference to Stroszek's hometown of Berlin, with it's harsh division by the Berlin Wall. The Native American character is the ultimate symbol of America. He is both a foreigner and a native. A stranger to the white man's culture, a culture of European immigrants. When Stroszek makes his farewell ride to the Indian Reservation town of Cherokee, he drives right into the heart of the American dilemma. Here he is surrounded by the last vestiges of American Indian culture, now warped and perverted into a tourist attraction, an example of American grotesquerie at it's lowest low. An old-timey holler is heard on the soundtrack and our hero ditches his car and climbs onto a chair lift ride with his shotgun. As the camera tilts up to his slow ascent up a tall mountain, a shot rings out. Did Stroszek take his own life? Appropriately, Herzog leaves this ambiguous. His rise upward on the chair lift is symbolic of the ascent to Heaven, Shangri-La, Eldorado and every dreamed mythical place that foreigners imagine America to be. He is going home. "},{"Title":"No-one kicks you here Bruno. Not physically, here they do it spiritually.","Date":"28 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The richness of Stroszek strengthens with multiple viewings. Haunting cinematography by Thomas Mauch has a bitter-sweet humor faithful to mid-century American experience. Underscored by sentimental American popular tunes many from Chet Akins presage Aguirre, der Zorn Gottes enhanced by pensive editing by Beate Mainka-Jellinghaus. The late Bruno Schleinstein plays a protagonist. If you do not know his story,watch the film and then read about him. In the film, he also plays (his) piano, accordion, glockenspiel, and hand bells. This is music by Bruno S. himself. Even though the movies tells a story set in America, it is a film about Bruno S. and, in an important way, a film for him.Eva Mattes, famous for her work in four masterworks by Rainer Maria Fassbinder, brings a dry, sardonic sense to what might have been a maudlin role. Many who play in the film are amateurs the crew met on location. The second cameraman Edward Lachman often improvised English language dialogue in the moment. Literally, Mr. Herzog used the people he and the crew met at the moment. Sometimes, especially in the sections shot in Germany, those playing the role were known ahead of the shooting. The scenes early in the movie with a brutal pimp are played by a brutal pimp. The premature baby is with an actual doctor who works with premature babies.Editor Beate Mainka-Jellinghaus took part in the shooting. Improvisation plays a major part in the tonality of Stroszek. With Bruno S. and others, improvisation plays a vital and central role though Bruno knows what he is to do.This is a terrific film that I relate to Michael Ritchie's Smile, another masterwork that explores similar themes. Yet, Herzog's view of American life is not bitter like that of Mr. Ritchie. It is brutal&#x97;but not meanly so. I think that the meanness has more to do with the story than with Mr. Herzog's opinion of the United States. He admits to having deep affection for the heartland of American and to the people who live there. For one who loves the immense formal beauty of European Modern French, Swedish, and Italian films, watching German movies is sometimes hard in some ways. Many films from the wave of German movies of which Herzog's work is part and example have a hard look. Some of them are hard to watch. The humour is hard even if it softens bitterness. This is not an optimistic film but that is not the mood that Herzog finds about America. It is simply the mood of the story. Do not listen to the commentary on the DVD until you first watch this film without it. Then do listen to the commentary. From the commentary, you learn precisely how the movie blurs lines between documentary and fictional film narrative. In the end, we realize the Brave New World image of conditioned life in America&#x97;in the trained rabbit and poultry, a duck and especially a chicken, at Cherokee,North Carolina. Sonny Terry, blowing his fierce blues harmonica, beats the frantic and pointless pace at which we live. Funny and tragic but not mean, these images infect your memory. "},{"Title":"The American Dream","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In Berlin, the alcoholic street musician Bruno Stroszek (Bruno S.) is released from prison and while returning home, he invites the prostitute Eva (Eva Mattes) to move to his apartment and leave her two abusive pimps. His paranoid friend and neighbor Scheitz (Clemens Scheitz) has taken care of his apartment and his piano while he was imprisoned. On the next day, Stroszek plays accordion and glockenspiel on the streets to raise some money and when he arrives home, he finds Eva beaten and the two pimps humiliate him. The harassment continues and without any option, Stroszek, Eva and Scheitz decide to begin a new life in Wisconsin, where a relative of Scheitz lives. The trio of friends travels to the United States of America expecting to make money and accomplish the American Dream. Bruno works in a auto mechanic and Eva as a waitress in a diner, and they buy a prefabricated house despite the concern of Bruno with the installments. When the bank threatens to take the house due to delay in the payments of the loan, Eva enters in the prostitution again with truck drivers to raise the necessary money. Sooner Stroszek discovers in a tragic way the sad reality of the American Dream.Stroszec is a powerful and realistic movie about losers and the American Dream. The screenplay is original and unpredictable like life is, with magnificent lines and Werner Herzog uses also amateurish cast leaded by Bruno Schleinstein from The Enigma of Kaspar Hause, who is the unwanted son of a prostitute that spent a great part of his life in mental institutions due to the severe abuse and beaten; therefore, the actor has some problems indeed and the beginning of the film is very similar to his real life. The conclusion is open to interpretation and I believe that Stroszek shot himself. I do not understand the meaning of the dancing chicken; with regard to the frozen turkey, I am not sure whether it is a symbolism indicating that Stroszec wanted to return to his origins in Turkey since he is Turkish-German, or if it is Thanksgiving in USA at that moment and he ends alone without friends just with the turkey. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Stroszec "},{"Title":"Bruno S. as in spectator...","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you're going to watch this, I strongly recommend you allot time for the DVD version with Herzog's commentary. It adds some warmth and a lot of insight into what on the surface could be seen as a simple film wherein the characters don't change despite the fact that their environs do.Yep another indictment of the impersonal and imposing modern world and those that it plows under. At the same time, it had a strange flavor, reminiscent of being cursed at in English by a non-native speaker. Perturbing on one level, but sort of playful in its twisted delivery.On the first watching of the film, I knew nothing about Bruno S. the person...but did find him a bit of a miscreant. Later on we learn that Stroszek serves as somewhat of a biopic, strung together with flotsam and jetsam from Herzog's own travels and travails.  Herzog's casting is beyond odd, and for that I am grateful...others may be put off. But part of Herzog's anachronistic/anarchic approach is to take non-actors and place them in a state of inaction. Through this process, we get something more like life than cinema, and yet strangely unlike either. The spiral downwards of Bruno feels inevitable, and is nowhere near enjoyable to watch. The film is frustrating to me, as Bruno remains no more than a spectator in the debacle of his own life. He's a complex simpleton, refusing to march to the beat of his own conundrum.We are promised a false rebirth, with the visit to the preemie birth ward...but Bruno spent too much time wrapped up and strangled by his umbilical Berlin cord. The move to America finds rifles growing like corn stalks, and one even takes root in our anti-hero's hands.The film feels rife with symbolism, but I wonder how much of that is a fact that Herzog himself is a magnet for fools' gold. If you, like myself prefer such esoteric elements over the coign of the silver screen, then this film should have enough rewards for you. But ultimately, I think you'll feel shortchanged.The soundtrack however does deserve a favorable mention, the beauty of dilapidated sound is easier to appreciate than dilapidated surroundings for me. And whereas the musings of Bruno did not ring true for me, his homespun, junkyard music certainly did.6/10I look forward to seeing other Herzog films, but I'm starting to wonder if I (or you) should see them in any particular order. Again the commentary was a big plus, I'm impressed at the sort of improvisational movie-making Herzog guides. "},{"Title":"Stroszek (1977)","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Being a huge fan of Joy Division I found out that this was the last film watched by Ian Curtis before he killed himself. I then found out that Werner Herzog was his favourite director and knew I simply had to see it. I didn't quite know what to expect upon popping it into my DVD player as I had never seen a Herzog film before. I begins with Bruno S., apparently playing himself being released from prison with his accordion and bugle. He is warned to stay away from alcohol as beer is the reason he ended up in prison. The first thing he does is go into a pub called Beer Heaven. There he meets Eva and offers her a place to live, however Eva's pimp and his mate beat Eva and intimidate Bruno. Eva sells herself to men to raise money so herself and Bruno can go and join Bruno's elderly neighbour in America. Like many people in films before they believe America will be the place of their dreams where Bruno can rise to fame with his musical talent and they can earn money. Things seem good at first with Bruno and Eva settling in. However the bank comes looking for repayments to their loan and Eva begins selling herself to men yet again, finally leaving Bruno. In a hilarious scene Bruno and Mr. Scheitz go to rob a bank only to find it is closed, so they rob the tiny shop next door only stealing $32. They then go across the road to spend the money and Mr. Scheitz is arrested. Finally Bruno drives off and kills himself upon a ski-lift. It is a tragic film that really captures the hopelessness of dreams and shows the characters trapped in a world that doesn't measure up to their dreams, much like the dancing and instrument playing animals at the end. Herzog has an eye for simply constructed shots and images that convey raw emotion. One point sees Bruno visiting a premature baby ward. The babies are so helpless and fragile, yet still beautiful. The doctors demonstration of the strength of their reflex grip echoes that of Bruno and his dreams. Herzog is also highly skilled at holding a shot, forcing the viewer to experience the emotion. At the end we see Bruno in a diner, and the camera simply stays on his face, Bruno barely flinches but it is though we can feel what he feels. The film is also interesting in its pace, as it never rushes but feels though each moment just flies by, but also the overall film seems longer than it actually is. The film is very rare as it feels complete. BEing told from Bruno's perspective once a major character leaves him they feature no more. Some films have me thinking What happened to... not here though, as I was completely wrapped up in Bruno's journey. The unprofessional cast are more convincing in their subtlety and inexperience than the majority of A list ensemble casts and they really add a human touch to the film. A brilliant film that really makes you feel and connect with it. And since the film is about a musician it only makes sense that the music is well used and very, very good. "},{"Title":"Stranger than Hell","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Bruno Stroszek (Bruno S.) is a backyard-singer in Berlin and just released from prison for minor crimes committed under influence of alcohol. Nevertheless, his first walk leads him back to his regular inn. There, he meets the prostitute Eva (an absolutely gorgeous Eva Mattes). She wants to get away from her pimp, and Bruno invites her to stay in his apartment that his old neighbor, Herr Scheitz (Clemens Scheitz) has kept for him, as well as the Brave Beo (played by himself), who is also happy to see Bruno again. But it takes only a short time and Eva's pimp (played by the unforgettable Prince Wilhelm von Homburg), assisted by another souteneur (Burkhard Driest) finds her. They devastate Bruno's apartment and beat both Eva and Bruno up. Meanwhile, the post has brought Herrn Scheitz an invitation to live with his cousin in Railroad Flats, Wisconsin. Eva gets the money through prostitution. The first bad experience for this trio happens at the customs What a land is this, where a beo is confiscated? Bruno comments. Arrived in Winsconsin, they buy a mobile home. Bruno finds work as a mechanic, Eva as a server, and the old Herr Scheitz is occupied with his researches in mesmerism. However, soon after, they cannot pay anymore their rates for the house and the furnishing. More and more frequently, a bank clerk visits them. For Bruno, the European, there is an exorbitant difference in the nice American behavior of the clerk on the one side and his merciless demand for money on the other side. Bruno says In the children's home where I grew up, they used to torment us children physically, but here, in America, they torment us psychologically, and this is much, much worse. Finally, the bank takes the home away, Eva elopes with two truckers, and Bruno and Herr Scheitz are left without house and money. They plan to rob the bank that has taken their home away. However, when they arrive at the bank, it is closed, and so they decide to rob a hairdresser's salon instead. With the little money robbed, they go and buy food &#150; just in the grocery-store on the other side of the street. While Bruno looks for a turkey, the police arrive and arrest Herr Scheitz. Bruno hides in the store, until they are gone, and, now left totally alone with himself, he drives through the snow on the interstate in direction of North Carolina and ends up in the Cherokee Indian Reservation. What happens then, I do not tell here, although this comment contains the basic lines of the story and thus necessarily many spoilers. I don't think that any other movie has such a truly original, yet both tragic and surreal end in the best sense of these words. I do not think much of Werner Herzog's work, except his Kinski-movies &#150; on reasons that are not to be discussed here -, but I still consider this movie one of the best of the approximately 5'000 movies I have seen up to now. As a matter of fact, the Stroszek figures even in my personal Top-10-Movies-List. "},{"Title":"The American dream","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An Hungarian immigrant, a prostitute and an old man flees the country seeking better lives in Wiscounsin only to find hardship and struggle. A view from the unprivileged's side of life.Its almost two weeks since I saw 'Strozeck' and its situations and absurdity (absurd because it depicts things that are for real) has not left me for one single day. Based on Herzogs own experiences it really has something real going for it. Its funny and its sad.All characters are well cast, the trio all get our sympathies. Bruno S. is especially hard to be indifferent about. He is weak, but endures most of what he must go through. "},{"Title":"Can't Stop The Dancing Chicken.","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" At the climax of this somewhat tragic tale, Bruno, a German immigrant whose quest for happiness in America has failed, goes on an amateur, what-the-hell crime spree, turns on all the exhibits in a barren mid-winter Indian tourist trap, and climbs aboard a cable car for a final trip to the mountain top, carrying a shotgun and a frozen turkey. One of the exhibits he activates is a piano-playing chicken who hammers out an impeccable version of Schubert's Scherzo in B Minor. Another is a dancing chicken. The chicken walks out into a glass case, plucks a piece of string, and begins scratching atop a slowly revolving round table the size of an old record player. The Tribal Police arrive and examine the scene of the crime, which includes a burning truck and a recently robbed grocery store. One of the cops is on the squad car's radio. We got a single passenger on the lift and an electrician's on his way out. Somebody turned on the electricity and we can't stop the dancing chicken. The director, Werner Herzog, lingers on that chicken, scratching away over and over on a revolving platter, his head completely empty of thought. What are we to make of all this? Except that we are all dancing chickens manipulated by some deranged outer force.If it isn't that, then I'm lost.A good case could be made that this movie is utterly pointless. Bruno, a shabby caricature of a man, is released from an institution and returns to his apartment in Berlin, where he has two friends. One is an elderly eccentric and the other an abused whore. The pixy-like old man carries on about how easy it is to get rich and live happily in America. The whore saves up her money and the three of them travel to a truck stop in Wisconsin. They buy a mobile home and a television set and things look bright for a while, until they fall behind in their mortgage payments.Sick of it all and desperate, the hooker takes off in one of the trucks for Canada. The old man goes bonkers and believes it's all a conspiracy, so he and the not-too-bright Bruno hold up a barber shop, run across the street, and begin buying groceries. The old man is arrested for armed robbery, Bruno steals a truck, takes off on his own, and finally runs out of money and gas at the Indian tourist trap.My old German grandpappy had a saying Ein Mann hat das Bodel und ein Mann hat das Gelt. Some people have money and others wind up with the bag. Bruno and his friends -- and even his enemies -- are losers from beginning to end. It's a long, slow story of social suicide. All three end up worse than they began, as bad as that was.And when I say long, I mean long. Herzog -- here as elsewhere -- has a tendency to hold on stylized shots for a long long long time. The camera is placed behind and above Bruno as a huge truck pulls his forfeited mobile home away. The camera remains static as the mobile home sluggishly departs to the right. The camera stays in the same place and so does Bruno, who is now staring at the empty space that his mobile home had occupied. He continues to stare as the seconds tick by and a scratchy old record plays a tune called Silver Bells. If you're patient, and if you're sensitive to mood and character and composition, you'll get much more out of this movie than if you're expecting some plot-driven dynamo.I'd like to compare this to Robert Altman's exercises in improvisation but I can't. One senses an intentionality behind Herzog's stuff that's absent from Altman's movies. What I mean is, Herzog seems to have something in mind behind the apparent non sequiturs and stylized shots. Herzog has a goal, whereas many of Altman's movies seemed designed for nothing more than seeing what happened next. In a sense, Altman stays with the dancing chicken because that's all there is, while Herzog believes that there is somebody turning the machine on and off. "},{"Title":"A bizarre and haunting film","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Werner Herzog's Stroszek intrigued me because of the film's journey from Berlin to Wisconsin. I am always fascinated when directors take on other cultures to present their point of view. Wim Wenders' Alice in the Cities came to my mind when I rented this film. Knowing Herzog's other ambitious and strange films, Aguirre the Wrath of God and  Even Dwarfs Started Out Small it was no surprise to me just how bizarre this film was going to be. Bruno, a man who some might assume is mildly retarded is released from prison. His first destination is a bar and meets a prostitute who is being mistreated by her pimp. He offers her a place to stay which is looked after by an elderly man, Mr. Scheitz. All of these characters by the way, have an amazing look about them. They are not your typical looking actors, they have a rough and odd look that can be found in a Fellini film. We know they are not professional actors but they fit and play the roles perfectly. Mr. Scheitz announces that his nephew in Railroad Flats Wisconsin has invited him to move there. Bruno then takes the leap in deciding that they must all start new lives there. We already feel baffled at the idea of these people getting off the boat to live in such a rural and remote part of the US. Nothing goes well for these characters. The prostitute runs away because of financial and domestic problems while the other two decide to become robbers and fail miserably. This, mind you, is only a general plot summary but it is the details and occurrences that are fascinating. I particularly loved the scene where the mobile home is being auctioned off. We get a glimpse of how alienating and strange America is for these people. There are other fascinating scenes that I don't want to spoil for anyone. This film is a must see for any fan of Herzog and anyone who loves films period. Some critics have described Stroszek as an attack on America but I believe it is an equal attack on Germany. These characters fall into a predicament of taking their sorrows with them wherever they go. They are unfortunately very naive. The final scene with the dancing chicken was a bit over the top and disturbing but it fits with the absurdity of the film as a whole. "}{"Title":"For Herzog fans and fans of black humor","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Kurt Vonnegut once said the problem with the hippie generation is that they expect love and happiness but I would settle for a little common human decency.This movie is Herzog being decent. He promised Bruno (his challenged actor) another movie, but when Bruno couldn't learn the part of Woyzeck he realized his old friend Klaus Kinski had to take the role -- and did so brilliantly. But he had made a promise so he kept his word and wrote this movie on the spot, and even got the great Eva Mathes (who won the Golden Lion in Venice for her role as Marie, Woyzeck's tragic love) to pitch in and play an abused hooker. All the rest of the cast were amateur characters.It has the basic Herzog themes of struggle against all odds and regardless of outcome even in the most hopeless cases. And just that spirit of struggle is worth applauding. This one just doesn't go into the usual richly layered labyrinths of dreamscapes that Herzog, being the romanticist he is, tends to use as story within the story as allegories for the whole story -- the romantics' arabesque. Strozeck is more blunt, straight forward and hits the viewers over the head with a lot of grotesque black humor.This movie has great hilarious black humor scenes and a great punchline when the hero compares the bank repossession agent's pen with the beatings by the Nazi's in the Concentration Camp -- unfavorably.It's great fun to watch and wallow in if you're in a dark or twisted mood, but I wouldn't base drastic decisions about the rest of my life, especially its remaining duration on what is arguably Herzog's most crude slapstick and that includes the one with the rebellious Spanish dwarfs.But it really isn't fair to compare this or any other Herzog film to his big dramatic successes like Aguirre, Kasper Hauser, Fitzcaraldo, Nosferatu or Woyzeck. While they share some common themes (see above) every one of his movies and documentaries are their own work and can range from remakes of 19th century realist play, 1920s silent movie, 18th century romanticism or the joys of mountain climbing or ski jumping.As its own work, Stroszek is fun to watch and a good laugh watching one of the 20th century's legendary independent filmmakers present a very different mood. "},{"Title":"A film of some interest","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stroszek, directed by Werner Herzog, features Bruno S. who previously starred in Herzog's The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser. The actor's speaking style and mannerisms are much the same in both films, but ultimately this film falls short of the earlier one. In it, Bruno Stroszek is a German alcoholic who, released from prison, takes in a prostitute. If they're lovers, it's hard to tell, because what we see makes their relationship seem totally platonic. They are targeted for harassment, and seek a better life by moving to Wisconsin- even though Stroszek doesn't speak English. The prostitute works as a waitress, but falls back to her old patterns and abandons Stroszek and the elderly German man they were living with.There are certain messages in this film, and a probably important one is that it's hard to run away from trouble. Moving to a new city, or country in this case, doesn't always do it. When the prostitute leaves Stroszek for Vancouver, leaving him with a mortgage and no income, you know he's screwed. Beyond these elements, Stroszek is a movie with character but is not altogether impressive. Bruno Stroszek is interesting, but not as extraordinary as Kaspar Hauser. Ultimately, it leaves me a little underwhelmed. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The DVD, by Anchor Bay, is part of their Werner Herzog Collection, and comes with a theatrical trailer, production and biographical notes, and a great commentary with Herzog and Norman Hill. In it, Herzog spins his usual informative and cogent anecdotes, rips conventional filmmaking techniques, and resents the tendency of critics to deconstruct every little thing in a film. Not every metaphor has to be based in logic. The Keatsian idea(l) of Negative Capability has never been better embodied in the work of a filmmaker than it is in Herzog's canon, for many of his images simply are, and do not have a narrative heft. In this film, the perfect example is the dancing chicken? It can mean a number of things, but the very act of attempting to pin it down robs it of some of its power. The German is subtitled, and the English is not. As a multi-lingual film dubbing would not work. The film transfer is fine, and it is in a 1.661 aspect ratio. While not a film that makes great use of visuals, there are moments, such as the film's opening, shot through a glass of water, that show that Herzog and his cinematographer Thomas Mauch knew how to distort reality just enough to blur fiction and nonfiction seamlessly. The use of American folk music from Chet Atkins and Sonny Terry is a departure from the grander musical schemes employed with Florian Fricke and Popol Vuh in other Herzog classics, but is apropos for the dour American grotesques that creep into the film, starting with shotgun wielding farmers who drive their plows right next to each other, to protect a small strip of land both claim as theirs.But the real gem of the commentary is Herzog's explanation of not only the film's provenance in regards to Bruno S., but how he chose the town in the first place. He calls that part of the country Errol Morris Country because he and the famed American documentarian (Gates Of Heaven, The Thin Blue Line, The Fog Of War) were fascinated by Ed Gein, who dug up all of the corpses in a circle around his mother's grave. They wanted to know if he dug up his mother. What relevance this has is anyone's guess. Morris chickened out, so Herzog decided to abandon the idea and write his screenplay for Bruno, thus angering Morris, who felt that he should have had some involvement, and that Herzog tread on his 'turf,' by filming there. While in Plainfield to write the screenplay, Herzog met many of the non-actors who populate the film. Herzog also relates gems about Bruno, such as his painting fan blades the colors of the rainbow, and discovering that when it spun fast it blurred into white, or how he would walk about with his fly open, unawares.Also, the use of non-actors is perfect. It is in minor details like this, that veer away from script and allow actors to fully embody their characters, that the realistic aspects of a film can shine. Most filmmakers would never even consider such of import.Films like Stroszek are merely minor palliatives for that ill, but they are better than nothing, and hopefully will last longer than the grim impulses which make them so cogent. "},{"Title":"So much more than the dancing chicken.","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stroszek is a simple story about a seemingly simple man, who leaves for America with an abused prostitute and an elderly neighbour, in the hope of starting a new life away from the violent and antagonistic Berlin underbelly, that they'd previously been caught up in. To any other filmmaker, the plot would serve as the backdrop to the spiralling melodrama that envelops the character's lives and the harsh realities of their situation. However, in Herzog's hands, the film becomes a surreal, stylised, darkly-comic piece of bleak absurdity, as his characters set off on a stark and seemingly direction-less odyssey across the American mid-west, in the earnest belief that the land of opportunity will reward their hard-work, passion and tenacity, with wealth, happiness and good fortune.Because of these elements, the film has been interpreted by many critics as a scathing review of the American dream and the treatment of naive foreigners who dare to step foot on U.S. soil. However, as far as I'm concerned, the film has much more depth to it than that limiting interpretation would suggest, with Herzog really showing us the destruction of the human spirit and the on going role of the perpetual outsider in society. Obviously, from this, the film has certain parallels with his great masterpiece, The Enigma of Kasper Hauser, right down to the casting of Bruno S. as the titular Bruno Stroszek. The casting of Bruno gives the film a certain solemnity, with many elements of the plot (abuse, alienation, mental disability and institutionalisation) drawing parallels with Bruno's own tragic real life and his unbelievable back story. Herzog heightens the drama further, by setting the opening of the film in the same neighbourhood (and, in fact, the very same apartment) where Bruno lived during the time of the production, and even incorporates many of Bruno's eccentric characteristics and possessions into the direction of the character.The performance of Bruno throughout is quite remarkable (even though he is, for all intensive purposes, playing himself), as he brings to this film the same haunted naivety that worked so well for The Enigma of Kasper Hauser. As with that film, Herzog is here able to anchor the images of the film to that same sense of sadness and awe that is so central to Bruno's inner character, as he watches each scene unfold with wide, childlike eyes, completely curious and overwhelmed by what is happening, though, simultaneously, wracked with pain. This is most apparent in the scene with Bruno and his doctor; in which the doctor takes us on a tour of the premature babies ward, where a collection of pink, wrinkled, almost-embryonic little babies lay in incubation. As the doctor raises the babies up from their frail littler arms to illustrate to Bruno the strength of reflex that these little creatures possess in spite of such short-comings, Herzog creates the ultimate metaphor for both Bruno and the film.As with Kasper Hauser, Stroszeck is a fated character from the outset, with Herzog clearly marking him out as a true human, too pure for the world around him. There's a great scene midway through the film, one that is akin to the scene in Kasper, in which the character talks in voice-over about sowing his name with seeds into the ground, only for it to be destroyed by heartless antagonists... here, Bruno sits with Eva, the prostitute who he loves, and shows her a small and completely absurd model of what his insides look like without love. It's a long scene, shot with only a couple of takes, and is a real tour-de-force performance from Bruno, in which he tries his hardest to confess his love to the oblivious Eva with a combination of trite, childlike metaphors, and heartbreaking recollections of a hard and loveless life. The film, though darkly comic, is quite oppressive throughout... there are a couple of very difficult-to-watch scenes in which both Bruno and Eva are beaten and tormented by the pimps in Berlin, whilst the scenes between Bruno, Eva, and the slimy bank-executive, seem like a definite precursor to some unavoidable tragedy.The film has very little colour to it, seeming almost black-and-white in a lot of scenes, with the colours seemingly muted by Herzog and his cinematographer Tomas Maunch (Berlin has never looked so cold and uninviting... whilst the mid-West looks eerie, lifeless and barren), whilst the use of non-professional actors in the secondary roles (particularly those set in the U.S.) helps to give the film a strange and disconcerting air of the documentary, to help juxtapose some of the more absurd situations at the heart of Herzog's script. Despite the usual Herzog characteristics, Stroszeck is also coloured by the influence of other filmmakers, particularly in this case, Herzog's friend and contemporary Rainer Werner Fassbinder (most apparent in the early scenes in Berlin, with the violent pimps, allusions to American melodrama, and rigid, visual composition) and the U.S. documentarian Errol Morris, who's early films depicting the American mid-west were a key-influence on Herzog's representation of the region here.Stroszek is, without question, a Herzog masterpiece, easily as vital and enjoyable as the more well-known films he made with Klaus Kinski. The performances are astounding throughout, whether from the professionals or the non-professionals (the beautiful Eva Mattes, a regular character in Fassbinder's films, is as remarkable here as she was in Herzog's later underrated film Woyzeck), whilst the style and tone of the film is spot on... managing to offer up many of those sublime moments synonymous with Herzog's work, but with a story and a character that are both entertaining and affecting. The ending is suitably vague, but ties the story together nicely whilst continuing the central character's plunge into the bleak abyss. That iconic image of the dancing chicken speaks volumes about the futility and prolonged madness of life (or something like that) and simply adds to the overall bizarre (almost comedic, almost nightmarish) charm that Herzog so effectively creates. "},{"Title":"A bleakly uniquely uplifting downbeat Herzog wonder","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With all the inherent contradictions that implies! The key image of a broken down car going round in endless circles from Herzog's earlier Even Dwarfs Started Small turns up again in Stroszek, but this film is much more impressive than that exercise in chaos and subversion. It's another tale of people who don't fit anywhere, in this case the almost alien Bruno S. and his dysfunctional adopted family of hooker Eva Mattes and eccentric Clemens Scheitz, who emigrate from Germany to find the American dream only to discover easy credit, unpaid bills, bailiffs, rifles and dancing chickens instead.Yet for all the misfortune and grim subject matter, it's surprisingly not as bitter and dour as you might expect, with plenty of Herzogian moments that are so unlikely they seem strangely convincing &#150; even when his two leading men rob a barber shop and immediately run to the convenience store across the road to spend their ill-gotten gains. It also has one of those unexpectedly prescient moments where Bruno S and Eva Mattes are talking about America's national parks where Grizzly bears run free&#133; "},{"Title":"Brilliant Masterpiece","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I first started watching this film I was trying to keep an open mind. My previous viewing of a Herzog film was less than fulfilling( it was Fitzcarraldo). The first time i saw Stroszek I was really not sure what to think of it. I guess I can say I was a bit bewildered. The second time I really saw it for what it was. A deeply moving tragic comedy with everything done to a tee.There is just an infinite amount of aspects of this film that are admirable. The acting by Bruno S. was great considering he basically is the character he played and Eva Mattes and Scheitz also gave positive performances. The music of the film gave it a very surreal feel. This movie is a meditation on life unlike Fitzcarraldo which was flat out boring in my opinion. The movie hits a lot on the emotional level. The movie works greatly on a social commentary on everyday life. The ending might have been possibly the best end I have ever seen I constantly re watch it. The ending has some of the most ambiguous and metaphorical meanings ever captured on the medium, and the auction scene might be one of the most heartbreaking scenes ever.This is an extraordinary film in every aspect. Highly Highly recommended. I am know going to watch most of Herzog's filmography. "},{"Title":"Part 2 *CONTAINS SPOILERS*","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  (Since I had a lot to say on this film, I divided my essay into two parts.  For purposes of coherence, please read the first part if you have not done so already)     It is in the second half of the film where Herzog begins to theorise as to what would happen if we took what Brakhage said and applied it to the real world.  Herzog's vision is not optimistic, but at the same time it does not imply that there is no merit in seeing with an untutored eye.   When Stroszek and his friends first arrive in America, we see through their eyes.  Although they are impressed by the things we all would be impressed by, such as New York City and its Empire State Building, they also find awe in things we would find mundane or even ugly.  The town of Railroad Flats, Wisconsin, although we as an audience can see it is nothing special, is shot by Herzog as if seen through the eyes of Stroszek and his friends.  The photography in these early scenes is beautiful, the rusted out machinery of the small town made almost unnoticeable by stunning sunsets, and arresting shots such as one taken of the Wisconsin landscapes reflected off a hubcap.  This shot recalls the opening image in its way of making the mundane beautiful by distorting what we see.  Even a frozen pond is shown to be perfectly round, as if it is God's perfect little creation.      Soon however, this view of the world through the untutored eye is corrupted.  Herzog gives us several reasons for this, none of which suggest that an untutored view is incorrect, but which do suggest that it might be impossible in the world we live in.  It could be that the eye finally gets used to what it is seeing, and is able to tutor itself.  Indeed, we gradually see images that get increasingly less pleasant.  At one point we see Stroszek's American host drunkenly pulling his own teeth out with a pair of pliers.  This scene is both humorous and disgusting.  Unlike the scene at the beginning where Stroszek's friend lights his fart, this scene is not infused with as sense of  innocence.  There is something obviously much more disturbing about it.  Nonetheless, we see Stroszek himself watching this with almost no expression on his face, and that helps us accept the scene.  We may find it gross but we do not find it horrifying.  The eye has not fully tutored yet.       The final scene is the one we finally find horrifying.  Stroszek killing himself while repeated shots of dancing animals trapped in cages play before our eyes.  The frenetic hillbilly music playing on the soundtrack helps make this sequence seem all the more grotesque.  It is ironic however, that although what we see is much more cynical than what we saw at the beginning of the film, the tone is still one of surrealism and wonderment.  The scene, although horrifying, is riveting.  It's almost as if the eye although having lost its sense of seeing beauty in everything, still sees with a unique and perceptive viewpoint.  The music clues us in to perhaps another reason why the untutored eye cannot stay that way forever.  It falls under the influence of the other senses.  One must remember that Stan Brakhage is the perfect person to make the statement that he did, because his films are completely silent.  There is no need to rely on any other senses, physical or emotional, because they are non-narrative films.  The ideas that Brakhage expresses are perfect for thinking about film, but Herzog proves that it does not work in reality because no matter how hard we try to imagine the beginning of the world, it was simply too long ago for any of us to remember. "},{"Title":"Part 1 *CONTAINS SPOILERS*","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have a lot to say about this film, so I divided it into two parts.     Imagine an eye unruled by man made-made laws of perspective, an eye unprejudiced to compositional logic, an eye which does not respond to the name of everything but which must know each object encountered in life through an adventure in perception.  How many colours are there in a field of grass to the crawling baby unaware of  'Green'?  How many rainbows can light create for the untutored eye?  How aware of variations in heat waves can that eye be?  &#133;Imagine a world before the 'beginning of the world.'      Of course, when Stan Brakhage wrote the above words in his article Metaphors on Vision (1963), Herzog had only made one short film and was a long way off from making Stroszek.  Whether or not Herzog subsequently read Brakhage's essay I don't know, but not only is the quote similar to something Herzog might say (it is poetic, romantic, and calls for a new way of envisioning the world, as Herzog is wont to do), it also perfectly describes the foundation of Stroszek.  In fact, Herzog's film could be described as a follow-up to the Brakhage quote.  In the film Stroszek, we see some ideas similar to what Brakhage was talking about.  Herzog seems to ask the question what would happen if someone saw the world the way Brakhage described, but then was gradually overcome by the 'real' way the world is seen?       The story concerns Stroszek and his two friends Eva and Scheitz.  After Stroszek has been released from a mental institution.  He finds life in Berlin unbearable, so he flees with his two friends for America.  It first it is idyllic, but soon it becomes just as unbearable as Germany was.  After Eva Leaves for Canada and Scheitz is arrested for armed robbery, Stroszek, all alone, commits suicide in a seen that is both savagely funny and hauntingly tragic.       The very first image we see in the film is the perfect example of Brakhage's quote.  Indeed, we are given a new way of seeing.  A fish bowl hangs in front of a window obscuring our view.  But is our view really obscured?  The bent, upside-down, out of focus figures slowly moving behind the bowl hypnotise us into accepting what we see.  Herzog adds soft music from a music box, which further clues us in to the fact that this image is not intended to be bizarre or jarring.  This is Brakhage's ...eye unruled by man-made laws of perspective.  We now have a new way of looking at the world.  Although it was referring specifically to physical perception, Brakhage's statement does not only have to apply to this, however.  A few minutes after the first shot of the film, there is a scene where Stroszek bids farewell to his friends at the mental institution.  As a gift one of is friends takes a match and lights a fart, to the delight of all the characters in the room.  Although the scene is humorous, is not intended to be shocking or lowbrow, as it would is a mainstream comedy film.  In fact, we don't interpret the scene as crude either.  We accept the action as a sincere gesture from one friend to another, and that is it.  The reason we accept this is because Herzog has already laid the groundwork for interpreting the scene in the first shot.       The scene that most probably defines the Brakhage quote comes shortly before Stroszeck leaves for America.  In a hospital maternity ward, Stroszek talks to his former doctor about his fear of the world.  In order to encourage Stroszek to over come his fears, the doctor lifts a new-born baby by having the baby grab onto his fingers.  The baby suspends above its crib, unaware that anything is happening, as the doctor explains to Stroszeck that even a new-born baby has surprising strengths.  This of course suggests to Stroszeck that strength is deep within every person, and can help one overcome difficult odds.  That is the main meaning of the scene, but examining the scene more closely reveals connections to what Brakhage said.  The new-born is the baby Brakhage describes.  Although a new-born can hardly see, it is like the untutored eye because it has not been taught to fear.  The baby just hangs on because that is all it knows how to do.     (This is the end of the first part) "},{"Title":"Doesn't really go anywhere, but it's pretty good","Date":"16 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Herzog reunites with Bruno S. The film begins with S. being released from jail after some public drunkenness. After some hard times involving his girlfriend's pimps, he and she (Eva Mattes) decide to accompany a friend who is moving to America. They end up in small town Wisconsin. Unfortunately, life is no better there. I have avoided this film for a while because, from the description, it sounded kind of anti-American and maybe particularly anti-Wisconsin, the state in which I grew up. Those fears were unfounded. Herzog, of course, is not that kind of guy, and he spends a lot of his time in the United States. This isn't even really a satire, like I thought it would be. Unfortunately, I don't think it's much of anything. Bruno S. is such a messed-up person (both in real life and in the characters he played for Herzog) that the fact that he can't adjust to life in America is neither surprising nor at all damning. It seems like life is going to be hard for the guy no matter where he goes. Because of that, it's kind of hard to get too invested in this movie. It never feels like Herzog had much of a plan for it, anyway, and it just kind of plods along. I did love the final sequence. I could watch that chicken dance for two hours. "},{"Title":"An Ecstatic Truth","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sometimes you can find your moment of contact within a film, at some point or place or space within the film, inside the world of the story. But you are just as likely &#151; more &#151; to be touched by the idea of or about the film. Herzog does both for me, so is rare. He's rare as a competent German filmmaker. Twyker is the only other German I trust. And yes, that includes Lang, Fassbinder, Wenders, von Sternberg (if he counts).Here's what I mean. There are moments in this that captivate by their clarity and truth. This isn't the best I know of his, several others come to mind. The one without Kinski is Heart of Glass, made immediately before this. There are breathtaking moments in there. Quite, deep, sharp sewing. But its coupled with the idea of the movie, things you know outside the swim in fictional space. You know the two German nut job characters here are played by two genuine German nut jobs. The American goofs are genuine in their stew. The connections, the chicken, the light, the murders. All these are as found, with only the thinnest of stitching to collect them together. Its a sort of intellectual fearlessness that deepens the story with metastory. It allows us to add our own layer on top, as if we were one of the group, slapping hands in a pile before we voyage into territory unknown.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "}{"Title":"Bruno goes to America","Date":"25 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stroszek is a German movie from almost 40 years ago and the second collaboration between Werner Herzog and Bruno S. Herzog initially planned to cast him as Woyzeck, but chose Kinski for the role. To make it up to Bruno, Herzog wrote this film here and it turned into one of his biggest successes with Bruno giving the lead character his uniquely memorable touch. He is a man who gets released out of jail and needs to stay away from the booze in order to lead a normal life again. After some violent trouble with a pair of pimps, Bruno, his girl (played by Eva Mattes, who got a German Film Award nomination for her turn) and a friend move to the United States of America. And for the rest of the film we see how life for Bruno and his guys is over there. Sadly, the American Dream is collapsing pretty quickly.The film runs for over 105 minutes and I personally found the parts in Germany early on more interesting really. But that is not saying that the second half of the film wasn't good. I thought it was a very decent watch from start to finish and I find it a pity Herzog hasn't made more films with Bruno or that Bruno has not starred in other movies in the 1970s and 1980s. I definitely liked watching him. In here as well as in Kaspar Hauser from 3 years earlier. People may say that there is not really that much happening in Stroszek, but first of all I don't think this is a valid criticism per se and secondly actually there is a lot happening. Life is happening. We see a man going for his dream, but sadly things don't go the way he hoped in the long run. I recommend Stroszek- This film is more proof of how good Herzog was in the 1960s. And for authentic and honest Bruno S.'s acting was at the same time. Go check it out. "},{"Title":"A Comic Tragedy By A Master Of Cinema","Date":"21 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Werner Herzog has made a lot of great films! In both a non fiction and fiction format of filmmaking, this man can make a masterpiece out of any genre, style, story, or script! And Stroszek truly is a masterpiece!Like your typical Herzog film, there is comedy, tragedy, beauty, and, of course, the strange. In most of Herzog's films, he seems to enjoy creating surreal, bizarre images, which may seem completely random, but always seem to enhance the film's memorability and overall greatness. It isn't really randomness, it is just there because Herzog, and his audience, are fascinated by the absurdity. Is this confirmed? Not necessarily, but it is what I take out of it.Stroszek manages to be highly powerful for such an odd film. The film shows how not everything we think is entirely true, and how, sometimes, this is truly heartbreaking. It is intense, sad, but also beautiful. But, Herzog also fills the tragic story with his absurdist style of humour throughout. Many of this humour has to do with the awkward interactions between people who do not speak the same language, and how they're incapable of understanding one another. It is very clever and very well done.Stroszek is definitely a strange motion picture. From the plot, itself (an alcoholic, an elderly man, and a prostitute all move to Wisconsin with the belief that it will lead them to a better life) to the great ending sequence, which is, truly, one of the film's highlights. I mean, this is the final line! *NO SPOILERS* We've got a truck on fire, can't find the switch to turn the ski lift off, and can't stop the dancing chicken. Send an electrician.Such a wonderfully weird ending to such a wonderfully weird film!I'd recommend the film to most people who are into very bizarre humour, as well as a very emotional story. For me, those two things being combined successfully into one feature create a MASTERPIECE, and on top of all of that it is a Herzog film! It keeps itself entertaining, well made, and gripping throughout. A must see! "},{"Title":"Arguably Herzog's greatest masterpiece","Date":"4 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stroszek may be Werner Herzog's greatest masterpiece. it's certainly his most humane picture and in casting non-actor Bruno S in the title role he gets so close to the feeling of raw truth we may as well be watching a picture of Bruno S's life, (something he also achieved in The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser where Bruno S's performance as Hauser totally transcended acting to become the character). Here he simply becomes Stroszek just as Eva Mattes becomes Eva and Clemens Scheitz becomes Scheitz. Herzog transports them from Germany to America where Stroszek gets a dead-end job in the garage of Scheitz's nephew and Eva becomes a waitress, (in Berlin she turned tricks to earn the money for their trip and doesn't appear too anxious to give up that line of work).Nothing conventional happens but seldom on film has the mundane existence of ordinary people seemed so fascinating, (and Herzog's use of non-actors throughout only enhances this feeling of reality). Of course, these characters are misfits; they don't fit in and they lead lives of mostly unrelieved misery and this has lead to accusations that Herzog is nothing more than a misanthrope and that, at best, he patronizes his characters. His continual casting of actors like Bruno S and Klaus Kinski has lead to a kind of alienation though, in Herzog's case, madness, like beauty may be only in the eye of the beholder with Stroszek no more to be pitied than Cool Hand Luke. If Stroszek is a tragedy, it is a comic one and immediately identifiable as the work of its director you don't mistake a Herzog movie set in America as a Bob Rafelson movie. And yes, before you ask, it's visually superb and with a great soundtrack, too. Essential. "},{"Title":"Dark, depressing, funny, absurd, and hilarious...it's Herzog time","Date":"2 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" STROSZEK might well be Werner Herzog's movie masterpiece. Certainly it contains material here which appears to me to be the natural high point of the director's career, some of the best cinema I've ever witnessed.The story is centred around the titular character, played with relish by Bruno S. (THE ENIGMA OF KASPAR HAUSER) in what is undoubtedly his definitive performance. Stroszek is a musician, fresh out of prison and down on his luck, who decides to emigrate to the USA accompanied by a hooker and an old man (the latter being Clemens Scheitz, a frequent - and welcome - Herzog collaborator). They go in search of the American dream, but what they find is very different.STROSZEK perfectly encapsulates Herzog's world view that the natural order of things is chaos and destruction rather than peace and harmony. Watching it makes for a depressing experience, at least for the most part, particularly because Bruno S. is such a sympathetic actor. The good news is that things change tack in the last 20 minutes, which is a mini-movie in itself, a glorious surreal comedy that gets weirder and weirder until the last, well, dancing chicken. The accompanying blues music just nails it. The ending of this film had tears of laughter streaming down my face while at the same time being completely profound and moving. It's a masterful moment that Herzog should be justly proud of and it closes a thoroughly engrossing film. "},{"Title":"A Great film","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I thought this film was entertaining, the fact that you have a comical duo, it portrays an initiating quality of immigrants to the American far west in a modern age. The movie has some black humor, but i thought maybe it was making fun of the fact that suffering occurs in the human condition by killing off the main character at the end. Although I thought it wouldn't work as a story, it turned out to work as a film. I say this because of the fact that the encounters of bruno are so obtuse that one gets the idea that he will never get help. To break the law is important because this character bruno almost acts animal-like. Although the story is believable, I don't think in reality a germanic family whom immigrated wouldn't be hit by the social services first, before the bank. However, to break a contract because of no money is a different story. This is somewhat unrealistic, given that they don't manage to sell the things they bought or even try to for that matter..yet this is not a negative review, it just simply lets the viewer decide as to the delusive actions brought about by the main characters. Sure he shot himself because of it though (spoilers). TBH if I ever owed the bank money without breaking the constitution I would and am glad this occurs in growing communities...for experience of course. "},{"Title":"Strange days indeed...","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In recent years Stroszek has become infamous for being the last film Ian Curtis of post-punk pioneer's Joy Division saw before hanging himself. The image of the dancing chicken has become synonymous with the final hours of Curtis' life. It's, therefore, a movie associated with real life sadness. The content of Stroszek makes for pretty depressing viewing itself it has to be said. Although, admittedly, the downbeat story is interspersed with moments of humour throughout, meaning that its impact isn't entirely doom-laden. It centres on a mental patient from Berlin who is released into the community. He and his prostitute girlfriend are victimised by low-fife pimps, so it is with some relief when their elderly neighbour organises for the three of them to move to the U.S.A. to start a new life. But despite a promising start, life soon degenerates to even worse levels in their new home in rural Wisconsin and their American Dream soon turns into a nightmare.This film was directed by Werner Herzog and, as is usually the case, this ensures that it's a fascinating look at unusual people living on the fringes of society. Its star is Bruno S. who is most famous for his portrayal of the title character in Herzog's The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser. In Stroszek he again plays the title character but in this one he is playing a character very close to himself, a street musician with a history of mental problems. We even get to hear an example of his music, which is very strange indeed. He is a very unique performer and it never really ever appears that he is acting at all; his unaffected style is just as perfect for his character here as it was in Kaspar Hauser. Eva Mattes, who also worked with Herzog in Woyzeck, plays his girlfriend and Clemens Scheitz rounds things off as his elderly neighbour; both of these actors are also very good.The story is about how the American Dream is a false hope for most. The three protagonists move from a gloomy Berlin but end up in the desolate town of Railroad Flats, a joyless decrepit place with poor impoverished people. Incidentally, the town's real name is Plainfield and it is most notorious as the hometown of the serial killer Ed Gein the inspiration for Psycho. Herzog in fact first went there to work on a documentary on Gein but ended up being inspired by the desolation of the place to make this film instead. The characters in Stroszek not only live in this place but, to make matters even more depressing, end up living in a prefabricated trailer which they ultimately lose due to being unable to keep up the loan payments. The disadvantageous nature of the place in general, coupled with the language barrier conspires to work against Stroszek, not helped by his strange natural bearing. It ultimately leads to his tragic downfall. The ending is pretty bleak it almost goes without saying. Although, we get there in ways that provide some absurd comedy moments, such as the armed robbery that Stroszek and his elderly friend attempt. They try to rob the bank but find it closed, so they rob a small shop next door instead and come away with only thirty dollars, only to then go and spend it across the road on groceries and unsurprisingly get arrested in the process. Similarly, when the dark ending comes, the mood is lifted somewhat by the bizarre scenes of the performing animals in the little arcade &#x96; we have a rabbit fireman, a piano playing chicken and the aforementioned dancing chicken. It's a pretty weird and funny way to end proceedings. It emphasises the point of the film though - the absurdity of life. But another underlying message is the way in which humans carry on despite the seemingly insurmountable odds. This point is reiterated by a quietly, unique scene where a physician friend shows Stroszek a prematurely born baby that grips on to his hands so tightly it can be lifted into the air - the survival instinct is inbuilt. These are some of the many things of interest in this unusual movie. "},{"Title":"The finest hour of actor Bruno S. - Stranded like flotsam on a Nurnberg market place","Date":"24 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of the idiosyncrasies of German writer/producer/director Werner Herzog is to use strange characters in almost any movies he makes. He's most famous for his love/hate relationship with madman Klaus Kinski of course, but he doesn't shun to use difficult actors and lots of amateurs in general in order to go for an entirely new angle. Such actors lend his films a very grounded look and feel, at the same time such films feature unsettling or even absurd undertones which eventually tend to break out in full. All that quite a distance away from anything you might associate with Hollywood. Stroszek is the movie of one such character, written just for him Bruno S., playing the part of... Bruno.Herzog used Bruno S. already in The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser to play the role of that famous youth who appeared in Nurnberg in 1828 and was kept the whole life in a dungeon, barely able to speak or walk. In many ways the character reflects the actor Bruno S. An unwanted child of a prostitute, beaten severely at early age, having spent 23 years in mental institutions. Herzog also admits that he was extremely difficult to work with, but Bruno represented exactly what Herzog was looking for to get the perfect Kaspar Hauser. With Stroszek Herzog made a film tailored even more around Bruno S. Teamed up with another of the director's favorite amateur actors, Clemens Scheitz, Bruno S. plays himself and his naive struggle with the world around him. Stroszek escapes from Germany to America, but things aren't any better over there as he eventually finds out. The tides of life leave him stranded all alone like flotsam, mirroring a shot of Kaspar Hauser on the market place of Nurnberg. As an actor, this is Bruno S. finest hour and one of Herzog's most remarkable entries. "},{"Title":"Herzog-Bruno's masterpiece","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Watching this third Herzog film I must say that Herzog's heroes are like directionless hermits. Herzog repeated unprofessional actor Bruno S. again after their appreciable teaming in 'Kasper Hauser' and teamwork again proves another landmark film. Bruno is again social outsider here like 'Kasper Hauser'. In initial scene we come to witness his releasing from prison. He loves just two things in life- playing musical instruments and drinking beer. But soon he realized that life in Germany is full of hardships and brutal one, so along with his prostitute girlfriend Eva and an old neighbor they thought about starting new life in America-the land of opportunities. For them America is an unexplored mystery or a dream of freedom. But soon disillusionment starts unsettling them in hostile land and they realized that life is severe and brutal everywhere and perhaps it's more severe wasteland in America. Remembering the great visionary American poet T S Elliot his 'The waste land' here. Bruno and Eva are physically safe in America and there is no local hoodlum who's kicking them in their hometown but still Bruno is so unhappy. As Bruno explains to Eva in one of the scene that in Germany it was visible but here they do it so gentle way, and that's much worse than it seems. That invisible chaos seems economical on surface but it's deeper at mental & spiritual level. Only Bruno understands it and that's lead us to that brutally dark ending part.I've never seen final ten minutes in any movies as symbolically represented chaos of life in this one. It is just a phenomenon. Those dancing/ piano playing birds, a shot in ropeway and circularly moving trolley will remain permanently imprinted to my senses. I became bit sleepy while watching it yesterday and miss the brilliant clue by Herzog in that final scene. I watch that scene again today prior to writing this post and it was Eureka moment. It is that line written on the backside of that ropeway vehicle in which Bruno sat last. IS IT REALLY ME! The clue signifies the futility of both driverless revolving trolley and trained performing birds. But for Bruno life itself is futile and he knew it damn well. That final scene was just something that you get from auteur like Herzog only!Salute to this genius filmmaker. "},{"Title":"Odd, but engaging","Date":"8 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When we first meet Bruno Stroszek he is being released from prison with a lecture from the superintendent about not going back on the bottle. But soon Bruno is in a bar where he tries to re-engage with a woman named Eva. We don't get much information about Bruno's past relationship with Eva, but she is now a prostitute involved with two vicious and controlling pimps who have no use for the docile Bruno. When Bruno offers Eva a place to stay (a place that has been kept for him by an elderly neighbor named Scheitz) she accepts. But the pimps terrorize the two to the point where they feel that they have to get away, and Scheitz offers them the perfect opportunity to come with him to Wisconsin, at the invitation of a nephew. The three do go to Wisconsin, but America does not turn out to be exactly the land of milk and honey for them.The scruffy Stroszek has the aspect of a good-natured but wounded animal. He seems rather simple, but then you are not sure about him and he remains an enigma. I kept thinking to myself that this actor Bruno S. was doing a great job in creating a unique character. Only when I listened to the director's comments did I realized that Bruno S. was essentially playing himself. The son of a prostitute he was abused as a child and spent much of his life in institutions until the age of 26. Herzog saw him in a documentary on street musicians and recognized a quality in him that was enough for him to carry this film.Herzog says he wrote this in four and a half days, but, as is true for any work of art, it is a product of life experiences. Herzog puts his eclectic mind to work to great advantage. He has a memory for people and places and can bring them together in creative ways. For example, the man who plays Scheitz's nephew is a mechanic who in real life had worked on Herzog's car some time ago. Herzog remembered that there was a native American working in the shop at the time, and, even though he had long since left the business, Herzog tracked him down just so he could be in a few scenes. The use of non-actors in many of the scenes adds realism--hard to imagine actors could do any better. The scenes toward the end take place in Cherokee, North Carolina, a result of Herzog's memory of having once been there. It seems that many scenes are thrown in simply because they caught the director's fancy a doctor tending a premature baby, two farmers feuding over a stretch of land, a driver-less truck running in circles. But this patchwork comes together to create a whole in a miraculous way. I particularly like the way that Herzog will hold a scene for added effect, like when poor Stroszek's repossessed trailer home is hauled off, leaving Stroszek staring at the empty landscape.I don't know what the hell the meaning of the final two minutes is, but I can almost guarantee that you will never forget that piece of film. These final minutes provoked in me some of the same emotions I experienced in watching the rest of the film--saddened by the pointless absurdity, but fascinated by the spectacle.Some see this film as an ultimate criticism of American society, but I do not see that. The Americans are just going about being human is all. The thrust of the story is about people like Stroszek--no matter where they are they cannot escape their unfortunate pasts and personal limitations. In not uncommon circumstances such people come to tragic ends. "},{"Title":"Story Doesn't Matter Here (What!? Huh?) Yeah, I Said it, The Story doesn't matter","Date":"22 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stroszek is one of the best films about the American Dream ever made, which is odd because a German made it. Why is it so well made? Because right up until the psychotic, chicken dancing finale, Stroszek tells the truth about middle America from an outsider's point of view. The world that these people live in feels real and the people that inhabit the trailer filled landscape are accurate depictions. That's probably because Herzog cast non actors to play the American roles and shot on location in Wisconsin. The story, about the son of a prostitute who escapes his past from Germany and moves to America with his uncle and whore girlfriend is secondary to the great depictions of American life. Political discussions with the locals about Nazi Germany and American business contracts are scattered throughout the film. The trailer that Stroszek and his girlfriend live in is deplorable, and the job that he has as a mechanic isn't exactly what Stroszek wanted or what he was promised. While in Germany, the three main characters are told that America is the land of opportunity, a place where roads are literally paved with gold. These tales are reminiscent of the ones told to many immigrants at the beginning of the last century, only to arrive and find that America isn't exactly what they imagined.The contrast between the mid-west and Germany is a nice touch as well. Herzog could have had the main characters move to an urban environment such as New York, but it would have been too difficult to truly see the differences in the ways of life. Also, major urban environments are a very small percentage of land in this country and to apply the American Dream to a city only would be unfair inaccurate to the rest of America's population. The ending is insane, so insane in fact that the lead singer of a major rock band killed himself shortly after seeing the film. That's not to say that Herzog made him do it, but one can certainly see how the ending could send an unstable person over the edge. Until the crazy tourist trap, chicken sequence Stroszek is truth. It is truth about how people treat one another about about the myths we tell ourselves. The American Dream is an escape, but is that escape better or worse than what you came from? "}{"Title":"Over The Rainbow And Across The Sea...","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of Herzog's more accessible films, about the American dream not quite being what it's cracked up to be. An ex con, a prostitute, and an old man make their way from the crime and hopelessness of their lives in Berlin, for greater problems and ultimate destruction in America. More than just being a criticism of America, I think the film points out how tragedy, despair, and absurdity, are not located in any one country, they are everywhere, and even if they weren't we would carry them with us. The immigrant story is one of escape, and for Herzog and Stroszek there is no escape, no matter amusing trying on different roles and locations might be. In the end were all a dancing chickens, bass playing ducks, rabbits riding fire trucks, and broken ski lifts going in endless circles, and that's Herzog's imagery from the films final moments, not mine. "},{"Title":"simple yet great.","Date":"22 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ****FILM SYPNOSIS**** SPOILERS AHEAD**** Bruno is just released from prison and shortly after he makes a promise to never drink alcohol again. His first stop as a free man? The local tavern where he drinks his first beer and meets Eva, the local prostitute, in a confrontation between pimps and a customer. After Eva gets hit Bruno comforts her at his table the two of them leave to go to Bruno's apartment.As the two are in the apartment Bruno's neighbor Clemens comes by with the bird that he has been watching over while Bruno was away. This is followed by Bruno's short street performance and a confrontation with Eva's pimps. Back at the apartment Bruno and Clemens are peacefully playing the piano when the Pimps barge in and wreck the apartment. Eva is left on the floor crying. They come back a second time and this time target Bruno. Bruno cooperates rather well by going with whatever the pimps want.After Eva is brutally beaten it is decided that they all will go and start a new life in Wisconsin where Clemens' son lives. We learn very quickly that the only one of the three that speaks any English is the Eva.After getting settled in Bruno gets a job working as a mechanic and Eva starts work as a waitress.. Life is good until their bills catch up to them. The turning point of the film is when the man from the bank comes to the house the first time. Bruno is worried about making the payments so he doesn't lose the house but Eva doesn't seemed bothered by it.Eva one evening picks up and leaves Bruno and Clemens for this trucker and the short confrontation with Bruno is the last time we see her. Shortly after that the banker comes back to the house and informs Bruno that the bank is taking the house. Unfortunately for Bruno he doesn't understand.After the house is auctioned off Bruno and Clemens rob a store and very shortly after Clemens is arrested. Bruno leaves by stealing a truck and taking some drinks with him. He drives and drives until the truck breaks down in this remote little town where he somehow meets a person that speaks German. This is where he hit's the bottom of the barrel and goes crazy. He just leaves his truck going in circles in the parking lot.The ending of the film is him going to this ski lift where the sign behind his chair reads, is this really me? Then all we hear is a gunshot. So the question is did he kill himself? The closing shot is of the dancing chicken in a cage which underlines the whole film. "},{"Title":"An awkward epic.... but all the better for it!","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Werner Herzog 's Stroszek admittedly left me feeling rather confused, I could not for the life of me figure out where this director was coming from in terms of the overall content of the piece. However the ambiguity of this is brilliant, for it has made for one of the most fascinating and unique viewing experiences of my life.The only other Herzog I have seen up to this point is Fitzcarraldo, a great film with quirky, offbeat characters, an engaging story and jaw dropping cinematography. Stroszek shares similar traits that are no doubt a stamp of Herzog's style, but is a much stranger affair in terms of balance. It is depressing and absurdly funny all at once, as a former mental patient, a hooker and an eccentric old man decide to leave behind pain and suffering in Berlin to chase the American dream.... and end up in Wisconsin, USA. What cues is a tragic story of sorts, with a conflicting quirky humor weaved all throughout as a growing cynicism regarding an inevitable failure and a realization the dream is going to fail builds towards a conclusion. It is... awkward. But it works. God knows only Herzog could do it.The film is essentially two parts, the early days in Berlin which feature some amazing shots of its wonderfully gritty urban architecture and the transition to the US, where we dwell in a world of the commercialized americana of the day and the farms and small towns of backwoods USA. It is visually arresting all throughout, the conflict between the two cultures and a cute, unique vision of America through German eyes a definite highlight. The soundtrack is superb, it works its quirky and beautiful magic ultimately coming to the bizarre surrealistic musical display during the end sequence which has to be seen to be believed. "},{"Title":"Not social but personal","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stroszek is the movie about Bruno S. who is discharged from prison and returns home to his piano, accordion, his friend Scheitz; an old guy who took care of his flat while he was away. Bruno would probably carry on his life in some ways that were opened to him in his natural environment got employed, played his not tuned instruments, went to the bar.. In a little time after his comeback from the prison he finds himself in USA. How this happens? He meets his friend, prostitute Eva, who is blackmailed by two pimps. She doesn't want to contact police, Scheitz comes with an idea of moving to USA to his cousin home, where all of them can start their new lives. They set off.. Bruno S. is a simple minded person who doesn't show off his feelings and either doesn't the movie. He starts to work as a car mechanic and Eva starts to work as a waitress in a Restaurant, they buy a new mobile house and the end of the story begins. Some of the viewers can conceive this movie as a social drama of a stranger who doesn't find his part in all near American dream. It is not accurate. Eva leaves Bruno S. and he stays alone in his indebted house. Before she leaves, there is a beautiful scene when Bruno for the both first and last time tries to express his feelings. Eva doesn't want to sleep with him in the same room anymore and Bruno S. creates some object that shows his grief. He shows this object to Eva and talks about this object and his grief as it was the same thing. The house and everything inside is sold, Scheitz is captured by police and Bruno sets off to the north. He has nothing, but not mentioning the house or other belongings. He doesn't have Eva and his only friend Scheitz. He hardly speaks English language and this is a straight metaphor to silent language of his feelings. He didn't come to USA to start a new life but only to stay with Eva. American dream is as meaningless to him as all the people and language around him. "},{"Title":"An accessible masterpiece","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of Werner Herzog's more accessible masterpieces. As in The Mystery of Kaspar Hauser, Herzog uses his non-actor friend Bruno S. as the star in this story of misguided dreams and marketed myths. Bruno, released from prison after having caused problems from his drinking, reunites with acquaintances, both good and bad. The old life in Berlin isn't working, so he, with two friends, set out for a new life in Wisconsin, U.S.A.. Herzog's production values are much higher in this work, but sacrifices nothing of his unique vision(s) about Life, and Death, in society, and in this case, especially in America. Leave it to a German artist to show us a fresh view of our culture. Watch for visually symbolic themes, such as repetitive, circular movements. This is a powerful, sometimes funny, often uncomfortable, quirky, tacky, and doomed fable &#150; with too much direct Truth to be sloughed off as fantasy. "},{"Title":"A cheap shot for a long shot at the American Dream","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Three bizarre Germans, Clemens, Bruno, and Eva, leave their homes in Berlin and take a cheap shot at the elusive and ever popular American dream only to find changing continents can not change who you are. In fact, for this misfit gang trading a big European capitol and its ambiguity for 1970s rural-nothing-town Wisconsin accentuates their differences of character, isolates completely, and degrades. The American spin on this movie is that it is a comedy-- and there's no doubt that the characters are ridiculous-- in appearance first and foremost.But this film is really a tragedy poising as a camp comedy prosing the question--- Is the American dream universal, and is it really obtainable for a group of delinquent outsiders? Undoubtedly no. Herzog paints Strosvek into a cage where the only way out is prison or suicide. The ending is shocking and brilliantly done. It wasn't until the final few moments before Bruno's death that I guessed it was over. "},{"Title":"Beer.","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Since seeing this movie, I can not think of beer without thinking of Stroszek, and the way the word fell out of his mouth. Wonderful movie about the myth of the american dream. Fools gold? Ends in a way I did not see coming, and unpredictability, in a good way, is something sorely lacking in so much american cinema. Loved it. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest endings ever!","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  STROSZEK may well be my favorite Werner Herzog film, though the title of favorite sometimes changes.  The imagery in this film sticks with me, but it's the ending that I cannot forget.  Herzog knows how to end a film. Everything that makes Herzog's greatest films as great as they are seems to coagulate into STROSZEK.  If these comments seem disjointed, it's because I just saw the film last night for the first time.  I've been thinking about it ever since.   "},{"Title":"Incredible Film, Perhaps Not Well Known","Date":"30 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In Berlin, an alcoholic man (Bruno S.), recently released from prison, joins his elderly friend and a prostitute in a determined dream to leave Germany and seek a better life in Wisconsin.The film came to my attention because of its being filmed in Plainfield, Wisconsin. I caught a radio interview with Errol Morris and my interest turned to his time there with Werner Herzog. While they never made the film they had planned to make (concerning Ed Gein), I almost wonder if what came out of all that may be better.The plot of this one is simple, but it is the moments that really sell it. What are we to make of the premature baby? The man from the bank who has Bruno signing documents he obviously cannot read or understand? There is something powerful about this film, though I am not exactly sure what it is. "},{"Title":"Happiness does not depend upon the place where you live...","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Herzog has done it again. The conquest of happiness is always an illusion in the movies of this unintellectual cinema Author. In Fitzcarraldo, bringing the Grand Opera to Iquitos is the dream than ends in failure.In Aguirre the Conquistador is swallowed by the jungle...Here, in order to escape some Nazi, therefore violent, pimps, a whore, a lunatic musician and a failed wise man, leave the Germany of the economic miracle (the film was made is 1977) which has no place for them, or they don't cope with violence, and go by boat to join the American Dream.Well, the American Dream, if it ever existed was the Gold Rush in California.They get some occupations in the marginal sectors of the economy, the whore goes back her trade, the lunatic becomes more so.This is a very corrosive movie about Hope and in particular American Hope. Carter was President, the bicentennial was on, the Americans failed in Iran. They will do so again, shortly...I happened to be there, on a temporary assignment. Never went back, despite many opportunities. If you like the movies of Stanley Kubrick, you know what I mean. Herzog certainly does... "}{"Title":"Unique and powerful","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In Werner Herzog's unique and powerful Stroszek, three German misfits - an eccentric old man, a prostitute, and a mentally challenged street performer recently released from an institution flee from their brutal Berlin surroundings to look for the holy grail in the dairy-lands of northern Wisconsin. What they find instead is a culture clash that is both hilarious and tragic, a glimpse of the American Dream in free fall. The strength of the film lies not in only in Herzog's visionary power but in the completely natural performances of a non-professional cast consisting of colorful locals and the strange Bruno S., a prostitute's son who spent 23 of his first 26 years in a mental institution. Eva Mattes as the reformed prostitute is the only professional in the cast and she is outstanding.After his release from prison, Bruno Stroszek (Bruno S.) rescues Eva (Eva Mattes) from her pimp and takes her back to his apartment which had been held for him while he was in jail. Although they try to live a normal life, the pimp and his gangster cronies keep coming around and take advantage of Eva and Bruno's passivity. Since their neighbor Scheitz (Clemens Scheitz) has a nephew (Clayton Szalpinski) in Railroad Flats, Wisconsin who has invited them to come and stay with him, they leave for America, like thousands of immigrants in the past, seeking a better life. Unfortunately, they find it is more of the same, only here they smile more often. At first, the three immigrants settle into the land and find it to their liking. She works in a local restaurant and he helps the old man's nephew in his garage repairing cars. Soon, however, they become disillusioned and revert to their old patterns.They are told that there is a serial killer loose and they skate along a frozen pond hoping to discover a sunken tractor and its victims. When money is tight and they cannot make the payments on their mobile home, she resorts to prostitution. Nobody kicks you here, Eva says to Stroszek. Not physically. Here they do it spiritually. When their home is foreclosed, in desperation, Bruno and Scheitz take out their frustration by robbing a barbershop when the bank is closed. The ending involves a burning truck, a ski lift, a frozen turkey, and a dancing chicken, all bizarre metaphors for the insanity that is commonplace in America. It is not surprising to learn that Stroszek was the last film watched by Ian Curtis, lead singer of Joy Division before he committed suicide. "},{"Title":"Agreement and detail","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I concur with Mr. Pants.  This is indeed one of the most depressing views of the USA ever filmed, but it is fascinating.  The final scene, incidentally, takes place not at a roadside carnival, but in possibly the tackiest, saddest tourist trap in America Cherokee, North Carolina.  "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE 10 GREATEST FILMS EVER MADE!","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Werner Herzog's Stroszek (1977) is one of the ten greatest films ever made. It's almost equally as good as Herzog's The Enigma of Kasper Hauser (1974) and Aguirre the Wrath of God (1973).Bruno S., the unknown soldier of cinema once again gives one of the finest performances I've ever seen. Eva Mattes is also wonderful as the prostitute Eva who along with Bruno and Herr Scheitz decide to emigrate from Berlin to Wisconsin to fulfill the elusive American dream. This tragicomedy is one of the bleakest films I've ever seen and also one of the funniest.Herzog's brilliant film making style gives the entire film the look and feel of a documentary, yet like all of his films Stroszek is highly stylized. An absolute masterpiece! Rating A 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Stroszek","Date":"26 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" From director Werner Herzog (Nosferatu the Vampyre, Fitzcarraldo, Grizzly Man), I confess that I do not remember much of this German film at all, not even watching all of it, but I know I did see it because it is in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die. Basically Berlin street performer Bruno Stroszek (Bruno S.) has been warned to stop drinking after being released from prison, but he immediately goes to a bar, where he meets prostitute Eva (Eva Mattes), who he comforts as she is down on her luck, and later he ends up beaten up by the pimps. Bruno and Eva decide to escape any more harassment from these people by escaping from Germany by moving to Wisconsin, America, and live with his American nephew Clayton (Clayton Szalpinski), so they start their journey, stopping off to do sight seeing in New York City. There Bruno gets a job with his nephew as a mechanic, and Eva works in a truck stop as a waitress, and the couple buy a trailer, but they trouble with the bills, so to stop the bank repossessing their home she is forced back into prostitution, but it isn't enough. After Eva leaves him, he starts a little bit of drinking again, and is forced to put the trailer up for auction, and after believing there is some kind of conspiracy, he and his original elderly neighbour Scheitz (Clemens Scheitz) steal some money from a barbershop. The police catch and arrest Scheitz, but Bruno gets away, heading back to the garage, taking loads of beer and heading for the highway into the mountains, but forced to stop in a small town when the truck breaks down. Bruno sets the truck on fire, and the final time you see him is getting on a ski lift with a frozen turkey, then the police arrive, you hear a shot, and the last moments see a chicken playing the piano and a rabbit riding a toy fire truck, I don't know why, LOL. I did pay attention to the moments that mattered, were most interesting and would make it a must see, such as a scene of the lead actor playing his accordion, and the strange ending, but I don't think it would have made much difference to me if I had paid more attention, it seemed a confusing story anyway, but what I did see and catch onto made an alright satirical drama. Worth watching, at least once, in my opinion! "},{"Title":"Not the best of America, no...not the worst, either","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Stroszek is a somewhat timid German-Hungarian prone to drink too much who, together with a few friends, decides to start his life over in the U.S., in a small Wisconsin town. Things by and large don't go well for him. Even so, he doesn't have a couple of thugs making his life miserable, as was the case back in Berlin. And the difficulties he encounters are in large part his own making. He moves to America almost on a whim, doesn't bother to learn or try to speak English, and makes some other mistakes, which I won't mention, insofar as they would be spoilers.Yes, America can be rather hard on immigrants. But so can most any other place, I expect. Most of the things that befall Stroszek were avoidable; indeed, one is left with the feeling that instead of moving to America, he should have moved to another neighborhood of Berlin.7/10  "},{"Title":"Too Overrated","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The critics say that the director of this film is genius. Well, the film was shot in a realistic manner. The story was told plainly and slowly. There was no extravagant stages, no pretty people. There was simply the reality of life, which is often hard. The story was so dry and plain, that was at times boring. The colour of the various items used was often very dark, making the whole film very dull. Frankly, I can't see what is so genius about this film. "}]