[{"Title":"My guilty pleasure film!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"80 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie,as far as I know,never won any special honors.It perhaps is not listed as one of the top 1,000,000 movies of all time.It may not be considered by many to be a great film,but I (and I am not ashamed to admit this),love this movie.Perhaps it is the charm exuded by Burt Reynolds and Jerry Reed.Perhaps it is the beautiful Sally Field(she never looked better on film).Perhaps it is the comic genius of Jackie Gleason.Perhaps it is all these things rolled into one.This is the absolute king of redneck comedy movies(and I use the term redneck with the utmost affection).I am a fan of great films,but I have my guilty pleasure movies as anyone has. This one tops my list of those.Love it! "},{"Title":"The First Thing I'm Gonna Do When I Get Home Is Punch Your Momma In The Mouth","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"41 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" As you can tell by my screen name, I love this movie. I do regard this movie as my favorite of all time. Oscar material? Certainly not. But who cares.The basic premise of the movie is a simple one. The Bandit (Burt Reynolds) and The Snowman (Jerry Reed) are trying to deliver a truckload of bootlegged Coors beer in 38 hours or less for $80,000 (big money back in 1977). All this while trying to shake a bloodhound sheriff (Smokey played by Jackie Gleason) and his bonehead son, Junior. Oh, and during all of this Bandit falls in love with a hitchhiker named Carrie (Sally Field).As much as this is the movie that Burt Reynolds is known for, it's Jackie Gleason that makes this movie for me. His are my favorite lines in the movie. Don't get me wrong, Burt and his ohhh so 70's mustache do a fabulous job of smiling and laughing, but it's Gleason who has me in stitches every time I watch this movie. I received my first copy of this movie somewhere around 1986 (Christmas present). At some point I tried to figure out how many times I have viewed this movie. A conservative guess would be somewhere around 300.It's simple fun, but there is a little bit of magic in this movie that was absent in Smokey And The Bandit II. Both Burt Reynolds and Sally Field claim that the reason the movie worked so well is that you are watching two people fall in love, for real, on film.Aside from the love story and Gleason's portrayal of Bufford T. Justice, the movie has some fantastic and real (not CGI) car chases and stunts. This is a must own for anyone who loves a good car chase. "},{"Title":"The ultimate cowboy/trucker movie","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"37 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Worthy of adding to your personal collection. Burt Reynolds plays the part of the Bandit, a heart-throb for all white-trash trailer dwelling women, to a tee. Jackie Gleason does an impeccable job of bringing to life the role of the backwards southern sheriff, one of the finest performances of his great career. The soundtrack was an instant classic, combining folk, bluegrass and country, and leaving the viewer with an urge to recite the lyrics for days after. A must see for all serious movie watchers. Sally Field portrays a talented dancer who bails out on a marriage to the son of the stereotypical southern sheriff. The sheriff takes this as a personal insult and a dishonor to his authority. He then treks across the south in hot pursuit of the runaway bride and along the way encounters his arch-nemesis, The Bandit, resulting in non-stop laughs throughout the movie. This film combines sexuality (two of the hottest stars of the '70s and '80s), laughter (Jackie Gleason, need I say more), and a great feel-good script. I almost forgot this movie's greatest contribution to humanity, the introduction of a natural star, Fred the dog. "},{"Title":"Burt, Sally, and a truckload of beer","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"37 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  One of the first films to tap into the anti-authoritarian aspects of the Citizen's Band (CB) radio craze, Smokey is basically a movie-length car chase and a pleasantly insipid slice of late-'70's Americana.The tissue-thin plot has good ole boy pals The Bandit (Reynolds) and Cletus (a surprisingly good Jerry Reed) running a load of Coors cross-country on a tight deadline while trying to avoid an assortment of less-than-bright cops, led by pompous blowhard Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason).  Sally Field, as a runaway bride who thumbs her way into Reynolds' car, brings charm and a welcome sense of irony to the macho proceedings.Stunt coordinator-turned-director Hal Needham stages the action competently, and the actors, who supposedly improvised much of the dialogue, obviously enjoy themselves.  A good choice for those who want to relive the glory days of CB rebels, long sideburns, plaid western shirts, and black Trans-Ams with screaming chicken decals on the hood.  Avoid the two vastly inferior sequels.  "},{"Title":"Simple Times, Simple Movie, Simply FUN!!!!!!","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"38 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I grew up in the south as a teen in the 70's and this movie was the South at that time. It was all about CB radios. I remember when my dad got one in his 1972 cherry red Chevy Impala. He had this big ol' whip antennae on the back and his CB handle(name) was Midnight(because he worked the night shift at Pan Am airlines). I think part of the reason Smokey was such a huge hit was threefold. First off, we were going thru an energy crisis and the age of muscle cars was over and most of us were driving around in small pieces of crap like the Chevette or the VW Rabbit! The thrill of seeing a muscle car like the Pontiac Trans Am tearing across the land was a huge thrill! Secondly, the country as a whole was in a malaise of the Me Generation..and all the self-help crap! People were listening to soft-rock like Helen Reddy and John Denver and taking self-help courses like est! People wore earth-tone colors and sandals. So when we saw these 'real-men like Burt and Jerry Reed in thier plaid shirts and tight jeans, taking on the establishment by disregarding the rules of the road and all that, we got excited! Finally, the sheer delight in seeing people enjoying life was a thrill we all wanted to partake in! I can see why so many people, who were bored with life in the pre-disco late 70's, really enjoyed the escapism of this simple but extremely fun flick! We wanted to be a part of it! It was late-night chocolate we never admitted to eating. It was a movie you partly felt dumb to admitting you liked! But the movie itself inspired the hugely popular TV series Dukes of Hazzard, right down to the cast. Burt and Jerry became Bo and Luke Duke..Sally turned into a Daisy(with better legs!) and Sheriff Buford T. Justice became Boss Hogg with his bumbling sidekick Sheriff Roscoe B. Coltrane! And of course the Trans Am was replaced by a true muscle car, the 1969 Dodge Charger (was thier ever a better muscle car than the 69 Charger?) What followed in the aftermath of this movie was the explosion of disco and letting oneself enjoy life again! The whole world got back into living life and having fun! Maybe Smokey had something "},{"Title":"Back when Burt was god","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"29 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie,as far as I know,never won any special honours.It perhaps is not listed as one of the top 1,000,000 movies of all time.but I (and I am not ashamed to admit this),love this movie.Perhaps it is the charm exuded by Burt Reynolds. Perhaps it is the beautiful Sally Field(she will forever remind me of the little girl who lived next door but one who always managed to elude me)Perhaps it is the comic genius of Jackie Gleason. This is the absolute king of redneck comedy movies(and I use the term redneck with the utmost affection).I am a fan of great films,but I have my guilty pleasure movies as anyone has. This one tops my list of those.Love it! Your enjoyment of the film depends on your first viewing experience. If like myself, you were a young boy growing up in the mid-eighties, you will have no doubt lived for the endless thrills, spills, car crashes, second-rate jokes and Big Burt as the Bandit, and its two sequels. It's easy to laugh at now, but there is a perverse pleasure in seeing bell-bottoms, grown men with CB radios and muscles cars the size of small houses, the likes of which most people won't have seen since 1982.And as a side note only Star Wars grossed more than Smokey and the Bandit in 1977 "},{"Title":"Best of the good old boy movies","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I guess one reason I love this movie is because it doesn't pretend to be anything more than it is. It doesn't aspire to great movie-making. It was just supposed to be 90 minutes of entertainment on the big screen, and it's still entertaining. Take your brain off for a while and have fun with it. There are hilarious lines, some funny pratfalls and even a bit of home-grown wisdom How ignorant you are depends a lot on which part of the United States you're standing on. Or something like that. I get a kick out of watching the convoy/rocking-chair scene every time. Makes me wonder how in the world they got around Birmingham, but that's suspension of disbelief for you. LOL. Wish director Hal Needham had remembered that Alabama State Troopers drive Fords, not Pontiacs, but that's a small thing. My dad remarked on it every time, though. It's just cornball entertainment, rare enough these days. Pop some popcorn and have a blast watching it. "},{"Title":"Just pure fun..","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" It all has already said but then.. I also used to drive 18 wheelers in my previous life and this movie and the actors / actresses show nicely how it plays on road ( mostly ). So - not a great movie art but fun if you take it that way. Also already said but CB's can be useful, todays rigs have cell phones, satellite phones, GPS, etc.. but at that time it was who you know and know where you are. Sally Fields is always a delight, Burt Reynolds, Jackie Gleason, Jerry Reed, etc.. very fun acting. This movie has some old fashioned touch that is missing from too many ( assumed fun ) action movies today - also the effects are not as bad as in many todays movies, tire noise on gravel doesn't sound like tires on asphalt, stunts don't look like computer simulations and so on. Enjoy and dream driving.. "},{"Title":"Smokey bacon!","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"29 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Snowman what's your 20, you got your ears on, comeback?  We got a Smokey convoy on our tail moving eastbound and down, with the peddle to the metal and the thing to the floor.  If any of that makes sense to you it means one of two things.  Either you were a young male in the late seventies who dressed in cowboy boots and drove a trans-am... or you have seen the film Smokey and the Bandit.Smokey sees classically trained thespian Burtrand Reynolds essay the role of the Bandit, a mythical, almost Quixotesque figure, who cuts across the American landscape in a black Pontiac firebird, the ultimate phallic representation of male dominance.  The densely layered plot sees Bandit become involved in a quest of Arthurian proportions, attempting to do what they say can't be done.  As it goes, there's a drought in old Atlanta, and the fine townsfolk are gagging for some liquid refreshment for the upcoming monster-truck derby.  Luckily, Bandit hears that there's beer in Texarkana, and sets out across country to bring it back... no matter what it takes.Director Hal Needham, surely an auteur of Hitchcockian proportions, keeps the first act moving along at a steady pace, and there is always close attention paid to characterisation.  However, it is in act two that things really get interesting, for no sooner has the Bandit and his ever-faithful slave... sorry, sidekick Snowman loaded up the truck with the brew... than they are set upon by a runaway bride (Sally Field), a fleet of southern law enforcers, and the formidable Sheriff Bufred T. Justice (Jackie Gleason), whose catchphrase that sun' bitch proved to be as lastingly funny as a dose of the clap.  From this point on tension is cranked to eleven, with more jaw-dropping moments than the entire Indian Jones series combined. Don't believe me, take the scene where Bandit attempts to jump the bridge... if this doesn't have you standing on your seat screaming go bandit go... yee-haw, then quite frankly nothing will.Bandit is one no-nonsense jive-talker, an enduring character whose down with the kids (and the blacks), making him one fine example of a true southern gent.  We never doubt our hero will fail at his mission, especially not with the benefit of hindsight, since Bandit managed to evade the law and return for the imaginatively titled Smokey and the Bandit II.  Here his bounty was an African elephant that, understandably, had the hots for the moustachioed one.  Then there was the third instalment, which had a script so bad Reynolds himself turned it down.  Here the sh*t-kickers formula was repeated... just without the kick.  Smokey and the Bandit is, admittedly, not high art.  It's not even low art.  But it does represent some kind of period piece, a history lesson, or the pinnacle of late seventies cinema.Your enjoyment of the film depends on your first viewing experience.  If like myself, you were a young boy growing up in the mid-eighties, you will have no doubt lived for the endless thrills, spills, car crashes and second-rate jokes that pepper Bandit, and its two sequels.   It's easy to laugh at now, and a young audience will probably be left scratching their heads at the sight of Burt Reynolds mugging uncontrollably to the camera for ninety-minutes whilst Jerry Reed gets to 'sing' his good ol' boy theme tune 'East-bound and Down' for the one-millionth time, but there is a perverse pleasure in seeing bell-bottoms, grown men with CB radios and muscles cars the size of small houses, the likes of which most people won't have seen since 1982.  3/5  "},{"Title":"Burt Reynolds' Wild Ride","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Smokey and the Bandit may be Burt Reynolds' best movie.  At least it's certainly one of his most memorable.  In it, he plays good ol' boy the Bandit, the classic speed demon outlaw, driving flat out through five states and back on one wild and crazy beer run.  This movie has lots of laughs and action.  It also offers a look into the culture of CB radio, which was a huge craze of the day.  And who could forget the Great One, Jackie Gleason's hilarious portrayal of Sheriff Buford T. Justice, the bombastic, persistent lawman from Texas.  Smokey will always be a comedy classic, and that's a big 10-4! "}{"Title":"Pedal to the metal in this ripper of a good time.","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit is directed by Hal Needham and the screenplay is collectively written by James Lee Barrett, Charles Shyer and Alan Mandel; from a story by Needham and Robert L. Levy. It stars Burt Reynolds, Sally Field, Jackie Gleason, Jerry Reed and Mike Henry. Music is by Bill Justis and Jerry Reed and cinematography by Bobby Byrne.He does what he does best-shows off.Bo Bandit Darville (Reynolds) accepts a, illegal job/bet offer of delivering a truck load of Coors Beer from Texas across the states to Georgia. The job must be completed within 28 hours or he will not pick up the $80,000 payment for his services. Enlisting his buddy Snowman (Reed) to drive the truck, while he acts as a decoy in his Pontiac Trans Am, the Bandit must avoid capture by the Smokey (police). When he stops to pick up runaway bride Carrie (Fields), this makes him the target for one particularly vindictive laws enforcer, Sheriff Buford T. Justice (Gleason), whose son Junior Justice (Henry) is the jilted intended of Carrie.You sumbitches couldn't close an umbrella!The best of the CB Radio movies, Smokey and the Bandit makes up for what little it has in plot, with unadulterated fun via car pursuits, stunts and wonderfully colourful characters. Essentially one long chase movie, it was a massive box office success on it release, becoming the second biggest earner in 77 behind a certain Space Opera from George Lucas. Cashing in on Burt Reynolds popularity, and the new found interest in CB radio on the highways, film went on to influence similar films and TV shows further down the line. The memory of the poor sequels and the inferior similar films of its type has somewhat led to many people forgetting just what an entertaining movie it is.There is no way, no way, that you could come from my loins. Soon as I get home, first thing I'm gonna do is punch your momma in the mouth.Hal Needham uses his knowledge as an ex-stuntman to great effect, setting up a number of inspired sequences that sees cars jumping, crashing or going for a swim! Wisely letting his actors ad-lib where possible, film has a natural flow that's hard to dislike. The chemistry between Reynolds and Fields is warming, due to the fact that it was off screen real, while Gleason steals the movie with a hilarious portray as the manic, cussing and determined Buford. The bumpkin based music is perfectly in keeping with the mood, and the various locations used make for an appealing backdrop to the carnage and speedster thrills.Not quite as Punk Rock anti-establishment now as it seemed back then, but still utterly delightful courtesy of a damn fine cast and some special motor vehicle mayhem. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Smokey and the Bandit","Date":"18 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I guess when you mention a top ten regarding movies featuring car crashes and high speed cross-country pursuits between a bandit and the law, Smokey and the Bandit is in the upper echelon, if not right at the front. A great deal of the movie's charm derives from Burt Reynolds, Sally Field, Jerry Reed, and Jackie Gleeson, a hell of a cast for what is actually a Southern Hick comedy. The plot is simple, Burt Reynolds is a well recognized bandit with the ability to keep the police from commandeering a truck hauling certain illegal merchandise across state lines. His reputation catches the ear of Big Enos (Pat McCormick) and Little Enos (Paul Williams), with matching suits and plenty of cold, hard cash to pay for such a venture as they are proposing to the Bandit the proposal, to successfully pick up and haul Coors beer across the country from Texarkana to Georgia in a certain time to score $80,000. So Bandit drags (literally) truck driving partner, Cledus (Jerry Reed, who shares scene-stealing duties with Gleason) out of bed, with the two heading on the road&#x97;Bandit, in a sweet Pontiac Trans am, Cledus driving the truck which will haul the Coors (illegal in certain states for which Bandit and Cletus will be crossing into, essentially recognized as bootlegging). Bandit picks up a runaway bride (Sally Field), once a chorus girl (!), fleeing from a dunderhead, Junior (Mike Henry) and his fiery, ill-tempered father, Sheriff Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleeson), dogged in his pursuit to catch the girl who got away. Meanwhile, Bandit has to keep the smokies from pulling over Cledus' truck, not to mention, avoiding Justice, dogged and determined to catch him. The film is basically a drive-in treasure, full of police cars crashing into lakes and each other (the highlight as to be when one cop car lands in the back of a truck), and the Bandit masterfully evading an army of law enforcement through his incredible driving skills (and a little luck). Plenty of eye-opening stunts, including an epic bridge jumping by the Trans am. Reynolds' charisma is on full display, Field is a cutie who becomes his romantic interest as the two bond while trying to keep the law at bay, Gleason has an onslaught of comedy zingers (What we got here is a complete lack of respect for the law.), and Jerry Reed as the jovial truck driver with a pet basset hound. For a PG-rated film, Smokey and the Bandit is loaded with profanity, particularly when Buford T Justice gets annoyed at his idiot son or cannot apprehend the Bandit. You can really see how much Reynolds and Field were in love during their scenes together; their chemistry is perfect. For a Mississippi hick like me, Smokey and the Bandit is the gold standard of Southern car chase movies. The movie has a laid-back charm, with the kind of cast who provoke smiles from the audience because of the breezy nature of the silly material. "},{"Title":"The Boys are thirsty in Atlanta and there's beer down in Texarkana!","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I've never been much of a fan of Burt Reynolds fan, but he happens to star in many 70's and early 80's movies that are right up my alley. We're talking about movies with charismatic macho man protagonists, fast cars, trucks so large they seem to be overcompensating for something else, infantile comedy and flamboyant action stunts. Movies like White Lightning, Hooper, The Cannonball Run, Sharky's Machine, Gator and of course the Smokey and the Bandit trilogy and I can't help the fact they all star Burt Reynolds. Smokey and the Bandit is basically a very simplistic story and approximately three quarters of the film seems improvised at the spot, but a premise like this just can't fail. Two Texan big shots hire the notorious trucker Bandit to illegally transport a lorry of Coors Beer from Texarkana to Georgia in barely 28 hours. Bandit develops a nifty plan where his buddy Snowman drives the beer truck and he drives a Trans-Am in front to divert the attention of the coppers. During the wild and time-pressured ride, Bandit picks up the hyperactive runaway bride Carrie and becomes involved in a testosterone showdown with the fearsome Texan Sheriff Buford T. Justice. You easily forgive Smokey and the Bandit for its lack of originality and ideas, simply because everyone involved in the film seems to be so very enthusiast and cheerful. Former stuntman Hal Needham delivers a fast- paced script and taut direction (his other film MegaForce, on the other hand is a terribly boring turkey) whilst all his cast members are having the time of their lives. Jerry Reed is excellent as the lesser cool sidekick Snowman and he also provides the film with a sublimely irresistible hillbilly soundtrack, including the fantastically catchy songs East Bound and Down and The Legend. Sally Field and Burt Reynolds definitely have on-screen chemistry, but the show is undeniably stolen by Jackie Gleason as the persistent and downright obsessive Sheriff Buford T. Justice. Heck, even his character's name alone is awesome to write and pronounce repeatedly! He has the best lines, allegedly a large part of them were ad-libbed, like when he says to his slow and unintelligent son the first thing I'm going to do when we get home, is punch your mother in the face (referring that the son can't possibly have inherited his stupidity from him). "},{"Title":"An outright classic","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie brings back the memories.  Back when a time was simple and movies were just plain ole fun.  A lot of the stuff in the movie is lost on today's generation, but I could laugh for hours.  Such classic one-liners and of course it was in a time when Coors beer could not be bought east of Mississippi.  Always want what ya can't have.  Anyways, I watch it everytime it comes on tv, but of course, the real thing is BEST!  "},{"Title":"Redneck rubber riot","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Enormous good fun.. and I am flabbergasted that this film is 33 years old. In 1977 a 1944 film sure did look old but now in 2009 this 1976 production still looks fairly modern albeit super-bad 70s. In fact I really enjoyed the time-trip to this free 70s with its good natured roadside and trailer-park American fun times which echo all through SMOKEY. Burt Reynolds perfected his good ol' boy image thru DELIVERANCE in 73 then WW AND THE DIXIE DANCEKINGS in 74 via some lovably clumsy tap dancing in AT LONG LAST LOVE in 75 then rum running with doe eyed Robbie Benson and shrieking Liza Minnelli in LUCKY LADY (what a campy film!..no wonder it has never surfaced again ... yet...maybe after Stanley Donen dies)...) and then into SMOKEY which sets the scene for stunt car comedies for the next 5 years. In 1978 we got HOOPER then in 1979 THE BLUES BROTHERS and CONVOY and then more SMOKEY sequels. It was seemingly endless. SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT must be one of the most profitable films ever made. Seen thu 2009 eyes it seems to be the most simple of productions there is not even ONE set used... every shot is taken on the road in a car or a truck, at a raceway fun-park, in a roadside diner, in a car park or in a picnic ground. It is all real .. and with real ordinary people as extras in most scenes..which was a clever way of ensuring incredible expectant word of mouth for the film to open in a big way. And it did.. one of the biggest cinema successes of the late 70s. More good fun than I remembered and evoking a wonderful nostalgia for the 70s, and with the most awful fashions imaginable.. brown pants and incredibly tight clothes.. eek! The budget must have been less than $3 million and it brought in over $100m in rentals! SMOKEY shows why everyone loved the 70s and Burt Reynolds at 42 years old hit his stride as a mega-star of the time. Sally Field was about 36 when she made this and still looks like a teenager! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" TITLE SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT was release in theaters on May 27 1977 and it will take you 96 minutes to watch this movie. Smokey and the Bandit is a 1977 movie starring Burt Reynolds, Sally Field, Jackie Gleason, Jerry Reed, Pat McCormick, Paul Williams, and Mike Henry. It inspired several other trucking films, including two sequels, Smokey and the Bandit II (originally known as Smokey and the Bandit Ride Again in the U.K.), and Smokey and the Bandit Part 3. There were also a series of 1994 television movies (Bandit Goes Country,, Beauty and the Bandit and Bandit's Silver Angel) from original director/writer Hal Needham loosely based on the earlier version, with Emmy-winning actor Brian Bloom now playing Bandit. The three original movies introduced two generations of the Pontiac Trans Am (while the TV-movie version drives the Dodge Stealth). The film was the second highest grossing film of 1977, beaten only by Star Wars..SUMMARY As the movie begins, rich Texan Big Enos Burdette (Pat McCormick) and his son, Little Enos (Paul Williams), are trying to find a truck driver willing to haul Coors beer to Georgia for their refreshment. Unfortunately, due to federal liquor laws and state liquor tax regulations of the time, selling and/or shipping Coors east of the Mississippi River was considered bootlegging, and the truck drivers who had taken the bet previously had been discovered and arrested by Smokey (truck driver and CB slang for highway patrolmen). At a local truck rodeo, the Texans locate legendary truck driver Bo Bandit Darville (Burt Reynolds) and offer him US$80,000 (US$270,000 in 2007 dollars), the price of a new truck, to haul 400 cases of Coors beer from Texarkana, Texas to the Southern Classic truck rodeo in Georgia&#x97; in 28 hours. Bandit accepts the bet and recruits fellow trucker Cletus Snowman Snow (Jerry Reed) to drive the truck (Snow brings along his dog, a Basset Hound named Fred, for company). Bandit purchases a black Pontiac Trans Am, which he will drive himself as a blocker car to deflect attention away from the truck and its cargo. The trio reaches Texas ahead of schedule, load their truck with Coors, and immediately head back towards Georgia. Shortly thereafter, Bandit picks up professional dancer and apparent runaway bride Carrie (Sally Field), whom he nicknames Frog because she was always hopping around. However, by picking up Carrie, Bo becomes the target of Sheriff Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason), whose handsome yet very simple-minded son Junior (Mike Henry) was to have been Carrie's groom. The remainder of the film is essentially one big high-speed chase, as Bandit and Frog attract continuous attention from local and state police while Snowman barrels eastward with the Coors beer. Despite leaving his home jurisdiction, Sheriff Justice and his son continue to pursue Bandit, even as various mishaps cause their squad car to disintegrate around them. Bandit and Snowman are greatly assisted by a number of colorful characters met along the way, many of whom they contact through their CB radios; these acquaintances allow them to escape police pursuit on numerous occasions.QUESTIONS Neither Justice nor any of the other police officers are ever aware of Snowman's illegal cargo of Coors. Despite all the pursuit Sheriff Buford T Justice, how did the Bandit make it? What the bandit and snowman hauling in that truck? Why did the Bandit take a new deal instead of the money? Where did Frog come from and who was she? Why was Frog trying to escape from the sheriff in the first place? MY THOUGHTS I give this picture 8 weasel stars for not only its action but the comedy also. "},{"Title":"Vintage Burt","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Burt and Jerry Reed get involved in bet about timed (and illegal) truck run of Coors beer from Colorado to Georgia. Burt grabs a black Trans Am and runs blocker for Reed's truck. Or whatever. I'm not sure what the real strategy is, I guess you could say Reynolds causes so much disruption the police don't care about Reed and his truck. Good-natured chase flick is aided by appearance of Fields part way through in role of runaway bride. My young son saw this movie and can't stop talking about it so it definitely works on one level. The chase scenes are well done and if the CB chatter was ever tacky in the new millennium it's all just cute. This is pretty much the last of the almost-humble Burt, from here on out it's asides to the camera and vanity stuff. "},{"Title":"A Classic!","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit...an excellent Southern romp...The film introduces you to the truck-driving legend Bandit, who is challenged to bring beer from Texas to Georgia. Obviously the Burdettes have more money than sense, seeing as the local convenience store is down the road to satisfy their beer needs, and they can save $80,000 in the process - but their excess gives us a unique plot and situations that could only happen on the roads of the South!Along for the ride is Jerry Reed's character Cledus Snow, The Snowman who is the reluctant running-buddy of Bandit on this beer-run. Cledus is the common sense of the two-man crew, sometimes offering that reality-check moment to the otherwise impulsive Bandit.Sally Field plays Frog...she gives the beauty to the film, also a middle-finger for posterity during a interstate chase, and a nice bent-over shot in the Trans-Am. (Thank you, Hal Needham) The Smokey in the title belongs to Jackie Gleason, who added the humor in the film...with some of the greatest lines ever delivered! See the movie once and you'll never say Son of a B*tch the same way thereafter...Pick up a DVD copy today, and theatrical-aspect really keeps your attention and will present itself better than the 100-or-so times that you saw it on the small screen. Also, the edited-for-TV versions never did the original justice. "},{"Title":"Funny, Funny, FUNNY!","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie was funny and entertaining all the way! Burt Reynolds in his Firebird really gives the meaning of showing off. Even I thought I was the showoff. But everybody who knows the Bandit, gives him a helping hand when he needs it. The law can try their best to apprehend the accomplices, but with Sheriff Buford T. Justice(the legendary Jackie Gleason), who in their right mind would help this Neanderthal? He's out of state, and out of his mind! Other law enforcement officers would ignore this clown, and catch the Bandit themselves. I liked the part where Cletus(country singer,Jerry Reed) ran over the Biker gangs' motorcycles after they rough him up, it looks like they'll be hitchhiking for a while. And hauling all the Coors' beer would be interesting. And when Sally Field's character flips the Georgia State trooper the bird, I said, OOOHH! That was funny! All the semis, the CB channels, and all the help The Bandit got, makes him the South's local hero. He can be USA's hero if he wants to. This movie is great for truckers and travelers alike. This is USA, keep on a trucking! Rating 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Total lack of respect for the law","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  * * * ½ (3½ out of 5)Smokey and the BanditDirected by Hal Needham, 1977`What we're dealing with here is a total lack of respect for the law!' - Buford T. Justice, as played by Jackie Gleason.Irresponsible but extremely agile and charming car-chase comedy.  Smuggling beer from Texarkana to Atlanta, the Bandit (in his black '77 Special Edition Trans Am) has Smokey in hot pursuit from start to finish. Former stuntman turned director Hal Needham makes the most of everything, and the country and western music by Jerry Reed is marvellous.  The entire cast is excellent. Jackie Gleason as Sheriff Buford T. Justice is an institution to this very day, while Burt Reynolds and Sally Field made for a terrific pairing.  Reynolds' scene with Gleason at the truck stop, striking up a conversation, is one of the most memorable comedic scenes in movie history.     "}{"Title":"A simple, childish but ultimately enjoyable chase movie","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Legendary driver `Bandit' is challenged to a bet by Burdette brothers - can he smuggle them a truck load of Coors beer across state lines so that they can celebrate in style at the races.  Bandit enlists Snowman as truck driver while he runs blocking in the car.  When Bandit picks up a runaway bride on the road he attracts the unrelenting attention of Sheriff Buford T Justice.Happily this is a genre that has gone out of date (unless your name is John Landis) but here it SATB is an enjoyable chase movie that has a lazy charm to it.  The plot is paper thing but it sets up some nice chases, even if the film doesn't really have any major stunts to it that stood out as spectacular.  However the easy humour of the film makes for a nice little film.This is solely down to the cast rather than any great director or scenes. Reynolds spoofs his `good ol' boy' image really well and has an easy charm about him - although it is a sad reflection on his career that this is one of his best roles.  Field does a good job of acting natural and she has an easy charisma with Reynolds.  Reed is OK but his character's dog really makes more of an impression than he does.  The real draw is Gleason's Sheriff who is hilarious, has all the best lines and is a wonderful exaggerated character; with his son in the car they make the real driving force of the film's humour!Overall this is not a great film - it appeals to basic humour and the plot is about as much of a `one sentence summary' as you can get.  However it has an easy, lazy humour to it that is appealing in a lazy sort of way.  A few more major stunts would have helped but as it is it is an enjoyable little film as long as you are in the mood. "},{"Title":"The quintessential good ol' boy flick?","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" In 1977's Smokey and the Bandit Burt Reynolds stars with Jerry Reed as Bandit and Cledus, two Southern truckers who take a gig hauling illegal beer from Texas to Georgia. Sally Field co-stars as Carrie, aka Frog, a hitchhiker whom Bandit picks up in his Firebird. She's a literal runaway bride and the father of the groom, Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason), isn't going to let her or Bandit get away. Mike Henry, Paul Williams and Pat McCormick are also on hand.This is fun good 'ol boy movie with Burt and Sally in their prime. Reynolds is at his smiling, wisecracking best and Field is a cutie who looks great in tight pants. It's not great like Eastwood's Every Which Way But Loose (1978), but it's energetic and amusing. Anyone who likes car chases, Southern accents, trucks, CB radios, redneck cops and motorhead antics will enjoy this movie. Besides the presence of Reynolds and Field, I mainly like it because it's like going back in time to the late 70s.The female eye-candy is pretty much limited to Field, although Susie Ewing has a nice cameo as Hot Pants.The film runs 96 minutes and was shot mostly in Georgia, but with some driving locations in California (you can always tell the difference).GRADE B- "},{"Title":"What a show!!","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Until just recently I had only seen Smokey and the Bandit on TNT or some other Turner affiliate, but then I decided to look into buying it on video. What a decision that turned out to be, as it is quickly turning into one of my favorite (or at least most fun) movies.  I can watch it any time, and just have a great time.  How anybody can put this movie down, I just don't know!! "},{"Title":"Timeless movie...","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I remember this movie fondly from my childhood, and must say that it was actually every bit as entertaining as I remembered it to be. And despite being from 1977, it actually holds up its own quite well even in 2016.This is definitely a typical Burt Reynolds movie, with his usual charm and spot on acting talent. And there was a great chemistry between Burt Reynolds and Sally Field.The storyline in Smokey and the Bandit is quite simple, but entertaining. The Bandit (Burt Reynolds) and The Snowman (Jerry Reed) have to drive a shipment of beers from Taxarkana to Atlanta in 48 hours. But the road is long, hard and many highway patrolmen want to stop the notorious Bandit; none more than Sheriff Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason).Smokey and the Bandit is an entertaining movie that can be watched by everyone in the family no matter how old or young. Cars, humor, good cast, comedy, what's not to like? "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasures","Date":"13 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I remember first watching this movie as a kid with my father. What's not to love? Action, comedy, and romance. Best of all, fast cars. I had never really seen the appeal of Burt Reynolds until I recently re-watched this film recently. I can definitely see why people loved him. It definitely is one of my biggest guilty pleasures.Gleason's portrayal of Sheriff Bufford T. Justice is brilliant. He has some of the best lines in the whole movie. Sally Fields makes a great run away bride. I love it when a movie comes together with a great comedy and doesn't take themselves too serious. A great guilty pleasure in life. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"A good ol' fashion sheriff vs. bandit wild ride!","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit is an action comedy where a speed demon outlaw named The Bandit (Burt Reynolds) accepts a dare from wealthy big shots Big Enos (Pat McCormick) and Little Enos (Paul Williams) to transport a truckload of beer from Texas in a limited time. The Bandit picks up runaway bride Carrie (Sally Ride) along the way, not knowing she was to be married to Junior (Mike Henry), son of Sheriff Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason). What results is a high-speed pursuit of the Bandit by the sheriffs.While there is virtually no basic plot to the movie, Hal Needham's direction really made this movie a wild ride from start to finish with the high-speed pursuit - from The Bandit dodging police cars to Jackie Gleason's hilarious portrayal of Buford T. Justice.It's a good old-fashion sheriff vs. bandit story, with a taste of classic Americana in the outskirts of Texas and, like IMDb user EmperorNortonII mentioned, it also offers the use of CB radio culture. The stunts were incredible and the acting was pretty good, especially that of Gleason, spewing his redneck humor and talking down to his poor, adult son whenever chance he could.Again, it's really a plot less movie, but it offers one wild ride in one of Burt Reynolds' most iconic roles that you will never forget.Grade B "},{"Title":"The best film of 1977 (not including the other one)","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" 1977 was a great year for cinema, largely because it was when 'Star Wars' was released to worldwide acclaim. However, what few people seem to remember is that the 'runner up' at the Box Office was an equally fun (and just as far-fetched as an epic space opera!) little film called 'Smokey and the Bandit.' As with many of the best films, the plot is extremely simple &#x96; an outlaw driver, aka 'The Bandit' (played with perfect cool by Burt Reynolds), has to escort a truck filled with contraband across America. However, a certain 'Smokey' (slang for state trooper/lawman) is not going to make it easy for him and vows to catch him at all costs. Smokey and the Bandit is possibly the most perfect example of a 'cat and mouse' chase ever put to film.It's basically a chase movie, filled with high-speed stunts and one car chase after the other. It doesn't always have to be believable to be fun. It just has to entertain. And it does. Obviously it's Burt Reynold's flick and he carries it with charm and uber coolness. You can't help but root for him, while, at the same time, also having just a little soft spot for &#x96; technically &#x96; the 'baddie.' Perhaps what makes the relationship work is that you can root for both the 'hero' and the 'villain' (the long-suffering police officer who's desperately on Bandit's tail).The film also spawned two sequels and it's worth noting that neither are regarded as highly as the first. To really appreciate the magic of the original, you have to see what they did with the sequels. They're both overblown. The car chases cause too much damage and it's hard to believe that if any 'bandit' caused that much carnage, he wouldn't be on the FBI's 'Most Wanted' list. Also, the jokes get silly in the two sequels. Yes, even in the first film the characters are a little 'cartoonish,' but there's just enough believability in them to make them seem real. In the sequels they're either 'too dumb' or 'too cool.' But, those are problems with the sequels. If you're into car chase films, Burt Reynolds, or generally light-hearted action with plenty of comic moments, you'll do worse than riding along with the Bandit. "},{"Title":"Just Plain Fun","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" What a great movie. No pretensions other than being a good fun car chase movie. Burt Reynolds is at his peak, amiable and overflowing with charm. Sally Field is as cute as a button and sexy in her way. Jackie Gleason is hilarious and has many of the movie's best lines. Jerry Reed, however, almost steals the show as the affable Snowman. I say almost because it's impossible to wrest this movie away from Burt Reynolds' grip. Whenever the Bandit is on screen the movie belongs to him and when he's not on screen you're anxious for him to show up. If you're the kind of person who can enjoy a simple fun action-comedy like this then please check it out. It's a classic of its kind. "},{"Title":"classic all the way","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I first saw this flick as a ten year old boy just when it came out and man,it changed my life for good. I was a big fan of trucks and this flick opened my eyes as did Convoy (1978). This is an instant cult classic with perfect casting and pure entertainment and so typical for the time, laughing it out loud with the stupidity of the cops. It was also my first meeting with Burt Reynolds (the Bandit) one I came across later when as a teenager I moved into horror with Deliverance (1972).But back to Smokey. Seeing it nowadays it do has a few things that were cool back then but can't be done now, the racism. When the sheriff Buford T Justice comes across another sheriff and sees that the man is black he make a statement so typical for the south but one that can't be said nowadays. But further on this is pure fun. One shot also a not done in cinema is when the bandit get rid of a police car he stops in front of the camera to have a look straight into the lens. And don't go into the story because that's written in 1 minute but the acting especially from Jackie Gleason as the sheriff is hilarious. Excellent. The soundtrack was sung by Jerry Reed who plays Cledus. Classic all the way and a flick who spawned the anti-cop genre with the Smokey franchise and Convoy or Cannonball Run (1981) but also the series The Dukes Of Hazard. The only thing that drops a bit is the love story around an hour between the Bandit and Carrie (Sally Field). Sally and Burt dated each other in real life but never got married. A must have in every collection. Made just towards the end of the exploitation genre and just before horror became the next big thing. A must have in every collection.Gore 0/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 3/5 Story 2/5 Comedy 3/5 "},{"Title":"Supremely easy'n'breezy 70's car chase blast","Date":"10 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Sly good ol' boy the Bandit (Burt Reynolds in peak amiable form) gets hired to haul 400 cases of beer from Texarkana to Atlanta in a mere 28 hours. Wily redneck trucker Cletus (a wonderfully spirited portrayal by Jerry Reed) helps the Bandit out while sweet runaway bride Carrie (Sally Field at her most adorable) tags along for the ride. Meanwhile, relentless and obsessive ramrod hick Sheriff Buford T. Justice (broadly played with lip-smacking brio by Jackie Gleason) gives hot pursuit. Director Hal Needham, working from a simple script by James Lee Barrett, Charles Shyer, and Alan Mandel, relates the entertainingly straightforward story at a constant swift pace, maintains an engaging good-natured tone throughout (although a lot of cars get wrecked, nobody ever gets seriously hurt), and milks the pleasantly irreverent humor for plenty of enormous belly laughs. Moreover, it's acted with real zest by an enthusiastic cast Reynolds and Field display a strong and utterly charming natural chemistry, Gleason has a ball ad-libbing almost all of his hilariously profane dialogue, plus there are sound supporting contributions from Mike Henry as Justice's dim-witted son Junior, Pat McCormick as hearty blow-hard Big Enos, and Paul Williams as the sarcastic Little Enos. Bobby Byrne's sunny cinematography provides an attractive bright look. Further galvanized by a jaunty down-home score by Bill Justis, a first-rate rousing country soundtrack, and loads of well executed vehicular carnage, this affably unpretentious escapist fare sizes up as one immensely enjoyable romp. "}{"Title":"Hold onto yo ass, Fred, cause Smokey and the Bandit is a wild ride!","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie when I was 8, now I'm 15. that isn't a big gap compared to some people that grew up around the time of Smokey and the Bandit in the 70s, but I am probably the movies biggest fan and loved every minute of it. Burt Reynolds and Jerry Reed are awesome and there was a lot of great acting. Putting all the southern good old boy personalities into these characters were great. Here goes the plot Two truckers, Bandit Darville (Burt Reynolds) and Cledus Snowman Snow (Jerry Reed) go on the craziest haul yet when two rich hotshots Big and Little Enos Burdette bet Bandit $80,000 that he can't run up to Texarkana Texas from Atlanta Georgia and back in 28 hours. Bandit can't pass up this good of a bet, it's too much money to pass up....for the money, for the glory, and for the fun; but mostly for the money. Hauling beer East of Texas out of state is completely illegal and is called bootlegging, and not tolerated by the law enforcement. Sheriff Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason) is one of those officers out to get the Bandit. The only thing I never understood is that Buford never noticed that Bandit and Snowman were hauling beer, but in fact, Buford was chasing Bandit for speeding (I can understand that), and for kidnapping the bride that was supposed to marry Bufords completely dumb son Junior (Mike Henry). In reality, Carrie (Sally Fields), the bride, just wanted a lift from the Bandit. IT is a hilarious film and Jackie Gleasons performance being added just makes it all so much better. This film made the 70s, it was practically what that era was turning into. It was the era of the CB radio, and Smokey and the Bandit definitely defined the CB radio as cool. Great work Universal, you created a masterpiece for all truckers; a 'truckers heaven' if you will.I recommend this film times 100 to anyone who likes trucks, cars, comedy, CB radios, good actors, good acting, rocking music (East Bound and Down was a big hit, or someone in need of just a good laugh. "},{"Title":"One of the great feel-good movies of the 1970s","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Former Hollywood stuntman Hal Needham makes his directorial debut with Smokey and the Bandit, a movie that almost makes you want to jump in a time machine and relive 1970s Americana all over again.Needham not only directed but wrote the screenplay for this flick about a well renown diesel truck driver named Bo Darville, played by Burt Reynolds. Bo, or as he is better known by his CB radio handle, Bandit, accepts a bet that he can make a delivery of Coors beer, traveling from Atlanta, Georgia to Texarkana, Texas and back, all in twenty-eight hours or less. Apparently, distributing the Coors brew east of the Texas state line is considered illegal.The Bandit enlists the help of his truck-driving buddy, Cledus Snow (A.K.A. the Snowman). The Snowman (played so energetically by Jerry Reed) is to drive Bandit's eighteen-wheeler while the Bandit tags along in a black Pontiac Firebird Trans Am. The Bandit will use his sleek and nimble Trans Am as a blocker, distracting the numerous highway patrolmen (or smokeys) along the route so Snowman can slip through any speed traps or checkpoints that might jeopardize the timely delivery of Coors.This setup makes for plenty of inevitable car chases along the way, with Bandit demonstrating his driving prowess behind the wheel, all the while leaving the smokeys behind in clouds of dust.As Bandit and Snowman are returning to Atlanta with their beer shipment, Bandit picks up a hitchhiker named Carrie (Sally Field), a young, pretty bride on the run who, at the last minute, got cold feet at her wedding ceremony. Carrie is being pursued by Sheriff Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason), whose dimwitted son was the very groom left standing at the alter by Carrie. Now, Bandit has two objectives ensure Snowman and the cargo of beer make it safely to Atlanta, and escape the wrath of the pot-bellied redneck Sheriff Justice.There's really some outstanding performances to be had here. Jackie Gleason practically steals the show as the southern lawman vowing with his last breath to track down his man. Mr. Gleason plays Sheriff Justice with a comic genius right down to the southern drawl and demeanor that totally befits the part. Jerry Reed is also a joy to watch with his good ol' country boy personality, always coming up with a quip. Reed also provides a few tunes for the soundtrack, most notably East Bound and Down, a hit record on the country charts in 1977. Burt Reynolds plays Bandit with a likable charm, flashing his mischievous smile for all the ladies to swoon at.Smokey and the Bandit really serves as a great example of 1970s life in America. That undeniable carefree freedom feeling abounds on the screen here. Unlike other films, you don't have to get so wrapped up in the plot. Just sit back and watch the fun that everybody's having. The great mix of comedy and action helped to propel this film to be one of the top grossing blockbusters of 1977.You'll also find plenty of 70s fads demonstrated here, most notably the never-ending CB radio lingo that truckers use to converse with over the air. There's also the big hair-dos, the polyester shirts and the bell bottom pants. The folks at General Motors had to have been pleased with the movie's success, as sales of Trans Ams in the company's Pontiac division skyrocketed after getting favorable exposure in the film.If you should ever get a chance to see Smokey and the Bandit, try to view the original unedited print, now available on DVD. The version released for TV broadcast is heavily edited for content, most notably dubbing over Jackie Gleason's continuous cursing and swearing in the Sheriff Justice character. The dialog just doesn't have the same impact when watered down to a G rating. "},{"Title":"Maybe Jackie Gleason's greatest movie.","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie is hilarious and the actors are great. This has to be Bert Reynold's signature film. He is never better than in this movie. He plays a wonderfully endearing and witty character; Sally Fields is is funny too. But the real star of this movie is Jackie Gleason as Sheriff Buford T. Justice. Mr. Gleason's performance is a classic and has to rank up there with some of the greatest comic characters in Hollywood motion picture history. In this movie Jackie Gleason proves once again that he was one of the greatest American comic actors and if you don't believe it, then watch the movie and judge for yourself. The movie offers nonstop laughter as Smokey and the Bandit play a cat-and-mouse game that keeps the audience engaged and laughing. Wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Does this movie deserve a 7/10 rating? Yes. Smokey and the Bandit was a pop-culture icon in its day. The nation was a-buzz with talk of this movie when it hit the big screen, and with good reason. Jerry Reed, Burt Reynolds, and Sally Field, along with Jackie Gleason and scores of others made this a near all-star extravaganza, which could make you laugh and give you an extraordinary good time, regardless of your walk of life. Its outright irreverence for the law, the rules, and even its own morals made this one of the greatest road classics of its time.Smokey and the Bandit not only walked up to the bell, it RANG it! This is one highly entertaining bit of nostalgia, which feels like a time capsule all by itself in that it holds many elements of the American culture at the time; aptly demonstrates many of the citizen's attitudes towards the law and the rules of the day; and for those of us who were alive and old enough to love this when it first came out, it is like a walk through a memory.It is a guilty pleasure of mine, and I love it.It rates a 7.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Still Holds the Stunt Record for the Longest Car Jump. This movie thanks to Burt Reynolds made director Hal Needham who he was. Needham was Reynolds stunt man prior to Smokey and the Bandit. Action packed with Pontiacs Classic Muscle which in 1977 and 1978 was the Muscle Car and only gained from this movie on through the 80's. Muscle Cars were dying and Pontiac was thriving. The sound of that 1977 Kenworth rings true every time I watch this Classic. The Comedy of Jackie Gleason keeps you laughing from beginning to end. With the exception of a little profanity it still gets 5 stars. I grew up with this movie and I still watch it every chance I get. "},{"Title":"There's beer in Texarcana!!!","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie!!...You punks better not move from that spot!! It just makes me feel good inside...and I just love Fred...he is so cute. Oh and Burt too...love ya to!! This movie is a great fast pace, funny, family fun movie. It is just so funny when B. T. Justice walks out of the restaurant with the long line of toilet paper on his glasses. hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha And Sally is such a sweetheart in this movie...she is so beautiful. I miss seeing Burt in the movies...but i wend and saw the one..Without a Paddle...it was funny...but Burt really didn't have a big part in it. Wish he would get back into the movies....I MISS YOU BURT!!! WISH YOU WOULD COME BACK!!!  "},{"Title":"Good ole time","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit is a simple car chase film that is loads of fun to watch. This is the type of movie that drive-ins were born to show.Burt Reynolds became a superstar with this film and it's easy to see why. You can see him having fun thus we have fun watching him. The story is simple enough. Burt and partner Jerry Reed make a bet that they can go from Georgia to Texas and back with a load of Coors beer in 28 hours. Why you might ask is the bet made? Paul Williams and Pat McCormack (as the bettors) just like to make odd bets. When Reynolds asks why they need so much beer Williams sarcastically responds Because he's thirsty dummy.Sally Field plays a woman about to be married to a deputy sheriff who chickens out and leaves him at the alter. Reynolds, as the Bandit, picks her up. This doesn't sit too well with Sheriff Jackie Gleason, the intended father in law. He chases after Reynolds not knowing what Reynolds is up to.That's your story. It's one long chase that is loads of fun. Gleason seems to be having fun as the foul mouthed Smokey of the title and the action rarely lets up. Credit director Hal Needham for the pacing. On the flawed side Burt is never made aware of the connection between Sally Field and Jackie Gleason thus never figures out that Gleason is not after him for bootlegging. And we never see a clock on when the 28 hours start so the audience gets no sense of suspense as to how much time is left. We get the occasional update from Jerry Reed telling Burt (and us) whether they are ahead or behind schedule. I think it would have been more exciting to see for ourselves.All in all it's a fun picture. The best way to see it is on the big screen while sitting in your car with a beverage of your own. Perhaps with a little pretending you can experience what millions of us did in the summer of 1977. "},{"Title":"Eastbound and Down!","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  How can you not love a movie that even Alfred Hitchcock called 'a guilty pleasure'?  Smokey and the Bandit may not be Burt Reynolds, Sally Fields or Jackie Gleason's best movie - but it certainly will be one that they will be remembered for.  The plot breakdown is fairly simple  Burt Reynolds and Jerry Reed are trucking partners that are bet they can't deliver 400 cases of beer across two states in under 24 hours.  Since that type of delivery is illegal (and incidentally, so is how Jerry Reed drives) Burt Reynolds distracts the Smokies by breaking every traffic law in sight with his '76 Trans Am.  Add to that Sally Field as the runaway bride who tags along and Jackie Gleason as the jilted-father-in-law/'Smokey' and you can see why this movie was second-highest grossing movie in 1977 (beaten out by Star Wars).This is not an intelligent movie.  There are no Oscar-caliber performances and no brilliant direction.  It doesn't change the fact that Smokey and the Bandit remains fun to watch and the lines are still funny after the fifth time you've seen it or the fifteenth.  The car chases are filmed well; you'll notice that the car crashes are surpassed only a few years later by John Landis' The Blues Brothers.Smokey and the Bandit is one of the best Southern Rock/muscle car/beer and pizza movies you can rent or catch on TBS (although you miss most of Jackie Gleason's dialogue if you catch it on cable.)  Check it out! "},{"Title":"A film with many great lines and just plain fun!","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  If you had the pleasure of seeing this film in 1977, chances are you appreciate it three times greater than today's young moviegoers. The plot is simple and not understood by many today as Coor's beer is available everywhere. But when it was not legal east of the Mississippi, everyone wanted it to the east. The characters were perfect. The one-liners came so fast and consistent. You couldn't wait for another especially from Gleason. The car, rare for the era, brought much attention and Trans Am sales boomed after the opening debut and after the 1st TV debut. By 1980, the TA was as common to see as a Ford Escort. It was a beautiful car from 1974-1977 and HP up the wazoo compared to today's. The CB era was in full swing and only added to the mix of cars, stars and stunts. The famous bridge jump in Riverdale, Georgia was, and has stood as the longest movie car bridge jump. Needless to say, one of the 3 other TA's used in the movie was used after that. Some of those Georgia State Patrol cruisers were not props. The studio used real GSP cruisers to wreck, buying new of course to replace. Well worth a watch or two and definitely many laughs. DO NOT bother to even glance at either of the 2 sequels, as it will only take away from the value of this original. "},{"Title":"Truckers will love it!","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  If you like car chases and lots of laughs this is the movie for you!I have seen this movie at least a hundred times and I love it just as much every time I watch it.I drive a tractor trailer for a living and this movie is a must for fellow truckers! "}{"Title":"Hypertrash","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit was one of the top selling items of 1977 - behind Star Wars, as apologists and hype-bandits have proclaimed. Its also the inception of a crass, commercially oriented feature film style with no plot, no substance, its oddly neutered of any real bite, and its overly slick editing appears to be pulled from the world of advertising.Core plot features a sex-god redneck smooth talker driving a product-placement Pontiac TransAm like a madman all over the road, drawing police attention from a bootlegging truck convoy. Its all part of an old money wager to get illegal goods across state lines before a set deadline, however the filmmakers don't even bother concluding its premise - instead setting the action up for a sequel. Whats really wrong with Bandit, besides the relentless sexism, is its sheer lack of depth or meaning; stunt coordinator Hal Needham should have been directing a car commercial or straight-to-VHS low budget b-movie, but his friendship with bankable star Burt Reynolds put money in the project, making the car chases more insane, and the camera work more impressive. All that, however, doesn't change the fact that Needham can't direct. A key sequence involving a truck stop where Reynold's wing man gets in a bar fight illustrates his shortcomings the scene involves a charming animal, a race relations moment, comedic misunderstandings, a barroom fight sequence, some culture war implications and a bit of nostalgic country music to boot. While a decent director could wring some weight and emotion out of the sequence, as well as some good laughs, Needhams version reads something like this Slick set up shots. INT Fight sequence - CUT TO - EXT - Stunt Sequence. That's about it.Basically, Hal Needham's a pre-CGI Michael Bay.I'd have given the movie a one-star rating but moved it up to three because of a) some insane car stunt moves that would have certainly impressed viewers in '77 and because b) it has nostalgic childhood value for some folks out there. (HINT leave it in the past, Smokey and the Bandit is not really a movie, its a car commercial.) "},{"Title":"Shut Off Your Brain and Buckle Up!","Date":"13 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" A classic of the auto-smashup genre, with about as much depth and thought as an episode of The Dukes of Hazzard. And that's totally okay by me, as that's basically the name of the game with this type of film enjoy the mayhem and try not to overthink anything. Burt Reynolds is at his laid-back best as a legendary bootlegger, coolly skirting the law and forging new trails in his mighty Trans Am, kicking up his feet to casually go with the flow around every obstacle. He makes the whole thing work, really, and the cavalier air of confidence he exudes soon rubs off on the rest of the cast. Jackie Gleason is loads of fun as his nemesis, a particularly persistent Texas sheriff, but he can also fly way off the handle, chewing up scenery like a tacky cartoon character. The driving is great, inventive to the end, and the carnage is satisfying without being mean-spirited. A good flick to throw on whenever you've got a spare hour to fill, though it's better if it doesn't get your undivided attention. "},{"Title":"It's time to race over to see Smokey & the Bandit! For me, it was just alright watch. Nothing too special, but it was fun watch.","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" As a modern viewer, it's really confusing, to see an alcohol bootlegging movie, come out in the 1970s, that wasn't based in prohibition era America. However, that's not really a fault of the film. It makes the film, a little more unique. Made during the Convey Craze of the late 1970s. Smokey & the Bandit reeks of that era cheese. That doesn't make it, a bad movie. It just a little dated. A lot of the Citizens band radio (CB radio) lingo and slangs, really goes, over my head. It's also kinda disturbing to see the main character risk innocent driver's lives on the road, for alcohol and to see random people helping him, escape from the police. Despite that, for the most part, the film was very entertaining, even if everything in the film is so over-the-top. Directed by Hal Needham, the movie tells the story of a bootlegger runner, named Bo 'Bandit' Darville (Burt Reynolds), whom is hired to run a tractor trailer full of beer over county lines. However, he has one big problem, he's always being pursuit by foul-mounted, determinate, Texan Sheriff, Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason), hoping today is the day, that he will captured him and his son's runaway bride, Carrie (Sally Fields). Without spoiling the movie, too much, I have to say, this film is a bit disappointing when it comes to how it over-praise Coors Beer. It felt more like a product placement commercial, than a well-rounded movie. Trust me, Coors Beers wasn't as popular, as what this movie made it seem to be. While, its truth, that many Americans in the East Coast wasn't able to get Coors, due to the item not able to be legally sold, east of the Mississippi. However, in truth, Coors wasn't that popular, to Eastern Americans, at the time, due to how they treat their workers, during the labor strike of 1976/1977 & also the fact, that beer was only sold regional, so many people never try it over other products. Added to the fact, that Coors wouldn't go nationwide distribution in the United States until the mid-1980. It's only the seventh most popular beer at the U.S. Not number one, like this movie, makes it out to be. One thing, that was popular at the time, was car chase movies. After all, the 1970s would be describe, as the last great era of the America muscle cars. Add to the fact, that the 1st oil crisis, ended years ago, in 1973, and the fact that the next one isn't until 1979. You would see, a few of these cars, speed, back in the day. While, the stunts in this film doesn't seem, too dangerous or impressive to today's viewers. Compare to the CGI ridden car chase movies of today, this movie has a lot more realistic in its stunt work. In my opinion, it was alright for the most part. Nevertheless, the best thing about this movie, has to be the comedy and the characters. Burt Reynolds really does stand out in this film as the Bandit. I can't see, anybody else, playing, this rugged, wisecracking, Southern-type good olé' boy, besides him. This movie really help his career, as it lead to many car comedies for him, such as 1981's Cannonball Run. I also love Jackie Gleason in this film. He's by far, the second best in this film. I love that he was given free rein to ad-lib dialogue and make suggestions. Most of the best laughs came from him. Two characters that I felt was a bit disappointing, was Sally Fields as Frog AKA Carrie and Jerry Reed as Cletus Snow. I wouldn't say, their roles was really memorable. However, Sally Fields does have chemistry with Burt Reynolds to the point that they dated after this film was made. Despite that, most of their scenes, felt a bit, too time-wasting. I really can't believe that they were able to catch up with Snowman's truck, at all, or be around each other, to the point, that they can still hear, each other in CB radio. You would think, they wouldn't be, able to make it, due to how long, the lake scene was. While, Jerry Reed's acting was mediocre, at best. Jerry Reed's performance of theme music, East Bound and Down, was catchy. Even, if the lyrics of the song, seem low brow, and bit simpleton. I also love the fact, that this movie help influence the 1979&#x96;85 TV series 'The Dukes of Hazzard', sharing many identical settings and concepts. In the end, this movie was good enough to include two sequels, 1980's Smokey and the Bandit II, and 1983's Smokey and the Bandit Part 3. None of them, as good as the original. Then, there was also a series of 1994 television films (Bandit Goes Country, Bandit Bandit, Beauty and the Bandit, and Bandit's Silver Angel) from original director/writer Hal Needham loosely based on the earlier version, with actor Brian Bloom now playing Bandit; that was somewhat interesting, but not worth watching. Overall This movie was a Guilty Pleasure of director Alfred Hitchcock. So is it for me is. It's not the greatest movie, but it's entertaining enough to be watchable. So, put the pedal to the metal and go see this movie. "},{"Title":"That's An Attention Getter!","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Spoilers AheadThis is an easy movie to review for you, Jackie Gleason's performance as Buford T. Justice is the movie. If you hate him, like one of my aunt's former caregivers,Is that the Bastard who said pow, zoom to the moon Alice? She shot me a accusatory glare, suffice to say, if you hate Gleason don't watch the movie. In the sequels, Needham loses control of him and he runs hog wild over the movie. Here, he is in just enough scenes to transform Hooper into Needham's best movie by a mile. I don't mind Burt's vanity, it goes with the beautiful people of both sexes. Reed is at his best here, again, in the third one, where he is the movie, it just is too much Jerry Reed. The threadbare plot involved beer running cases of Coors to meet the timetable of Big and Little Enos Burdett. Gleason's lines are so good here, the whole theater was laughing. My header is spoken by him as he kicks one potential young car thief in the butt. Other gems include when the other officer tells him that his comment is not germane to the situation and Justice responds, The GD Germans got nothing to do with it. This is his movie, have no illusions; how can I say that? Find me another Needham movie that made this kind of money. It was ruling the box office until Star Wars came out, it still cleared ninety million back when admission was three bucks per adult.Yes, there are great car chases, Sally Field was never hard on the eyes and Snowman / Bandit have some humorous by-play. The important thing is Needham had the right balance which time proved to be serendipitous; the problem with the two sequels was the equation was upset. Here, Justice is in sections to alleviate all car chases or too much Field / Reynolds's romance. Also, I might add there are no pregnant elephants or giant marlins strapped to the top of Justice's car. Dom DeLuise, who always found himself hilarious, though box office receipts confirm others didn't share his opinion, isn't here which is another big plus compared to the second one. The chases are within the story not the other way around like the sequels. Almost every Justice line hits the mark where in the sequels we have plenty of misfires. This, actually, was Needham's only real hit; almost all of his other movies were awful. Stroker Ace won razzies all around and was the death knell after the dreadful Cannonball Run movies. If you have been avoiding the movie, just ask yourself if you like Jackie Gleason. If you answer no, like my late aunt's former caregiver, don't watch the movie. Like most collectors, I own this one but not the sequels. If you are a big Burt fan, only buy the second one, he has but a cameo in the third one. The by-play between Gleason and his idiot son, played by Henry, is also at its very best. I grew up watching Gleason on the Honeymooners, the man was a gifted comedian, though now, as I warned, he is quite politically incorrect. His humor still will offend feminists, guaranteed, that is why I shared the caregiver's outrage that I would dare laugh at Jackie Gleason. For me, the scene where he tells the truck driver who yelled Banzai! and tore his car door off is worth owning this for,I saw that, you did that on purpose, I'm going to Bar B Q your ass. Apologies, the man was hilarious, he truly was his sobriquet The Great One. Imagine this movie without him and you will know what I mean. It wasn't his fault in the sequels, he had too many scenes and the writing wasn't up to this level. The only Hal Needham movie I can honestly recommend to you; the equation is perfect here Burt / Sally / Snowman / Justice. It never replicated this ever again. Remember if you don't watch it, Buford says,That's just plain and simple old fashioned Communism. A guilty pleasure. Q.E.D. A Little Nonsense Now And Then Relished By The Wisest Men. Willy Wonka "},{"Title":"Complete Lack of for the law","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" In the very beginning of Smokey and the Bandit, Sheriff Buford T. Justice makes it clear what the problem is What we're dealing with here is a complete lack of respect for the law! The main character in the movie goes by the name Bandit (Burt Reynolds), he is the one Sheriff Buford T. Justice is referring to about the lack of respect for the law. Many would argue that is what makes a good cop chase, but in this case Bandit never gets caught or punished for anything he does. Which is a problem because the whole movie consists of him breaking the law. Bandit is a very prideful person and is very well known in the south. It is clear that the fame has gone straight to his head. He even says in the movie that showing off is what he does best. At first Bandit is a little too cocky for some to like, but as the movie progresses Bandit slowly finds himself and realizes that everything isn't about him. Buford is presented in an authoritative position from the beginning of the movie. As we are introduced to Buford there is music being played that almost makes you scared to be on his bad side. He constantly gets frustrated with his son, Junior, and always makes him feel like an idiot. Buford also consistently tries to talk to Bandit on his CB radio. When asked by Bandit where he is, Buford replies My handle's Smokey Bear and I'm tail grabbing your ass right now! What Sheriff Buford T. Justice doesn't know is Bandit and his friend, Cledus (Jerry Reed), are attempting to transport a truckload of Coors beer from Texarkana, Texas to Atlanta, Georgia in under 28 hours. It was thought impossible to do this trip in 28 hours so as you can guess, they had to go pretty fast. While Sheriff Buford T. Justice is chasing Bandit he fails to notice Cledus in the semi- truck right behind him. The reason Bandit is in a fast car (a 1977 Pontiac Trans-am) is to keep the cops, or as they call them Smokey's, away from the truckload of beer. Throughout the movie Bandit averages a speed of over 100 miles per hour. Somehow Sheriff Buford T. Justice always catches up to him, despite having a car that realistically would never keep up with Bandit's Trans-am. As this cross country police chase continues, Sheriff Buford T. Justice picks up some unwanted help along the way from other police officers in the areas he travels through. While the other police officers' crash or can't keep up with Bandit, Sheriff Buford T. Justice never loses sight of his trail. Bandit is a living legend and he gets help along the way from locals. Some of the locals even trash a few cop cars and never get in trouble and once again &#x85;we are dealing with a complete lack of respect for the law! This only emphasizes how much the producers of the movie want the audience to like Bandit. All of the police officers in this movie seem to hurt each other more than help each other, but that is what makes for some of the comedy in this film. Even though Bandit never gets caught and gets away with everything it wouldn't be a movie worth watching if there wasn't stupid cops or if the cops caught him in the beginning and arrested him. This is a very good movie and I would highly recommend it to anyone that wants a good laugh, but to solve the problem of the &#x85;complete lack of respect for the law! and getting away with it, there should be some sort of resolution in the end that could lead into the sequel. "},{"Title":"Classic Chase Picture","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit (1977) *** (out of 4)The Bandit (Burt Renolds) is challenged to deliver some illegal beer across state lines with the reward being a huge payday so he and his partner Cledus (Jerry Reed) head out for the journey. Along the way the Bandit picks up a woman (Sally Field) running away from her wedding and soon Sheriff Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason) is chasing them as well as countless other cops.SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT isn't a brilliantly directed masterpiece or some strong contender for an Oscar but it wasn't trying to be. If you come into this film expecting some sort of masterpiece then you're going to be disappointed but if you're looking for a fun cheap time then there's plenty of great stuff here. If you're unfamiliar with the 70s then you might not realize that this type of chase picture was quite popular but this one here was clearly the most memorable of the bunch and has remained a favorite to new generations of people.The greatest thing about the movie is the fact that no one takes it too serious. I say that because if you try to use logic with anything going on then you're just not watching the correct movie. Without a question the highlight of the picture are the non-stop action scenes where we get one terrific chase after another. The Trans Am used in the car is probably the most famous thing in the picture and there's no question that it's a beauty to watch as it jumps bridges and out runs various police cars. The stunts here are certainly excellent and fun to watch, which was the whole purpose of the film.It also doesn't hurt that you've got such a likable cast of characters. Reynolds was born to play a role like this as his good- looking nature, silly laugh and charm just spills over on each scene that he's in. Field is also very fun and believable as the opposite type of girl. There's no doubt that the two of them have a nice chemistry together. Reed is also fun in the movie, although he's certainly far from giving a great performance but his hit song is a terrific bonus. Mike Henry is great as the dimwitted son but it's the ad-libbing Jackie Gleason who easily steals the picture with his hilarious turn as the dumb Sheriff who just won't give up.SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT gave a major boom to the genre but of course, it would be followed by some less-than-successful sequels and other rip-offs from the same star and director. Still, it doesn't matter how many bad films followed because this one here remains one of the best out there and is highly entertaining all these years later. "},{"Title":"OK fun from a generally satisfactory movie","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit is an action comedy/adventure movie that takes all the seriousness of a true chase movie and throws it away, only to introduce a fun old time and even the most dangerous times are taken in leisurely by the main characters. With American muscle cars screeching at every corner, and really quite annoying police sirens everywhere, this is one movie that although flawed in places, is still very much OKBurt Reynolds is the main man around the highways playing the Bandit Bo Darville, who's reckless driving and blatant disregard for the law are seen as a good thing(but we have to support the good guys right?). Jackie Gleason as the old Sheriff Buford T.Justice is good, pretty funny and he just makes you dislike him even though you kind of want to see more of him, the partnership between him and his deputy(who also happens to be his son) is a little stupid at times, but nevertheless still kind of funny. Sally Field is OK as Carrie a bride who well doesn't want to get married and meets the Bandit, the chemistry between all involved is pretty tight, and the director does a good job on that.And on that note the director, Hal Needham, whose direction takes the film in a nice direction, fast paced and well timed but also with a few scatterings of jokes. The few times the movie is funny are probably outweighed by the poor jokes involved, I don't think it is the delivery that is off, the script just doesn't always make the joke come off right, and so your left either cringing or very mildly laughing, VERY mildly. It's basically the kind of movie to be enjoyed if you want fast pace as I say, look into too much and you'll just start to dislike it, I for one didn't take it seriously and found it alright.I mean this movie grossed into the hundreds of millions, whether it deserves that is another question but does prove to me how big this movie was and possibly still is. That said this movie is not great, I mean as I have been saying it is satisfactory but far from very good, a movie that gives off the kind of vibe that it was going for just OK from start to finish. I think Burt Reynolds is a good addition to the movie; his presence is welcome and makes the movie a little more fun too, even with his very calm demeanour. Overall the movie is as said throughout OK, never reaching the any true heights but still finishing up nicely. I would recommend this to those from the 70's, well OK not just people from the 70's, also those who enjoy good old fashioned fun and likable characters, all mixed in a barely just about funny movie. This spawned two sequels and a TV series, some could say that shows success but for me it shows a film grossing well first time around and then milking the hell out of it! "},{"Title":"A Fun, Fun Movie","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is still one of the best comedy films ever! Lovers of humorous movies are sure to like this classic car chasing action/adventure comedy! Buford T. Justice, (Jackie Gleason), is the most hotheaded character in the movie - and the most comical in the film. Gleason is famous for his hotheadedness in comedies since he played Ralph Kramden in The Honeymooners TV series.Bandit (Reynolds) & Carrie(Fields) with Cledus (Reed) are the comedy trio trying to get away from Buford (Gleason) and Junior (Henry) in a fun, thrilling car chase! 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"An underrated gem that I've seen countless times that never fails to make me laugh - one of my personal favourites!!","Date":"30 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The plot for this film is simple and basically sees Big Enos (Pat McCormick) and Little Enos (Paul Williams) setting the Bandit (Burt Reynolds) with a challenge. The challenge is to collect 400 cases of beer from Texarkana, Texas and bring it back to Georgia in 28 hours. If he is successful, Big Enos and Little Enos will reward him with $80,000. The Bandit accepts the challenge and with the help of his best friend Cledus Snow 'the Snowman' (Jerry Reed) both men set to work. However, with police from every state from Texas to Georgia pursuing them, will they be successful?I have seen this film several times right from when I was a kid to this evening when I sat down and watched it and finally decided to sit down and write a review about this film. Obviously from my rating of 10 out of 10 it is clear that I loved this film and I'll explain why; The biggest factor working in the favour of Smokey and the Bandit is the chemistry between the characters - normally I'd be fairly impressed with a film if the chemistry is good between 2 people, but in this film the chemistry is good with every single double act in this film (even Cledus and Fred lol). Burt Reynolds does phone in his performance but it works due to the silly nature of the film - he has a lazy charm and charisma about him and he actually delivers a lot of his dialogue in a rather dry way which just made me burst out laughing (several times). Field's character was good and was actually very funny as well (she had some funny lines too). In the hands of poor scriptwriters her character could have come across as annoying, but the scriptwriters handled her character well and make sure that her character never crosses the line between being funny and being annoying. As a result, the shared chemistry between Reynolds and Field was brilliant. Likewise, the same can be said of the chemistry between Buford T Justice and Junior (Mike Henry) which was also top notch. Henry was only overshadowed by an incredible performance by Jackie Gleason. Genius.For me though, the star of the show is Jackie Gleason as Sheriff Buford T Justice and if truth be told he is the main reason why I've given this film a 10 out of 10. The film would have been good without him, but with him in the film it is utterly brilliant. What he lacks in intelligence he more than makes up for in determination. His ineptness and genius one liners are truly what puts this film into a class of its own. Here are some of my favourites; Buford T Justice to Junior There's no way, no way that you could come from my loins. As soon as I get home the first thing I'm going to do is punch your momma in the mouth!! Sheriff of Arkansas to Buford T Justice The fact that you are a Sheriff is not germane to the situation Buford T Justice to Sheriff of Arkansas  The Goddamn Germans have got nothing to do with it Quite simply put this is an incredibly funny film that is endlessly rewatchable with shed loads of quotable dialogue. The fact that this film only has a current IMDb rating of 6.8 is shocking. I could probably count on one hand the number of films that I've seen that have been this much fun. Smokey and the Bandit is quite simply a film that must be seen and is a film that I would recommend to everyone. "},{"Title":"good ole fun","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Bandit (Burt Reynolds) and Cledus (Jerry Reed) are southern truck drivers who accept a $80k dare from Big and Little Enos to pick up a truckload of Coors beer from Texas and return it to them in 28 hours. The trick is going east of Texas is considered bootlegging.On the way back, Bandit picks up runaway bride Carrie (Sally Field) in full wedding dress. Her groom Junior, and his father Sheriff Buford T. Justice is in hot pursuit.This is a cultural icon and Burt Reynolds at the his height of popularity. The three leads have a nice chemistry. They have some fun in this movie and it translates onto the screen. That's all that matters for me. "}{"Title":"The Bandit Vs. Smokey.","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Burt Reynolds plays the bandit, a wise-cracking truck driver who, along with his friend Cledus(Jerry Reed) accepts the challenge of Big Enos(Pat McCormick) & Little Enos(Paul Williams) to transport a shipment of beer across the southeast of America in a specified period of time. Along the way, he picks up a runaway bride(Sally Field), who was engaged to the dumb son of Sheriff Buford T. Justice(Jackie Gleason, quite funny), the sheriff relentlessly follows Bandit, determined to bring him to justice.Amusing comedy has a good cast and good-natured attitude about itself; lots of action and pileups, though after a while it does become silly and repetitive. A huge hit, followed by two sequels. "},{"Title":"Smokey and the bandit","Date":"20 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" a very good movie. especially if you like big rigs and fast cars i recommend this movie for you. as the bandit and snowman run across the country in there trans am fire bird and the all mighty mack tuck its a race against time to get load were its going. i also recommended watching the second movie Smokey and the bandit two. and Smokey and the bandit three. will they make in the run against time to get to Ennis and Lil Ennis or will sheriff Buford T justice get them find out by watching the movie.also if you like trucking movies check out the movie CONVOY or big rig also we got a big old convoy truckin on trough the night come on join our convoy ain't she a beautiful sight "},{"Title":"Greatest Road Flick Ever Made","Date":"23 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Why can't more movies be like this? No, there are no deep meanings to look for, no lessons to be learned, no pain or misery..just a couple of guys trying to haul some illegal beer across state lines in 28 hours..over a bet.Not only is everyone good in this movie, but you can tell they're having a really good time doing it, from Burt Reynolds (back when I liked him) as the easygoing and wisecracking Bandit, to Jerry Reed (the most underrated player in this) as Cledus, his fun loving truck driving partner-in-crime (with his faithful sidekick Fred, probably the laziest basset hound on earth..except when he wants to take a swim). There's Sally Field as the runaway bride (the back-and-forth between her and Reynolds is priceless). Then there's the straw that stirs the drink in all this The Great One, Jackie Gleason, probably the only one who could have made the slovenly, gross, backwards redneck Sheriff Buford T. Justice so funny.The dialog is hilarious (no doubt much of it was improvised), and car chases were very well staged. But the best part about Smokey and the Bandit is that it doesn't take itself seriously...at all. In that sense it's the polar opposite of the cult road classic Vanishing Point, in which the story starts with essentially the same premise, but is dark, dreary, somber and surreal. Smokey and the Bandit is none of those things..it's just a rollicking good time. It's everything that a fun car chase movie should be. The producers of the Fast and Furious franchise should take notes. "},{"Title":"One Truck Drivers' Opinion","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Two truck drivers run bootleg beer from Texas to Georgia with a Texas mounty on there tail.This is a fun ride of a movie. Jerry Reed was at the top of his game when he wrote East Bound And Down. This is one of the most popular songs on Colsons Country Classics on WKZS in Covington,In. Because of this song,Jerry Reeds' Greatest Hits is a requirement to be in the cab of every truck driver. Every time I mention the subject of trucker movies,Smokey And The Bandit are one of three titles that come up(the other two are Convoy and White Line Fever).But I've always been troubled with the fact that every law enforcement officer is seen as incompetent boobs. Now I know what Hal Needham was trying to do. He was trying to show that Sheriff Justice was the only law enforcement officer that had the grit to pursue an outlaw trucker called Bandit. And if you call Mr Needham out on it,he will say, Its just a movie. But it still bothers me.In the DVD commentary,Burt Reynolds says he wanted Sally Field to play the lead. But someone in the decision making process said that Sally Field wasn't sexy enough. Can you imagine that. Some one thought Sally Field want sexy enough. I think someone was experiencing some kinda blindness.Burt Reynolds and Jerry Reed drove the Kenworth 18 wheeler.Bill Saito drove the Chevrolet big rig car hauler.Macon McCalmon drove Peterbuilt big rig tanker.Laura Lizie Sommers drove the Peterbuilt big rig.A Mickey Dolenze look-a-like drove an undetermined big rig.Hank Worton drove the Peterbuilt big rig.This is the first of at least 3 times Jerry Reed drove a big truck.Jerry Reed was a permanent AAA list actor.Burt Reynols,Laura Lizie Sommers, and the Mikey Dolenze look-a-like are permanent A list actors.Bill Saito,Macon McCakmon, and Hank Worden were permanent A list actors.Sally Field,Laura Lizie Sommers, Linda McClure,Susan McIlver, and Ingeborg Kjeldsen are hot!!erldwgstruckermovies.com "},{"Title":"Burt's 'Gabby Hayes' impression","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is a very entertaining picture despite (or maybe because of) the simple plot. The two stars Burt Reynolds and Sally Field blend well together and they gradually fall for each other on the long trip from Texas to Georgia being pursued by dogged Sheriff Jackie Gleason. I haven't read all the reviews for this film but has anyone else spotted the following About 69 minutes into the film Burt Reynolds does a George 'Gabby' Hayes impression. Driving along with Sally Fields he twists his face in the manner used by the real Gabby when he was about to speak and says the line 'Are yuh ready Roy?' Sally Field replies 'I was born ready.' This dialogue is probably inspired by Gabby Hayes' appearances in many Roy Rogers pictures. "},{"Title":"Kinda unrealistic but packed with humor and entertainment","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I liked the movie. It's very original and I find it very entertaining. I didn't see any bad acting in it. Everyone were in their role in exactly the right way they should be. I found a lot of original humor, like when Sheriff Justice loose the roof of his patrol car and his son must hold the hat for him while he drives.Although it's a bit unrealistic, it's still a good movie because producers have a good sense for humor. It's a 1977 film which requires you to get back in time a little bit to get everything right.If you like cars, chasing and good laugh, this is a good choice. "},{"Title":"Extremely silly . . . and a whole lot of fun!","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" As Nick Ron Swanson Offerman describes it, the Pontiac Trans Am is the most throbbing boner of a vehicle you could have. And I don't think there's a better showcase for this wicked beast than Smokey and the Bandit. Oh sure, the movie might bill Burt Reynolds and Jackie Gleason first, but that hot rod is the real star of this thing; jumping bridges, sailing into football fields and tearing asphalt across the South. GM couldn't ask for a better commercial.Which isn't to say the sweet ride is the movie's only lasting quality. No, that's simply the icing on the cake. This stands the test of time primarily for its southern charm and enthusiasm; the kind of movie that you hang in with 'til the end whenever it's on TV (as CMT's ratings can attest). A breezy chase movie with a likable cast, or irascible in the case of Gleason. This is a thoroughly entertaining flick, and a not-at-all guilty pleasure.8/10 "},{"Title":"Without Jackie this would've never worked","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" It was time for my annual Sheriff Buford T. Justice dose! Thought i would jump on here and actually review a few of the oldie but goodies as i re watch them. What can't I say about this film? One of the best 70's Trucker themed movies of all time, a movie that actually gets me in the mood to listen to Jerry Reed's CD's, or country music in general for that fact, and last but not least the ever so excellent Jackie Gleason as the aforementioned sheriff. The movie in a whole was funny however its Buford's scenes with his son junior, that after all these years still provides me with that I cant breathe  laugh. For the youngsters who have never heard of this let alone seen it in any form or capability, such as my 10 year old son...who mind you had to be coaxed with the humour me or the do it for dad pleas. He did seem to like the scene where Snowman after getting the crap kicked out of him at the bar repays them before leaving by running over their motorcycles, however is in a way different genre then i was a kid...oh well whatta you gonna do? A great classic in my books! "},{"Title":"It Just Clicks","Date":"7 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit is a lighthearted and funny movie that doesn't take itself seriously - and that's its genius. Jackie Gleason nearly steals the show from Burt as the stereotypical southern sheriff. Mike Henry is brilliantly cast as his dimwitted son. Henry, who can out macho Reynolds any day, deserved a better career than he got, but that's another story. Sally Field had a lot of chemistry with Reynolds. They hit it off in real life and had quite a fling together for awhile. The Trans Am scenes where they zip around the southern backroads and do some stunts were awe inspiring. Jerry Reed as Reynolds' sidekick had a lot of charisma as the dumb redneck country boy trucker. Who cares if he never got pulled over doing 90 mph in an 18-wheeler? That's Hollywood. TYhe revenge he got on the bikers was very memorable. Break out the popcorn - it's a great ride. "},{"Title":"A bit to much Bandit, needed more Smokey.","Date":"16 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This film was a bit better than The Cannonball Run, but it is certainly in the same vein. Better in the fact it had more of a plot, though really not by to much. The thing that probably makes it stand out more than Cannonball is the Character of Justice played by the late Jackie Gleason who during the time of this movie was more of a television type star rather than a movie star and Mike Henry as Justice's son, Junior. These two characters were very funny, providing the biggest laughs in the film. Also funny in this one is Big and Little Enos, especially Paul Williams as Little. His exchanges with the Bandit are just great. They would be featured more in the second film which was good, but I hear they were overused in the third installment, however I have never seen that particular film. This one has Big and Little Enos needed The Snowman and the Bandit to get some beer across some state borders cause they are really thirsty. The Snowman drives a rig and is transporting said beer while the Bandit drives a Trans Am to try to get the police to focus on him rather than the speeding trucker. Well a woman is getting married, and has second thoughts thus flees the wedding of Junior whose father is a sheriff thus the feud between he and the Bandit begins. Lots of stunt driving and jokes involving the destruction of the sheriff's car ensue. So do the laughs for the most part and unlike part two we do not have to worry about Bandit blowing the bet because he has feelings for an elephant. "}{"Title":"Crucial Americana","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Regardless of what you think of the premise of the film itself, or the actors and its story line, I believe that this film does stand on its own as a truly important piece of Americana, every bit as significant as any of Norman Rockwell's work.It is a snapshot (albeit an idealized one) of a simpler life in America. One of a lovable outlaw folk hero and small town sheriff and county fairs and bygone car culture and life on the open road. Its a simple story to be sure, but that is the charm.As for the film itself, its of course not going to win any Oscars. The acting isn't exactly fantastic in a lot of the scenes, and nothing really groundbreaking was happening there. But the characters were developed beautifully and you genuinely care about them and their adventure. Its worthwhile viewing for sure. "},{"Title":"The way movies should be made today","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I'll never forget the first time I watched the tail end of the movie and I actually quite liked it, then a couple of months later I taped it on the KSTW channel (cable station is located in Tacoma, WA) and they got rid of that channel sometime around 1994 or 95 which was kind of unfortunate cause I grew up on that channel and that channel will always take me back to the golden days of my childhood. The movie begins as the Bandit (Burt Reynolds) takes a $80,000 bet to see whether he can haul off about 600 cases of beer from Texarkana, Texas to somewhere in Georgia within' 18 hours and he brings his buddy Cledus (Jerry Reed) to drive the semi truck so he can haul off the beer while the cops (better known as the Smokey's) can concentrate on just the Bandit and the Bandit buys a brand new Trans Am, then he meets up with a runaway bride (Sally Field) and Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason) is on their tail cause she ditch Buford's dimwitted son Junior and boy wouldn't it be funny if every cop was as dumb as Junior? There are some other great moments throughout the film like Buford driving through a pole and the top of the car comes on, or when the police cars collided into each other and a trucker crashes into the open door of Buford's car and he gets all angry, if you like high speed chase movies or fast cars then you'll like Smokey and the Bandit, I wouldn't recommend watching the sequels unless if you really enjoyed watching this movie and they don't come close to how good this movie is although I do kind of like watching Smokey and the Bandit 3, if you're on a budget then I would get the Smokey and the Bandit pursuit pack which generally costs around $17-$20 and it's less expensive than buying Smokey and the Bandit 1 and 2 separately. "},{"Title":"Smokey and the Bandit","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I really really love this movie even though it came out 4 years before I was even born. This movie to me symbolizes simple America on top of being funny and exciting.The good ole boys Bandit (Reynolds) and Snow (Reed) must deliver a truckload of beer across several states...Beer...mmm...could there be a more better cause..*drools*...mmmmm beer. Err,never mind on to other things,lol. Carrie Frog ditches a wedding to the ever so dumb junior and who can blame her. Sure he's curer,I suppose to a females perspective,but he doesn't got smarts,charm,manners...so she ditches his ass at the alter,runs in front of the trans am gets picked up and the fun really begins.I cannot really say anything terribly bad about the film,sure it didn't have the greatest plot but the actors and action makes you forget all about the simple plot. Burt Reynolds was awesome and again a females point of view he was gorgeous. Sally Field was always funny. Reed was I have to admit surprisingly good and he sung some classic songs which after being introduced to the film years ago on VHS am a fan of his music.This film is great,a must see. "},{"Title":"a true classic","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" truly a classic,one of my five favorite movies.i watch it every time comes on the air.i was in high school when the movie first came out.Coors beer was the beer everyone i went to school liked,i once forgot a term paper for school i was able to bribe a friend to take me home at lunch with a promise that i would give him some Coors beer.as a senior i got to drive a black trans am complete with t-tops,the shaker hood and the big bird on the hood, to school for a while cause my parents owned two car dealerships,when you have a car dealership you all ways get trade in's this car was a trade in sometime before or after Christmas. "},{"Title":"funny & great acting & Socially Significant Too","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Yup, this is a hilarious comedy...Remember that this was released in the late 1970's, the Carter Presidency, when seemingly everything the Federal Govt did resulted in chaos at best and expansion of the Soviet Empire (Afghanistan) at worst.....in this film, the emphasis of government's silly controls is the inability to have Coors Beer in Eastern states, and especially the Federal 55MPH speed limit...Bandit and Cletus accept the challenge to bring Coors to the rich guys who like it---certainly a victimless crime at worst....and disobey the Federal 55 MPH speed limit in the process. Along the way, all kinds of everyday individual Americans help Bandit & Co. avoid the representative of Big Government--Sheriff Justice. The truckers put Bandit in the rockin' chair and watch with great delight as the police drive past for just one example....the waitress at the choke and puke AKA drivein restaurant marshalls her car loving customers to help, for another example...there are many more examples of individual Americans helping another independent American--Bandit--defeat the forces of bureaucratic big government enforcing one of the most hated regs of the time, the 55MPH speed limit (which speed limit was repealed some years later).This film with its subtle and perhaps unintended Libertarian message of individual Americans against the forces of Big Government was the second biggest box office hit of 1977.....I remember sitting in the theatre watching most of the audience members STAND & CHEER for the Bandit...............I haven't seen this spontaneous kind of audience involvement since....of course, I did see the film in California's Orange County, a very politically conservative area, chuckle....(behind the orange curtain, we said back then)Then barely three years later, what happened in the 1980 Presidential Election? The candidate--Ronald Reagan--who for 20 years or so had been railing against big government and its reliance on petty bureaucratic regulation, who for 20 years had been talking about the importance of each individual American's rights, who quoted Thomas Jefferson's famous That government governs best which governs least, who said that it was the president and not the American people who were afflicted by malaise, who said that the indomitable spirit of the American people would again make it morning in America --- overwhelmingly defeated an incumbent President Carter, and won again in 1984 in one of the greatest landslides of all time. It was that same aversion to big government adversely affecting the lives of all Americans that put Ronald Reagan in the White House twice and put Smokey and the Bandit nearly at the top of the late 70's Box Office hits.And, I submit, you don't have to like Reagan as a President to see the connection here....you may like to drive 55 in an effort to save fuel....but the film, I submit, arguably foreshadowed the massive cultural/political shift that elected President Reagan....Hope I didn't spoil the film for you liberals out there.....regardless what you think of the above, it is still one of the ALL TIME FUNNY FILMS! And, if the Academy weren't such snobs about comedies and rednecks in particular, Gleason should have been up for Best Supporting Actor! "},{"Title":"Smokey and the Bandit An true Classic.","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit is truly a Classic.This one of the greatest movies ever made.The story is this The Bandit Bo Darville play by Burt Reynolds (one of my favorite actors) take an bet that he and his buddy Cledus Snow aka Snowman play by Jerry Reed can drive an Tractor Trailer full of beer across county lines, but hot on their tail is Sheriff Buford T. Justice of Texas play by Jackie Gleason and his son Junior Justice play by Mike Henry who after his wife Carrie play by Sally Field.Somkey and the Bandit is nothing but great fun Southern styles, Great action and great music.The music is so well done, here an fact Two songs were sang by Jerry Reed The Opening song and Aren't you the bandit? Smokey and the Bandit shows how a movie make in the south is to be made.The jokes in Somkey and the Bandit are so freaking funny that I would watch them over and over again.My favorite line in Smokey and the Bandit is when Smokey and Carrie just arrive in Mississippi to get some gas, while unbeknown to them that Sheriff Buford T Justice and Junior Justice were there as while, Buford told Junior to give that talker, then he try to get the Bandit. Hello Mr.Bandit, This is Sheriff Buford T. Justice of Texas, can you hear me boy? The Bandit got on the radio and said This the bandit, to who I'm speaking with? Buford said This is Sheriff Buford T. Justice of Texas. The Bandit then said Well hot dang, Welcome to Mississippi, Sheriff. Then Buford said Thank you Mr.Bandit and I got a big surprise for you when I get you back home, You Sumwitch! Then The Bandit said Don't you cuss on this here radio.All in all Somkey and the Bandit is a true Classic and a movie that is worth checking out! I give Smokey and the Bandit 10 out of 10.Smokey and the Bandit rules!!! "},{"Title":"big rigs, fast cars, slight romance and vast comedy.","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" A film for big boys, little boys, and even girls may enjoy. This film has Big Rigs and fast cars, which are trying to cheat the law. An almost impossible bet proves to be a task they almost wish they hadn't taken, but with a good dose of screeching tyres all the way. It makes you want to go out and get a heavy goods licence or a Trans Am. The unexpected hitchhiker, (picked up along the way) has some baggage which lands the main character and accomplice in a spot of bother. But the 'Smokies in their bubble gum machines' are no match for the bandit and the snowman.Except one particular sheriff they hadn't planned for. Ideal family film, laughs are a guarantee. But these stunts are carried out by professionals so don't try this at home. "},{"Title":"Deserves to be in the Pantheon of American Film - Great Entertainment","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The story is simple. There is only one major thing that could be described as a plot 'twist'. The characters aren't intended to have any great depth.So why is this a great film? Because it entertains and endures.The Bandit is cocky, can be a jerk and a loser...but he is so likable. Little Enos says that a Legend and an out of work bum look a lot alike...yet the fact is Bandit's legend is apparently known throughout the South.The Snowman is the perfect compliment to Bandit...he doesn't get the glory, but often carries the load. He doesn't mug for the camera like the Bandit, but has a dry wit that makes you laugh.What more can be said about Buford T. Justice. He steals every scene he is in. His delivery is terrific. There's no doubt that he is a commanding presence as a law enforcement official, yet he seems utterly clueless when dealing with his personal life, including the can't do anything right Junior.Forget saying summabit. It's phrases like, Nice Lady, Let me have a diablo sandwich or Too Bad your head wasn't in it and When I get home, I'm gonna slap your mama, cause there is no way you came from my loins that make Buford T memorable. Even the you sounded much taller on the radio comment makes you laugh at, disdain and feel sorry for Buford T all at once.Sally Field is perfect as Frog. Big and Little Enis have great chemistry. Junior, what can you say.The story, as I said is simple. They've got a long way to go, and a short time to get there. Frog jumping in the car, and the subsequent pursuit by Justice makes it that much more difficult and entertaining.Yes, its one great big car chase.Yes, the youth of today have little to no idea of the CB culture. You can get Coors beer everywhere, and its nothing special. The car stunts aren't that special considering what may be in movies today. Chuck Heston in a chariot wouldn't be anything special anymore either.As it has aged though, it is better to think of it a providing a glimpse of the past rather than merely being 'dated'.This is a movie you can watch over and over and just enjoy. That's what makes it a GREAT film. "},{"Title":"Everything I Dreamed It Would Be and More","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Don't you know transporting Coors east of Texas is bootlegging? I think of all the movies I've been forced to watch, this one was the film I most wanted to see. And now I have, bless my lucky stars. I love this movie. I love Burt Reynolds. I love Jerry Reed. If I can find this film on DVD, it will enter my personal collection. What we're dealing with here is a complete lack of respect for the law. The Bandit (Reynolds) and The Snowman must bring 400 cases of Coors from Texarkana, Texas across state lines in 24 hours - illegal transport while driving much too fast. And picking up runaway brides in a sweet car... that's so Reynolds! Do you know how bad I want to watch Convoy after this? Maybe next week. Is this a good review? Of course it's not, but you're reading it anyway. All you need to know is you need to watch this movie. Refusing to do so would be a serious error and your life will never be complete. Oh, did I mention the sheriff is the father of the groom who lost his bride? Do you think Burt can handle it? (Yeah, yeah he can.) This makes Cannonball Run seem even more Reynolds appropriate, he is perfect for driving too fast and kidnapping women who were hot in the 1970s. Sheriff... do the letters F.O mean anything to you? Needless to say, highest possible recommendation. And I apologize to the kittens who will die because of Sally Field. "},{"Title":"That's a Big 10-4 Boyeeee","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Well, every now and then comes a film like this. In fact it's something pretty rare nowadays sadly with all the soul-less big salaries special-effect ridden badly-acted Hollywood productions. But back in the 70's (and previously) movie making was made more as a love-child project than a way to make millions. Now bare in mind that this is no Casablanca or Godfather and maybe movie-critics will shun upon it seeing it solely as a dumb redneck flick. Personally though, not being a good ol' boy myself by any length I can say that this is one of the best and funniest movie I ever saw.What Smokey & The Bandit achieves is to give you a 2 hour of pure stupid fun that only makes you want to grab an old muscle car and jump over a bridge yelling YEEE-HAWWW. In the same sort of fashion as the Dukes of Hazzard did on TV, this is an American classic of the days when life was simple and care-free. When you could sit in a car with your legs up on the dashboard without any safety-belt or air bags keeping you secure. In a time where CBs were the craze and everyone could just grab the mike and say things like lay it on me loud and clear, I'll catch you on the flip side coz it's a big 10-4 son. Basically, this movie puts you back in that historically important era of the happy-go-lucky freedom America. A time now long gone.Burt Reynolds (with a mustache and a cowboy hat) is simply amazing playing the classical American-hero-who-gets-the-girl-at-the-end. Jerry Reed makes a surprisingly great performance as his trucking partner carrying the load of Coors beer in his Mack Truck. Sally Field does an O.K. job as the runaway bride who tags along and the ugly dog is a great addition to the team. As for the opponent, Jackie Gleason makes perhaps the BEST representation of an idiot redneck southern sheriff with the dumb accent and everything. In fact, pretty much every character in this movie are caricatures of the good ol' south, and from a Canadian perspective it's always funny to laugh at this. ;p Bottom-line, if you want a no-brainer car chase movie about bootleggers trying to bring a truck-load of beers across the southern states chased by a bunch of dumb highway cops, this is the movie for you. I'd highly recommend grabbing a few beers yourself to watch it to complete fulfillment.Oh yeah, and the bluegrass music is great too! So now that this review is done, I got one last thing to say.It's a big 10-4 "}{"Title":"Atlanta to Texarkana and back in twenty eight hours? That ain't never been done before.","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" - Back in 1977, I was 13 years old. I suppose that I fit right into the movies target market. If I remember correctly, I saw it 4 times in the theater. Years later, I dismissed the movie as too sophomoric and beneath me. But as I grow older, I see Smokey and the Bandit for what it really is &#150; a nice piece of brainless fun. After all, this isn't rocket science, it's a car chase movie.- The movie works for me because it is so ridiculous. The whole idea of a Texas sheriff chasing a Trans Am all the way to Georgia is completely silly. But the car stunts, jokes, Jackie Gleason, Big & Little Enos, and even Jerry Reed's music make it a very fun watch. My biggest complaint is the way Burt Reynolds insists on mugging for the camera. "},{"Title":"probably the GREATEST single car movie of all time...","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie in 1977 (when I was 7) and I thought it was the most amazing thing I'd ever seen. I agree with the reviewer that the black and gold Trans Am is a really neat looking car. There's something about the black, with the gold snowflake rims, it just looks neat. I hope to show this movie to a son someday. It is also a lot more wholesome than today's movies. It is because of movies like this that I am a volunteer police officer. Burt Reynolds is a very underrated actor. He was the only person who could play the Bandit. Some reviewer on here said the police cars were either Pontiac Trans Ams or Plymouth Furys. About the former, they were clearly not Trans Ams. I think he meant that they were Grand Ams. It was a car Pontiac made in the 1970s for a few years before the Grand Am name was brought back in the 1980s as a front wheel drive car.Enjoy the movie. "},{"Title":"Smokey And The Bandit","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Breaker Breaker this is the Bandit, Snow man you got your ears on, come on, i'm listening but i don't hear no speaking, i have a bear tail grabbing my ass right now, you want to hold him up. Positive positive Bandit, you make a clear strip to Georgia, i take his ass and i'll haul it! Burt Reynolds is my idol, the best actor since along time and cant wait to see his roll in the dukes of HAzzard hes a driving legend. What can i say about Jerry Reed, the funniest man ever, with his CB humour. All i have left to say is that Smokey and the Bandit is in my inspiration and i like that much I'm going to buy a Pontiac Trans-am and take a trip round Georgia!!!! "},{"Title":"Bandit Goes With the Flow","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This film has a special flow which few films achieve. In fact, the two sequels just don't get to where this film does. It is as classic a chase film as ever was made with some trashed police cars littering the landscape. The special flow is achieved much because of the great Jerry Reed soundtrack that goes perfectly with the red-neck themes of this movie.Bert Reynolds fits his role in this like a glove. Sally Field is perfectly cast to. The real heart of this film is Jerry Reed. It is his soundtrack songs and character that really put the flow to this film. Jackie Gleason greatly helps the comedy. The film is not long on plot, but is like bubble gum on the mind as you can put your brain away for 2 hours and just enjoy the show and the music.I love the Big Enos & Little Enos Burdette characters. I keep betting the Bandit breaks them Burdettes this time! "},{"Title":"Smokey and the Bandit","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I think this is one of the best movies ever made. I Love it. This has to be Burt Reynolds best movie. They just don't make movies like they used to. I love the whole idea of the movie. It's great. They picked the perfect cast for the movie, I don't think it could be any better. I remember seeing the movie as a kid but when I saw it again when i was older I liked it a whole lot. I wish I could outrun the police and bang fine hoes like in the movie. Its one of my favorite movies and it always will be. In part two he doesn't burn out as much and he doesn'1 pull any more hoes but its good. Part 3 is OK but not the real Smokey and the Bandit. My friends think i'm an idiot but what can I say, Burt Reynolds is the man. "},{"Title":"Every Boyhood dream","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit is every man's dream. To mess around with the law and get away with it! The vehicle of choice for the movie had to be something flashy to capture a young man's eye to purchase such as in the movie 2 Fast 2 Furious where the vehicle of choice in that particular movie was a Mistubishi Lancer Evolution 8. Over all I thought the movie was better than excellent for it's time. It also gave the public something to laugh about. As for the 2nd movie it should have been a continuation of the first movie where The three of them were seen heading up to New England to get the Clam Chowder. Over all I absolutely loved it! "},{"Title":"Entertaining action","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Hoorah! Reynolds 's Stetsoned trucker is stirred from his zebra-print hammock by an intereting challenge can he transport 400 cases of beer across a dry state without being caught by a bunch of slackjawed patrolmen? Not without a lot of tyre-screeching (look out for the rubber-marks on the road to count how many takes it took to get right), bluegrass guitar accompaniment, and a series of police cars skidding off the highway into rivers, ditches, rivers and more rivers. Uncomplicated fun which briefly made CB radio seem sexy, and gave unwitting birth to the Dukes Of Hazard - until The Blues Brothers brought the car-chase to its moment of hubris.  "},{"Title":"An action comedy classic.","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'll bet that this movie was the inspiration for The Dukes Of Hazard. Think about the stories are somewhat similar. Burt Reynolds and Sally Field had perfect chemistry on screen and off, to bad Burts big ego broke them up. Big Enos and Little Enos Burdette(Pat McCormick and Paul Williams) appoarch daredevil driver known has the bandit(charmingly well played by Burt Reynolds) if he would drive a large tractor trailer full of beer across the state lines.Bandit excepts there offer, and he asks his friend Cledus THE SNOWMAN Snow(the memorable Jerry Reed) to come along for the ride. While the bandit drives the black transam, Cledus drives the truck full of beer. But then there trip takes a side track when the bandit picks up Carrie(Sally Field), a runaway bride. And the bungaling Sherrif Buford T. Justice(The very funny Jackie Gleason) and simple minded son named Junior(also very funny Mike Henry) is hot on there trail. This was a funny movie, and it also had great action. It was action comedy at its best. "},{"Title":"Two Words Redneck Classic","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I first saw this film in either late 1979 or early 1980 and fell in love with it from the beginning. It is Burt Reynolds greatest film (along with The Longest Yard) and Jackie Gleason's portrayal of Buford T. Justice is nothing short of brilliant (no wonder they call him The Great One!). I also am a big fan of Jerry Reed's awesome music in the movie.I think the scene where Jerry Reed drives his semi over the biker gang's cycles is one of the all-time great scenes (If you're a guy!). Anyway, this film is a comedy classic and Burt Reynolds greatest film. "},{"Title":"We ain't got time for hushpuppies!","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  My favorite movie of all time!  It should have won the oscar for best movie. Yes, that's Mike Henry as Jr.  He was also Tarzan and was in the Green Berets.  Try to use a line from the movie in everyday conversations. Thank ya, Nice Lady.  "}{"Title":"Fast cars and lots of fun","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  From the first minute lots of fun! Burt Reynolds is playing himself so it seems -) I was 4 when this film played for the first time, But i love it  "},{"Title":"One of the five best movies ever made.","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Put aside the novelty of nostalgia and kitsch.  This is still a very entertaining movie.  Burt at his ego-maniac best.  The soundtrack is top notch, the on-air chemistry between the entire cast is first rate, and the fun factor is out of this world.  Watch again for Gleason's truly funny genius.  His performance will hold up for years to come.  Don't think of it as a car movie - this is great film making.  When people have a good time making a movie it translates into a good time viewing it.  My first nephew was born while the family watched this movie and we wouldn't have it any other way. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever made!!","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'm a HUGE Burt Reynolds fan.  I think he's a great actor.  I specifically like this movie because he's the bandit who's a legend.  Him and Snowman (Jerry Reed) bootleg Coors beer all the way across the U.S.  Jackie Gleason played a perfect part as Sheriff Buford T. Justice.  Sally Field was funny too.  But most of all Burt.  He was the charming guy of this movie. Everyone admired him.  I loved that black '77 Trans Am too!!  This movie's funny, exciting, and fun for all ages.  This is a movie I think will be cherished forever.  It was one of his best. "},{"Title":"A salute to the CB generation.","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Cult classic, that would appeal to those of the CB generation.Not meant to be dissected, this film provides wham bam, ultra-macho entertainment.If you don't think you could identify or at least wrap yourself in CB/road culture for the duration of the film, then stay away.A landmark salute to the road culture. "},{"Title":"Great Late 70's Anti-Establishment Truckin' Comic Flick","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Anti-establishment late '70s truckin' fun movie. Great flick with truckin', hot rods and CB radio-speak. A magnificant late '70s American movie. Great cast. Burt is perfect, as is Jackie Gleason as the ultimate redneck sheriff. (Jerry Reed is easy to ignore, but SHINED.) Sally Field shined as well. It's easy to see how Burt and Sally hooked up after this one in real life. The chemistry showed in the movie and helped make it real. Very funny. You need to watch it for what it's worth. They were'nt trying for an Oscar. (Thank goodness.) If you like a simple plot with car-chase action, you will LOVE this movie. Thanks, Hal Needham!   "},{"Title":"TRUCKER MOVIE CLASSIC","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Spoiler Alert ! There is a large shipment of Coors Beer in Texarkana, Texas and Big and Little Enis Burdette want it badly. They hire The Bandit from a Truck Rodeo to make the run. The main problem Bandit faces is that trucking Coors Beer over statelines without proper permits is bootlegging. The Burdettes make the deal even sweeter by putting $80'000.00 on the line and that grabs Bandits attention real quick. The set time is 28 hours round trip. Bandit being the game one he is accepts the challenge and proceeds to haggle for extra money to buy a speedy car to block for the truck and that speedy car is a 1976 Black Trans Am Firebird. Bandit also calls upon his old trucking buddy fresh out of jail The Snowman. Together they race across the South from Atlanta, Georgia to Texarkana, Texas to pick up the 400 cases and then start back. Bandit stops to pick up a girl on the run from a shot gun wedding. Her name is Carrie but during the movie she is nick named Frog for always hopping around in Bandits car. They are being chased by the reason she hops around so much. On The Bandit's tail is a wildly obsessive compulsive Texas County Mounty named Buford T. Justice. His son Junior was the unfortunate Groom to be and Justice is out to get things straight with Carrie and force her back up that aisle. For some reason or another Buford decides to try and apprehend Bandit by declaring High Speed Pursuit. The race is on back to Atlanta for Snowman and Bandit with Buford not far behind. By movies' end Snowman and Bandit and Carrie slip away only this time they are heading North to Boston to pick up some clam chowder on a bet of Double or Nothing and with a set time of 14 hours. Sherriff Justice keeps right on chasing the Bandit declaring I'm not giving up.      "},{"Title":"Burt Reynold's best movie (and Sally Field doesn't hurt)","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is Burt's best movie because he lets other people be funny. The jokes work as Burt plays straight man to both Sally Field and Jerry Reed. Jackie Gleason did so many great things in his career (that's why he was called The Great One), but this may have been his funniest movie role. He's great as the Sheriff (of Texarkana, TX) who thinks he outranks every law enforcement official in America. The music is also outstanding. This movie looks like it was fun to make and it sure is fun to watch. It's an American classic. "},{"Title":"Funny and hilarous, one of the best movies of all time!","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Smokey And The Bandit is a great movie.  The movie starts out with the famous Burdette brothers (Little and Big Enos) betting the famous Bo  Bandit Darville (along with Cletus Snow) to go from Georgia to Texarkana, Texas to hall Coors in Cletus' semi and back to Georgia in less then 28 hours, but there is a catch... they call it bootleggin' and that is illegal!That starts out one of the greatest movies of all times.  But there is some terrible editing problems to it that they forget to edit out.  But other all the whole movie was funny.  I think that Jackie Gleason (Bufford T. Justice) was the funniest thing of the whole movie.  But I warn you to avoid the other two sequels because THEY COMPLETELY SUCK!From the Jman to everyone else out there have a nice day! "},{"Title":"Doin what they say can't be done...","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Smokey and the Bandit is one of those films that defines a generation, and along with films like, Jaws, Star Wars, and Superman changed the way we not only went to see films, but the way they were made and marketed.Although when someone talks about the said films, they'd probably leave out Smokey and the Bandit, because the film does date itself, and, although it's not Smokey's fault, hundreds of copies and retreds have ruined this film for anyone who wants to enjoy it's original humor and style.  By now, everyone has been bombarded with the same action, stunts, and gags that made Smokey and the Bandit a Blockbuster, in 1977.Even through the muck of mimics and sequals this films stands alone as the crowning jewel, and should be cherished among the greats.  Sure it's no Citizen Kane, but it's a damn good time, a hell of a rush, and the Jerry Reed soundtrack was the perfect backbeat.  I rate the film a 10, and deservedly so. "},{"Title":"For the time, this was just perfect!","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I rated this movie as a 9.  Yes, I know it wasn't insightful, and it didn't open up new vistas to me.  However, it was a wonderful reflection of the time.I fondly remember the CB radio craze of the 70's.  I was very into that. I also enjoy tearing around in fast cars.  (Actually, I had my CB radio installed in a motorcycle, but the idea is the same.)Smokey and the Bandit will stand the test of time, because it is a snapshot of the 70's.  Yes, it is silly and inane, but it wonderfully captures the spirit of that decade.  There's no deep philosophy, here, but it is a glorious romp.  The movie doesn't try to teach us anything about the human condition, but it does seek to entertain.  In that respect, it succeeds very well.Every movie has a goal.  In some cases, the movie tries to enlighten us.  However, this movie sought merely to take us away from our mundane lives for a while.  It accomplished that very well indeed. "}{"Title":"Has it been twenty five years?","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I was surprised how low the ratings were for this movie; it's almost forgotten how big a sensation this one was when it came out, and in some areas of the country (such as the rural South) I think it was more popular than Star Wars.  This movie may claim credit to starting the zillions of cop cars crashing everywhere comedies that were the trend in the late seventies and early eighties.  I remember seeing it as a wee kid and except for a small romantic interlude near the middle where it went -thud- it was a non-stop fun ride that I didn't want to end.  (I didn't think I was the only one who expected the sequel to take off right where this one ended.)It still is enjoyable, albeit if dated to late seventies Americana and it all ends way too soon.  Compared to modern comedies which either seem exercises in gross out humor or just plain stupidity, Smokey and the Bandit is one of those movies that will probably still be funny in another twenty five years.   "},{"Title":"A Lot Of Fun","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I think there is very little I can add here to what has been already been written about this film but I will try. I first saw this film when it opened in Colorado where I was born and raised. I saw it in a theater with a teenage buddy of mine from junior high. We really enjoyed this movie because, even at that age, we realized it was nothing more than harmless fun. The perfect 1970's Saturday night or Sunday afternoon good-time down-home movie. Both Sally Field and Burt Reynolds were on the Bravo series Inside The Actor's Studio in separate episodes and they both had interesting comments about the making of this movie twenty plus years later. Sally Field said that they were forced to improvise a lot of their lines because they had no script. Reynolds said that Alfred Hitchock had the movie screened over and over. Reynolds said he spoke to Pat, the great director's daughter about this and she said Hitch loved the movie because he could see the people making it loved each other and that they were having the time of their lives.This film has its roots in the type of low-budget movies being made in the 1970's. With the success of films like Easy Rider, Bonnie and Clyde and Bullitt in the late 1960's, Hollywood was eager to make chase movies that featured anti-heroes. Characters that were either breaking the law or enforcing the law outside of established procedures but you still rooted for them anyway. Couple this with the popularity of CB radios and truck driving slang and you have movies like Vanishing Point, Thunderbolt and Lightfoot, Convoy, Dirty Mary and Crazy Larry, Sugarland Express, Breaker, Breaker and this one. I still marvel at how I know practically every funny scene in the movie but I still laugh like I was a Colorado teenager all over again. Maybe I see some of the qualities Hitchcock saw in it. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie!","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  If you like trucks then this is your movie!I've seen a lot of truck movies,and I have to admit that this was the most fun.I do find that Convoy(1978)was a little more realistic when it came to the trucking part,but a good movie all and all.I own a couple of trucks myself and I think seeing this movie as a kid got me interested in trucks.Jerry Reed is great,I wish  we would see more of him these days.This movie also has a lot of cool car chases.Ten four good Buddy "},{"Title":"A good craic","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  A wonderful movie for boring afternoons.  See it with some friends,  have some beers, relax and enjoy! "},{"Title":"go bandit...Reynolds style","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, it's kinda weird that I'm finally writing a review for this one. First thing, this is the FIRST movie I ever remember watching and second, I reviewed Part 3 before I reviewed this one.  I'm not even bothering with the Second one.Anyway, here I sit, bored out of my mind, and mad as hell at the snow on the ground, but I can't help that.  I have Panama Red, by the New Riders of the Purple Sage blaring through my speakers right now and it's setting the perfect mood to write a review on a movie that came out during the same era as that classic song.  Here goes nothing...Smokey and the Bandit, as many of you already know, was filmed during Burt's big hey-day, and to the film-maker's (and Burt's) surprise became a smash-hit when it was released only in the south, during the same year as Star Wars.  By the end of 1977, after the movie was released nation-wide, (depending on who you believe) only Star Wars had grossed more than the red-neck action/comedy.  It was released among a whole slew of films of the same genre, but Smokey stood out due to it's talented cast, funny dialogue, and well-done action sequences.  Rumor also has it that this was Alfred Hitchcock's favorite movie.  I'm not sure but I wish he were still around to say so.The premise works WAY better than it should.  Here it is A bored pair of millionaires (father and son, in this case), the Enises, get wind of a hot-shot truck driver and think that it will make for some good laughs to challenge this guy (the bandit) to a little game of transporting 400 cases of Coors from Texarkana to Atlanta in 28 hours.  Oh, and that's round-trip I might add.  What's in it for the Bandit? Well, $80,000 if he wins.  That's what.  Just what he needs for buying a new rig.  Now, having a little more than his share of self-confidence (and ego), the Bandit accepts and even dupes the two into putting up more money so he can buy a sports car to block for the big-rig.  So the Bandit rounds up his good buddy Snowman to drive the truck while he leads the way in a brand spankin-new Trans Am. Let the games begin...Getting to Texarkana and picking up the beer is a breeze.  It's on the trip back that the Bandit picks up a runaway bride (Sally Field) and catches the attention of yet another father and son duo.  This time, it's THE SHERRIFF BUFORD T. JUSTICE and his bumbling idiot son junior.  This is where things shift from light-hearted fare, to laugh-out-loud hilarious. What I think makes it so funny is Jackie Gleason's portryal of a red-neck sherrif that is so cock-sure of himself that he doesn't even realize that he's a legend only in his own mind.  Did I mention that he treats his son (a grown man who appears to be in his 30s) like a seven year old kid? As a result, junior ACTS just like a seven year-old kid with a mental deficiancy.   Also, I might want to mention that the previously mentioned runaway bride was the bride-to-be of the unfortunate junior.  So, with that said, Sheriff Justice has not one, but two reasons for apprehending the Bandit.That is the set-up right there.  And it works.  This type of movie was common back in the day, but this one stands above them all.  It's a little bit glossier and you can tell that the budget was a little higher than say, that of The Great Smokey Roadblock, which I found horrible.  All of the characters (even the sheriff) are likeable and the music is fun and upbeat. I can honestly say that this movie never wears out it's welcome because I've seen it more than any other movie.  Having Jerry Reed as the Snowman is just fun times.  The guy is truly a great actor and you'll wonder why he never did more movies.  He's got a fun screen prescence (Just check out the Waterboy) and his delivery of the lines is dead-on.If you haven't seen this movie (have you been living under a rock?) please do.  I'm somewhat of a fanatic about this one.  Hell, in high school, I even wrote a persuasive essay to my English teacher, trying to get her to let the class watch this movie...don't ask.Even if you're not a fan of the genre, I'm sure that you will enjoy it.  I don't know ANYONE who doesn't like this one.  It's definitly one of Burt's best.  So break out the bell-bottoms and the checkered western shirts, crack open a coors, and pop this in the VCR.  WAHOO!!!  "},{"Title":"Ah, the 70s","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  (Minor spoilers)If you like a frothy 70s song like The Streak, you'll surely enjoy this mix of bonhomie and highway hijinks.  Though the movie depends largely on the persona that is Burt Reynolds, (who can not only drive like AJ Foyt but can stop for some off-road coitus to boot) Field, Reed and of course Jackie Gleason (truly in his metier) are all enjoyable to watch.  It is a humourous, unfettered affair that plays on our own venial habit of speeding (and the game that speeding and tickets really is--hey I'm a cop I know!).  One of my greatest laughs as a child is still the picture of Sheriff Buford T. Justice walking out of that restroom with the trail of toilet paper following. "},{"Title":"It's a laugh out-loud movie.","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Hilarious comedy that's set in the South about a trucker dubbed The Bandit (Burt Reynolds) who picks up a runaway bride (Sally Field) and is pursued by a cranky yet determined county sheriff from Texas, Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason) while blocking for his friend, Cledus (Jerry Reed), who's hauling (or bootlegging) 400 cases of beer from Texarkana to Atlanta. What makes the movie work so well is the characters are easy to understand and how exciting the stunts (and watching police cars crash) get. Also, some of the words that truckers use while on the road are nicely put in with care and the variety of trail-blazing one-liners. Reed and Bill Justis make a terrific music score and the songs (either written or sung by Reed himself) is a treat to listen to. It's a laugh out-loud movie. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  If you lived in the South during the '70s, you'll identify.  Of course the writing is bad, but Jackie Gleason makes up for it.  Pay attention to the minor characters too. Don't rent it, buy it - it's better than going 10-200. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Yee Haw","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie had the Dukes of Hazzard Syndrome. Loved as a kid, can't stand it as an adult. Except no Daisy Duke, but Sally ain't bad. Best part was the Texas police car falling apart throughout the film. The car pulled over and the horn stuck. The officer came up and said.You can't drive this piece of #$#$ on my highwayGr8t to show your kids about life in the 70's how stupid we acted. The Convoy song is stuck in my head. It'll be a miserable day. "},{"Title":"I love that black trans-am","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is top dog when it comes to car chases. The Bandit(played to perfection by Burt Reynolds)is hired by two men to to go to Texas to pick up a truckload of Coors beer-and back to Atlanta-in 28 hours. Impossible? Not if you have a trans-am that can go 110 MPH! The bandit takes along with him Snowman to drive the truck(Jerry Reed). But, standing in their way is Sheriff Burford T. Justice(Jackie Gleason),who chases them all the way from Texas to Georgia. A sheriff from Texas does not  have any legal jurisdiction in Georgia-but that doesn't matter to Justice.Now why is Sheriff Justice after the Bandit? Well it seems, Justice's son's bride walks out of a wedding and took off.(Sally Field)The Sheriff wants to take her back to finish the wedding.The bandit picks up Field and goes along for the ride.This movie is fun to watch! I just love that back Trans-am! Out of ten I give an 8 and a half. "}{"Title":"This kicks ass","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my favourate movies ever. It is just pure fun.  jerry reed plays a great role as snowman and burt rocks. what more do i need to say GO AND BUY IT NOW OK  "},{"Title":"Burt reynolds films","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  After searching this site I came to find, comedies by Burt Reynolds got short-changed. Maybe in these times of hard-action flicks it don't seem much, but I long back to the times of harmless, laugh your ass off, comedies. I like to have a nights fun, with a beer in my right hand and laughing about things you can laugh at. In stead of watching dumb soaps and hard action-flicks What's wrong with having FUN??????? "},{"Title":"Fantastic!!!!","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The best film I've ever seen !!!!!!!! (Seriously!). The movie has got it all Sex, speed and trucks, and not to forget Burt Reynolds!!! Burt is really in his right corner in this fantastic movie. His smile makes my knees soft.A REAL CLASSIC!Please send me some comments on my point of view!! "},{"Title":"One of my favorites of all time!!!","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I seen Smokey and the Bandit when it first was released in 1977 when I was 13yrs old and on my first real date. That summer I went and seen it 16 more times, for those who see it now and think its just a dumb movie just don't get it! Its a simple little movie that is a whole lot of fun to watch, In 1977 this movie was second behind Star Wars and it grossed an impressive $126 million and it only cost $4 million to make.The one main problem is when you see it on TV today, the version that they run on every channel is the same badly edited copy that first aired in 1980 on NBC and all the great lines are badly dubbed.For those who don't remember but in the 70s Burt Reynolds was the coolest guy in movies and he ruled the big screen. If you really want to enjoy this movie Please rent it or buy it!! You will laugh your butt off.  "},{"Title":"very positive!!","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I think this is a VERY GOOD movie.  It is my favorite and I can't count how many times I have seen it.  This movie added to my love of trucks and is what inspired me to want to drive one.  I was finally able to, 20 years after the movie, but I fullfilled a dream.  A dream I wouldn't have had if it weren't for this movie.   "},{"Title":"Better then you think it would be.","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film is not what I thought it would be. It was surpising in a way few films are in that it did the unexpected. Something that isn't done very often. The film had alot of car chases that worked with the film. Many would consider that this film would be trash with it's car chases and trucker nonsense but I have to admit this was one mighty fine movie. "},{"Title":"One of Burt Reynolds' last greatest films The Best of My Love!!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  An irresponsible and charming smuggler (played to perfection by Burt Reynolds!)  and his best friend (Jerry Reed, from Gator) accept the ultimate challenge transport in less than 48 hours a lot of cold beers from Texarkana to Atlanta, what leads off a series of confusions and adventures. Agile and entertaining comedy, this film made an enormous success in the whole world and it transformed Burt Reynolds into the greatest 70's movie star. Specialist in orchestrating his own action scenes, Reynolds didn't accept stunts during the filmings, what gives more realism to the sophisticated danger's moments. The director Hal Needham is a specialist in action films, because besides film maker, he already made performances as stunt. Light and simple, Smokey and The Bandit has Burt Reynolds in the peak of his charm, talent and beauty!!    "},{"Title":"Brain bubblegum","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Pop some popcorn, sit back and turn off your brain for this one.  This is a movie made for purely for entertainment, especially Jackie Gleason who did a fantastic job portraying the stereotypical redneck sheriff.  Was Burt Reynolds in love with himself or what?Script 5/10, acting except for Gleason 6/10, plot 7/10overall 6/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I think this was one of my all time favorite movies. I am sorry to see the loss of Jackie Gleason. If it wasn't for him I don't think this movie would have been the successful hit that it became. "},{"Title":"The most American of films","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so blatant and good humored about its own ridiculousness that one cannot help liking it.  Burt Reynolds was still young enough to be believable as the Bandit, and Sally Fields was, of course, adorable.  The one thing that really stands out is the sheer Americanness of the movie, it took America to make road trips cool in the first place, and add to that a good natured rebel, and a mission to smuggle a load of Coors beer (in the 70's not allowed in the East), and what's not to love? "}{"Title":"A really funny movie!","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Despite the first & only review for this movie, (please ignore it, he has no taste in comedies).  This movie is really, a funny movie.   Burt Reynolds, Jerry Reed, his bassett hound partner, Sally Field & Jackie Gleason all add humor in this great movie.  The story is small, but there is a story.  If you're into car chasing, silly humor, you'll like this movie. ) "},{"Title":"Good Old Boys & Red Neck Cops","Date":"18 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" To state the obvious, there's nothing here that's either deep, meaningful or thought-provoking - which is fine, because that's clearly the intent of the movie. It's more or less an hour and a half of a non- stop car chase as a couple of good old boys (Burt Reynolds and Jerry Reed) are pursued across four states by a red neck Texas sheriff (Jackie Gleason.) Bandit and Snowman (Reynolds & Reed) are trying to win a ton of money by transporting 400 cases of Coors illegally from Texarkana to Atlanta in no more than 28 hours. Bandit's in a black Trans-Am to throw the police off the trail and Snowman's driving the big rig. Along the way Bandit picks up Carrie (Sally Field) - a bride running away from her wedding to the son of Sheriff Buford T. Justice (Gleason), who sets himself to the task of tracking her down.It's a wild ride. It's fun and enjoyable. The cast is likable and they all work well together and there's absolutely no thought required. You just have to watch as Bandit causes havoc for Justice and among countless local cops encountered along the way. It's the very mindlessness of this movie that's both its greatest strength and its greatest weakness. The never-ending chases are wild and fun for a while - but to me, they run out of steam long before the hour and a half run time of the movie. By about half way through it's actually starting to get a bit tiresome just because there's nowhere for this movie to really go; there's no particular plot or story. It's just chase, chase, chase. Interesting orientation to trucker CB lingo though! (5/10) "},{"Title":"Best  Car Movie of The 70's","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I first saw this when I was about 6 and it blew me away and nearly 12 years later it still does, compare it to modern stuff like the fast and the furious trilogy, dukes of hazzard and many other's and you will see why it's a winner for the simple reason it has a plot not Oscar winning but better than many other car movie's, also it still has staying power nearly 30 years on. Many people forget that this was the 2nd biggest movie of '77 after star wars. It also has something else newer car movies don't have anymore actor's actually driving the car for real not behind some green screen, who can forget the part where they fly onto the football field or the car chase near the end which i think is sheer automotive pornography, and sally field in those skin tight pants.This movie deserves its place as the number one car movie of all time period. "},{"Title":"The greatest car Ever! ! ! ! ! !","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" From the moment that Burt Reynolds drive that Black n Gold Firebird Trans Am out of the back of that trailer -- the world stood still! ! ! ! -- I know that the events of this film are so far fetched that it's ridiculous, but I still yet cannot help but to love this film as one of my all time favorites. I loved the East Bound & Downtheme song, I love the silly chase scene's, I love the quirky C-B talk, I even love the way actors played these characters( it was almost as if they Burt, Jerry, Sally & Jackie were all born to play these roles- because I cannot imagine anyone else in any of those roles - I hope they never do a remake) --- this is an American classic -- I don't care that the AFI,Movie Critics and the Oscar crowd will never except this as a masterpiece - personally I'd would rather watch Smokey & The Bandit 100 times before I'd watch American Beauty, or The English Patient Once ! ! ! ! --- to hell with the critics! ! ! Smokey and the Bandit is an American classic whether they like it or not ! ! ! A-men! ! "},{"Title":"What a B-E-A-UTIFUL car!","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Wow, this movie rock's! I enjoyed every moment of this artwork. i tell you this is the best car-film ever! forget ''the fast and the furious'', that one sucked anyway, see this one! it got humor and action. i think it could have been a bit more humor though. and in this movie you may see the most well made car ever! The Trans-Am. you can see it shining all over the movie. black with t-roof and a golden eagle. just Perfect. this must be the best Burt Reynolds film ever. the movie is a bit unnatural cause i don't think police are so stupid) anyway, it's worth the money and i could see it again without problems. 7 1/2/10 "},{"Title":"The best movie ever about the South","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I think this is on of the best movies ever made. It is one of the first movies I can remember seeing at the drive-in theater while I was a small child. By the time I was 8 or 9 years old I could recite you the movie word for word. It is a virtual cornucopia of smashed cars and big rigs. Maybe part of the reason I love it so is it was filmed right here within a 30 mile radius of where I live. Or maybe it is because I have messed around with big rigs for about the last 12 years. Whatever the reason, it is a great movie in my opinion. If you have never seen Smokey and the Bandit, then I say you must not be an American. Go get it today and watch it! "},{"Title":"A treasured, unpolished gem of utter perfection","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  (Spoilers ahead)One hesitates to bring the baggage of conventional critical attitudes toward towering works of undisputed genius like Smokey and the Bandit.  Perhaps hushed reverence and simple gratitude are sufficient to honor this humble yet groundbreaking study of the human heart.  Few films can match its enduring charm or incisive social commentary.  Never before has the conflict between man and society been presented with such crystal clarity.  A vision, if you will, carried out with enough searching intellectual honesty to reveal the complexities and contradictions emerging from each character's perspective.  This film stands as a moralistic tapestry in shades of gray, propelled ever forward by the rhythm of Life itself!  The world is made new in the wake of Smokey and the Bandit's shattering insights.The skillful, effortless blend of old and new (exemplified by the Bandit's modern 18-wheeled rig with a horse-drawn wagon painted bigger than life on the side) shakes us out of our accustomed modes of thought regarding modern man's unreflective embrace of innovative technology.  Putting the pedal to the metal, as it were, forces each of us to face these vexing issues with full visceral awareness--an implicit rejection of Greek philosophy's stagnant, immobilizing obsession with ideals and abstractions.  Why be stuck with either/or when we can have it all for the taking?I concede the one-dimensionality of Mr. Gleason's Smokey.  This corrupt, violent, profane and prejudiced figure is rightfully held up to mockery and ridicule.  His defeat and humiliation throughout the story is fully deserved.  Remarkably, ALL other characters are treated with unflinching disdain at some point (especially the disturbingly creepy Mr. B.).  Even the audience is savagely equated with the teenage girls holding up their hand-painted banner mindlessly urging Bandit onward.  The axe of judgment, to our joy, grows dull from overuse as we begin to appreciate Bandit's mythic journey.  We are transported beyond time, space, and artificial restraints into a breathtaking realm of pure freedom.  Eastbound and down, loaded up and truckin', doin' the things they said can't be done!Perhaps the most luminous, perfectly conceived scene in cinematic history unfolds when Cledus' dog Fred takes a leisurely *swim* in the middle of all the high stakes road-race madness!  Cledus' good-natured revelation of his own hypocrisy in disapproving of Fred's outlaw spirit not only unveils a rare depth of insight into the vicissitudes of life, but playfully reconnects us with a love of Nature, forever wild, blissfully beyond the reach of society's rules.  Fred's swim will stand forever as a rallying cry for total liberation--living fully in the moment and rebelling from rebellion itself whenever we feel like it.  The metaphoric and symbolic depths in this scene will be explored for generations, but I see no need to weigh down such inexpressibly joyous moments with mere words.  Fred's barks of pure happiness at journey's end say it all.Little Enos' last line, give me $500 on the Bandit perfectly encapsulates the triumphant spirit of this soul-stirring masterpiece.  No matter what we stand to gain or lose, the journey must never end!  "},{"Title":"You can't drive this piece of @#!% on my highway!","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Not a timeless classic, but a dated one. This is a really good film, although it seems a little ridiculous seen outside the context of its time, much like, oh, say, Easy Rider. The confluence of Burt Reynolds becoming the top star of the day, plus the CB craze going on at that time provide the roots of a smash success from a fairly low budget film. Reynolds, at that age, was perfect for the part, and Jerry Reed was surprisingly good for a non-actor. Sally Field never looked prettier, either. I remember how, in the '70's Coors beer was not available in Houston, either; one had to go to Dallas to get it. It seemed so good then, when it was scarce. It's funny, how ever since Coors went national, it's absolutely nothing special. The grass is always greener, I guess.  "},{"Title":"Eastbound and Down....","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Oh yeah, you know Exactly what yer getting with this one, Jerry Reed and a bassett, an 18 Wheeler convoy, CBs out the yingyang, Burt Reynolds and Sallie going at in the Trans-am, Jackie Gleason rattling off one-liners ala Eddie Murphy on speed, and of course that idiot Mike Henry.The stunts and stuntmen were the real stars of this-and they were great, believe you me. Hal Needham caught lightning in a bottle and then some with this-hard to believe the same guy made the magaAwful Meganforce just 5 years afterwards. BOOOO on that one.Point being-this made 126M in '77-what is that now-250M or more now?  incredible.I like this one of course and if you like what ya see on the box, you will too.*** outta ****'....loaded up and truckin'/we going' do what they say can't be done...' "},{"Title":"As car chases across America go this is pretty good","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Let's face it Burt did not spend a great amount of time pondering the complexities of plot interactions vs. character development...they promised him a truckload of money and he provided them with a boy-next-door-like grin he is so famous for and within the bounds of the quality of the material he was given........he did a pretty good job....BUT...Sally Field makes the movie interesting and fun. She's great as his maybe love-interest. Anyway it's a whole lot of fun and it's probably in the .99 section anyway so go ahead...make your day. "}{"Title":"Smokey Puts The Pedal To The Metal","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" If nothing else, Smokey And The Bandit was sure great advertising for pitching the likes of - (1) Coors beer (400 cases of it). (2) Jerry Reed's songs. (3) GM's Trans-Am Firebird (vrroom! vrroom!).With the exception of some pretty decent driving stunts, as well as some equally impressive car collisions (thrown in for good measure), Smokey And The Bandit's story was all just pure cliche-city (country-style, that is).Remembering that this film was made back in the late-1970s - Every American, badass, cowboy, white-trash, trucker-talking stereotype was crammed into this picture in a frantic attempt to generate some much-needed laughs. But, when it finally came down to actually delivering any genuine chuckles, they, of course, were few and far between.What also lost Smokey some serious points was the truly horrible romance that blossomed between Bandit (Reynolds) and Carrie (Fields). Boy, I'm tellin' ya - The rapport between these 2 was, without a doubt, a trite and sickening sight to behold.Directed by former stuntman, Hal Needham (in his first film sitting in the director's chair), Smokey And The Bandit (whose budget was approx. $4 million) was one of the top 4 grossing films of 1977, raking in a whopping $300 million at the box-office. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Fit For The '70s","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Like a lot of the comedies of the '70s, this is funny, irreverent, profane and fun for its day but a little stupid now that I am older and, hopefully, a little more mature. When we were young in this period, Burt Reynolds, Sally Field and the rest was about as entertaining as it got for comedy-romance-adventure.Jerry Reed also added to the likability of this film, not only with his sidekick role but his catchy movie title song that I can still hum to this day.My only complaint here is my pet peeve the usage of the Lord's name in vain which shouldn't be that prevalent in a comedy. Here it's abused more than a dozen times, mostly by Jackie Gleason. This is Ralph Kramden gone into the sewer with GDs coming out of his mouth left and right and a ridiculous insulting stereotype (Liberals love this) of southern cops. Gleason isn't funny; he's disgusting.Otherwise, the film was low-brow funny and big, big hit. "},{"Title":"it was the best movie ever made","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" i love all the cars crashers and car chases and all the other stuff in the movie all the accords were good and the two sequels were just as good the second one was a bit better but the firs one had better car crashers and all the sally field played the part of frog really well as did jerry reed and Burt Reynolds and Jackie Gleason and all the other actors i liked the movie so much it is my all time AV movie and I've been watching since i was five yrs old and my whole family likes it i even got my 2 yr old daughter watching it and have told all my friends to see it summary it is a top movie and i reckonmend people take the time to watch it as it was the best movie off al time in my book "},{"Title":"Can you say remake","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" this is one of the greatest films ever made PERIOD! It's a movie that everyone has seen at least 5 times or more. SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT is without any equals or rivals when it is referred to as the greatest car chase film ever. Who hasn't watched this film and fantisized about driving a T-top 1977 Pontiac Trans Am fast down a Highway/Interstate.The only thing wrong with this film is that after 30 years it finally looks dated. (unlike a previous writer who wrote ****I hope they never do a remake*** I disagree. I think its time for a remake.but who would you cast in the remake, Well I have that answer too.Bo(the Bandit)Darble - George Clooney ....he's a good looking ladies man, and has that mischievous smile(perfect choice (Snowman)Cletus Snow - Drew Carrey ....at first you no way at my choice to hire Drew Carrey as Cletus snow, but once the makeup team give him a redneck trucker makeover, he'll be perfect, especially you you consider his comedic talents and all of his hilarious facial expressions, and the fact that he'd be spending most of the movie in a 18wheeler with a basset hound in the cabin with him ( go on- admit it-drew would be great in that role) (Frog)Carrie - Courtney Cox...do I really need to explain why on this one? ......I didn't think so Buford T. Justice - Tim Allen (((This is perhaps the hardest role to fill...but I believe Tim could do it Junior Justaice - Mike Myers, I can already hear Mike myers saying Oh yes daddy Big Enos Burdette - Sylvester Stallone Little Enos - Body builder midget that looks like Sly Stallone so what do ya think????? "},{"Title":"Rock n Roll car chase!","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie is beautiful! absolutely stunning, with its drama and suspense. The characters are fun and sexy and full of love for this brilliant movie! I totally fell in love with the main character Smokey! The footage of Volda in the summer is extravagant and sexy! The corpse in the fridge is hot! and i must say, although this movie is the best Paal Bang-Homsen movie i've ever seen; The car chase just blows you mind with its fast and the furious-style ! The Fiat is hot too! and the man chasing the stairs in the mountain is very exiting and fun..But its almost too good to see the old house on Eidheim,on the Berknes in Volda Burn! BURN I TELL YA! "},{"Title":"Reynolds and Field were great; very funny","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This has to be one of the be one of the best Burt Reynolds performances ever. Bandit was so smug and so full of himself. I couldn't help but like him. Even though technically he was a bad guy.And Sally Field was so spunky as Carrie. Reynolds and Field had a great chemistry together.Jackie Gleason was great as the sheriff who ignored all who would dare to tell him he was outside his jurisdiction. He could be nice but wasn't usually.Jerry Reed was likable as Cledus but except where his performances were pre-recorded, he wasn't much of a singer.That's about it for good acting performances, but one doesn't watch movies such as this for good acting. The characters, car chases and the physical comedy are what make this movie work, and all of these were great. I liked pretty much all the characters, cartoonish as many of them were. The one exception was a biker who didn't get along with Cledus.The car crashes were entertaining. The 1977 Pontiac TransAm was one of the ugliest cars ever made, and it was a pleasure to see so many of them wrecked. Nearly all the cop cars were either a 1977 TransAm or a 1977 Plymouth Fury. My hope is that all the 1977 TransAms were collected and wrecked for this movie.I highly recommend this movie to fans of 'The Dukes of Hazzard'. "},{"Title":"Smokey IS the bandit!","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Being a huge fan of the Cannonball Run films, Hal Needham, and Burt Reynolds, I was expecting big things from this movie. Hooper and Stroker Ace had let me down. I was counting on Smokey to be at least somewhat the equal of Cannonball Run. It was entertaining in parts but it wasn't what I was hoping it would be. The driving/stunts are ok and the presence of Jackie Gleason provides a little comic relief. The movie is slow moving though and the back and forth between Burt and Sally Field is just annoying. I was really disappointed. Again. Bottom Line See this movie if you must, I'd advise you go ahead and pass up this sumbitch. "},{"Title":"Unquenchable desire.","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  A poorly understood epic story portraying the taut homoerotic tension between two men, played skillfully by Jackie Gleason and the great Burt Reynolds.  Their desire plays out in mesmerizing chase scenes, which slowly and cleverly reveal their true feelings to the camera.  As the tension builds it becomes clear that neither man will realise the dream of the other, and all passion must be sublimated.  Aching and sublime on every level.   "},{"Title":"Has not aged well!","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  When this first came out I thought it was a hoot!  I was a deputy sheriff at the time and enjoyed the movie poking fun.  Now it seems dated, although some of the funniest scenes are still darned funny.  But the heart of the movie was based on the CB craze, and that surely has gone the way of the pet r "},{"Title":"Has not aged well!","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  When this first came out I thought it was a hoot!  I was a deputy sheriff at the time and enjoyed the movie poking fun.  Now it seems dated, although some of the funniest scenes are still darned funny.  But the heart of the movie was based on the CB craze, and that surely has gone the way of the pet r "}{"Title":"Smokey and the Bandit","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Reynolds' best film role to date. I love going back to this film. It's so much fun to watch. There's never a dull moment because when Reynolds is doing his thing, you've got Gleason making you laugh every step of the way.  "},{"Title":"The first movie of the '80's","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, it's 1977 post-Watergate, post-Vietnam, yet another energy crisis is on and that doesn't include the dope in the White House.  Inflation is having its way with us and our leaders are telling us it's our fault. America has lived with the 55 mph National Speed limit for 5 years now and is sick of it.  Our cars are bloated, under-powered (thanks to emission controls), unreliable nanny-state mobiles that won't start until you put your seatbelt on.  America needed a hero and Ronald Reagan was three years away.  We found it in Burt Reynolds and his black Trans Am.  Flaunting authority by bringing non-union made beer out of the West, driving oh so much over 55, and having fun while doing it.  Why, they don't even wear seatbelts!  Buford T. Justice represented the over-bearing, over-stuffed, and corrupt authority doggedly pursuing that he can not cage the will to be free!  This movie was the first movie of the '80's fun for fun sake and, as the Bandit said, mostly for the money.  The best line in the movie Sally Fields apparently unscripted I'm stuck in this CB movie and I don't even have a handle.  This is the funniest movie to come out of a very un-fun time.  Now if they were smuggling cigarettes it would be the perfect '90's film. "},{"Title":"Movie was great","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I absolutely adore the actor Burt Reynolds.  He is just amazing at everything that he does.  This actor can act and his movies are awesome.  Smokey and the Bandit rocked.  Gleason was funny in this movie.  Burt Reynolds is the best of all them. "},{"Title":"The Great One saves this movie.","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  If not for the great Jackie Gleason and his portrayal of Buford T. Justice, this movie would really stink. The first thing that comes to mind while watching this movie is its editing. What were they thinking in the cutting room on this one? Continuity errors are so incredibly obvious that some of my kids were even able to pick out discrepancies. Doors are open, then closed, then reopened and knocked off - gun belts are on, then off, then on again - I have to admit, that as the plot wears to a thinner and thinner gruel one starts devoting his attention toward picking off errors within this one. Also - in the latter third of the movie - we are forced to suffer through the always annoying CB Radio User/Truck Driver Brotherhood effect.All that being said, Jackie Gleason's portrayal of a Texas sheriff is worth the price of a rental, but even that starts getting a bit old by the time we wrap it up in this one. "},{"Title":"Good, but not..........","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Smokey and the Bandit is a good movie, But not as good as Sam Peckinpah's latter day classic ''CONVOY''.I suggest if you want to have a good time and watch a good trucker/car chase movie, go rent CONVOY, if you can't find it then rent Smokey and the Bandit. Still I give smokey and the bandit a 10 rating. "},{"Title":"Pointless Demolition Derby.","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  A box office smash that is little more than a long and sometimes drawn-out demolition derby as Burt Reynolds (in a black Trans Am) and Jerry Reed (in a tractor trailer) are hired to deliver 400 cases of Coors Beer from Texarkana, Texas to Atlanta, Georgia in a set amount of time. As they race to beat the clock they encounter runaway bride Sally Field and an upset county sheriff from Texas (Jackie Gleason) who is the father of the would-be-husband. A non-existent screenplay and crazed direction do nothing to help out this fast and furious headache film. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"It's a Kojak with a Kodak. Silly comedy adventure, a product of it's time.","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit starts in Georgia where Big Enos (Pat McCormick) & Little Enos (Paul Williams) who wear blue cowboy suits that would spell social suicide these days hire a washed up trucker named the Bandit (Burt Reynolds) for $80,000 to drive to Texas & collect 400 cases of Coors beer & back again in 28 hours or less because they want want a load of it, however because of strict Coors company rules transporting large quantities of it across state lines is considered bootlegging & therefore illegal. The Bandit ropes in his mate the Snowman (Jerry Reed) to help, Bandit gets to drive a nice fast Pontiac Trans-Am to keep any local police busy while Snowman drives the truck of Coors. Unfortunately for them the police from the various states they go through all pose problems & Texas state Sheriff Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason) pursues them constantly across the country...Directed by Hal Needham this was amazingly the second highest grossing film of 1977 (despite an opening weekend of well less than two million dollars) after a little known film called Star Wars, I suppose Somey and the Bandit is the sort of nostalgic film that many remember seeing at the time & having fond memories but revisiting again over thirty years later after not having watched it in a while I can't say i was that impressed by it overall. The idea that you need to illegally transport beer across state lines has no relevance today & generally speaking the film is of it's time with old fashioned cars, silly stunts & a certain childishness about it. To my eye not that much really happens, it felt like scene after scene of cars just driving along with the occasional stunt thrown in which are far from spectacular. The character's are simple & the whole thing is rather predictable & plays out trying to appeal to the crows as the likable rogue of a hero the Bandit keeps getting the better of the silly police who always end up looking dumb while there's the expected romantic angle & the whole thing between the Bandit & Justice seems to be down to a personal grudge rather than the bootlegging which the police never find out. At 90 odd minutes it felt quite long too, I just thought not that much happened really & the whole stupid police against flawless hero angle was predictable & tired. The other thing that stands out is just how unfunny it is, there's plenty of supposed comedy here but I found it really dumb & it just missed the mark by a long way, the comedic antics of Sheriff Justice & his son in particular were very tiresome by the time the end credits ran.Apparently Smokey and the Bandit made a star out of the Pontiac Trans-Am & sales of the car almost doubled within a couple of years after it's release. The biggest disappointment with Smokey and the Bandit were the decidedly average action set-pieces, there's the bridge jump, a few crashing police cars & the big truck at the smashes a couple too but not much else apart from scenes of cars screeching down various roads. I just expected a little bit more & something a bit more memorable. Apparently the recent releases with a 5.1 soundtrack replace all the original sound effects which I would imagine will infuriate the purists out there while the TV versions were dubbed to replace the bad language (not so bad these days though) & is apparently pretty funny as the dubbing is very poor.Filmed largely in Georgia the film looks alright, it's bright & well shot I suppose. Burt Reynolds gives little personality to the Bandit & some might find his dress sense of tight jeans & a cowboy hat distracting on it's own, Sally Field went on to date Reynolds in real life for years & looks good I suppose while Jackie Gleason is just to over the top for me.Smokey and the Bandit is a film which I can remember enjoying at one point all those years ago but having watched it again I was less than impressed, it passes the time & moves along at a decent pace but overall I didn't think it was any better than average. Followed by two sequels Smokey and the Bandit II (1980) & Smokey and the Bandit Part 3 (1983) as well as four made for TV films in 1994. "},{"Title":"Smokey and the Bandit","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This film was a big hit when it was released in the 1970s, it has been on television so many times also, so its popularity as one of the greatest road and chase movies has never waned. Basically wealthy and flamboyant Texan Big Enos Burdette (Pat McCormick) and his son Little Enos (Paul Williams) need a vast quantity of beer for a rally, but Coors the beer brand they want is not legal to transport across Mississippi, at least one shipment attempt has been intercepted by police. So to get the job done they recruit modern day moonshiner, with many previous successful exploits, legendary trucker Bo Bandit Darville (Burt Reynolds), he will be paid a handsome $80,000. The Bandit will be driving in his black Pontiac Trans Am Firebird, the blocker, to distract the snooping state police, while his pal Cledus Snowman Snow (Jerry Reed) in his eighteen-wheeler truck will be hauling the 400 cases of beer from Texarkana, Texas back to Atlanta, within 28 hours, both maintaining contact, using seemingly bizarre lingo, via CB radio. The trip to Texas and the loading of beers goes without interruption, but heading back to Georgia there is a complication when the Bandit is stopped by and picks up runaway bride Carrie (Golden Globe nominated Sally Field), fleeing the forced marriage to the dimwitted son, Junior (Mike Henry), of full-of- himself Texas county sheriff Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason). Sheriff Justice is in hot pursuit of his to-be daughter-in-law, but he soon also becomes aware of the illegal beer transportation and is determined to catch the Bandit, the situation soon becomes an interstate high- speed pursuit with police from four states joining the chase, but the Bandit has the intervention of varied interstate truckers aiding him and Cledus. Also starring Alfie Wise as Patrolman - Traffic Jam, George Reynolds as Sheriff Branford, Macon McCalman as Mr. B and Linda McClure as Waynette Snow. Reynolds became a big movie star thanks to his performance as the inimitable wise-cracking beer trucking Bandit, Fields is beautiful and vivacious as his companion, they have a great chemistry together, Gleason gets many laughs as the easily frustrated Smokey sheriff, and Reed as the truck driving pal of the title character is good fun. The film is charming road adventure as the Bandit and his fellow drivers deliver the crates of Coors across the country, with the police doing whatever it takes to stop them, there is plenty of witty dialogue interactions and over-radio banter, fast paced car and truck chases, and a few stunts along the way also, it is a very funny and always enjoyably fun road movie comedy. It was nominated for an Oscar for Best Film Editing. Burt Reynolds was number 97 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars. Very good! "},{"Title":"Mindless fun with disposable cop cars - 66%","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This, combined with the inevitable sequels and the Cannonball Run films, was the film to really kick off the small genre of the car movie. Earlier films were later added such as Bullitt and the French Connection but this Burt Reynolds vehicle (sorry) started the whole thing. And you know what's really scary? According to the IMDb, this was the second highest grossing film in 1977 after Star Wars. What WERE they thinking?Smokey And The Bandit is the tale of Bandit, a smooth-talking drifter who aims to smuggle a truck load of beer across the southern states of the US in a seemingly impossible time-frame. Together with his buddy Snowman (the names are CB-radio nicknames for each other, in case you were wondering), it is your standard destruction derby picture with little plot to follow and increasingly chaotic scenes as the various police departments attempt to stop the Bandit in his tyre tracks. Sally Field plays the obligatory love interest in tight jeans. Well, it was '77...No doubt about it, this film will appeal to guys more than gals. And ignoring the stereotypical roles that litter this movie, it is still an enjoyable picture in a just-back-from-pub-and-watching-any-old-crap kinda way. But when I say stereotypes... every cop is a bungling fool or an incompetent mummy's-boy. Their cars have that disposable look to them all as the director tried to produce increasingly unlikely methods of avoiding a speeding ticket. Perhaps he was stopped by state troopers in Georgia or something and this is his revenge. As for the good guys, each and every truck driver has a CB-radio, a name that wouldn't be amiss in a game of Unreal Tournament (Foxy Lady, Kiddie-Kicker, you know what I mean) and a whole host of tricks for aiding the Bandit in his pointless quest. This wouldn't be so bad if it didn't look so dated - obviously not the film's fault but worth bearing in mind if you're new to the movie. Having said that, the soundtrack is game enough as it's a sort of Wacky Races-style country twang.The problem with road movies is that they live and die by their central characters and the only character I felt any empathy with was the long-suffering Sheriff Buford T Justice (Jackie Gleason). Don't ask me why - he was about as good as cop as I am but at least he was persistent. The other problem is that road movies (especially from this era) were almost identical. Smokey And The Bandit is no different to The Cannonball Run or even Dukes Of Hazzard. For my money, the best car movie they could ever make would be a movie-version of Wacky Races - still the best car show ever. Just so long as the Ant Hill Mob win - I can never remember them winning a race on the TV show. AHEM, yeah. Smokey And The Bandit. Leave your brain at the door and feel the warm glow of nostalgia rub you up like Reynolds' moustache. Itchy! "},{"Title":"It's ok","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  We went and saw this one, with my familly when I was in grade 3.  One of Burts better films, its where the Duke's of Hazard got the idea for there show.  Years latter, some of this films looks pretty 70's, with old gags, some of the stunts are so standard for today.  Other parts still age well.  Like when the beginning, bet with the beer, and the people laughing at the sherif.  I sure do like Coors beer, and wish they bootlag some down here, because the Canadian version suck. 6 or 7 out of 10, depending on how many Coors you drink while watching. "}{"Title":"Keep on truckin'- one of the best Reynolds films","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film is a classic in chase/comedy flicks, with comedy coming in great doses, thanks to star Burt Reynolds (he gives his best line in the beginning with his laugh later ripped off by Dennis Miller) and co-stars Jackie Gleason and Sally Field.  Great fun, in a film about a sheriff who won't stop after a tricky and funny bandit.  A+ "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Do you have one of those 70's catch phrase shirts, like Keep on Truckin, 10-4 good buddy, or even I'm with Stupid?  If so, this movie is for you! Capitalizing on the temporarily cool CB-craze of the 70's, this movie provides Dukes-of-Hazard style car stunts and a redneck reality where smooth talking and fast driving guys can pick up hot women and outwit the stupid cops.  While not as bad as the later spawns of this series, this movie is one continuous car chase, so if you're looking for a great story, you're in the wrong place.  Sally Field is gives the best performance in this movie, but in a part that even Elizabeth Berkley could do.  Why she is in this movie at all is beyond me.  The only way to watch this movie is with friends and beer, so you can have some good laughs at this film's expense.  I gave it 6 out of 10, out of sheer pity. "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Do you have one of those 70's catch phrase shirts, like Keep on Truckin, 10-4 good buddy, or even I'm with Stupid?  If so, this movie is for you! Capitalizing on the temporarily cool CB-craze of the 70's, this movie provides Dukes-of-Hazard style car stunts and a redneck reality where smooth talking and fast driving guys can pick up hot women and outwit the stupid cops.  While not as bad as the later spawns of this series, this movie is one continuous car chase, so if you're looking for a great story, you're in the wrong place.  Sally Field is gives the best performance in this movie, but in a part that even Elizabeth Berkley could do.  Why she is in this movie at all is beyond me.  The only way to watch this movie is with friends and beer, so you can have some good laughs at this film's expense.  I gave it 6 out of 10, out of sheer pity. "},{"Title":"Ramshackle road comedy with some amusing detail...","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Director Hal Needham hit a gigantic payday with this box-winner from 1977, featuring super laid-back Southern hipster and ladies' man Burt Reynolds as the Bandit, being coaxed from dozing in his hammock for a little illegal transport on the road. Reynolds doesn't have to give a performance here, he only needs to show up looking bemused; the audience was immediately on his side no matter what the plot device, yet the film is far less ambitious than many of Reynolds' previous hick comedies (perhaps that worked in its favor?). When chatty Sally Field hitches a ride (she's a runaway bride whose ex-intended is the son of sheriff Jackie Gleason), the dialogue noticeably perks up with some prickly spirit (the screenplay, written by Needham, Robert L. Levy, James Lee Barrett, Charles Shyer and Alan Mandel, has obviously been worked over carefully to give the conversations some amusing give-and-take). The laughs are strictly low-brow, but the friendly country music and the sassy interplay between Reynolds and Field (and Jerry Reed as the most congenial of redneck buddies) is undeniably entertaining. Followed by a slow onslaught of variable sequels. ** from **** "},{"Title":"When is Hollywood going to learn...?","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Cars are not funny. Speeding cars are not funny. Trucks are not funny. Speeding trucks are not funny. Cop cars are not funny. Speeding cop cars are not funny. It is not funny when a cop car loses a regular car in a chase and flies off a ramp into water. It is especially not funny when Jackie Gleason is the driver of this car. It is not funny when cop cars are chasing after one car, and all the cop cars are destroyed and the hero's car is left intact. It is not funny when a car slams through roadblocks. It is not funny when a car outmaneuvers cop cars and flies off of multiple objects in slow motion until it lands perfectly on the ground and the cop cars land upside down fifty feet away.It just isn't.But yet Hollywood continually shovels out this filth and plays it up as something it isn't Funny.Don't get me wrong, now. Perhaps the first one or two times it is at least amusing. But after the film does nothing but show cars fly through the air, I get to be a bit bored.Now the case is different in a film where the car chase is part of the plot, like The French Connection or The Bourne Identity. Then the car chase is something interesting, something there for a purpose other than cheap gags...then the scene is funny, or at least amusing. But when a film is made up primarily of car chases and speeding trucks crashing into things, we have lack of funny. We actually have lack of humor.  Because car chases and cars launching through the air is not funny, but rather boring, predictable, and a big pay check for stunt drivers out there. It's nothing else. And it's definitely not funny. Read my lips, Hollywood IT IS NOT FUNNY. Whatever it is, it is not funny.Somewhere along the line somebody thought it was funny, and boost-started the Burt Reynolds Era. Here we were introduced to millions of car chase films, and even millions more of countless spawns and rip-offs. Let me name just a few, most of which star Burt Smokey and the Bandit, Smokey and the Bandit II, Smokey and the Bandit III, Cannonball Run, Cannonball Run II, Speed Zone! (a.k.a. Cannonball Run III). Burt Reynolds starred in four of the six I named.   Of course, these are just a few films to name, but there are countless others.  And none of them are remotely funny; especially the sequels. The sad thing is how much talent so many of the sequels (and originals) got Dom Deluise, Eugene Levy, Jackie Chan, Sally Field, and John Candy.So obviously people thought the general audience liked these movies. But they didn't, don't, and never have. I have never heard anyone say they miss car chase films from the seventies and eighties. And you know what?I don't miss them, either.1/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Brought down","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is actually a pretty good flick due to the acting of both Jackie Gleason (Sheriff Buford T. Justice) and Mike Henry (Junior). These two guys are just hilarious. But the greatness of these two guys is smashed in by Bandit - friendly people alongside the road. How stupid is the fact that everybody knows, loves and helps Bandit??? Very, very very stupid. It makes a 7 a6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Very watchable, ultimately pointless","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I found it really hard not to like this movie, but in the end, I just didn't like it.  This is agreeable enough, with a cast of likable characters and a non-stop car chase, but at the end of the film it was clear that it didn't really entertain me.  I kept waiting for something to happen, but it never did.  It distracted me very well, but I rarely laughed and a film like this wasn't made for anything but laughs.  Oddly, three minutes after this film ended, I decided to watch the sequel...probably because I was still waiting for something to happen. "},{"Title":"1970's slop that somehow appealed to many","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Although immensely popular in the late 1970's, this film is really a stinko, except for the presence of Jackie Gleason as Sheriff Buford T. Justice. Dumb songs, especially Westbound and Down by Jerry Reed, and the antics on the CB radios are hokey and embarrassing. Burt Reynolds made some very bad choices when it came to making films, and even though this one made him a mint, it was terrible, making him a parody of himself. Reynolds is truly a fine actor, and deserved an Academy Award for his performance in Deliverance. Sally Field, winner of two Academy Awards, gives a portrayal that makes you want to slap her. The only positive thing to come out of this movie is the popularity it gave to the GM produced Firebird. But, if you like stupid country music, stereotypical characters, hound dogs and beer, you'll probably enjoy this dud and the two sequels it produced, which proves that genetics can't always clean themselves up. "},{"Title":"Insubstantial.","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I do like Burt Reynolds,but not when he appears in movies as insubstantial and tiresome as Smokey and the Bandit.This movie is uninspired and reveals real laziness on the part of the filmmakers.They had Burt and all they could do was sell his likability and get the unfortunate filmgoers' money. "},{"Title":"Believe it or not, this is the movie George Lucas didn't want to compete with in 1977...","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" If you're put off by the idiotic title then listen to your instincts and avoid this crap, because it's strictly for children and infantile adults.You look like a frog... I think I wanna jump you.I only take my hat off for one thing... Take your hat off.What do they do around here for excitement? Oh, they probably sit around watching cars rust.If these kinds of lines get you roaring with laughter, while you grab your beer-belly with your fat blue-collar fingers, then this is the kind of comedy for you. It's the kind of lame humour that might work when used in real life between people who are chummy with each other, but on the big screen it just falls flat.The dialogue is terminally unfunny, being composed solely of the kind of one-liners and gags that you might find in very bad comic-books for morons. The main cast is solid, they tried their best, but they clearly struggled to keep not up but DOWN with the material at hand. One can almost sense the exasperation in Reynolds every time he has to smile while uttering yet another unfunny line. (Not to say that he is some kind of an intellectual, but this script is too stupid even for what he's used to playing.) To make things worse, this retarded comedy was directed by Needham, a stuntman. The man is absolutely clueless as to the existence of a little concept called comic timing, let alone how to make it work if someone told him about it. Hence all the dialogue scenes were directed with the meticulous care of a pig eating its own 10-200.While the comedy aspect is pitiful, to put it mildly, Needham the stuntman at least knows what he's doing in the action department; there are many car chases and they are the only thing that kept me awake - that is, they kept me awake for an hour, but then even the incessant screeching of tires got rather dull. It's the same repetitious, tired old shtick, over and over 1. Reynolds sees a cop car. 2. Reynolds accelerates. 3. The cops accelerate. 4. Reynolds grins. 5. The cops chase Reynolds and they soon crash into something. 6. The cops exit their wrecked vehicle and say something unfunny in a Southern accent. 7. Go back to number 1.The entire movie is like this, i.e. like a broken record player, playing the same old crap until you simply can't bear it anymore - the loop from hell. But that's what you get when you let a stuntman make a movie. As unfunny as the lines by Reynolds and Fields are, at least the two of them carry some charisma so they don't annoy much. The worst part of SATB is when completely new and utterly irrelevant characters keep cropping up, saying very lame things over the radio. The lowest point of the movie is when a whole bunch of these unimportant, dull people rally at the end to support and cheer the bandit on his idiotic beer quest.Oh, yeah, and our intellectual friend, the stunted-I.Q. stuntman Needham, also has a subtle political message to make anti-Communists are all racists. But of course... And all stuntmen are... "}{"Title":"I don't get it","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I didn't care for this movie, particularly. It's considered a classic by some, of course, and I've been aware of it for years, but only recently did I get around to seeing it.It seems that about 90% of the film involves car chases, and given the time period I guess they did the best they could. But frankly the races seemed merely like an amped up version of a Dukes of Hazzard episode. I suppose in theory there could be an entertaining movie made of nothing but race scenes, but it doesn't seem to be evident here.The three leads (Reynolds, Field, Gleason) have all been excellent in other roles, and so it's particularly disappointing that they are given a story and dialog which are paper thin. Reynolds could have saved time by merely looking into the camera and saying, I'm going to just assume that you think I'm so charming that all I have to do is smile and you'll like my performance. Gleason, a great comedian, is reduced to playing a cartoon which would have worn thin on a 3 minute SNL skit. And Sally Field's character is barely given a reason for existing at all.I know a lot of people love this movie and will be upset that I said anything against it, and for that I'm sorry. I suppose if you saw this movie for the firs time when you were 10 and got a jolt out of hearing grownups using profanity, then you might enjoy it and have nostalgia for it. Everybody else ought to skip it. "},{"Title":"don't bother","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I have to admit, i enjoyed this movie years ago back in the day...That being said, the car scenes would have been on par with the standards of the day. Now however, they are incredibly bad. Every facet of this movie is totally annoying. Burt Reynolds plays a tiresome role as the 'legendary' Bandit, humorous parts are funny due to one laughing AT the film, not with it and be warned, in addition to appalling shots, you have to be a loving country music addict to enjoy the score, and the support acting is, well don't even bother going there. The only hopefully was Sally Field, but at this point in her career, she hadn't defined the skills that would later give her a relatively good reputation.All in all, do not waste your time with this movie, unless you like ugly American Trans-Am cars or extremely crappy, lazy dialogue and plot line that makes you wish the movie would hurry up and conclude. "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Ever","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit is by far one of the worst films ever. It is completely horrible in every way. I loath this film in every single way, every single one in the whole world. The story is just amazingly horrible, it would not make any sense if there was anything not to make sense of. I was appalled by this Plot it is just truly amazing that this was ever made into a movie. The screenplay is lacking in anything even resembling dialogue, or characters they just don't exist, well the dialogue does but its so cheesy its hard to count it as dialogue. The acting is horrible Sally Field gives a horrible performance and it is the only one that could be called a performance. The direction is horrible he could have made it interesting even without a plot but he just makes it worse. The visuals are the best part of the movie, and thats just sad. One of the worst films ever, avoid at all costs. "}]