[{"Title":"The worst sequel...ever.","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"99 out of 150 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Wow.  What can one say?  Boorman went from Deliverance to this?  Okay, in addition to being completely hilarious, this is also the most pretentious movie ever made, (aside from The Matrix Reloaded).  Good thing Burstyn sat out for this turkey.  Please tell me that I didn't see James Earl Jones in a big locust suit.  Please tell me that I didn't see Oscar Winner Louise Fletcher being groped by a matted Linda Blair stand in and moaning (I am not making this up) in such a way that would make Ron Jeremy take notice. And what in the name of all things good and holy is a Synchronizer and what does it have to do with anything at all?  Why is Africa made of fiber-glass? Why is Richard Burton made of stone?  Oh, God.  They couldn't have made this worse if they had scripted it so.  Oh, wait...they did.  Well, for all its faults at least it's not a desperate attempt by a major studio to milk whatever money they can out of a pre-existing hit by combining a-list actors, and a controversial visualist director, with a hastily prepared screenplay that shares little of the spirit and intelligence of its predecessor, producing a boring, although often laughably pious bastardization of something far, far greater.  Oh wait....it is.  If you're a fan of bad movies, you have reached Zen here.  If you're a fan of the original Exorcist, run, just run and don't look back.  Run with your arms flailing into the night as the preview audiences surely did in 1977. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant, Lousy Film","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"40 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Inside this terrible film is an excellent film screaming to get out. There are moments of real power and and frightening beauty, but they are drowning in sludge.  One wonders if this mixture is a result of conflict amongst those making the film, or of Boorman simply not being able to keep his grasp of a vision. "},{"Title":"So Bad It's Great!","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"58 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Do I recommend seeing the Exorcist II? You bet I do! It's so ridiculously bad, you're sure to enjoy yourself. You will laugh out loud at the hypnotism scene. Your sides will hurt at the priest's attempts to put out a fire with a crutch. And was Richard Burton possessed by William Shatner for this movie? One of the best bad movies ever. Someday they'll make a movie about this movie, I'm sure of it. The director didn't like the original Exorcist! Who hires a director for a sequel when he disliked the original? And this was the most expensive movie produced by Warner Bros. at the time? Where did it all go? "},{"Title":"A cult film if ever there was one","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"64 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I liked this when it came out and I still do. The bad press on it began immediately, and all the reviewers jumped on the bandwagon; only one of the reviews seemed to correlate with what showed on the screen. I think the time was wrong for mysticism, and maybe for religion the sixties had ended, and the mode of fantasy then in favor was space fantasy, full of technical detail. A couple of decades later, the climate is different Stigmata, which has a story not unlike that of Exorcist II, and looks and feels so much like it that it might almost be the same film with different actors morphed in, didn't get good reviews but wasn't laughed out of theatres either. Most of the people who like Exorcist II tend not to have liked Exorcist I much, and vice versa. Blatty himself said in one interview that it didn't work because the director was a Protestant, and in another interview that it was because he wasn't a believer. To me the second film shows more spiritual feeling than the first, but no interest at all in the Church, and maybe in some minds that equates to unreligiousness. The first Exorcist purported to be about possession, but most of its imagery was of a young girl being raped by her mother's party guests, by doctors, by priests, by a crucifix. Exorcist II actually is about possession, among other things, and culminates in the interesting idea (excised after release but later restored on video and DVD) that people who have been possessed and purged of evil can go forth to heal all the others who are similarly afflicted. I happen to think that's an inspiring idea for a story. But then I like mystical thrillers, and apparently most filmgoers don't--or didn't then. The first Exorcist was not one; this is. The images in the first film, when they don't involve repulsive bodily detail, have no metaphysical resonance; they're relentlessly physical, often sexual, and when the demon itself appears, it's in the form of the actual, literal statue. By contrast the images in Exorcist II have deliberate metaphysical implications. I doubt that they were worked out thoroughly; it's more as if Boorman were playing with them, in the same way he lets the light play through the stylized sets and behind the actors. The scenes of possession capture the sense of historical accounts of the phenomenon more than those in the first film, which is too much distracted by physical threat and sexual aberration.Like Exorcist II or no, take it seriously or no, I was and am puzzled why more people were unable to enjoy its appeal to the eye and the ear (the music was pretty too), let alone to the imagination. I think perhaps they couldn't allow themselves to enjoy it that they had to deride it and be seen to deride it because what it said, or the way in which it was said, was something that they had just learned to reject or that contradicted something they had just learned to believe. It must be admitted that the film is unsatisfactory dramatically. The fantastic incidents of the first film, besides being reduced to the most prosaic physical terms, were fitted within a sequence of conventional, punchy, easily playable scenes; one cared about Ellen Burstyn's problems in a movieish way, and through her Linda Blair's. In the sequel Blair doesn't have the scenes to play, and her inexperience as an actress keeps one from feeling involved with her; Burton is better, but his dialogue doesn't communicate the spiritual dilemma he's undergoing. The excitements of the narrative tend rather to distract from this also. But I found them fun in their own right, and the film as well, apart from the occasional gratuitous shock for shock's sake fun for the mind and the fancy. "},{"Title":"Not as bad...","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"68 out of 111 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Some people say this movie is horrible, though I actually found it quite entertaining. I think the problem is the high expectations. The expectations for the movie were so great that there was just no way that it could be achieved. People habitually compare Exorcist II to the original exorcist movie, but as it's own movie, it is actually better than most horrors out there.The scientific part was actually quite interesting to me, and the metaphor was excellent foreshadowing. Linda Blair has grown since the first exorcist, and was very good as an actress.While not as scary as the original, this movie was filled with mystery and suspense. I recommend this movie to most fans.7/10 ~*StaRz*~  "},{"Title":"Highly underrated, but not great, either","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"39 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Poor John Boorman. He has all these great ideas, but whenever he tries to put them to the screen, the result is so damn goofy you can't tell whether you're watching a metaphysical drama or a slapstick comedy (for more on this, see Zardoz). His Exorcist sequel is miles below the original if you're looking for scares, but miles above it in terms of actual storytelling, plot, character development, etc. It's full of interesting ideas (the most interesting being the idea of pure goodness as a magnet for evil), and Regan turns into an angelic heroine out to stop the demon that once possessed her. But Boorman's wacko imagery, while fascinating in places (the doves, the locusts), tends to get a little TOO wacko, to the point where you can't help laughing (the hypnosis machine, Richard Burton putting out a fire with a wooden crutch, James Earl Jones spitting up a tomato).If you can accept the fact that this is a completely different movie than the original, you might find that it's a pretty good movie on its own. Fantastic acting from Burton, a wonderful score, and some truly gorgeous visuals, especially the climactic scene in the house, make it one of the most underrated movies of all time. Even if some scenes leave you falling over with laughter. "},{"Title":"Exorcist II Alien Vomit","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"34 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I don't think anyone knew what hit them when The Exorcist was released in the theaters in 1973. Still to this day it remains one of the most terrifying movies of all time and is also incredibly popular. But when it was released, I'm sure a lot of people were a little curious what would happen to Chris and Regan after the exorcism and what really did happen to Father Merrin in that bedroom. However some questions are better left unanswered because we got a lot of the answers in Exorcist 2 The Herotic, one of the weirdest movies ever released. Also when I say answers, I mean the garbled up, taken by aliens, experimented on, thrown back up by the aliens onto Earth mixed in with some acid and put onto the silver screen where it was booed out of theaters. It was immediately removed and edited like crazy and still there was no way the audience was going to ever give this film a chance.Lamont is assigned by the Cardinal to investigate the death of Father Merrin, who had been killed four years prior in the course of exorcising the demon Pazuzu from Regan MacNeil. Regan, although now seemingly normal and staying with guardian Sharon Spencer in New York, continues to be monitored at a psychiatric institute by Dr. Gene Tuskin. Regan claims she remembers nothing about her plight in Washington, D.C., but Tuskin believes her memories are only buried or repressed. Father Lamont visits the institute but his attempts to question Regan about the circumstances of Father Merrin's death are rebuffed by Dr. Tuskin. In an attempt to plumb her memories of the exorcism, specifically the circumstances in which Merrin died, Dr. Tuskin hypnotizes the girl, to whom she is linked by a synchronizer, a biofeedback device used by two people to synchronize their brainwaves. We see what really happened to Merrin and the times that he did face the demon prior to Regan.Exorcist 2 certainly is a bad movie, however, I must give some credit as it's a really interesting story. It's just made with the wrong people and was directed by a man who hated the first film. I think that's why it's a bad movie in some sense, it seemed to disrespect the original. Also them repeating the demon's name Pazuzu was just annoying and makes the demon sound less frightening. One of the things I loved about the original is that the demon that possessed Regan was kept a secret and left up to interpretation, she says she's the devil but Kerris brings up the point where that's like saying you're Napoleon Bonaparte. Then Merrin brought up that the demon is a liar, so we could deny that she's the devil himself. But giving the name Pazuzu just didn't work, well at least when you say it more than a dozen times. James Earl Jones and the locust costume was just way too funny and the funny thing is this movie was released the same year as Star Wars, wouldn't it be hilarious if he got off the set and went to do the voice work as Darth Vader in that costume?! Exorcist 2 is not the worst movie of all time, it had tremendous potential with the story, but due to the people that were working on it, it just was doomed to not hold a candle to the original. I would say that this movie is a skip, if you want to see this movie I recommend just taking acid and watching the first film.3/10 "},{"Title":"Not as Bad as Everyone Says It is","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"31 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" OK so maybe this movie wasn't as good as the original, but honestly ask yourself Is it possible to create a movie as good as The Exorcist without recreating it? I think not. It had in my opinion a very good plot. I thought it was very cool how they went into detail about the past of Father Merrin while still focusing on what Regan is going through, and I'm glad they didn't do the same monster. I really liked how they set Father Lemont up to have to choose between the angelic Regan and the sinful Regan,and speaking of Regan Linda Blair was awesome. Going back to the end, I love how even though they looked the same and were dressed the same she managed to make the costume work, and make it look like an innocent sort of dress for one, yet at the same time the evil Regan looked sexy in the same dress!All in all I thought it was a darn good sequel and give it a 7/10! "},{"Title":"Homage to Teilhard de Chardin disguised as horror/sequel","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"28 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  As the most of the commentators argued here, this film has some serious flaws which make it very hard to comprehend. The story line is inconsistent, the acting disjointed and inadequate, not to mention that it represents a new conceptual whole, essentially detached from its predecessor. Still, it has certain qualities - some original visual effects, photography, great atmosphere (especially the scenes in Africa).Also, put in a broader context, this film manages to capture a part of intellectual ambiance of the late seventies, introducing ideas and concepts that were then considered pseudo-scientific and fanciful, only to become legitimate subject matter of serious research, two decades later. The collapse of humanity into one group mind (obvious references to de Chardin's notion of noosphere, drawn by father Lamont), the parallels between insect (locust) and human society regarding the spread of destructive/violent behavior (check mass psychology, research on swarm intelligence, the popularity of Steven Johnson's 'Emergence' etc.)So, for those of you expecting horror movie chills and thrills - you should skip this one. But for those of you interested in how quirky scientific ideas inspire pop-culture pieces like 'The Heretic' - it is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Fascinating, original and vastly underrated","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"41 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Boorman is a real unique talent, who constantly shows us the world from an unusual perspective. This is one of his most annoyingly idiosyncratic films when seen for the first time. Yet it's so alive and full of ideas, that it remains stimulating when the original film is reduced in memory to a few gory set pieces. Some of the images are as great as any in film history and the music score is terrific. It has lots of things wrong with it, but on the whole, it is a candidate for the most underrated film ever made.   "}{"Title":"Not since 2001 has Hollywood taken us on such a journey...","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Exorcist II The Heretic was an A-list effort at every stage of production and no expense was spared by the studio in making not just a sequel but an event. Director John Boorman sought to create a vast tapestry of science & mysticism so large it would not only expand the Exorcist mythology but engulf it entirely. And despite some flaws, he succeeded brilliantly with a superlative cast and state-of-the-art special effects. This was one of the most ambitious and antiscipated films of 1977 and on its' 30th anniversary feels as fresh and relevant as the day of its' release, with themes of redemption, sacrifice, the triumph of good over evil and the importance of spirituality in the shared human consciousness. From the surreal African landscapes to the dizzying heights of ultra-modern New York, from the present and into the past you will journey with director Boorman as you unlock the mystery behind demonic possession in order to glimpse the future and what lies in store for humankind because of the exorcist. "},{"Title":"Arguably on the most misjudged, underrated and misunderstood movie... actually highly watchable and inspiring","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Why that bad? I liked this movie even more than first one (although it has a very high quality which had not been matched by any sequel) but I liked the different style of this one, with an interesting metaphysics background and the emotional evolution of the first movie's characters, especially Regan, not a possessed girl anymore but a feminine Messiah. I think the movie has some failures in its execution, with some cheesy scenes and dialogs and some overacted performances, especially Richard Burton. But the final result is amazing. I like the feeling of the African sceneries and that music theme sounding when Linda Blair is on scene. This movie has a positive feeling; it's the Good, opposite to the Evil shown in the first. It suggests that the Evil goes after good people (the nurse who heals the sick, Regan that seems to be special), and I like that idea. I think people didn't understand or didn't like that change, but, another Exorcist replica would have been better? Maybe for the box office, but what John Boorman did with this was a bizarre but quite worthy follow-up to the 1973 smash hit. I think it is commendable. Maybe it is not a masterpiece, I agree that it is not for the masses, it has a confusing history and slow, not easily digestible by everyone, but it has something. Maybe what the director wanted for the movie but lost in translation. This very pretentious movie seems it could have been greater and better but finally results in a strange and sometimes complicated mixture of religious and philosophical theories, with some scares (not enough for the audience) and a great adventure film component. But whether you like it or not, something is certain, at any rate, it is a beautiful film to watch visually exciting and musically captivating. "},{"Title":"Pazuzu and Zardoz had a love child - it's Altered States, but good.","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Fans of the first Exorcist film, of which I am one, tend to hate this film. Many refer to it as the worst movie ever made, which is a bit unfair. William Peter Blatty (author of the book and screenplay for The Exorcist) has been reported as really hating this movie. I understand their reaction as this strange art-house movie has little to do with the first. Boorman's films are often less than accessible to the general public, frustratingly incomprehensible at times, and nothing like the standard popcorn-fare that makes up most of popular cinema - and the first Exorcist is a masterpiece of popcorn horror. This flick is a whole 'nother beast.The acting is quite good throughout - it's Richard Burton, Lousie Fletcher, Max Von Sydow, and James Earl Jones after all. The cinematography and direction are superb - but it is intentionally of a certain 70's expressionistic flair that most moviegoers aren't familiar with nor would they like it. The locust-cam may seem silly to some people, but I found it quite effective, not to mention friggin' cool. The mind-melding scene was amazing, and I had to play the scene over a couple times to figure out how Boorman was able to film it at all. It's quite an impressive camera trick that he pulls off; the effect of which, sadly, can easily be missed if the film is being watched on an average-sized television.I won't tell much about the plot, because speaking about the plot would only confuse most and spoil the fun for the few who will find this film to be brilliant. If you're looking for a horror movie, don't look to this film at all. It barely qualifies as a horror movie in any way. It's more of a theatrical-scifi-spiritual-epic journey with some horror elements driving the plot. It makes me think of David Bowie for some reason which I can't clearly pin down. But really it's not containable in any genre or understandable through brief description. If you're interested watch the preview online, which does make it look a little more action-packed than it really is - but I say that believing it to be one of the best trailers ever made. It will give you a brief taste of the movie, although it was clearly made to trick the average moviegoer into seeing something that he or she wasn't prepared for, and mostly didn't want.Not Boorman's finest film, but it vies for position among them. It is one of the weirder movies to come out of the seventies, and I realize all that that implies. I thought it was fantastic. It is under-appreciated - movies like this couldn't get made these days. Most folks will unfortunately hate it. "},{"Title":"Come...fly the teeth of the wind.","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Contrary to what most people say...this film is not all THAT bad. It does have, perhaps, some problems about it, problems that certainly make it either hard to believe, or too laughable for some people. I don't see anything wrong with it. What we are dealing with is a prime example of how one can use the main premise of a film to build off of in a sequel. They actually do it the right way. They don't use the first film as a crutch, and they keep the references to a minimum, so the second story can take presidency. Now, in this film, we have Reagan McNeil, four years later, and still undergoing therapy so that Mother Chris McNeil (who is absent in this film) will feel better about the fact that she is always working, and a divorcée. Reagans doctor, Jean Tuskin, is a hard-core scientist, and doesn't believe in the supernatural, even though she knows about Reagans turbulent experience in the past. Soon, a fledging priest, Father Lamont, is called upon to make a final stand about the death of Father Merrin. His goal is to prove that evil exists, and to save Reagan from the battle that still ensues in her beautiful soul. Neither he, nor Reagan can predict what will happen, but will Jean Tuskin, the doctor, help them? Can she surrender her scientific methods to the religious battle that continuously plagues the earth? Can the evil spirits of the air lead our protagonists to the truth behind all demonic possession on earth? You must watch the film to get the answers. This film is just fine for me. After all, it was made, technically, just as well, if not better, than the first, and it's a good example of how to use pseudo-science for fun and experiment in fantasy. It also has many symbolic references to the human mind, some visible, others not so much. The only downfalls are a few moments that, if edited, would take away some snicker feelings the viewer might get. I won't lie, some of the voicing of the demon is awful, but it's not the worst. It's just a different take on it. Why America is not so accepting of this film is anyone's guess. Maybe director John Boorman was right. Perhaps is WAS to good for most people... "},{"Title":"Interesting plot and design","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I love this movie. No its not Citizen Kane, but not every film has to be. I thought it was an interesting concept and a good attempt to answer questions from the first film that Blatty doesn't really answer, mainly why was Regan possessed. I loved the cinematography and the music is great. Boorman is noted for not being an actors director. But his focus on theme and mood really worked well. The look of the film was great. This movie is not the worst film ever made. That is such a cliché and overly used. I like to view the film on its own and not as a sequel. Even Blatty's own attempt at a sequel had its own life and had a slight connection to the first film. I think its time that this film was given its due and given some merit for its originality. "},{"Title":"A strangely brilliant yet flawed film","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First off, the Exorcist II is not one of Boorman's best films, and it is not intended to be a horror film.  With those points out of the way, I must say that Exorcist II is a very interesting film, in the way that it probes metaphysical questions about religion, ideas about primitive cultures, and themes of salvation and redemption.  Although at times the symbolism is a bit heavy-handed, Exorcist II is still one of the more thought-provoking and intelligent Hollywood films.  So, in summary, although it is far from a great film, Exorcist II is also not the horrible piece of filmmaking some would lead you to believe.  "},{"Title":"Could Have Been A Classic","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Although Exorcist II is probably the most maligned film in the history of cinema, it actually could have been outstanding if it were not for all the hindrances toward the film.  First, the country was expecting the film to follow the more-of-the-same rule for Hollywood sequels, thus proposing more possessions and exorcisms.  This film goes in a completely opposite direction.  Second, the acting is pretty bad in most respects.  Burton is decent, but Fletcher and Blair are pretty useless in their roles, and Winn is simply annoying.  Third, the script and dialogue are dreadful while the plot and story itself are fantastic.  Holding the film together is great cinematography, a first-rate score, and great special effects.  Again, the film could have been regarded as one of greatest films in history, but all the problems bring the film to its knees.   "},{"Title":"John Boorman directs a confused and slow film, but that is worth to be seen for the performances and for the frights!!","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The excellent and competent film maker John Boorman had the hard responsibility to make a sequence which should have the same (or superior) quality of the first film, and even not achieving to give us a memorable work, he deserves to be applauded by having made a touching, although a bit slow in some moments, thriller. The Exorcist 2 is a truly super production, with the best special effects the money could buy at the time (1977), and  we notice that in each technical aspect the cinematography, the photography and the sound track give the notion of the movie's magnitude, but even so the result didn't get to supplant the quality of the first of the series initiated by William Friedkin. Who is more talented, Friedkin or Boorman?hard to say, but lets remember that Friedkin made the first one with little money. Famous terror films generally generate sequences, and sometimes, the sequences overcome the original, it is more than enough to remind of the Hellraiser case , that, in 1988, had a better, more violent and cruel continuation, called Hellbound Hellraiser 2 (and, as The Exorcist, the film was conducted by a new director, in this case, Tony Randel, who replaced Clive barker). In spite of great part of the Hellbound Hellraiser 2 success derive of the fact of the memorable performances,such as the  ones of the English actress Clare Higgins (playing perverse Júlia) and William Hope (as the young and brilliant dr. Kyle MacRae), the film, as well as The Exorcist 2, overflows a rich and breath taking visual, but the script  helped a lot. In the case of The Exorcist 2,the plot  didn't have the same psychological study and the character's depth of Hellbound Hellraiser 2 but  a confused and undecided story.The great John Boorman should receive a medal he really made everything that he could to offer a good show. The performances, excellent, come from Richard Burton, Linda Blair and Louise Fletcher. Ned Beatty is also in the film, interpreting an entertaining pilot. Beatty, an excellent actor in any role, works for the second time with Boorman, they made Deliverance together. Don't make a mistake, because The Exorcist 2 is not the terrible film that the people comment, but a confused continuation, without defined objective, of one of the greatest  Hollywood's successes ,but even so, the work of Boorman deserves to be seen, for its brilliant performances and for some good frights!! "},{"Title":"Misunderstood brilliance","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  John Boorman's astonishing sequel to the monster hit of 1973 was accused of all the faults the original had been guilty of. In fact it redeems the whole concept, chucking out the obscene pseudo-religiosity of the first movie (which it used to justify indulging in sadistic fantasies about little girls that would have made De Sade blush) and creating instead a hypnotic nightmare-fantasy that makes Regan a sympathetic and courageous heroine. If the plot is incomprehensible it is no more so than that of most horror films, and Boorman's masterful direction gives it a gravity and emotional resonance that bring it close to the level of Dreyer's Vampyr.Let's hope the DVD release will bring new converts to this amazing work. "},{"Title":"John Boorman's metaphysical extravaganza delights and surprises.","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" John Boorman's fascinating 1977 sequel to The Exorcist is a metaphysical departure from the straight forward chills of the first feature. Perhaps this is why so few viewers find this film initially rewarding. It is much less a sequel than a whole new rethinking of the original source material. Reagan becomes a kind of new age heroine and Boorman (surprisingly) turns the misogyny and mean spiritedness of the original film into an emotionally passionate look at this young woman as a survivor of real spiritual and emotional trauma. The film has some hard amazingly passionate performances from Louise Fletcher, Richard Burton and Linda Blair. Although, it has to be admitted that the script has some of the most pretentious dialog imaginable, Boorman is remarkably able to make most of the text seem plausible. A classic of its kind. "}{"Title":"It's a mess but it is fascinating.","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Four years has passed... Regan MacNeil (Linda Blair) was possessed by an demon. There was an exorcism performed by Father Merrin (Max Von Sydow) and Father Karras (The late Jason Miller). Father Lamont (The late Richard Burton) lost his faith, after an failed exorcism. The Cardinal (The late Paul Henreid) is asking Father Lamont to investigated on the late Father Merrin on heresy charges due on his controversial writings. He decided to meet Regan, now is Seventeen years old. Regan is living with her guardian Sharon (Kitty Winn) and Regan is seeing an hypnotic research specialist (Oscar-WinnerLouise Fletcher). Father Lamont is trying to find out, what truly happened to Father Merrin but he slowly discovers that the Demon, who possessed Regan hasn't truly left her body. He uncovers more of Father Merrin's past, when he did his first exorcism in Africa on a little boy. He decides to meet the former possessed soul (James Earl Jones) and try to find out, if Father Merrin made any mistakes in his past. While Regan is slowly remembering her dark past.Directed by John Boorman (Deliverance, Excalibur, Zardoz) made an strange, messy, horror film with some (unfortunely) unintentional laughs. Blair does her best, she looks cute in most of the movie but she isn't an leading actress. The late Burton looks foolish at times with his unintentionally bad dialogue. Only Fletcher gives an memorable performance as an sympathetic doctor. This was an major box office disappointment, it was released in 1977. Which Boorman tried to re-cut the picture but it didn't help.DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (1.781) transfer and an decent Dolby Digital 1.0 Mono Sound. DVD includes an Alternate Opening Sequence, an Teaser Trailer, Original Theatrical Trailer and Cast & Crew information. The Exorcist 2The Heretic is a wild mess, it makes you wonder what Boorman and ScreenwriterWilliam Goodhart original intentions were. Although this movie does an cult following. The biggest fan of The Exorcist 2The Heretic is actually Oscar-Winning filmmakerMartin Scorsese! This movie is best enjoyed with an open mind. The special effects does brings this movie to life at times but it is overdone by seeing Locusts on-screen, large or small. Which the feature looks pointless at times. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"I'm shocked from the comments, In the worst top100??","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I don't go for writing what I feel about a film, because it's really personal; but I really can't help it supporting this film. Not that this would make any difference neither in this world nor to the opinion that you people already have about this film. As a viewer I had a deja vue when the grasshopper flew over Africa, but that's personal. Rationally, this film had far more intelligent ideas than the first one. The first one was loud, impressive, perfect directed and had a magic unexplainable power, but it's only story was a freaked out minor who did crazy things. Why was she possessed? Who was that spirit? Who was father Merrin? etc etc was never answered to the first one. They just gave us some clues, but we never saw what really happened. We just believed whatever the characters were saying. In the sequel, which is more a normal film than a horror film, they gave us answers; and very interesting ones. So this minor is a very powerful human. She represents the good. The grasshoppers represent the evil. When they touch each other they stick and their personality changes. They become angry and perform evil acts. That minor has the power to separate the grasshoppers and turn them back to their normal behavior, preventing them from being evil. That example works, clearly, for us humans. As we know wars happen by a person who changes the normal behavior of a big group of people, i.e. Nazi's, and makes them evil. A minor like the character in the sequel would go inside that group of people (like an opinion leader??), and bring them back to their normal behavior. And that explains why it's the devil inside her and not just another spirit. She's THAT strong! And the concept of if U touch my wings U are now mine it's so realistic of what is going on in our everyday, I think. It actually means if you are evil for once you stay evil forever, there's no way back. Which means that the hardest part i.e. is to lie for the first time, then you're a liar forever etc. etc. And visually, the travelogue in the sequel was so much more exciting and beautiful, I think... And I loved this machine that the psychiatrist had, and it's sound!Well, that's what I think and sorry for my English... they're my second language -) BTW I'm a graduate film student; I guess all U guys will never see my films -( Have a great day!  "},{"Title":"A great something","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Exorcist 2 in my opine may not have the cheapo shock thrills of the first Exorcist or the unintentionally funny awkwardness of Blatty's Exorcist 3 (officially the real sequel), but it does have Burton spouting all that heavy theology, which on one side is irredeemable camp, on the other has Burton's beautiful growl and Boorman framing and lighting him in such a way he looks a hell of a lot holier (and more devastated) than Jim Cavaziel in Gibson's monumentally unimaginative Passion. Then there's the film-making. Which is gorgeous. Which (some of it, anyway) is inspired by the flying sequences in Murnau's underrated Faust, only in gloriously amber color, as if Boorman smeared honey on his lenses.The film is a great something--sometimes I think a monumental sick joke on religion, sometimes I think a fantastic film-making experiment that you shouldn't (for the sake of your sanity) take too seriously. It's Boorman turning the theological bull Blatty (appropriate name, I think) spouted in the original picture into something that resembles science fiction--a scientifically workable theory on the nature of evil, no less. "},{"Title":"absolutely underrated!!!!","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" First of all This movie is underrated! And second to me, there's nothing, absolutely nothing ridiculous about this movie! Of course it's quite different from it's predecessor, so maybe some people would watch this movie with wrong expectations. But it is really entertaining movie with a mystic atmosphere and yes, good actors. Of course, if you really want to point out some things that might be unrealistic, go for it. Of course it doesn't and probably will never exist anything like a synchronizer that synchronizes the minds of two persons. And yes, of course it's not necessary to have these lights at the synchronizer, but who the hell did ever had similar thoughts about the beamer of the enterprise?! Or did anybody had problems that in any (even the good) sci-fi movie of the 80s, you had to see the same futuristic typo graphs, which aren't even stylish nowadays and probably won't be in one hundred years, in which time these movies took place? So where's the problem about these unimportant things, what a synchronizer looks or sounds like? What's important is THE STORY, THE IDEA behind the movie. And the idea behind The Heretic is an interesting, mystic one. Compared to hundreds of other horror movies this one is a really good film. My recommendation Go and watch it yourself, and make your own mind. By the way, I'm really into horror-movies, occult-thrillers and i've seen lots of films and splatter films don't knock me off the chair, but I never had to laugh at no time in this film...and that's good for a horror movie! "},{"Title":"The Good Locust","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've flown this route before! When? It was on the wings of a demon.I don't understand how this movie has got such a terrible reputation that it's IMDb score is a lowly 3.6. Sure, the film is by no means great, but it runs competently enough especially compared to other film sequels in the genre and by no means feels like it should be labelled things such as Worst Film Ever.There is a decent soundtrack to this film and there are some nice visual shots and locations and everything cuts and flows nicely. The acting and direction are not dreadful, although a little shaky at times. It feels like it has some of the main ingredients to making a good horror film. However the storyline itself lets it down, as well as the film not actually being scary. It would be almost impossible for the sequel to one of the most controversial films of all time to be just as good. But it seems expectations are unrealistic.Firstly, the whole idea of the hypnosis machine was ludicrous. At one point Father Lamont and the doctor were plugged into Regan's thoughts via the machine when Regan herself was not. Also there was no need to give Regan supernatural healing powers or for there to be a Regan double. In fact Regan herself is not the real victim here and is shown that despite the possession to be walking around with no problems, it does not seem like the same demon from the first film. , and the whole locust thing is a bit lame. I guess you could argue that these points are why this is a terrible film but they merely make it an OK film. I have seen this film twice now and I was slightly entertained. There is some cheesy dialogue in the film, my favourite probably being the one quoted at the start, but I do not feel anything about this film embarrasses itself. It is alright to kill some time. Some points are quite funny but not over the top like in Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2, and nowhere near as bad as some other horror films.My advice is, if you like horror sequels then this is a competent run through of a well known story and is worth watching if you are wanting to watch every film in the franchise, topped off with a nice soundtrack.If you are not really a fan of this sort of thing, but you loved The Exorcist and are hoping for the same thrills you got from watching that film, you will not find it here.Rating 5. "},{"Title":"Strange, But Worth A Look","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The infamous sequel to the one and only horror box-office smash is not as bad as its reputation, but it might have faired better if the powers-that-be hadn't tried to duplicate the success of the original. The premise is interesting four years later, a priest, Father Phillip Lamont, (Richard Burton) is asked by the Cardinal (Paul Henreid) to investigate the work of Father Lankaster Merrin (Max Von Sydow), particularly his last exorcism and unexplained death. The reluctant clergyman tracks down Regan MacNeil (Linda Blair), now a young woman, who is still under psychiatric care, where her doctor, Gene Tuskin (Louise Fletcher) is trying to retrieve the girl's repressed memories of her possession. Still plagued by nightmares, Regan agrees to undergo hypnosis, aided by a machine that can transfer her thoughts and images into another person's mind. Both doctor and priest discover that the demon Pazuzu that had possessed her is still attempting to take over. Due to the transfer of thoughts, Father Merrin's past work and warnings takes us on a trip to Africa, back to the house in Georgetown, and into a swarm of giant locusts. It is revealed that the victims of the ghastly entity's torture are healers -and therefore saviors of the world. The music, by Ennio Morricone, especially Regan's theme, is beautiful and haunting. Director John Boorman extensively recut the film several times, due to the scathing reviews of critics and public alike (the latter of which threw objects at the screen during its viewings), but the film was quickly withdrawn from the theatres. Restored to the original cut on video and DVD, the visuals, effects and music are top-notch; unfortunately, the screenplay and the clashing of images make the film somewhat incoherent and hard to follow. The competent cast tries gamely, but despite the hypnotic gaze and voice of Burton, Fletcher's warmth and Blair's energy, and the rest of the performer's efforts, they become increasingly lost in the perplexing imagery. If you think you can handle the puzzling presentation, you may find it worth a look. "},{"Title":"This is not as bad as people think","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I don´t think this movie is bad at all, I think it´s really good. I think this is a worthy following to the first one. Rent or borrow it and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"A noteworthy film, one of the most underrated movies ever!","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Exorcist II The Heretic is, in my opinion, one of the most underrated movies ever. A well-known flop both in terms of box office and reviews. It's only but great sin is being the sequel of one of the most acclaimed and highest grossing movies in film history. The Heretic lacks enough scares to be qualified even as a scary movie, and the first Exorcist is widely regarded as the scariest movie ever. The John Boorman's movie moves away from the genre in order to offer an independent work with a different visual and narrative style. But beyond the prejudice for being the next part of a great classic and, therefore, the high expectations placed on it, the main failure of the film (and from my point of view the only one) is its very complex plot, full of details and with an excess of information that, coupled with a somewhat neglected narrative development, built a film difficult to understand and, at times, slow and somewhat boring. A script in which take place the continuation of the story (of her protagonist Regan, played again for the beautiful Linda Blair), the supposed heresy of a priest, the eternal struggle between science and religion and metaphysics. A really far from mainstream content. But apart from its difficult understanding, its estrangement from the genre of the first movie and its slow development, The Heretic is still a NOTEWORTHY MOVIE, especially if not compared to the first one. This film is valuable in itself. Personally I appreciate the risk and originality to create a new work of art. Because, above all, this movie has a remarkable art direction that helps to maintain the interest, and to lighten its dense story. The African landscapes, with simply sensational background music and an impressive use of the footage create a dreamlike feeling very accomplished. The music also stands out in other scenes of great visual impact, such as that in which Regan looks thoughtfully at its roof in an attic in New York, with a strongly beautiful score, Regan's Theme a melancholic and somewhat angelic theme, suggesting this girl, formerly victim of a demon, is a special human being. It's really worthy of mention this John Boorman's ability to convey certain feelings and emotions with a simple but very effective right mix of music and image. And while many dialogs have the certain innocence of that years (the 1970s), I think that almost the whole cast ensemble match their respective characters. Draws particular attention the angelic beauty of Linda Blair, who in this movie gets rid of the unpleasant character of the previous film to offer a girl that no longer possessed (although at the risk of being again) appears (as stated before) as a kind of messiah, an envoy to do the good. I think it is a worthy and remarkable film. I'm surprised the terrible criticism raised, especially when today almost no Hollywood film has content. Maybe with a more understandable script, a little less of footage, and a few more scares, the film had managed to won the public's support. I admit it is a dense film, you can like it, you can dislike it. But no one is indifferent to it. I can't understand how the reviewers, who always support anything that away from the easy way, don't like this movie (despite its failures). It's easier to understand its relative flop at the box office (It grossed over $30 million dollars at that time, thereby it was profitable, although not as expected) because is very difficult to market it for being difficult to place it in a specific genre. But in short, I keep going thinking the same. It is one of the most underrated movies ever and I encourage a new revision. The film deserves to be watched twice at last, and unbiased. You may find, among the entire jumble, a potential masterpiece that was never a masterpiece but shows its aims to be that. If seeing any crap movie from Hollywood now, those that offer a lot of FX and no content, do you really think that The Exorcist II is a bad film? It may be not easy to watch, but I think its strengths are too numerous to be considered a crap.The best - The amazing soundtrack by Ennio Morricone. Stunning! - The cinematography and the visuals - The whole cast ensemble. Linda Blair an angel. - Its originality and risk - The storyThe worst - Lack of scares (in my opinion it is not a failure, but compared to the first film its seems to be too light) - The difficulty to understand some things, due to its dense and a little complicated script - The ending, forced and not too conclusiveOverall it needs a further review and another chance. I can't understand the so much hatred to this enjoyable and personal movie. "},{"Title":"What am I up against, Father?","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Eeee-villl says Richard Burton, unconvincingly cast as a conflicted Man of the Cloth in this follow-up to 1973's The Exorcist. He attempts to purge mind demons from possession-survivor Regan (a vaguely distraught Linda Blair). Louise Fletcher (as Dr. Tuskin, Regan's therapist) and Kitty Winn (returning from the original as Regan's guardian, Sharon) are both mediocre, but Burton surely fares the worst; unsuccessfully hiding his embarrassment behind a staunchly theatrical mask, his readings seem conformed to reach the high balconies, and his over-enunciation seems peculiar in these surroundings--he's angry when he shouldn't be, and vice-versa. It's been said that this film cost Burton the Oscar for Equus (released the same year). Perhaps it was the troubled production (the constant rewrites, and director John Boorman suddenly taking ill) that tripped up the actors. Blair doesn't thrive; she keeps her poise but stays aloof from the proceedings (she's also a grown-up young woman who seems to be playing down her age, for a 'cute' effect). Boorman had a vision here, but damned if anyone could figure out what it was. William Goodhart's screenplay makes an attempt to show that great goodness can be a magnet for evil (they are helplessly intertwined), and that Regan was possessed by the demon Pazuzu because she is a healer. Unfortunately, none of this makes for a scary thriller. The film is heavy-handed, metaphysical and occasionally awkward and/or unintentionally funny (when Burton goes into synch to reach Dr. Tuskin, everyone is frantic because she's breathing abnormally, so what does the assistant tell Burton? Relax deeply!). Boorman's original version (butchered after disastrous early showings) eschews Burton's opening narration and begins inside the Mexican church (not outside near the steps); it also features a corny but satisfying final tag involving Sharon and Dr. Tuskin in Georgetown. ** from **** "},{"Title":"10/10  *****  Does great goodness draw evil upon itself?","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" William Peter Blatty, author of THE EXORCIST, based the character of Father Lankester Merrin on the Jesuit scholar Teilhard de Chardin. In books such as The Phenomenon of Man, de Chardin theorized a metaphysical concept he called the World Mind, an interpretation of Christian mysticism which sees all minds as joined and gradually evolving into a full awareness of Being as a single consciousness akin to the New Thought idea of Christ Consciousness--the only begotten extension of Universal Consciousness, or God. This idea, a synthesis of Christian and Asian religious concepts, is resonant with many unorthodox spiritual teachings from Theosophy to the psychology of Carl Jung. After de Chardin's death his papers were suppressed by the Vatican and his work was investigated on charges of heresy (his ideas being heretical by the standards of the Catholic Church.)When Blatty declined to write Warner Bros.' sequel, John Boorman and his creative associate Rospo Pallenberg developed an original script from a treatment by playwright William Goodhart, the credited screenwriter. Boorman accepted the project as a means to artistically express metaphysical ideas in which he was absorbed. The link to Teilhard De Chardin provided an ideal venue. The story of Father Lamont's spiritual odyssey is specifically a meditation on the Grail Quest theme, derived from Celtic mysticism and Arthurian legend, which underlie a thematically-related sequence in Boorman's early work DELIVERANCE, ZARDOZ, EXORCIST II THE HERETIC, Excalibur and THE EMERALD FOREST, comprising an important cinematic exploration of the Quest as Initiatory path.In EXORCIST II THE HERETIC, the late Father Merrin's reputation has fallen into disrepute and Father Lamont (Richard Burton), suffering a crisis of faith, is ordered by the Cardinal to investigate the circumstances surrounding the death of Father Merrin and the legitimacy of the exorcism before Merrin's papers (his life's work) can be released.The title character of THE EXORCIST was that of Father Merrin (Max Von Sydow); this role then passed to the younger priest, Father Karras (Jason Miller). Just so, the heretic in EXORCIST II is initially Merrin until, through young Regan (Linda Blair), Father Lamont makes contact with the mind of Merrin and in that psychic joining shares his vision. Thus Lamont's descent into (and beyond) heresy is an initiatory quest which deepens as he goes against the Church's orders and ultimately calls upon the demon for guidance to the evil heart of the mystery.In the scene at the Natural History Museum, the attentively listening viewer will discover (in the full 117-minute version) that Father Lamont tells Regan about Teilhard de Chardin and briefly explains the World Mind theory. The science-fictional device called the Synchronizer allows the World Mind concept to be expressed in cinematic images. (Among the many differences between this film and THE HERETIC is that the original's emphasis is strongly verbal whereas THE HERETIC expresses its complex ideas almost entirely in visual and symbolic terms.) A distinction is drawn between the peace and unity of the World Mind and the insanity (evil) and corruption of its opposite, the ego a state of separation from consciousness which mimics the One-Mindedness of God or the Universe. In THE HERETIC, this imitation or false Christ is symbolized by Pazuzu, the Babylonian genie and locust god--one of many heathen idols demonized in the Judeo-Christian tradition. (The demon was named in Blatty's novel but not in the original film.) Its activity of separation masked as joining is symbolized by the locust swarm which forms a single-mindlessness (a Locust Mind, if you will) in mockery of Whole (Holy) Consciousness (Spirit). The resulting psychic fragmentation is reflected in the mirror images which permeate the film. Regan represents an evolutionary step toward the Omega Point, the healing of the separation; a forerunner of Kubrick's Star Child.John Boorman's film doesn't spell itself out for the viewer any more than does Kubrick's 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY and there is no Arthur C. Clarke novel to explain it all for us. Boorman intends THE HERETIC to stimulate intelligent and imaginative thought and speculation. Where Kubrick and Clarke's ideas (initially met with great perplexity) have long been sanctioned as worthy of consideration, Boorman's somehow flew over the heads of a viewer-ship which, threatened by the film's non-dualistic subversion of the original's simplistic good vs. evil formula, has for thirty years ridiculed a misunderstood artwork. The original mass audience which condemned the film on first release was fresh from making the relatively ghastly Italian EXORCIST imitation Beyond the Door a huge box office success because it gave them what they wanted and only what they wanted puke, puke and more puke. And so like the swarming locusts, the mundane Philistine mentality endlessly repeats the hypnotic chant worst sequel, worst sequel, worst... There is no actual Director's Cut of EXORCIST II THE HERETIC. The 117-minute Theatrical Version is John Boorman's official cut.During the disastrous initial release, Warner Bros. hastily issued instructions to theaters to remove specified sections of the film which had drawn audience hostility, without consulting the director. Under extreme pressure, Boorman subsequently prepared a third, more carefully edited version for the international release. The re-editing rendered a difficult and highly symbolic film incomprehensible to the horror-show expectations of the audience. The most significant deletion was the discussion of Teilhard de Chardin's World Mind theory, the central focus of the film.This bastardized version debuted on cable in the United States and for a decade the film was available exclusively in this distorted form. The full-length version, unseen since the early weeks of the initial release, was restored in the late 1980's for home video and is currently available on DVD. Mercifully, the Butcher's Cut has been permanently withdrawn.Given his experience with the film, it is unlikely that Boorman would involve himself in a new Director's Cut edition. Given the mindless disrespect shown the film, he seems to have washed his hands of it and its detractors.Rating EXTRAORDINARY. "}{"Title":"the original, I swear","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have seen all three of the Exorcist movies, now, and have seen the Exorcism of Emily Rose. I can say that exorcist is the original making of Emily Rose. The second movie was based on an actual event. Unfortunately they were also trying for a sequel to Linda's original. Anneliese Michel, the lady the Emily Rose was based on, was a German college student and died in 76. The Exorcist 2 was made, or finished in, 77. The plots to the two movies are so similar in ways it is not funny. The character of the person who was watching Reagan, I believe, represented the trial and jury. Metaphors can be an amazing thing. Yes, I think that this movie could have actually followed the life story of Anneliese Michel a bit better, but it would have strayed from The Exorcist thesis. "},{"Title":"The most underrated movie in history...","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Let me introduce myself movie wise, I'm a fan of movies that have impressive story to them...mostly oscar winners or 3 stars & up. I don't care that much for horror because 99% of them are either boring/stupid/or just for laughs. I had never seen The Exorcist until a couple of weeks ago. I was told and have heard that it was one of the best if not the best horror movie created so far. I watched it and it scared me a little, which no movie i have seen since i was very young has done. It was also great with special effects, and the story line, and after i saw it once, it became one of my top favorite movies, which is usually a movie i will purchase and can watch allot without getting bored. I wanted to watch the sequels (I had only saw part of Exorcist III on tv, and i liked it so far). After a while, I searched for info on the Exorcist sequels on the internet..and got allot of info. After reading reviews (I'll stick to part 2) I was confused...I got some reviews from people who looked like they didn't even like the first movie so much that said The Heretic was one of the worst movies ever made, giving it 1 star, 1 & 1/2 stars...saying they didn't understand it...were they not paying attention? Other reviews said it was a classic, and misunderstood, not many people thought that way though. Here's what I thought. I don't think people were ready for this movie when it was released. Its different from the first since its more psychological, sort of like The Shining. People believed that a sequel couldn't be good if made, and i can understand that. I don't want to see Regan get possessed again, thats stupid...as far as i know, with common sense, Pazuzu (NOT SATAN) wouldn't repossess Regan when it was already defeated, maybe want revenge, but not fall for it again, it lost already. BUT what is strange is thats what people wanted, another possession like the first...that is doomed to fail....it's the same basis but a sequel with means Not As Good As First, right?. Who wants to see the same movie again except a little different, you do want to see what has happened to Regan in the future though, and thats what I think the writer thought. With an Oscar Cast, how could this go wrong?. When this movie premiered, it was laughed at, pulled from theaters and bombed! this confuses me a lot. It had an impressive story, that made a little more sense actually than the first movie. This movie had more ideas in it than the first movie, and went together so nicely. Even If People Didn't Like This Movie, look at it, it had a complex story, meant to confuse a little (To make you think just like the first), and people are dumb enough to put this as 1 of the worst movies ever..think of the worst movie you saw...one with no reason for being made, easily written script, no ideas, nothing, one that annoyed you.....and people actually put this there? thats crazy...I think this was one of the best movies ever made, just like the original....Picture The Godfather as a 1 star movie...how would you react? Whats your or one of your favorite movies?...picture seeing it the 1st time..not knowing a rating it was given, then for curiosity finding reviews for it and having people say it was one of the worst movies ever....it would make you mad right? insult your intelligence?...well this is one of my favorite movies, I loved it, I showed my friend, he liked Exorcist a lot and thought The Heretic was better (his fav. movie)....he could get shot for that. This movie is surrounded by mystery, whats with the people that hated this movie....I don't know, maybe too good for them, too complex, can you believe one of the reasons people didn't like it is because there was a machine in it that seemed dumb because they didn't know how it could work,hmmmm was a time machine invented? i guess that means Back to the Future was 1 of the worst movies ever....at least(from what I heard), Martin Scorcese(director of Goodfellas, Casino, Raging Bull & Taxi Driver) thought it was great, he is also my fav. director. Critics aren't correct allot, Check this movie out if u liked the first and/or like complex movies that can make you think...... This Movie = **** Perfection "},{"Title":"Just because it's different is no reason to say that it's bad.","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was tagged from its release as 'one of the worst sequels ever'; and I get the feeling that this has now become such inadvertently accepted wisdom that people are afraid to watch and admit they actually liked at least 'segments' of it. If you are one of those people who hold this opinion because you think it represents all-around bad practice in the field of film-making, then I would disagree, but at least to dislike it for this reason has got to be better than simply hating it because it doesn't bear much resemblance to the original film, and you wanted more of the same.The sequel is an 'origin' story, and not merely a rehash of the initial scenario. This affords Boorman greater scope, and boy does he take advantage of it. We get plenty of back-story about the cultural background from which the daemon Pazuzu sprang itself; and because much of the screen time is devoted to this, it's almost as if the story is being told to the audience from that perspective. It's harder to root for Regan here, because for so much of the time she's on the periphery of things. The watcher is instead forced to take roost with the side of evil; something which granted is not familiar territory for the masses, but you'd have thought they might've been able to accept it a little bit better than they did. Such a move has its obvious advantages, however, as it does give rise to plenty of stunning imagery. Locusts feature in ways which may be bizarre to some tastes, but are definitely fantastic to observe, and with the much heralded biblical connection I find it surprising and dismaying that people aren't willing to permit the director more in the way of 'artistic license', but oh well...There is much philosophical debate about the balance of good and evil within the world; and the continuous struggle that is playing itself out, with some of our characters being the unfortunate victims. I liked the attempt to enrich the story because there's obviously a whole heap of subtext where religious matters are concerned and it raises the stakes if issues become apocalyptic, rather than being exclusively focused on one single family. The fresh themes and material that an expansion like this provides access to are practically infinite, and it was pleasing to me because I'm tired of seeing the same stuff being repeated over and over again, in follow-ups.There are certainly anomalies to be found which don't make sense within the real world as we know it; but why shouldn't this be allowed in a genre that asks most of us to give power to things beyond our experience as a matter of course, anyway? Plus, as mentioned, a great deal of time is spent ensconced right at the source of things myth and legend. I can forgive concepts and happenings that would otherwise look silly if we are at least presented with a reason for them being there; and the movie does that. Those individuals that didn't catch on first time should at least make the allowance of watching again; because if you try not to be taken over by incredulity, you'll find that occurrences have actually been explained. Some of the acting might also be hammy; but again, what develops leads right to the edge of hysteria, so why shouldn't Burton and others give their performances as if they are on the brink of spiralling out of control?Time and time again I find movie fans and users of this site from all over grousing about how there's no originality left, and how most sequels are cheap cash-ins. Yet what happens when a work appears that contravenes those standards? It gets derided and ultimately ignored. Well, you reap what you sow. Ambitious movies which open only to be met with scorn and indifference are why studios don't take chances anymore. I'm not claiming that 'Exorcist II' gets it right 100% of the time, because it doesn't, but it's brave in its choices, and that I admire. If you refuse to open your mind to this movie, then it's your loss. I for one am happy that I got the chance to experience it. "},{"Title":"Not so good, but clears up some things from first","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I thought it would be hard to follow up the first one, but this helps develop the story a little more. Not quite as entertaining as the first, and cheap performances, but I like it. Richard Burton and Linda Blair were good. "},{"Title":"Deeply Flawed, But Underrated","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One of the most famous misfires of all time, EXORCIST II THE HERETIC nevertheless has much to recommend it (once you get past the terrible dialog). Looked at as the stylized antithesis of the first film, The Heretic... is just that--heretical a subversive take down of the cruel cinéma vérité style of William Freidkin's movie. John Boorman apparently was appalled by THE EXORCIST and had no interest in making a sequel until he got the idea of taking the material in the opposite direction. Instead of a cold documentary look at the suffering of a young girl and those around her (Boorman, and many others, felt that the suffering was exploited by the first film for entertainment value), Boorman decided on an outlandish mix of pseudo-religious philosophy and striking imagery that confused and angered audiences at the time. While it's certainly fair to say that this movie never gels, it's a fascinating failure by a very talented director. "},{"Title":"Mind-blowing nod to the Italian horror genre...","Date":"18 March 2010","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Director John Boorman bravely takes his film Exorcist II The Heretic in a dramatically different direction from it's successful predecessor. A teenage Regan is ready to deal with her memories of her terrifying demonic possession at age 12. All that can be said after viewing this spectacle is that Boorman was hugely influenced by the Italian horror masters, Argento, Bava, Lucio Fulci, etc. The overwrought drama, the astoundingly bizarre, hallucinogenic imagery, the intentionally artificial-looking, but mind blowing sets; He even employed Ennio Morricone to create the atmospheric, and beautiful score, a score that accompanies the images on screen in an unforgettable way. The Heretic bears so many similarities to films like Suspiria and Lisa & the Devil that it is ridiculous that more people don't notice this. One of many examples; the final scene where Regan and Father Lamont turn and walk into the trippy, ghostly horizon, filmed from a wide shot, is virtually identical to the final scene of The Beyond, Lucio Fulci's bizarre and surreal cult shocker. The Beyond was released in 1981, four years after The Heretic, so it seems that at least one cult Italian director was quite impressed with this one. If you have seen an Italian giallo than you can imagine the look of 'Heretic.' And just like in the great giallo's, the acting is over-dramatic, the lines uttered by the characters are sometimes silly, weird, or just plain indecipherable. The story is totally unbelievable while at the same time the ideas get inside your head and make you think, and wonder. Boorman has always been a visionary, and he does not disappoint with the look and dreamlike feel of Heretic.' Linda Blair plays her part with an enchanting innocence, and Richard Burton, reportedly drunk through most of the filming, delivers his lines with as much passion and drama as if he were doing Shakespeare. The gaudy, colorful re-creation of the African landscape is a centerpiece of this film, and POV scenes of the locusts flying overhead give the audience the feeling that we are indeed flying, and traveling to mysterious lands, or even other worlds, as Africa resembles the planet Mars in some shots! This is the most European-style American film i have seen, and i have to wonder how this film was received overseas. If you are looking for gratuitous vomit and head-spinning scenes, you won't find it here. Instead you will be treated to a more mystical, and even spiritual experience. Opinions on Exorcist II The Heretic vary as much as this film does from it's predecessor. But one thing cannot be denied; there has rarely been a film with the overwhelming look and atmosphere of this bizarre cult film. "},{"Title":"I'm glad I'm not alone in liking this film...","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Yes, in some ways this film is flawed, but I really maintain that the reason why it is so disliked is because it is not understood.  By no account does it measure up to it's predecessor, but had to watch it several times until I understood it - I liked it more and more each time I watched it. Give it a second chance on a cheap rental night. "},{"Title":"A troubled film that's not without it's merits","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I don't consider the original Exorcist to be scary, but I do like it thanks to the terse editing and restrained direction. Though I've never really warmed to John Boorman I did find Exorcist II to be his most interesting film.As a sequel it's thematically detached from the first and creates it's own new mythology and imagery. The events from Exorcist are referenced extensively and Regan, now 17, has multiple flashbacks to her bedroom. Father Lamont, a rogue priest played by Richard Burton, investigates the case in an effort to find out what really happened to Father Merrin by involving himself in Regan's therapy sessions. A muddled plot about curbing the spread of evil and the divinity of our teenage heroine fills up the rest of the film with regular cutaways to Africa where Lamont researches the recent history of Pazuzu (not the Devil, as most believe).Nothing, repeat NOTHING in this film is even remotely intelligible. Towards the end there are dozens of unexplained elements. On top that there is some hilariously stupid dialogue. How did some of this stuff get approval? I would flat out refuse to say Oh, I was possessed by a demon. But it's okay, he's gone now, upon meeting a new friend. When the credits finally roll you'll be scratching your head, unable to make head nor tail of what you've just witnessed.What it does have going for it however is absolutely stunning photography. Only a few 70s set designs date this film aesthetically. The shots of African sunsets and the rock churches are amazing and the general dark, silhouetted appearance of the dialogue scenes create a wonderful, moody atmosphere.It's a shame that Linda Blair's career collapsed after this. After getting involved in several bad relationships her acting career went down the toilet and she's never starred in anything as up-market as this ever since. She's such a cutie in Exorcist II and, as a bonus, hardly ever wears a bra.As a sequel to a classic it's a bit of a let down, but as a stand-alone weirdo melodrama it's nothing if not interesting. Do check it out, but keep in mind everything I just said. "},{"Title":"crosses some point where is ceases to be just bad and into the realms of awful rarely trod. In doing so it becomes good.....","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is by far the worst horror film ever made. But wait, this film was made in 1977 and is still discussed, it's been release as part of a box set. Most importantly hands up those of us who have seen this film would watch it again. It has something. Call it charm, call it super-glue, but the film sticks with you. Can anyone remember The legend of blood Castle, ETN, Children shouldn't play with dead things, The Orphan, Curtains? These were all films of the video nasty era. Far worst effects for worse acting, far worse story lines and probably impossible to get hold of. So why is this film singled out to receive this accolade. I think it is because it crosses some point where is ceases to be just bad and into the realms of awful rarely trod. In doing so it becomes good, it is where the charm lies. Once you understand that the film is terrible, it becomes watchable and the experience ceases to be painful BTW There was another Excorcist film made (it was called Shadows and Cries and was meant to be part III. That was also a truly terrible film, but had none of the charm of its predecessors. If you can find a copy of it anywhere, get it and do a compare and contrast and you'll see what I mean. "},{"Title":"4 years later","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I enjoyed Exorcist II The Heretic, as it was based with the same girl   who was 12 when she was possessed by a demon, 4 years later she is 16   and a doctor (Dr Tuskin) still thinks that the there's still bad dreams   inside her, a Priest (Father Lamont (Richard Burton) knows what was   going on and how Father Merrin died. the girl (Regan (Linda Blair), Dr   Tuskin, and Father Lamont all work together finding out about the   demon, the lucosts, Regan's dream name (Pazuzu) Father Lamont has been   invited by Sharron (Regan's sister) to explore when the demon was (8   Prospect St, Washington DC) and then later Father Lamont begins his   Journey to learn and find Kokuno, Regan escapes with the synchronizer,   (used to look at the bad dreams, to understand them and to desolve   them)Father Lamont and Regan head for Dixie Hotel when Father Lamont   was staying. They use the Synchronizer, and then Father Lamont heads   for Washington to get to Regan's old house where she was possessed by   the Demon. She arrives, and so does Sharron and Dr Tuskin, Sharron dies   in the fire, when the taxi's fuel was leaking and Sharron setted it on   fire, afterwards Dr Tuskin finally understands that Regan is fine now   and she says that the world won't understand not just yet, the film   ends when Father Lamont and Regan go and everyone is gossiping in the   street in front of Regan's house and then it ends. "}{"Title":"This is not as bad as people think","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I don´t think this movie is bad at all, I think it´s really good. I think this is a worthy following to the first one. Rent or borrow it and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"Horrible, utterly horrible... and fascinting.","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" My Take Insanely ridiculous and over-the-top, but actually original and interesting. You'd expect any horror movie that would be as superior as The Exorcist will be followed by a sequel a few years later. Well, it does. Exorcist II The Heretic was long regarded as a terrible sequel, mainly because of its use of hypnotic deceptions, which soon results in to confusion. The ear-piercing dialogue (that might give Ed Wood a run for his money) surely doesn't help, and the film was eventually laughed at during its first run in theaters. But EXORCIST II, despite its most obvious flaws, is an interesting film. A failure to be sure, but almost something that has to be seen to believe. The film picks up four years later. Linda Blair is great reprising her famed role in a more adult form. Richard Burton, as a priest who investigates the death of Father Merrin from the first film, gives a nearly good performance, keeping stalwart all throughout the film.The other cast members are still well worth watching. The special-effects, missing a little from the first film, is creative. The shots are done in an outlandish fashion and Ennio Morricone score, the best element in the film, is superb.By the looks of it, the main reason why critics don't like this sequel is that they had enough in the original. The original was gruesome, but well-pressed in to the novel. Boorman's different take is indeed alienating and utterly bizarre, nothing like that frightening and accessible horror classic. Despite many bad reviews about this confusing and utterly incomprehensible sequel, I still sort of liked it. And it actually made me like The Exorcist even more.Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Pazzuzu take me to Kokomo but stop by DC for the Locusts","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film is the BEST comedy of all time that is why I rate it a 10! My mouth at first just dropped with awe with disbelief, but about 30m into it I was laughing so hard I was crying. Richard Burton overacts so badly you wonder if he truely is insane while James Earl Jones spits tomatoes. Meanwhile the giant Locust attacks in DC at the end exemplifies the weirdness of this overblown sequel. The whole thing is a riot! Ranks up there with Showgirls and Beyond The Valley of The Dolls as the best bad movie of all time.  "},{"Title":"Hollywood's flawed attempt at doing horror as art","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Exorcist II is a surprisingly underrated film, which, I consider to be up there with the first film and the well-praised third entry into the Exorcist franchise. It's a real visual treat with brilliant photography. The dreamlike scenes in the Africa background and wonderfully made, one of the best parts of film. Another great scene are the locusts flying over Georgetown at midnight. The music by Ennio Morricone ranks among one of his best works and is such a beautiful, haunting trip that is much superior to the score of the original film. The acting however, isn't such a highlight. Richard Burton is, surprisingly terrible in the part of Father Lamont, the follower of Father Merrin (Max Von Sydow), who died mysteriously during the exorcism of young Regan McNeil (Linda Blair, who tries her best to cover up Burton's mess). Max Von Sydow also returns to this film, and gives a mesmerizing performance,though he appears in the dreams sequences in Africa and the flashbacks of the exorcism in Washington. Linda Blair returns, and is quite a vision, as a teenager Regan who's an aspirant dancer. This film also has a very futuristic feel, with it's sci-fi elements and bizarre, surrealistic set desing, some of the highlights include Regan's Manhattan panthouse, the labyrinth, hellish African village and the children hospital run by Dr. Gene Tuskin (Louise Fletcher).As I've said before, Burton did a pretty bad job and it's quite disappointing to see an actor of his caliber to do such a mess, which I believe to be one of the points that made it such a flop. Another is that The Heretic takes on a entirely different route than the first film, therefore, audiences were disappointed. The ending is very bad as well, unfortunately. But, don't let this let you down, THE HERETIC has a lot to offer and plenty of scares (though different from the first film). I give it 8 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"insane ridiculous fun","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" if you're looking for a scary movie, don't look here. john boorman didn't even like the original film--he found it to be too dark and depressing--which makes one wonder why warner bros. hired him for the job in the first place.you WILL see such astounding sights as famed hack richard burton ferociously chewing his way through every scene, spitting out hunks of set as he goes on his merry way; linda blair pitching a fit while doing a dazzling tap-dance number, complete with sequined top hats; louise fletcher and her über-ridiculous brain synchronization machine, which has a nice big lightbulb on it, and flashy LED's attached; tricky dick and sultry pazuzu/linda bouncing around on a big bed together (golly!) as he tries to rip out her eeeeevil heart; and the big finale, in which lovely linda, the living embodiment of all that is good and pure on this earth (sniff) does a ritual (another dance routine?) in order to cleanse washington d.c. of all the nasty locusts that have descended upon it. kokumo will help you find pazuzu! keep it mind! "},{"Title":"Is it that bad?  Yes!!!","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm always more curious to see the movies that are unanimously panned by critics and audiences alike, because half of the time I end up finding out that these movies aren't that bad. The Exorcist II is not one of those movies. It really is 180 degrees from its suspenseful predecessor. I've read reviews from critics that hated Richard Burton's performance, saying that he was awfully over-the-top. I actually feel that Burton's performance is one of the film's strong points. Despite the goofy plot, he maintains a straight face. And after reading that he was drunk during part of the shoot, it's pretty impressive that he can deliver such a convincing performance. The rest of the cast is good as well. Linda Blair looks cute as a button. But at nearly two hours, the movie goes on way too long. What else can I say? This movie is just plain dull! I stopped following the plot after a while, not because it got too complicated, but because I didn't care anymore. Let's just say that I just finished watching the movie a couple days ago, and it's already on sale on Amazon.com. That alone shows you how much I appreciate this movie. (3 out of 10) "},{"Title":"Well made sequel...underrated and very important.","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film-of which I saw four years ago, is a very influential film. It has the magic and ecstasy of the first film, and even more so special effects that the first one didn't have. The film deals with a four years older Reagan McNeil, who is experiencing aftershocks of being possessed. Coincidentally, a priest with troubles not unlike the Father Karras in the first film, Father Lamont, is sent on a mission to trace the events of Father Merrin-the Exorcist-and his death. This summons the demon still living inside Reagan's soul to come up and out and cause havoc. Soon, history starts repeating itself-but in a more fashionable City way(After all, this film takes place in New York). The film is in some ways better than the first. It has a musical score to enhance the emotion; the acting and characters are more developed; and the finale uses special effects beyond any measure of that period to show the terror and grief of the people involved with the plot. I especially liked Linda Blair-who returns in a more substantial way of acting. Richard Burton and Louise Fletcher are equally fine. The story is very setting a gets the audience involved. The uncut version-now available-was unseen for years, thus giving audiences a more subtle vision of the terrifying shocker! A very good film and a **** out of *****! "},{"Title":"Additional Comment","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you can find it, there is an out-of-print paperback written by Barbara Goodhart, the wife of screenwriter William Goodhart, that might provide a little more insight into the reasons why the movie wound up in the shape it did. The name of the book is, not surprisingly enough, THE MAKING OF EXORCIST II THE HERETIC, originally published by Warner Books. "},{"Title":"Don't Believe Everything You See...","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was fortunate enough to see the extended, three-hour plus cut of this movie in its original preview run, and what I saw took my breath away. In its complete state, EXORCIST II THE HERETIC could have very well been one of the best sequels ever made, worthy of mention in the same vein as ALIENS, GODFATHER 2 and even TERMINATOR 2. But in their corporate wisdom, I have to assume that Warner Brothers figured that audiences were too impatient or too stupid to 'get' everything that the movie was trying to say, so they yanked creative control away from John Boorman, and recut it into the disjointed monstrosity that most moviegoers have had the enormous misfortune to see. I dream that someday Mr. Boorman will be able to restore it and release a deluxe DVD edition that will leave both film buffs and critics alike absolutely speechless...and I mean in a GOOD way. Assuming, of course, that the vital footage has not been lost forever. Until then, this version deserves every bit of the ridicule it has received and then some. Die hard fans of the featured actors may still want to catch it, because the discerning eye will be able to tell from the performances of Burton, Blair, Fletcher and Kitty Winn that there's a lot of between-the-lines material that is missing, thereby rendering great performances from everyone involved into massive attacks of something resembling cinematic Tourette's Syndrome.And even with the way it was wrecked, regardless of popular opinion, I still consider the score to be among the best that Morricone has ever composed for any film, (with his absolute best a tie between ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST and THE UNTOUCHABLES.) "},{"Title":"On a Higher Authority","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After seeing the original EXORCIST a few weeks ago on the big screen, my first time viewing it in its entirety, I was disappointed in an uncomfortable, lonely kind of way.  While the first EXORCIST was enormously entertaining (my New York City audience had a collective Prozac moment when Regan was told that if she took her medication then everything would be o.k., and, although I found nothing in that first movie to be truly frightening, I did commit an unexpected amount of laughter in terms of chronological pathos), I found the original EXORCIST to be shallow and -- unrealistic.  (Perhaps my relatively young age has spoilt me in terms of special effects in movies.)However, I rented the EXORCIST II last night and was most pleasantly surprised.  Although Richard Burton's character was ridiculous and the soundtrack was awkward in the extreme (due to the sappy parts of the music, not the chaotic ones), I think this movie redeemed the first one.  I am speaking of THEMATIC and to a lesser degree aesthetic redemption here.  I am sure my view will not be terribly popular with today's kind of audience, but I'm putting it out there anyway because it is pertinent.  You see, I am somebody who's experienced demonic possession herself.I was saddened to hear that the video version of EXORCIST II contained material which was edited out of the screen version.Just because a film is based on what many would characterise as fantastical themes, it doesn't mean that the movie has to be shallow and unrealistic, which is what I found the original EXORCIST to be.  Friends, WE are the dreamers and we make the dreams!  While undoubtably less resources were expended in EXORCIST II in order to achieve supernatural-like effects, I can see that a great deal more thought and work went into aesthetic coherence and research.  Notwithstanding Burton, the latter was a superior film.  You can take my word on it. "}{"Title":"An underrated masterpiece","Date":"5 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As everyone knows by now, The Exorcist is a horror classic. This film would be a horror classic as well if it wasn't so misunderstood. This film mixes horror, science fiction, and fantasy all in one film. It is pervaded with a dreamlike atmosphere to the point in which it doesn't even feel as if you're watching a film when you see it. It feels as if you're right in the middle of a bizarre nightmare you can't wake up from, similar to Suspiria. The music contributes to this dreamlike atmosphere in a way I have never heard a score contribute to the atmosphere before. Ennio Morricone did a terrific job at composing the score. Listening to this score alone, you can see it's really no wonder he's considered a legendary composer. The camera-work also achieved the effect of contributing the dreamlike atmosphere.I believe the reason so many people dislike it is because it is so different in tone to the first film. People watch the film expecting it to be exactly the same as the first and it isn't whatsoever. It is a very unique film experience that feels nothing like the first film. While the first film was a straight horror/drama grounded in reality for the most part, this film goes it's own route and is highly fantastical. If it was simply called The Heretic, I think people would like it a lot more. Because it's a sequel, people can't seem to get the first film out of their mind and constantly compare it.The film gives a reason for Regan's possession. It gives the idea that she had the gift of healing as the reason she was possessed. Satan wanted to destroy this gift because it was used for goodness, so he sent a demon to possess Regan. I believe that was a genius and creative idea. There is a touching scene in which Regan causes an autistic girl who is mute speak for the first time in front of her mother. It always gives me goosebumps no matter how many times I see the film. The story which is very well written cleverly links the past with the future. While it gives fresh ideas and builds on the story of Regan's life and the aftermath of her possession, it also delves further into the past by showing Father Merrin's prior experience with exorcism before he met Regan. It is also brilliantly acted. Linda Blair is terrific and it's good to see her play Regan yet again. It was also nice to see Kitty Winn for the second time. Louise Fletcher, James Earl Jones, Richard Burton, Paul Henreid, and Ned Beatty are also among the all star cast and give unforgettable performances.Overall, I think the amount of hatred this film receives is absolutely unfair. It deserves none of it. It is one of the most underrated, misunderstood films of all time. Sometimes I even enjoy it more than the first film. Please don't let the bad reputation this film has discourage you from watching it. You may have the same feelings about the film that I do. "},{"Title":"Every movie should be measured on its own merits.","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a excellent story which plays out more like an exploration of what evil is. Its an adventure that provides a continuous unraveling of exorcist lore whilst providing supernatural mishaps in the form of ancient curses to keep the audience guessing what's going to happen next.Its an excellent movie, I would call it a supernatural cloak and dagger. I AM glad they made it and being a fan of the first I found it to be just as excellent a sequel as I could have hoped for.**** spoiler **** The introduction to the movie provides an amazing concept of how evil regenerates or generates itself and later it covers how its built on the collective psych of the masses. I don't know many other movies that would dare go this far as to get philosophical about evil. "},{"Title":"Is it that bad? NO! **** out of 5","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Grossly underrated, Exorcist II is one of John Boorman's finest films.Rather than go for the spinning heads and pea soup that were featured in the first film, Boorman opted to go in a less horrific and more surreal and dramatic direction. Most people claim that sequels shouldn't be a rehash of the original, well this certainly wasn't!The acting was quite good here. The cinematography as in most every Boorman movie, is exquisite. The score by Ennio Morriconne is terrific and sets a slightly different tone from the first film. Overall, the film has a much broader feel to it, I think because the film takes place at many places rather than confined to the room of the first film. Also, there are some elaborate special effects scenes that are breathtaking. Everyone of them quite chilling.This isn't really what I would call an actual horror film. It's a drama involving the supernatural. I'm not sure exactly what I'd classify this as. It's a genre all it's own almost.See it with an open mind. Forget what people have said in the past.You just might be surprised. "},{"Title":"Not as good as The Exorcist and The Exorcist 3, but still an okay film","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Exorcist 2 The Heretic is not as good as The Exorcist or The Exorcist 3, but is still and okay movie. It focusses more on Fr Merrin and his friend, as well as when he exorcised a young boy in Africa.  This film is VERY dissapointing for fans of The Exorcist because this one trys to be a horror film, but fails, it's not scary and it's angles and cinematography is not brilliant. But after all of this it is still watchable. Some people will like this one better because it is more simple and less complicated and meaningful as The Exorcist. This film was very cheap and tacky, but still manages to be watchable. I wouldn't go out and spend £20 on a DVD version of it, but is worth watchign if it is on TV or if you find a copy going cheap. This one is far more for young children rather then the adult audience that the Exorcist was aimed at. It is still a good movie with some good acting in it. The script and film could have done with a lot of worth, but is certainly not as good as The Exorcist because it trys to be somthing it isn't, it takes away the scaryness of Pazuzu. Before Exorcist 2 people thought that the possesser of Regan was THE Devil, which would have been much better, but now this film has made it look like the whole thing must become cheaper. Still - watch it if it is on or going cheap at a shop, but it is still no match against William Peter Blatty's The Exorcist Directed by William Friedkin. "},{"Title":"It's not real bad but it's not real good either","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Exorcist II The Heretic is the 1977 follow-up to my favorite horror film of all time, The Exorcist. Many people consider this film to be the worst movie sequel ever made. I didn't think Exorcist II was that bad, but it's nowhere near as good as its predecessor. Linda Blair returns as Regan, the girl who was possessed by the Devil in the original 1973 classic. Here she's still bothered by the horrible things that happened to her when she was living in Georgetown, Washington D.C. Fearing that the demon will possess her once again, psychiatrist Louise Fletcher and priest Richard Burton try to help her while Burton wants to find out what happened to Father Merrin (Max Von Sydow), the ill-fated priest who tried to exorcise the foul-mouthed demon out of Regan in the first movie. Some scenes in Exorcist II The Heretic are interesting. Some are preposterous. Much of the dialogue is laughable (especially Burton's continuous ramblings about evil), and parts of the movie don't make sense. The special effects are good, and Ennio Morricone's music score is very effective (It would have been nice if they could have replayed the eerie Tubular Bells theme from the first film). But I think the main problem with Exorcist II The Heretic is that it's not real scary. The Exorcist was a film that scared the pants off of me when I first saw it, and after seeing it again recently on the big screen, I was still jolted by many of its disturbing images as well as one new one (the spiderwalk). This film is pretty much devoid of chills and that's disappointing. Also, the performances here aren't as strong as they were in the first one. But I give the filmmakers credit for trying something different instead of doing a retread of the original. I think Exorcist II The Heretic needed a better script. It has some good moments, but it's not enough.** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Ambitious and beautiful failure","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It was gratifying to read another reviewer imply what I've said for years...that if the film hadn't been made as Exorcist II it might have done fairly well.  Problem being that if it hadn't been Exorcist II it likely would never have been made.Discussing the film without thinking about the lurid details of its release (the laughter and booing from the audiences, or Boorman yanking the film from theatres after the first day to recut the whole thing) is a difficult task.  Exorcist II has become, more than a film, a litmus test for sequels.  In the opinion of some, no sequel has ever been this poor.Which is unfair.  Taken on its own, the movie is a curious mix of very inspired and very absurd moments and concepts.  The casting is problematic and wildly uneven (Fletcher and Blair are fine, Burton is awful, and James Earl Jones steals the entire show).  The script also veers from coherency to an almost surreal incompetence, sometimes in the same scene.  And yet...And yet, this is a very misunderstood film.  John Boorman was a very brave and unconventional choice as director, and he certainly accomplishes some startling and innovative visual effects.  He is also to be commended for attempting to examine the concepts of the original film (and novel) in a metaphysical and nonlinear fashion.  I've seen both cuts of the film and find that they differ from each other very little in overall impact.  The fatal flaw in either version is the film's complete failure to prepare its audience for any of this material.  Audiences were led to expect a carbon-copy repeat of the original and were instead confronted with this arty, heavily psychological mood piece.  Understandably, they were a little upset.....In no way does it accomplish its goals nearly as well as The Exorcist, but I find this a far more enjoyable experience than Blatty's own Exorcist III, which seems to have all of the elements with no idea as to how they should be executed.  Infuriating, uneven, and quite beautiful.  See it before you laugh at it. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful and Provocative Fantasy Epic","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I don't think I've ever seen a film as ambitious as Exorcist II The Heretic. It makes perfect sense that anybody stepping up to direct a sequel to The Exorcist would have to go in some other direction than William Friedkin did with the original. There's no way they could top the ice-cold horror and vulgarity of The Exorcist. Exorcist II deals with such heady and important themes as global consciousness, spontaneous healing, telepathy, technology, dreams, faith, and loss of faith. Linda Blair returns as Regan MacNeil, now four years older, who remembers her experience of possession all too well. She is still in the care of family friend Sharon (Kitty Winn, returning from the original Exorcist) It seems Sharon left the MacNeil household for two years, but was drawn back to Regan and claims, unexpectedly and poignantly, that when she is with Regan is the only time I'm at peace. Regan and Sharon now live in a gorgeous skyscraper with a perilous-looking balcony, and Regan has a therapist, Dr. Gene Tuskin (Oscar-winner Louise Fletcher) who works with the deaf and the autistic at a state-of-the-art, high-tech facility where she does ground-breaking work with hypnosis. Regan is plagued by memories of her possession, and by strange dreams of flying with a locust swarm over Africa. Dr. Tuskin encourages her to talk about her feelings, but it is clear that Regan isn't sure it will do either of them any good. Before long, we meet Father Lamont (Richard Burton) a priest who has come to doubt his faith. He is dispatched by the church to investigate the death of Father Merrin (Max Von Sydow, who returns to play a younger version of his doomed character from the first movie) Father Lamont visits Dr. Tuskin to ask for her support in interviewing Regan about what happened to her in Washington. Dr. Tuskin is leery but Regan is intrigued, and it is agreed that Father Lamont will observe a hypnotherapy session between them. This leads to a confrontation between Pazuzu (the spirit that still haunts Regan) and Dr. Tuskin that Father Lamont is able to witness, using a delicate machine that can synchronize the experiences of two minds. Lamont comes away from the experience galvanized to protect Regan. The story is interspersed with scenes of the earlier experiences of Father Merrin when he was exorcising Pazuzu from a young boy in Africa. This boy, Kakumo (the always-wonderful James Earl Jones) grows up to be a scientist who is studying the destructive swarm behavior of locusts. He tells Lamont of his plan to breed a good locust, one that will calm the others and decrease their destructive behavior. Regan, meanwhile, is showing signs of being the human equivalent of the good locust. She unwittingly heals an autistic child, and seems to now have the gifts of precognition and telepathy. Father Lamont comes to believe that Regan is touched by God, and therefore is extremely important to saving the rest of mankind from evil. The principals are all drawn to Washington and back to the brownstone where Regan lived during her previous possession. Father Lamont and Regan travel together, while Sharon and Dr. Tuskin arrive soon after; but, as always, Pazuzu is keeping track, and he tries to kill Sharon and Dr. Tuskin in an automobile accident. They survive, but only until Sharon burns herself alive in an excruciating scene. Pazuzu finally appears to Lamont in the form of Regan's sexy and evil double. As bewitched as he is by her, ultimately he overcomes this and rips the very heart from the beast, bringing peace and hope to the world once more. Technically, every frame of this film is fascinating. The colors are subdued but amazing, and the imagery is always surreal and alive and moving. There are great, swirling shots in this movie that leave me swooning every time I look at them. There is a particular shot from Regan's balcony that pans the surrounding city (including an ominous-looking church) that is one of the most haunting shots I've ever seen in a film. The music of Exorcist II, by Ennio Morricone, ranges from the energetic and primitive (over the African flying sequences) to the ethereal and exquisite Regan's Theme. Many of the exterior Africa scenes were shot on a sound stage, and it only adds to the fantasy atmosphere. The scene of a locust swarm descending on Washington DC is truly inspired and terrifying, and the scientific locust footage has the same creepy documentary feeling of the original film. The finale of the movie is not to be missed; it is both apocalyptic and hopeful at the same time. One of the great things about the script is that it raises questions that it cannot answer. Much is left to the viewer to ponder, and I think that is part of the point. Too many films spoon-feed or condescend to audiences, and I find it refreshing that Boorman and writer William Goodheart did not do this. The quality of the performances in Exorcist II vary; Louise Fletcher could have tried a little harder, but nearly her entire performance is dubbed, so I'm not sure she should take all the blame. Burton's character is full of inner conflict, so his performance is quiet and tense. Kitty Winn plays Sharon very differently here than she did in The Exorcist; where in the first film she was mousy, here she is defiant and volcanic. James Earl Jones is naturally commanding of the screen. Linda Blair does well in her role, and looks more beautiful than in any other film, as if she is illuminated from within. During her hypnosis scenes she has the most intense and effective stare. And when she is walking trance-like across her balcony, wearing white and with her hair flowing (all in slow-motion) she is a vision of utter, innocent beauty. She is the goddess who must help deliver the world from its own worst self. She is 'the good locust'. "},{"Title":"different,ill give it that.","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I doubt most people who watch or have watched this film will like it. If they do, it surely can only be for the reason that it is so poor it keeps it interesting because you keep wondering what is gonna be ballsed up next. The score is momentarily enigmatic, Reagan's Theme being particularly good. The acting is mostly dire, though how anyone else would have acted with such poor a script I do not know. The plot developments are laughable, the cinematography interesting with an attempt to be artsy though first and foremost Boorman should have made sure the film had a good script and capable actors. Despite the numerous flaws this film has, there's something about it which will keep me returning to watch it. For any Blair fans out there, she has never looked better than in this film. Arguably the only reason to watch it, except to witness the poorness for yourself. "},{"Title":"What is everyone talking about?","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this film today, and, sorry, but it's great! As one of the few people who didn't see the original, I was able to view it without preconceptions.The imagery is stunning, those locusts? Wow! Linda Blair puts in a remarkable performance that makes me sad she isn't working any more, (ditto Louise Fletcher)and Richard Burton is good too.The fact that it isn't out and out horror is people's problem, I suspect. "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Not NEARLY as good as the original, however Linda Blair's return is much appreciated. It could've been worse. They could've hired some stupid replacement out of desperate actions, which would've ruined the trilogy all-together.Second, although the plot is rather... bland; not so baroque or decorated, the way they dish it out is okay enough. It took me quite a while to watch the whole thing straight through without falling asleep, though, I'll admit.What I personally claim, as a musician, and what I really examine in films, regardless of how pointless, is the music in it. In this case, the main theme of this is absolutely beautiful, and I believe that they deserve some credit for that. "}{"Title":"Satan has become an embarrassment to our progressive views.","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Exorcist II The Heretic is a difficult movie to write about. The things that don't work or the things that are totally ridiculous are the very reasons to watch the movie. It's an absolute mess and a helluva good time because of it. The plot - don't worry about the plot. It might make your head explode if you think too much about it. I'll give it a try, but you've been warned. Since the events of the first movie, Regan (Linda Blair) has grown to be a teenager with some sort of mental problems and a desire to perform in really bad musicals. Her mother has disappeared leaving her in the care of Dr. Tuskin (Louise Fletcher). Dr. Tuskin's idea of treatment is to have Regan stare at a blinking light bulb until she enters into a trance like state. Father Lamont (Richard Burton) shows up to study Regan's case and to announce at every opportunity he can find that there is still an eeeevil presence inside Regan. From this point forward, you really need to see it to believe it.John Boorman had what many people would consider one of the best horror movies ever made to work with when making the sequel. But at every opportunity, he takes Exorcist II into some of the most ridiculous places imaginable. He tries to get artsy, but fails miserably and ends up making scenes that should be horrific come off as silly. Take the scene where Father Lamont snaps and goes after Regan. What should have been a shocking moment is instead incredibly funny. I'm convinced that no matter how hard you tried you couldn't make a sequel this bad on purpose.The cast doesn't help Boorman at all. None of the three main leads escapes this movie looking good. First, there's Richard Burton. He chews through this movie and spits it out like a John Deere through foot high grass. Burton looks like a buffoon who overacts almost every moment he appears on screen. Next, there's Linda Blair. I like Linda Blair, but I've never thought she was much of an actress. And she proves this in Exorcist II. Her lines are delivered with all the conviction of a prostitute in church. And those dance numbers are just short of painful. Finally, Louise Fletcher acts throughout much of the movie as if she would rather be anywhere other than here. She comes across as bored, uninterested, and embarrassed to be part of this debacle.There's no end to what I could write about this movie, but I'll stop here. One of the best reviews I've ever read can be found here - http//twtd.bluemountains.net.au/Rick/exorcist2.htm. You owe it to yourself to check it out. "},{"Title":"Worth a Try","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It is almost impossible to top one of the greatest movies of all time. The first Exorcist made a giant impact on everyone who saw it. Linda Blair was hot and scores of directors followed the path that The Exorcist lay. Exorcist II The Heretic is far from part one, but not quite so bad as is sometimes said. For one, Richard Burton is in it, and plays a troubled priest. Second, Linda Blair returns, now a few years older, attractive, but still deadly. Third, anyone keen for the mystique of the late 1970's will come to love this movie. There are some great shots portraying the sign of the times. And, finally, the really good moments are just enough to make up for some really bad parts of the movie. In my case, The Heretic got better the more I watched it. "},{"Title":"The worst film of all time","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've never been so bored in my entire life as when I was forced to watch this film.  Even if you manage to forget that it's the sequel to one of the greatest horror films, this is a real stinker.It's hard to even describe the plot for this, although that may just be due to the fact that I was struggling to stay awake.  Suffice to say that it doesn't make a hell of a lot of sense, and isn't very interesting either. All actors involved appear to be sleepwalking, with Richard Burton's performance being particularly funny.I can't find anything to recommend about this at all, and I'm fairly liberal when it comes to bad films, and can usually find SOMETHING worth seeing about them.  Not in this case. "},{"Title":"Hilariously awful. I watched it just for a laugh!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Oh dear God, what crimes are committed in thy name. It's as simple as this I don't think I have EVER seen a film which was quite as dire and ridiculous as Exorcist II. And that includes Plan Nine From Outer Space, by the way; I laughed harder with this. I had already been warned that Boorman's sequel was bad, but never in my wildest dreams could I have imagined that such a piece of unadulterated garbage could be humanly concocted. It has no redeeming features whatsoever, there is not a single thing in this film that makes it worthy, and that is no mean feat. From the first ten minutes, when that flashy light bulb thing appeared, you could see the thing going straight off the rails, but I was hooked because the film kept surprising me, just when I thought it couldn't become any worse, something happened that was unbelievably even more ludicrous than what had come before. Overall, I have to admit I had a good time watching it and laughing wholeheartedly at the disaster I was witnessing. I don't know what is funnier, though, the film itself, or the fact that some people seem to find it good, or actually better than the original (???). I'm sorry, people, I know everyone is entitled to their opinion, but that just cracks me up. "},{"Title":"Worst sequel, and one of the worst films ever produced","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" What's worst about this film is that the original Exorcist film simply didn't deserve this. I have seen a lot of bad sequels to good films in my time, but this one has to take the biscuit. I don't believe I have ever seen a sequel deviate so drastically and so clumsily from its source material. With hideous performances from Blair and Burton, a diabolical script and scenes so badly shot that I was howling with laughter at one point, Exorcist II is one of the worst films ever produced. Ellen Burstyn - one of the best things about the astonishing original - wisely avoided this catastrophe, and all who read this are advised to do the same. "},{"Title":"A classic or a crock??","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I recently watched this for a second time and was thinking what a crock of **** it was until the very end. The intermittent drone of the synchroniser can be heard just before the closing credits roll. Made me think-is the entire second part of the movie simply a journey into the twisted dreams of an insane and sexually frustrated priest? Did Burtons character ever come out of his trance?It would explain the dreamlike quality of the African sets and similarly the studio look of Reagans Washington house. At the climax of the film Burton fulfils all his fantasies-he resists Regans sexual advances, defeats evil and walks away with Regan into an innocent sunset.Now his own sexual desires can be fulfilled and 'good' triumphs.This could be the most misunderstood movie in cinema history or I was right in the first place and probably one of the worst!! "},{"Title":"Time will do this film justice","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The fact that so many pulled no punches against this very good film at its premiere &#x96;as some still do, speaks volumes about our unjustified preconceptions and expectations, dictated by media, marketing and perceptual bias.This reminds me of other equally unjustified cases from film makers and/or franchises that tend to create the same kind of expectations in some of us. It happened with the sequels to the Matrix, which are both excellent, and also with practically every film by M. Night Shyamalan after The Sixth Sense. As long as some audiences impair their own sensibilities by prioritizing comparisons of books, music pieces or films instead of fostering their own ability to appreciate a work of art on its own, the message delivered by the work will go over their heads and be lost.Fortunately, time can heal generational misconceptions. Boorman is a very good director, and this is a film rich in imagery, philosophy, and thought-provoking themes. That they were able to create it even after going through what was obviously a bumpy production process makes it perhaps even more valuable. Of course the film is not technically perfect, due precisely to those difficulties. But you can tell when something comes from the heart because that doesn't matter at all. "},{"Title":"Not Your Ordinary Sequel","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Despite being considered perhaps the worst sequel in the history of motion pictures (at least until 1978) a year after its release, Warner Bros.' The Exorcist II The Heretic was an interesting sequel in that it went many places that an ordinary sequel would not be required. William Peter Blatty, the original novelist of the first story, later wrote his own traditional sequel, Legion which I understand became Exorcist III. Here, William Goodhart wrote the treatment and is credited with the screenplay that follows the heredity (pun intended) of the character of Fr. Merrin, whom Blatty in his original novel modeled after Teilhard de Chardin, who was considered a heretic by the Vatican ultimately, and in which Goodhart focuses his story on yet another troubled priest, played by Richard Burton, assigned with validating the sanctity of Merrin's death during his last exorcism, that of the young Reagan MacNeil again played by Linda Blair to clear Merrin's life work of any stain. Some of Chardin's thought on Collective Consciousness and Good and Evil is given sci-fi treatment to visualize some of the intriguing and otherwise hard-to-fathom ideas, let alone depict visually through a strobe light/synchronizer which allows people within its frequency to interact and see and react to each other's thoughts, feelings, memories, etc. That's an awful lot to expect the average sequel to pull off, even one with a mega-history like its original and thereby causes some of the sequel's inevitable downfall. The fact that the story uses the Georgetown setting and uses some of the original characters causes the sequel to impale itself by making the real story about the demon's original identity (given in Blatty's book but not in the movie version), and making much of the only scares which are if you are afraid to look at bugs. This interesting element about swarms of locusts, sandwiching the original famed Iraq prologue with one new one of in Africa, but when Blair must connect herself with more silly acting to the actors in the Pazuzu demon story, I must sight exception of this as a very big mistake. What happens to the character of Sharon (giving Kitty Winn much more to do in this) too robs us of any plausibility. From John Boorman's direction, a director who I loved his work on the Dave Clark Five film, Having a Wild Weekend especially, and Deliverance and most of his subsequent work (I still can not say I liked Zardoz), Blair seems her AAN for The Exorcist was maybe a fluke or she just was better handled by William Friedkin who shot off guns on the set to get the actor's concentration. She is most undisciplined here, and shares time with Winn, Richard Burton, Louise Fletcher and even James Earl Jones with some pretty silly dialogue and antics given for them to perform that heighten the flaw that this is a sequel to the original, thereby crucifying the memory of it. Despite the controversy of some holdouts for acclaim for this sequel, I can not honestly on looking at it just now, say that it does work with any plausibility except to become stupefyingly vapid. Knowing the great power of the original to be scary, the idea of the sequel being so connected to Chardin thoughts on consciousness as being too serious and heady for a mainstream film, especially one is going to see because the original was considered the most frightening, and trying to scare us by our own, usually non-threatening thinking, it is no wonder that this film is usually written off. I remember liking Blatty's Legion sequel although I did not see the film of it (Exorcist III). Ennio Morricone did the soundtrack for Exorcist II and it too pales in comparison to the soundtrack of the original. I'd like to give Exorcist II The Heretic marks for originality and inventiveness, but mashing the follow-up to the original story with anything so new and so radical is deadly to popular opinion. It fails even in its own execution of these ideas. "},{"Title":"not such a bad movie as everyone thinks....","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I found Exorcist 11 The Heretic was quite a good horror film , despite what other people think. The story is about a woman called Gene Tuskin works with troubled children, but none more troubled than Regan MacNeil, (Linda Blair) who suffers from bad dreams and memories. The memories are of the time that she was possessed by a demon. Dr. Tuskin has an invention, a device that hypnotises two persons and links their minds together, and it reveals that the demon, named Pazuzu, still lurks within her, Ready to emerge again. Meanwhile, Father Lamont is ordered by his cardinal to investigate the death of Father Merrin, the priest who died while performing an exorcism on Regan. He undertakes the task He also feels that Evil is an entity and that it is winning the battle over Good. His investigation makes him go to Africa and he learns something terrible about locusts. I thought that the film was quite good even though there are a lot of comments saying that it was not. It was hard to be like the original which was a masterpiece. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The Heretic without the Exorcist","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Imagine this A new movie is out dealing with a girl who has been possessed by a demon.  A priest is sent to check on the aftermath of the situation, as well as study the footsteps of Father Merrin, the exorcist.  As he researches, he learns the nature of the beast responsible for the possession and Merrin's demise.  At the same time, he comes across a man who, as a boy, had also been possessed by a demon.  The title of this movie is The Heretic.  To me, this is how Exorcist II The Heretic should have come along.  As a separate movie, I believe it was great.  It was right down my alley as far as good horror movies is concerned.  However, I don't think (and this is purely opinion) that it should have been tied in with Blatty's classic The Exorcist.  To The Heretic, I give great reviews.  To Exorcist II...a disappointment...but that's just me. "}{"Title":"A silly film with hideous screenplay and acting but there is much fun to be had.","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A much chunkier Regan is abandoned by her actress mother (Ellen Burstyn turned the film down) and finds fear and loathing in Africa.  The screenplay is the pits, the acting is horrid (Richard Burton is obviously drunk throughout the film, and Louise Fletcher is about as warm and yielding as a morgue table.)  But, the sets are magnificent, Ennio Morricone's score is perfect and beautiful, the cinamatography is top notch, and Boorman does pretty well despite being saddled with a silly story.  One of my favorite guilty pleasures.   "},{"Title":"Cacophonous fall","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Although, not credited as writer, it would seem that Boorman be the principal culprit of this bad trip where the Excalibur director films his phobia of the vacuum (terrace of a skyscraper without balustrade or perilous climbing of a notched mountain) in the middle of a dream, mid-nightmarish, mid-fairy-like. So, all narrative and space inconsistencies &#150; us in Black Africa or ex-Mesopotamy? Both at the same time undoubtedly- of the dream are then allowed and this, in spite of the attempt of scenario which the production sought to graft to its first opus. Surfing on the pseudosciences in vogue at the time, this last one had tried indeed well to sell to us the hypno-psychoanalysis using an old flashing light and some electrodes. They had even delivered the outcome of the second opus of the concurrent saga The Omen, by setting fire to the bewitched children's nurse to conclude the history. But the writers were mistaken in stage or in director. Because Boorman don't give a dawn of psycho-malefic troubles of Linda Blair, it still prefers to see her in transparent nightdress than all covered with sallow vomit. Which he wants, it's to film giant grasshoppers, cracks and African rites on a pagano-epic music of Ennio Morricone.Four years earlier, producers had ever massacred Mario Bava's Lisa and devil, always for a exorcism question. Here, it is the same cacophony feeling which is offered to us. "},{"Title":"Inferior Sequel, But It Has It's Moments.","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Exorcist II The Heretic is an inferior sequel to what some consider the best horror film of all time. In this follow-up, Regan is now a bit older and attending college. But she is still haunted by the subtle memories of her possession by the devilish demon, Pasuzu, when she was twelve. Regularly visiting a children's hospital, she somehow gets hooked up onto this synchronizer machine where a doctor can somehow enter her subconscious or something along those lines. But now, Pasuzu has returned, and is tormenting Regan all over again.I haven't seen this film in awhile, but I don't think it was anything too special. The whole synchronizer premise to the film was pretty far fetched, and apparently the crowd used to test screen the film found the movie to be awful after that element was introduced. I don't completely agree, I think that concept isn't very realistic and a bit ridiculous, but in the context of the movie they somehow manage to make it work. The biggest problem with this movie is the absence of Ellen Burstyn, who gave a remarkable performance in the original film as Regan's mother. Linda Blair is back though, and she is a very good actress, so she gave a good performance. Richard Burton who played the priest in this film was also very good as was Louise Fletcher, who plays a guidance counselor. One of the good qualities to this film, however, was the flashback sequences to Father Merrin's time spent in Africa, which had some really distinctive visuals. Although, I think the back story was a little bit bizarre and unneeded, but whatever.Overall, I didn't think Exoricst II The Heretic was a complete waste of time, and I think some people were a little harsh on it. It's not nearly as good as the original movie was, it is below average, but watchable at the least. Far from perfect, but still decent enough. If you want to see a slightly better Linda Blair film, watch Summer of Fear, which was directed by horror legend Wes Craven and released the following year. 4/10. "},{"Title":"Why does different have to be bad?","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  You know, Ever since I read the original book of The Exorcist, I have been a fan of it. I was taken aback, when I saw the movie was so good. I then got interested in the sequel, The Heretic. I wanted to see what it was all about. Everyone I knew told me it was a bad movie. The other night it was on tv. So, since I had the next day off and was bored, I said why not? The movie captured me from the first scene. With every commercial, I was eager to see what would happen next. But, then while I was watching it I started comparing it to the original, and began disliking it. I realized, that was just it. This movie is totally different. It isn't meant to be compared. From then on, I left my comparing behind, and chose to watch this film as a FILM on it's own, not a SEQUEL. I began really getting into it, and was fully satisfied with it. For anyone to understand The Heretic, you must understand it is not a horror film, but more of a psychological rethinking of the original. Seeing the events of her possession, not as a horrifying thing (as portrayed in the original film) but as nothing but a trauma, then presents you with Reagan in the present, a survivor of this trauma. So, after I have explained this, I dare you to leave your Media-derived and eluted thoughts behind, and watch a different kind of movie that happens to be a sequel to The Exorcist "},{"Title":"Bizarre, pretty bad, but still worth a look","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This bizarre, much-maligned sequel to THE EXORCIST takes place four years after the original. Regan (Linda Blair) is now an art student living in New York City with her former nanny (Kitty Wynn) and making regular visits to her psychiatrist (Louise Fletcher). Meanwhile, Richard Burton is a priest supposedly on the verge of losing his faith who is assigned by the Vatican to investigate the death of Father Merrin (Max Von Sydow, who appears in flashbacks). Using a device straight out of a 50's sci-fi movie, which enables two people to see each other's thoughts, Fletcher and Burton attempt to see what is tormenting Blair, who has had nightmares since her possession years earlier. Burton learns that Blair is still in contact with the demon Pazuzu (named in the original EXORCIST book, but not the movie), and travels to Africa to find out more about it. He visits a witch doctor/scientist (James Earl Jones), who, as a boy, was possessed by Pazuzu as well. Back in New York, Fletcher doesn't believe a word of it, thinking it's all in Blair's head; meanwhile, Blair's memory of her ordeal slowly comes back to her. Burton comes back to NYC, where he and Blair use the mind-melding machine together.Burton, in a trance-like state, high-tails it to Georgetown, with Blair in tow, headed toward the original house. It all leads to a lively finale involving a swarm of locusts over Washington and a brutal wrestling match between Burton and Pazuzu (having taken on the likeness of Blair). This is one wacky movie, with enough plot twists and turns to make anyone dizzy. Director John Boorman goes for surrealism and metaphysics rather than green puke and spinning heads, which didn't go over well with most fans of the original. Add to that an incoherent screenplay (boasting a few of the most bewildering and awful lines of dialog in cinematic history) and wildly uneven performances (Fletcher and Blair sleepwalk through their parts, while Burton and Wynn chew the scenery relentlessly), and you've got a movie that doesn't fare well with critics, fans or much of anyone. Another problem is that the movie never establishes exactly who the heretic of the title is! Burton? Von Sydow? Blair?All of this is unfortunate, because there are some good points to the movie. William Fraker's photography is gorgeous, and mixed with some excellent special effects creates some spectacular and striking imagery. A swarm of locusts ravaging an African plain, then later flying past the Capital Building in Washington, DC are breath-taking moments. Ennio Morricone's music score is also a plus. Overall, THE HERETIC is an underrated movie that still isn't very good. But after years of carbon copy sequels with little or no ambition other than box office success, it's worth a look. The end result may be a disaster, but you have to admire Boorman and company for trying something different. "},{"Title":"Good Movie?","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I honestly have to say that I enjoyed this movie.  The concept explains quite a bit about why Reagan was chosen to be possessed.  Although the acting may not be so good, the plot was.  It was an interesting trip it took.  I am a cheesy-horror movie lover and this was one of them. "},{"Title":"But unforgettable","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" But very boring,there's not too much blood ,this is good I think ,but the slow story telling.Real horror fans likes much blood ,I don't ,but I like interesting story telling.Sometimes I could not decide what I had seen,was it directly bad composed or that is just rubbish at all.Against I did not love too much the first ,but here is some scenes maybe you will not forget, for exampleAfrican scenes,or the final house scene.The actors plays very good in this film,I respect Richard Burton about this movie,Linda Blair plays well.This film made John Booreman to be a famous director ,you can thinking about it why.I just can not stand to push forward, while I watched the DVD. "},{"Title":"Not any scary at all, but still a good adventure movie.","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If you expect something like the first movie you will definitely hate this movie. When i saw the score on 3.3 i thought this movie would really suck badly and i had very low expectations on it, but i wanted to see the sequel.While the first movie had a scary atmosphere and was concentrated to only a few landscapes/areas and had just a single plot(Reagan was possessed by a demon and it should be exercised out), this movie is different on every point. There are lots of subplots, lots of great landscapes and feels much more like an adventure movie á la The Mummy than it's prequel. The special effects are very poor compared to today's standard, but I think the ending was VERY GOOD! I hope they will make some slight adjustments to the script and remake it as they did with the original. This film had overwhelming potential to become a classic like its original, unfortunately the director of this movie had no experience of making horror movies and the end result feels like an adventure movie made with a horror movie script!6/10 "},{"Title":"You can't be serious??","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" For years, I viewed the Exorcist as a brilliant movie and one of the few films I rated 10/10 on IMDb. I thought Part III was solid, but nothing too great. I always skipped part 2 due to all the negative press, surely It couldn't be that bad-well it was-and then some. I could write an essay about its faults but ill outline some main issues.1.) Never scary. This is a horror film based upon one of the great movies of all time. At least, make me feel some tension or shock me with some gross visuals. This is horror movie, no? 2.)Acting and dialogue are laughable. I almost could'nt believe that exchange Reagon has with the autistic girl. I was possessed by a demon, but don't worry, he's gone now-AWFUL! 3.) Plot holes everywhere. Scenes are just mixed together with no real meaning (these involve a mind-reading machine,African locusts, and tap dancing??. In the end, the film never makes sense and it just serves as an insult to what was excellent about the original. The director should be exorcised! "},{"Title":"The good, the bad and the really ugly!!!","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  EXORCIST II is one of the most confused & confusing films to review because there are some good aspects about it which have influenced movies up to this day but there's no denying that it's also ONE OF THE WORST FILMS EVER MADE!!! Here's a quick rundown of what's good, really bad and catastrophically ugly about it.The GOODThe cinematography It's really beautiful and lush!The visuals There are some truly arresting visuals, certainly those in Africa with Max Von Sydow.The music by the great Ennio Morricone.The production values top notchThe atmosphere Dream-like with a flair of Euro-cult feel to it! It almost feels like a Dario Argento film (Dario was probably influenced by this movie when he made PHENOMENA).The really BADThe acting everyone is terrible. Linda Blair is the worst of the bunch.The script it doesn't make much sense and it's pretty much pointless, certainly compared to the first movie. The characters are never defined and we never know anything about anyone. The dialogue howlingly bad! Pazuzu! Kokumo! Kokumo! Pazuzu!The direction I'm sure John Boorman's intentions for this sequel to the first blockbuster were honest. I'm certain he wanted to create this amazingly phantasmagoric horror film with over-the-top visuals and ideas. Unfortunately, not much of it works.The catastrophically UGLYCasting Richard Burton as a priest one of the worst bits of casting ever. Burton doesn't look like a Catholic priest. He's looks like someone who had too much of a good life. Also, casting an actor who made movies in the 1940s, 1950s was wrong. They should have looked for someone who was more contemporary. The effect of having an old-fashion movie star Burton in a crazy contemporary dream-like horror film is jarring! It just doesn't work.The ending after Burton finds Kokumo, what little sense or semblance of quality the movie vanish in a blink of an eye. When everyone heads back to the house where the first movie took place, the film is totally derailed beyond repair. It's really bad and makes me wonder what were they thinking. When we see evil Blair dressed up in Fredericks of Hollywood lingerie and vamping it out and trying to be sexy, the whole film (and even the first movie) is hurt by the extreme cheesiness of it all. The good thing about the first movie was the total lack of cheesiness about it. It felt authentic. Never Hollywoodish. Well, not the ending of the sequel. If Evil Blair in EXORCIST II had remained like the ugly possessed one we saw in the first movie and not the sexy vampy one, the ending might have been a tad better but making Blair sexy in order to turn on celibate Burton is just too silly for words. The house falling apart and the swarm of locusts coming to Washington was okay but it added nothing to the whole thing. What's really funny is that with the car crashing in the fence, the house crumbling and the locusts swarm buzzing all about, you'd think some of the neighbors would have noticed something. Also, what happens to Regan and Father Lamont? Where do they go?The ending in EXORCIST II is truly bad and sends this John Boorman flick in the PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE category. It's the most unintentionally hilarious ending ever conceived for the silver screen.And it's a shame because as bad as the ending is, there are some startlingly original moments in the first hour which have actually influenced movies and filmmakers up to this day. The dream-like quality seen in EXORCIST II feels very contemporary and after watching it recently, it made me realise how influential that approach was. Unfortunately, the film is not really scary and the plethora of bad and disastrous aspects in EXORCIST II nearly eclipse the few good qualities it has.  "}{"Title":"Funnier than Repossessed","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This turkey is full of gems for fans of bad movies. To be fair, they didn't just try to do a re-hash of the first film, attempting instead to tell of Father Merrin's original encounter with the demon. Unfortunately the result is an incoherent mess.The film consists of long boring hypnosis scenes and the equally mind-numbing African shots. But there is still a feast of bad acting to enjoy, with Linda Blair and Kitty Winn giving abysmal performances. But even they are overshadowed by Richard Burton's hammy efforts. The script is ludicrous, and the cheesy theme music that wafts through the film would not be out of place in the Emmanuelle movies.After a couple of hours with nothing even remotely suspenseful or scary happening, we are treated to a 'what the hell was that all about' ending. One of the best bad movies ever.Favourite scene - Fr. Lamont's fire-fighting efforts in the basement - priceless.  "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Jokes of a Movie Ever Filmed","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is not to be missed. It is SO bad it goes beyond the laughable; you will stare at it with jaw agape in wonder that it could have been written by sentient human beings. The plot, if that's the word for it, is meant to be a sequel to The Exorcist, but it is devoid of logic and seeks only to shock. Admittedly The Exorcist did some of that too, but at least it was tied to a rational plot and characters. In this mess nothing is coherent, and the entire concept of some demon who is not the Devil but is called Pazuzu and flies around in the shape of a big locust while a great actor like James Earl Jones wears silly costumes and mouths absurd dialogue is so far beyond the rational it reduces the movie to self-parody. Richard Burton is here overacting with the turgid lines he's been given. Linda Blair seemed in a daze. The final scenes in which the entire house in Georgetown, the same one from the first film, gets wrecked and someone burned alive and swarms of locusts descend is just ludicrous. When it is over the viewer also will be in a daze - it is impossible to believe a plot this bad was ever approved and put on film. It is one of the worst films of all time.  "},{"Title":"As Bad as the first was Good","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Good grief! Why was this one made? The first Exorcist movie was sheer cinema magic. The second was a waste of money and talent. This movie is what gives sequels a bad name. It was not so much the acting that was below standard - I don't think anyone could have made such a muddled script look good. This looked like it was written by a committee of accountants. (Nothing personal against accountants, I am one. I also know I have no business writing a script.) Richard Burton was one of the best actors of his generation. If you based his career on this movie, you would have thought him a hack. He might have needed the cash and therefore just slept his way through this. I recommend avoiding this unless you have a thing for pain. Linda Blair went on to a career that seemingly matched the quality of this movie. Yes, this movie is scary, but not in a good way. It is scary they actually released this. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly fun","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I think I tried watching this movie when I was a teenager. I was hoping for horror and gore of course... or at least more of the same as the original Exorcist. Instead I got this wackadoodle fantasy story about magical children and demons trying to destroy them. Lots of spectacle and overwrought acting. It didn't work for me at all and I probably didn't pay much attention to it... I might even have fallen asleep. So, flash forward a decade or so and I see it on TCM and decide to give it a second shot, if for no other reason than to laugh at an infamous turkey of a movie. Surprisingly, I liked it. Yes, it's still the same crazy-ass movie I saw as a kid... but I've changed and am much more willing to glean the gold from the ashes. Boorman made some wonderfully kooky movies, some worked better than others but ALL of them were trying to be something more than the average. Exorcist 2 is NOT the original, in a lot of ways it stands apart and I suspect if it had been an Italian production with different stars that made no reference to the original it would be considered a minor classic. Not that it's a great movie, not at all. It's got some bad dialogue and badly delivered dialogue. The sets are a 70s sort of weird... more scifi and disco influenced I suspect. And it's not really a horror movie at all. Instead it's a mystical epic... concerned with psychic kids and evil spirits and pseudo-scientific mumbo jumbo and gadgets. I think it would make a fun double-feature with another wild 70s movie, The Visitor. Also packed with some famous actors and also kooky as can be. But my enjoyment of Exorcist 2 didn't come from how bad it was. I don't think it would work as an MST3K subject. I liked it because, despite its flaws, I could see through to the story it was telling and it's a compelling tale... full of bizarre imagery and mythic implications. I'm sure most people of the time would have preferred a by-rote rehash of the original horror film... instead they got this spiritual and futuristic epic that was free of most all the salacious and 'naughty' bits of the original. It was also pretty much free of Catholic superstition and Christian imagery. The story it's telling leaves all that behind in favor of something strikingly new. That, more than anything, is why I think it has the awful reputation it does. But seen outside the limiting context of being a sequel to a famous horror film I believe it delivers on being an interesting and compelling tale of its own. Give it a shot. "},{"Title":"wrong for sequel","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Dr. Gene Tuskin (Louise Fletcher) treats troubled kids including Regan MacNeil (Linda Blair). Regan seems normal but she doesn't remember that night in Washington. Father Philip Lamont (Richard Burton) joins her this time to investigate the death of Father Merrin. Dr. Tuskin uses a synchronized hypnotist machine on Regan that links their minds. Lamont discover the demon Pazuzu resides inside Regan and he goes to Africa to search for a cure from Kokumo (James Earl Jones).The higher they climb, the farther they fall. There is an obvious way to make the sequel to Exorcist. This is not it. There is nothing scary. It's trying to explain the Exorcist rather than making a bigger Exorcist. The hypnotist machine is laughable and flattens the movie. The African story is muddled and drags. It may be teaching more about locus than anything else. The locus POV is also somewhat laughable. This is simply wrong in so many ways. "},{"Title":"Exorcist II The Heretic (4/10)","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Having a terrible stigma of being one of the worst follow ups to a horror classic, film critics and fans alike, have torn The Heretic apart for many years. Exorcist II does warrant this criticism but has some features done right by the director and producers. Let's start off by saying the film does have a poorly, mindless written plot along with a lot of the scenes being rather dull. The hypnosis machine and traveling within minds is a laughable and lazy attempt to add an interesting futuristic feel. Another fail is the scenes in Africa, which don't really make a whole lot of sense and add very little to Regan's story. Frightening moments and death scenes were very limited too.With a hefty list of negative aspects to the film, one thing done right was casting previous major players, Linda Blair as Regan, Max von Sydow as Merrin, and Kitty Winn as Sharon. The lead roles of Louise Fletcher and Richard Burton were also solid additions and put forth a good character. Perhaps the biggest get was Ennio Morricone on the side of composing the film's music which was fantastic during the introduction's credits. All in all, the film was a below mediocre project to one of the most notorious horror films and should probably be skipped, as the first and third are better suited together. "},{"Title":"Horrifying, but for all the wrong reasons","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Laughably horrible sequel, at its core it might have been interesting (as it touches on the psychological trauma the girl is still experiencing as a result of her possession four years earlier) but its execution is a disaster.Wm. Goodheart's screenplay was rewritten by director John Bore-man, and Rospo Pallenberg, to include swarms of locust led by James Earl Jones in a locust costume, psychiatrist offices built in a hall of mirrors, and well-endowed, bra-less Linda Blair being hypnotised by some preposterous device referred to as a synchroniser, which allows her thoughts and memories to travel to another's mind, while they are also under the effect of the synchroniser. Bloody hell.Linda Blair looks gorgeous here, and her performance is fine, but she has nothing to work with. Richard Burton however, appears to be either genuinely under hypnosis, drunk, or bored with everything involved and wanting desperately to get this over with so he can go somewhere else, as there are repeated occasions when he doesn't even wait for the person to whom he is speaking to finish their lines, before interrupting them.Surreal images of someone rolling a giant bolt through this hall of mirrors/ psychiatric offices, and a demon, Pazuzu, who looks strangely like Aunt Jemima, and Linda Blair's attractive body on constant display give this a very random, surreal, Italian giallo vibe at times, but the entire thing quickly collapses under its own weight, never to recover. By the time it is finally over, I wasn't sure what had just happened, and what the point was to it.In the words of Burton's Father Lamont It was horrible. Utterly horrible. "},{"Title":"The exorcist with a hint of the chuckle brothers!","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Now rather than jump on the this is awful bad wagon, I want to say that I've seen this film many times now and you may read this thinking why?I could highlight the many unintentional comedy elements such as the moment when Reagan goes cross eyed under the effects of the hypnosis machine, or the funky sock swinging moment at the end to scare off the locust (I'm guessing the sock was a father Merrin relic from Iraq aka 1973), and of course darth vadar as the African locust....I can see a good back story in this movie, how did the devil get to regan, what happened to Merrin in regans room in 73, and what happened after father carris freed regan of perzuzu, basically it tied up some loose ends for me.OK the choice of a moody Richard burton was questionable in casting, and when under hypnosis he travelled the length of a subway somehow landing on top of a fake devil regan back in Washington, I did question the merits of this and the obviously different actress pretending to be Linda Blair (Blair didn't want the hours of make up again).One stroke of rare genius was setting fire to the previously mute housekeeper at the end, she guaranteed her exit from any future exorcist spin offs or remakes, I just can't help thinking that nobody else wanted the gig, (Claus, the butler pulling out after reading the script).In summary no film or director other than a friedkin/blatty partnership could have even come close to touching the original and groundbreaking 1973 exorcist! It was a one off success and should have remained that way. "},{"Title":"Exorcist II The Heretic","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The original film is possibly the greatest scary movie of all time, the same cannot be said for the follow ups, I heard this first sequel was one of the worst films ever made, and yet critics give it three out of five stars, I watched to make up my own mind, from director John Boorman (Deliverance). Basically four years have passed since the events in Washington, D.C., and Regan MacNeill (Linda Blair), now fourteen years old, is living with guardian Sharon Spencer (Kitty Winn) while her mother is away filming, but she continually visits a psychiatric institute for troubled children. She claims to have no memory of what happened during her exorcism, and she seems to be normal, but she has nightmares, and Dr. Gene Tuskin (One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest's Louise Fletcher) who is monitoring her believes that her memories are repressed or buried within her mind. Dr. Tuskin has an invention to investigate this theory, a device that hypnotises two people and links their minds together, and slowly through doing this they find that the spirit of Pazuzu, the demon the possessed her, still lurks within her, and it is desperate to emerge once again and cause havoc. Father Philip Lamont (Richard Burton) has been ordered by the cardinal to investigate the death of Father Merrin (Max Von Sydow), who was killed during Regan's exorcism, Lamont reluctantly agrees and witnesses the workings of the device, listening to the doctor and young girl as they subconsciously return to that night when Merrin returned to room alone with Regan. Lamont feels unworthy of the task he has been given, as he believes evil is a literal entity and that this entity is winning over the power of good, but he comes to believe in the demonic forces, travelling to Africa and learning about Pazuzu's ability to appear as a swarm of locusts, but specifically that the demon attacks those who can heal others, Regan is able to telepathically reach others, for example helping an autistic girl to speak. Lamont slowly becomes frantic and more obsessive over these theories, and he knows that the only way to truly defeat the spirit within Regan is to return to the house in Georgetown, where the exorcism took place, it is there that Pazuzu unleashes evil, forcing the house to slowly crumble around him and Regan. In the end it is Regan that defeats Pazuzu, performing a ritual that banishes the locusts, Sharon is killed after a car crash in the flames, and while Regan and Lamont walk away together having survived the collapse of the house, Dr. Tuskin watches on remains there while the police gather and have questions to ask. Also starring Paul Henreid as The Cardinal, James Earl Jones as Older Kokumo and Ned Beatty as Edwards. Blair is still relatively likable as the innocent girl put through turmoil once again, thankfully not as harshly as before, Burton as the priest investigating past events does I agree he does overplay his lines a little, it is interesting to see Fletcher being nice as opposed to quietly evil like Nurse Ratched, and Jones gets his moment as the one who has most of the answers to the mythology. The problem I have with this sequel is that surely there should be more over the top material, this instead for most of the films bores you to death with chit chat about why possession occurs, talk about religious mythology, the ways the demon appears, and flashes back in time, it is only near the end the explosive stuff happens, you might as well ignore this sequel entirely and just stick with the masterpiece original (don't bother with the prequel The Beginning either), a disappointing horror film. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Acceptable film.","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I found myself having fun whilst watching Exorcist 2. I had heard all the criticism about it and decided to watch it before I watched Exorcist 3 for the first time. I was surprised. The film itself isn't too bad but it is ruined by certain things, such as constantly being shown flying locust which look terrible and make the film look cheesy, and Richard Burton's character who says the word evil every two seconds. Exorcist 2 doesn't make a great deal of sense, but the parts that do make sense are really clever. If you love the first Exorcist, I see where you may be disappointed, but still try to watch this film. who knows, you might like it. "}{"Title":"What is wrong with you people?","Date":"29 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Heretic is probably my favourite movie of all time, and thats saying something since I was born in the 50's... There's something about this movie that entirely captivates me - Boorman made Deliverance, yes, and that movie has tension and builds to its denouement, but The Heretic? This movie has plain weird on a scale I hadn't seen since Kubrick's 2001. I PAID to see this movie about 20 times in the theatres, I became so obsessed with it. (Mmm I seem to remember also having an attachment to Rollerball,,,OK, I *was* in my early 20's ) - However , I don't think I would have had such an investment in this movie without seeing Exorcist I... EI was the 1st act here, and Boorman took what was a plain horror movie ( don't buy in to the hype around at the time of The Exorcist of having Doctors and nurses on standby in the cinemas In Case and all that sh*t)( I actually got asked to leave a theatre showing Exorcist 1 for laughing during the Reagan wets the carpet scene.. d'oh! and turned it into something that would make me question my religious beliefs - I didn't believe in God then... and I still don't - but do I believe in Good and Evil as abstract forces in the world? This film made me question that, and can people who have been brushed with the wings of evil help those who are struggling? Mmm.. aren't a lot of recovering/recovered drug addicts working with young people to try and break the cycle? Pazuzu can be a bitch if you aren't careful! (ask Kitty Winn!) "},{"Title":"I will spit a leopard.....","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Gene Tuskin works with Regan MacNeil, who suffers from bad dreams and repressed memories. The memories she represses are of the time she was possessed by a demon. Dr. Tuskin's invention, a device that hypnotises two people and links their minds together, reveals that the demon Pazuzu, still lurks within her. It is desperate to emerge again and wreak havoc. Father Philip Lamont is ordered by his cardinal to investigate the death of Father Merrin, the priest who died while performing an exorcism on Regan. Father Lamont undertakes his task reluctantly. He feels unworthy of his assignment. He also feels that Evil is literally an entity and that this entity is winning the battle over Good....The Exorcist is the greatest horror movie ever made, and one of the best movies ever made, so obviously I had serious reservations about seeing this. And after I lowered my expectations as much as I could, I finally succumbed to it.As a sequel, it's awful, and ruins the structural narrative that the first one had created, and leaves gaping plot holes. As if her mother would leave her so soon after such an ordeal, or if ever. Why would her carers who knew of her past let the demon return to haunt her once more, and what is Richard Burton doing for the last fifteen minutes.Take away the original connotations, you are not left with much, but it looks great, some of the effects and especially the flashbacks are psychedelic, and its always a pleasure to see Burton trying his hardest when something is going seriously wrong.Out are all the religious symbols, all the subliminal images that haunted your memories long after the film finished, and we get instead multiple Regens, one good, and the other one, who is for some reason still at the original house.All in all, it makes no sense whatsoever, and its a complete mess, but its watchable, like a car crash, it's bad, but you cannot help but watch. "},{"Title":"Demented","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In what can only be described as cruel, Linda Blair is hypnotized into remembering the demonic events of four years earlier by psychiatrist Louise Fletcher. What kind of doctor would do that to someone? Blair is soon put into a trance that forces her to walk on the ledge of her ritzy, glass-walled Manahattan penthouse. Bleary eyed priest Richard Burton is investigating the same lurid events and he discovers that some Africans were also possessed by the same demon. It's never clear how these things tie together, but there are some flashbacks featuring Max Von Sydow, James Earl Jones as an African shaman, and a lot of locusts. Director John Boorman clearly lost his way with this one. At one point we get a point of view shot from a locust! EXORCIST II makes no sense whatsoever but taken as a hallucinatory trip, it's actually kind of fun. There's a lot of weird music on the soundtrack courtesy of the great Ennio Morricone. Did any sequel to the original EXORCIST really stand a chance? It's doubtful, but this has to be seen to be believed! "},{"Title":"Heretic Falls Short of Classic Exorcist Mark","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  After reading the excellent novel and seeing The Exorcist disappointment does not even begin to cover how I felt about this sequel to the academy award winning movie. The Heretic was beyond cheesy and the special effects were terrible in comparison to The Exorcist and The Exorcist 3. I've seen all three Exorcist movies and I strongly feel that the third one with Jason Miller as Fr. Karras/The Gemini Killer and George C Scott as Kinderman should have been the true sequel to The Exorcist. The third one followed the events just after the end of The Exorcist more closely then the cheesy Exorcist II The Heretic. I would strongly recommend skipping a rental of The Heretic and going straight to renting The Exorcist 3. Your disappointment will have been saved greatly. "},{"Title":"For morbid curiosity only.","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Oh dear.  This really is a sad indictment of the franchise film.  I suppose it was inevitable, even unsuccessful films get sequels these days, particularly those of the horror genre.  The only real good thing to come out of this was to spur William Peter Blatty into helming what would become the third Exorcist film.  Despite the films best intentions, it makes little sense in relation to the original classic.  The Exorcist II contains a few interesting scenes and shots but ultimately relies on the none too impressive climax to engage the viewer.  The pace and direction is often slow and disjointed and I must confess to laughing out loud at a couple of unintentionally humorous passages of dialogue.I might say for Exorcist devotees only, but then anybody who truly appreciates the original will want to steer clear of this sequel.  For morbid curiosity only.  "},{"Title":"It takes awhile to get comfortable with...","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If this film was re-leased in 1977 about a girl who was previously posessed by the devil and had to delve into her subconscience to clear out her painful memories( while getting wrapped up in a new storyline containing trips to africa on the wings of a locust, cinematically beautiful dream sequences, almost poetic dialogue, some fun scares and a dash of science fiction)it would have been hailed. BUT, this is not the case.This film is a sequal. Half of movie-gowers frown upon sequals as a whole but a sequal to a classic horror film like The Exorcist is just un-heard of. Exorcist 2 The Heretic, I admit takes awhile to get comfortable with. The mind frame, pscological station and even reality of the original film is ignored. This is a new film, not a continuing story. At times it even seems like the second part of a trilogy never completed, unraveling a mystery we thought solved at the conclusion of The Exorcist (Although an Exorcist 3 does exist, it ignores the second and it is more of a direct sequal to the first).There are many differences between this film and the first. In the first, posessed Regan spouts out lengthy lines of obscenities, while in this film there are hardly any, all the dialogue spoken like victorian literature. A desperate, scrambling mother wouldn't exist in the reality of The Heretic, this is why her absense seems to make some sense. This film also seems to take a psycological route...it asks questions of whether evil is a religious or psycological being.Although, I do have my complaints. Richard Burton's peroformance isn't all that great, and Linda Blair sometimes seems forced. I also think all religious tie-ins should've been cut...although it seems too much, the title is The Heretic which suggests the questioning of faith.Also it seems edited to death. I myself have only seen the film which ends where Richard Burton is alive but I've heard of another in which he dies. The film seems just a tad too choppy and like there are a few pieces missing. It probably could've used a re-write too.But all in all I surprisingly enjoyed it alot. Although The Exorcist is superior, this film is a worthy sequal. Visually most of all, it rivals the original. I wish more sequals like this were made today...maybe John Boorman just had some guts.See it with an open mind.  "},{"Title":"Forked Tongue in Cheek","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A priest and a psychiatrist battle against the devil to protect Regan's soul.'Would've's' and 'Should've's' abound, but they are necessary...'Heretic' is not a horror film by any viable gradient, but it is still worth watching.  Unfortunately it might make one want to occasionally snicker, and only become horrified when one asks him/herself that the 'makers of this one could have spend the production dollars on less lofty pursuits, and gotten a tidier profit in the offing ('Heretic' bombed, and bombed badly at the box-office!).'Heretic' is unjustly underrated for not living up to the horror success and excess of its predecessor.  This sequel features excellent histrionic contributions by actors Von Sydow and Jones (as the two admirable &#145;father figures'), fantasmagorical cinematography and sound (Whitlock mattes don't hurt either) and a plot/storyline that could have really gone somewhere if the makers had instead decided to write a seriously gripping novel first, and a so-so adaptation second.Von Sydow returns as a much younger Fr. Merrin.  The actor's role should have been further expanded, allowing for less unintentional audience laughs caused by other characters.  Fletcher and Burton, both talented actors in their individual right, only make matters worse by agreeing (or allowing) to break from their characters and trust the other to further ruin the storyline.  For instance, why does the, initially responsible, and highly professional, psychiatrist suddenly trust the priest to commandeer her mutually-hypnotic sessions with Regan, when the priest has not been properly briefed and trained? Fletcher herself somewhat physically resembles actress Burstyn (who played Regan's mother in the original film), so it seems an even better (and preferable) creative effort to have merely cast her as such, instead of allowing for her character to further muddle a storyline (as evidence points in the original film, science has nothing to do with Regan's condition) that only gets more confusing as it comes to its grinding halt ending.Some video releases retain the ridiculous survival of one particular character, who gives a groaningly transparent attempt to seem victorious and biblical.  Other video versions did away with this character altogether, sparing its audience further &#145;torture' and allowing viewers to catch their breath from having laughed so hard.Why Linda Blair thought this script was worth being a part of is anybody's guess.  She was, no doubt because of her tender age, going through her own brand of inner turmoil and couldn't see straight.  "},{"Title":"Much better than the first one.","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A huge improvement over the original, Exorcist II is a cool movie with some great scenes. Linda Blair is starring in her first great movie in her career. She is very sexy. Here is the story thanks to Rob Sheppard.The demon is back in this the second film of the three part series as a new priest played by Richard Burton tries to find the demon still living inside Regan (Linda Blair). The final scene when she is on her bed with white clothes is a classic. "},{"Title":"Deserves a Chance!!!","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I am a huge fan of the original Exorcist(both the book and the movie) and this film did not deserve to be as panned as it was.  I think its really good.  It has an interesting plot and charecters.  Linda Blair(Reagan), Kitty Winn(Sharon), and Max Von Sydow(Merrin) all reprise their roles from the first one.  I think people expected to see a film like the first one but Exorcist 2 is nothing like the first one and completly stands on its own as its own film.  Seriously I know a lot of people hated it, but a lot of people loved it.  This film deserves for people to give it a chance! Exorcist 2 is very good!!!! "},{"Title":"Not as good as expected.","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie could have been written better. The whole plot was mixed up and the writers gave Pazuzu a power that he shouldn't have had. Pazuzu can't do a mass possession like it did in the movie. Plus, Regan couldn't have had the demon still in her. Everyone who's seen the end of the first movie knows that the demon left her to go inside Father Karras. Also, the whole demon being spread by locusts thing doesn't make any sense at all. They say that Regan was contacted by Pazuzu in the first movie through the locusts. Well, for one thing, there were no locusts and another thing is that she contacted the spirit through the Ouija board. The acting and music was done very well, but the movie was terribly boring and didn't make any sense at all. Now I see why the third movie pretended as if the second one didn't exist. "}{"Title":"Interesting Plot","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I used to be scared of this movie when I was a little girl, but now it is not so bad as the first Exorcist.  Linda Blair seems more like a healer than a person who WAS possessed before.  She has forgotten about her past which is good (Who would want to remeber that they were possed?)  The movie was a good overlook of what was supposed to happen before the evil spirit Pazuzu got to Georgetown and possessed Reagan and also how Father Miram fought Pazuzu before he fought Pazuzu again out of Reagan. "},{"Title":"laugh riot","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Pudgie Blair has wires strapped to empty head in search of demon Pazuzu who once infested boy in Africa among dancing ritual with rock on a string and some funky cornfield moves that arouse the lusts of locusts everywhere. Burton, master of over acting, tries to search for clues as to why he took this role, while flailing arms, encountering stone throwing villagers and James Earl Jones in giant grasshopper outfit that would win first prize in any Halloween contest. Battle betwix supposed good and silly evil as original house from 1st Exorcist gets wind tunnelled for destruction while hammy Burt wrestles one pudge on the bed and the other pudge screeches for mercy... finally, more locusts hover over the city of Washington, in eerie foreshadow of Bush in office and things are at last restored. maybe. til number 3 rolls around. Kitty Winn only one fool enuf to follow Linda from the first story. Nurse Ratched Louise almosts bores cast to death with stone face... "},{"Title":"Not a great film, but a decent sequel","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first Exorcist is a terrific and scary film and when I first saw it I figured that there was no need for a sequel, but then I saw Exorcist II The Heretic and actually enjoyed it. The film is definately underrated and much better than the overrated Exorcist III.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!Four years after her ordeal in the original, Reagan McNeil undergoes a new type of therapy to rid her of the demon for good. Unfortunately it causes great problems for her and those connected with her. In the end Reagan conquers her demon.Good story, visuals, and o.k. acting. *** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Oddly Pretty","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is really a terrible movie, but it contains some fantastic visuals.  The set design is very interesting and the photography is quite good.  It also features a great musical score. And Linda Blair is quite pretty.  Too bad the script is so silly.   "},{"Title":"An embarrassment in every way possible.","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've just had the extreme misfortune of watching this terrible excuse of a film for the third time in my life, and I sure hope and pray to all the ethereal forces of the universe that I never have to endure it again. That's right - watching Exorcist II The Heretic is the cinematic equivalent of being in Hell.There is absolutely nothing positive to take from this film. It's a disgrace in every sense of the word. Not only does it completely embarrass the Exorcist franchise, but it also humiliates cinema in general in the process. This has to be one of the dumbest, most convoluted, most useless pieces of garbage ever committed to celluloid. Everything about this is completely disoriented; the story is beyond stupid, the acting is laughable, the effects are ridiculous, the length is seemingly never-ending, etc. If one is determined to undertake the unadvised task of watching this movie, I can suggest only one way to do so unconscious. That's right - the only way to get through this is to do so without any sense of acknowledgment. The simple reason to avoid this film at all costs is because you are endangering your own intellect if you do so. There is an old cliché in describing a movie to be so dumb that it actually dumbs its audience down. Usually this purport has little merit, but I can assure you that it genuinely applies to Exorcist II The Heretic (or as William Friedkin nicknamed it, The Hairy Tick). How do I know this? because I've watched it three times and have felt my share of wisdom-loss to be rather overwhelming at this stage. Furthermore, if you enjoy whatever intellect you have, then be safe and avoid Exorcist II to also avoid brain cell reduction. "},{"Title":"A fascinating mess","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Money is a powerful object. It has a profound affect on people that's sometimes positive, sometimes not. It's no secret that Hollywood is full of people looking to make a quick buck. Like when a film is a financial and critical triumph there's going to be somebody who wants to cash in. The 1973 horror classic 'The Exorcist' wowed audiences and critics and made a killing at the box office. It's a film that's well deserving of the praise and being remembered. It however did not need a sequel, but Warner Bros. wasn't going to let this opportunity escape them.In the beginning it looked like the film might actually be pretty good. The cast was filled with Oscar winners and nominees and the director had really made a name for himself. But soon after filming began things started to come apart, which has been attributed to major creative differences. The finished film was laughed off the screens and ended up a complete and utter failure. Years later it is still considered to be one of the worst films and sequels ever made, but all things considered it's not a total washout. A mess it is, but it's certainly not an uninteresting one.Pros An interesting premise that had potential. A score that's very different than the one in the original, but is excellent in it's own right. Director Boorman makes the film a visual feast. Cinematography is also nice. Most of the performances are fine. Great production design, some of it unusual. Moves at a slow, but steady pace. A silly and over-the-top, but exciting finale.Cons Richard Burton is the only weak link here. He seems lost in this mess and most of the time is like a zombie. Some things make no sense whatsoever. Not in the least bit scary. Some of the dialogue is atrocious and makes the actors look bad. Hasn't aged terribly well. Becomes increasingly ridiculous as it goes along. Ends up not amounting to very much.Final thoughts I applaud the makers of this film for making it different than the original instead of rehashing it, but the result is severely flawed. After seeing this film a few times it really feels like this could have been a good film. There's some interesting stuff here and perhaps if things had gone as planned this would not be the mess it is. Worth a look for curiosity seekers, but others avoid and see 'The Exorcist III' instead.My rating 3/5 "},{"Title":"Can someone please explain something to me who's seen this movie?!","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  At the end of this movie, there are suddenly 2 Regeans. Okay.  This is what I don't get how did this second one come about? Because if it was just a ghost...then how can you tear the heart out of a ghost? Did the demon, I suppose, find a body to posess and make it look like Reagan, and then cause it to appear at the old house where the first movie happened, where Reagan and Father Lamont were headed? I mean.....there was an actual physical body,(after her heart was torn out),that toppled and fell down the stairs, so...............????????? Can someone please explain this to me who's seen this movie? Thank you! rdvinct "},{"Title":"The Devil Must Have Made Them Do It","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Unbelievably bad sequel to the creepy but somewhat overrated horror classic The Exorcist is all the more baffling because of the colossal waste of talent involved. Exorcist author William Peter Blatty had nothing to do with the story for Exorcist II (he would later adapt his sequel novel Legion as 1990's Exorcist III, which, despite studio interference, is a more palatable follow-up). Set four years after the original, Exorcist II features a psychologist (Louise Fletcher) probing the repressed memories of Regan (Linda Blair), who had once been possessed by a demon. Regan and the psychologist are sought out by a self-doubting priest (Richard Burton) investigating the death of exorcist Father Merrin (Max von Sydow), and it is discovered that there is still a lingering evil inside Regan.On paper, Exorcist II sounds okay. It has a cast of good actors (Sydow returns in a series of flashbacks, and James Earl Jones and Ned Beatty make brief appearances), music by Enno Morricone, and was directed by John Boorman, but all around this is a low point in the careers of everyone involved. Things quickly go off the rails. Boorman's direction mirrors less the primal terror and moral conflict of his Deliverance and more the absurd pretentiousness and unintended humour of his Zardoz. There are ridiculous plot points involving a mind-reading machine called a synchronizer, a trip to Africa that mostly takes place on a fake-looking studio set, James Earl Jones wearing a locust costume, and a demonic doppleganger of Regan vamping it up in a negligee. It all builds towards an ending that is confusing, noisy, and anti-climactic.This is one of those films that makes you ask, What the hell were they were thinking?. The Exorcist franchise has been horribly managed by the studio (as seen with the current status of the prequel in development) and this is one of the worst sequels ever. They should just re-edit and re-title Exorcist III and pretend Exorcist II never existed.*1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Feels like it's cut and pasted together with scissors and glue!","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Using Father Merrin as a narrator during the dreams created by the hypnosis isn't really a good idea. It's distasteful, but to use the same stock-footage shot from above, flying, over and over again in these dreams; that's plain stupid. It makes the film look really bad and it makes it look like it's badly edited as well, and it is! (Kind of scares me, as this is the status of the prequel at the moment if I'm not mistaken.) The fact that it's not even remotely scary due to the cheesy demon vocal effects doesn't help...  ...and I really wanted to like this film. I've been a huge fan of the original for such a long time now without having seen this first of sequels that I felt that I had to see it, if only to know if it really was that bad that everyone was saying. Is it? I don't know what to say to that. Is it a good film? No. Is it a bad film? Well...I can tell you what I liked about itI thought the visual effect were surprisingly effective given that the film is as old as it is, and I really loved the set design of the doctor's clinic, if that was a set at all. I thought that the concept for the african scenes were interesting and I... Well, I don't know if I have anything more positive to say about it really. It's one of those So what films that I've never understood.   "},{"Title":"Could have been brilliant sequel - down to rubbish special effects","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Exorcist II The Heretic is the most underrated sequel in movie history. I personally think this is due to the first film (The Exorcist) as nothing could ever match up to a piece of entertainment that good. However, I do think this film could have been improved alot and probably still can if it is restored with the latest technology.The make - up on this film is appaling compared to the orrigional. I do think they should have used exactly the same make - up as the first film. They could still improve this, as on the flash backs of the exorcisiome they could use clips and sounds from the first movie. That way it would be more scary and it would be Linda Blair and not some doubble. They should have used the same voice from the first film.Also they should have filmed the Washington scenes in washington. Not on some sound stage. I do understand they did not have permission to film on campus but they coulds restore this today with computer graphicsI personally think it needs to be digitally restored, sound and picture.Also this film was made by warner brothers because they read and then refused Blattys second book Legion. If Blatty had had his way there would only be two Exorcist films that would be The Exorcist and The Exorcist II Legion. The Heretic was relised in 1977 Blatty later went to 20th century fox and they turned his book into a film. It then became The Exorcist III Legion and it was relised in 1990. Over all I think this film is a good attempt, acting by Linda Blair is brilliant in this film. This film should not have been made and gives The Exorcist a bad name! "}{"Title":"Uh... What can I say?","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Exorcist II The Heretic (1977) was at least entertaining enough to make me sit through an entire viewing.  However, it is DEFINITELY the weakest film in the trilogy.  I found Burton's performance to be just shy of completely absurd, which, in turn, made the role somewhat satisfying in a very unusual way.  Blair's return to the role of Regan shows that, without the special effects and make-up, there was never much to her to begin with. It was the spectacle of The Exorcist that made Regan disturbing, exciting and spooky.  You will find none of these qualities here.I recommend this movie simply because it looks like hard work and a little elbow grease were put behind it.  And, every once in a while, it shows.The Exorcist A Exorcist II The Heretic C- Exorcist III B+ "},{"Title":"Locust-Pocus","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Possible Spoilers-One of the dumbest sequels ever attempted. Incoherent, badly-plotted, with some truly bizarre moments. The pointless tap dancing sequence and the idiotic collapsing house scene at the end (from which Burton's and Blair's characters traipse unscathed!) are enough on their own to drop the jaw and boggle the mind.Once again, John Boorman proves that he can't tell a story coherently. This one is right down there with Zardoz and is light-years behind The Emerald Forest, a film I didn't even like.See this, but only to laugh. "},{"Title":"OK So it's not exactly Gone With The Wind","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a curious film. Like many adoring fans of The Exorcist, I was eager to watch this film, to see a follow up to my all time favourite. I went and bought it, sat and watched it, then stormed off saying it was the worst film ever. Then I found myself thinking about it afterwards. I also found myself strangely drawn to watch it again.I now keep watching it, and am considering buying the recently remastered soundtrack. This is so bizarre, as it is a bad film. The acting ranges from the overdone (Burton) to the ridiculous (Winn). However, there are some very good performances from Fletcher and Blair, and though some of their lines are weird, I think they do the best they could with the material they were given.I would seriously like to urge everyone to watch this film. The only thing I ask is that you don't compare it to the original. I think that is why a lot of people don't like it. It's not fair to compare them as they are very different. Anyway, watch it! It's a simple enough watch. "},{"Title":"great film but somewhat silly","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Exorcist II the heretic was a good film and the acting was good with Richard Burton, Louise Fletcher, James Earl Jones, and Paul Henreid. The films old stars from the original return like Linda Blair, Max von Sydow and Kitty Winn. Burton goes to Africa to find the african witch doctor James Earl Jones since Sydow preformed an exorcism on him. The demon is still with Blair and it is up to Burton to destory it. It is silly for director John Boorman to have so much crazy things happening in the background and he should have had Ellen Burstyn, Jason Miller, and Lee J. Cobb return. I still cannot figure out why Kitty Winn stepped on a light with gas next to it and burned up. And the Cardinal Paul Hnereid sure is mean to Burton. Fletcher plays a doctor for Linda Blair. But this is still a good film. "},{"Title":"Only disappointment","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I don't know why we need this movie as a sequel for the excellent first Exorcist. There is nothing to do with the first Exorcist. This movie is all about Locusts, so what? What is the matter with locusts? It's just too intentional to try to make connection with locusts. When you see the first one, you will realize there is nothing related to the first one in this movie. When I saw a flying locust in the Regan's room, I just smirked. Get the first one and just think there are no sequels for the Exorcist. Save your money for something else.  "},{"Title":"Bad...very...very...BAD =(","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I never have been more bored out of my mind, I have never laughed so hard at something... The Exorcist II... This movie was pitiful. I had seen the first one, and found it impressive. It wasn't scary to me, but, still, it was quite freaky, and for a movie of its time, I was very impressed! The sequel however, failed to do anything... I thought maybe Regan might have had traumatizing moments, like, flashbacks, withOUT a machine's help. And maybe they could've had someone else possessed, to take Regan back to the memories, or maybe... even... SHE could become possessed again, but, this movie failed to do anything creative like that. All the movie was about was locust bugs, and that was all. I got to the point to where I began to think this movie had NOTHING at all to do with the first one. It was boring, and badly made. I think it was a definitely good idea to make a sequel, but... they should've just made the sequel good... =) "},{"Title":"The Exorcist II","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Even the performances of the many illustrious stars cannot save this lurid sequel to the classic horror story from William Peter Blatty. John Boorman's direction lacks cohesiveness and scope. The film runs longer than it should and makes us wait around for a conclusion that is utterly stupifying.  "},{"Title":"A classic awful movie!!","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Wow, this film is a total classic! That is, for being so awful! This film really is very poor, but will always have status in my video collection because there is no other in it that is as poor as this! I watched and I watched and you think, 'Alright, it's going to get going in a minute' and then the film finishes!! Honestly - you don't believe it until it's over! All I'll say to everyone is - you must watch it! You can't appreciate the good until you've seen the bad! And this is very bad!!  "},{"Title":"I Like","Date":"16 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" With all desparates I like Exorcist 2 The Heretic! Yes, it's an underrated film, and I believe that at the Exorcist boom would be difficult to do as good a film as a result, expectations were high, the longing to see new shocking scenes was intense, it would be a long and painful road to Boorman, and was! The same even tried to get out while he could (or gave) but was barred by the studio! It really is complicated when a director is not involved with the original story, since he should make a direct continuation of the first film, Boorman tried to do what would be your sincere opinion about the subject and did, but did not get the expected results !   Well, Exorcist 2 The Heretic is yes, its a great time! Starting with the soundtrack by Ennio Morriconne, what inspires us, great moments of beautiful African musical illustrations mixing with what was in vogue at the time (see the track Magic and Ecstasy) and of course the theme of Regan (who becomes one of simplest track)!'s performances Linda, Kitty (this always ignored the credits and everything related to the Exorcist even being one of the best in the cast) and Burton (realized that even drunk) sound natural and punchy.'s special effects are not to be desired, bright scenes, worked for the best possible realism (by the book first) envision us, even that sometimes skidded along the script a little confused, but direct, mystical, with science side by side Boormam offers in his madness, it's up to you to decide whether it was good or not!'s far from perfect, but it's not so bad as talking! "},{"Title":"Mind-bogglingly Bad","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In 1977, this picture was given a saturation release, which generally happens when a studio is handed a high-profile turkey, and tries to beat the word-of-mouth by opening the movie everywhere at once.  People were lined up around the block to see it after all, this was the sequel to The Exorcist!  I myself saw the first showing in town, and when I came out of the theater a friend of mine in line said eagerly, Well?  I replied, This is the worst movie I have ever seen; you've GOT to see it!  I stick to that statement.  Any self-respecting movie-buff owes it to him/herself to experience Hollywood at its most misguided.  I love John Boorman, whose intentions I'm sure were the best, but this is a stinker of Cecil B. DeMille proportions. "}{"Title":"Dreadful - Spoiler","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have to agree with the majority of the comments on this site. This movie is awful. I'm a fan of the Exorcist series, I loved I, thought III was very good and even IV has its moments. Exorcist II, however, has nothing to recommend it. This is surprising considering the cast is so good (what were Burton, von Sydow et al. thinking?) but the story is confused and completely misses the mark as either a horror or a drama story. The main storyline about the demon Pazuzu is badly developed and the inner torments of Burton's character are so ridiculous and hammy as to be deeply unmoving. The film lacked all of the suspenseful and atmospheric elements that made the others, especially the Exorcist, so entertaining. (Spoiler) The final scene is particularly amazing in that Burton, having regained his senses, does not so much exorcise the demon as beat the...out of her. Unbelievable. Supernatural horror seems to me one of the most difficult genres with respect to writing or film making in the sense that normally what fails a little, fails entirely. This fails entirely but it's not even clear that Boorman wanted to make a horror film. In a word, dreadful. 0/5. "},{"Title":"scary just thinking about it","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I thought the Excorcist 2 was really scary poor regan going threw it all over again just to think why Regan?. I still get nightmares from the first movie seeing that horrid face,the spinning head, but i have got to say those two movies are the best i have seen ever....... "},{"Title":"Aha - so there IS a better movie in there, struggling to get out","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was interested to read in someone else's comments that the movie everyone knows and despises is a hacked-to-bits version of a three-hour original, and that the three-hour original is much better.  Yes, that's more or less what it feels like.  There are some good things here nevertheless.  I have a feeling critics would have been much kinder to Exorcist II if it had been released today would-be blockbusters, and horror movies, have gotten so much worse as to reveal virtues that few would have noticed in 1977.Such as...?  Sheer, dark stylishness, for one thing.  No horror film would be so well shot, or visually convey such seriousness of purpose, today.  Richard Burton (and he's not the only one) delivers some laughable lines, to be sure; yet he and his surroundings are filmed with such sobriety that we don't laugh as much as we might - if at all.  A common complaint made of a ridiculous film is that it takes itself too seriously.  This charge is usually misguided.  What's wrong with (say) Battlefield Earth is that it tries AND FAILS to take itself seriously.  Much in Exorcist II, mostly the dialogue, is downright ludicrous, yet the film is redeemed by how seriously it succeeds in taking itself.Other good things... Those shots of Africa, shot within a studio and all the better for it, are both beautiful and seriously creepy.  The musical score is a fine one (one of Morricone's best).  Then there's Linda Blair.  It was a marvellous stroke of good luck that the 13-year-old actress they chose to play the part of an even younger girl in The Exorcist would grow up to be so gorgeous. "},{"Title":"Mess, mess","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  SPOILER ALERTA Catholic priest who doesn't even blink trying to take the devil of a South American girl's body, who suddenly burns herself. An extremely modern psychic clinic in the '70s. A machine which makes Linda Blair go back to her past memories for no plausible reason. A possessed Linda Blair from the past trying to kill Louise Fletcher by taking her heart or something. An African boy from the past full of grasshoppers and possessed. A sleepwalking Linda Blair trying to jump from her building. That 'alive statue' who is said to be a priest going on a trip to a stereotypical African tribe, where he finds James Earl Jones, who is the chief of a tribe, or a leopard, or a doctor. He gives the priest a ridiculous theory involving grasshoppers and possession. Linda Blair going back to Georgetown, following the priest, who is hypnotized by that machine. There she finds many grasshoppers and a possessed Linda Blair (yes! two!), while her old house is on fire because of a car crash involving Louise Fletcher. Well, that's just an idea of what Exorcist II The Heretic has to offer.Is it a bad movie? Yes, it is. Not just bad, but disgusting, with a terrible brown cinematography and awful performances. Linda Blair, who did a great job in the first Exorcist, is just annoying here. Not to talk about the actor who plays the priest... And the story is just implausible, with a screenplay full of holes. It's a 'sea of holes', in fact. In addition, it often loses its point.Exorcist II was a huge disappointment for me, specially because The Exorcist is one of my favorite films. It was intelligent, scary, memorable and impressing. This sequel has its lone qualities, but they are very small. The movie is nothing but a big dumb mess. But if you are a masochist... That's another story...4/10 "},{"Title":"One of the most pathetic films ever made","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  How could such an allstar cast (Linda Blair, Richard Burton, James Earl Jones, Max Von Sydow, Ned Beatty, etc.) allow themselves to be part of such a disaster?It really is so bad, that it's comical.  You'll find yourself watching in disbelief, wondering who wrote this crap?If you were scared to death by Exorcist I, you'll laugh to death at Exorcist II... "},{"Title":"So bad, it's great! Hilarious fail","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Wow, this movie is so bad, it must be one of the best comedies of all time. Really, you've got to see it to believe it. The icing on the cake is Richard Burton, who reaches desperately for dignified seriousness in every single scene. His gravitas inevitably collides with the sheer stupidity of the script in a big hysterical mess. Man, I don't know who wrote this, but&#x85; what were they thinking? Did the scriptwriter hit his head prior to this? How could a well-respected actor like Richard Burton, a Shakespearean heavyweight, participate in this? Nothing can prepare you for the incredibly dumb dialogues, those edgy special effects and fake African sets, the wrath of Pazuzu and - oh, my God - Linda Blair's acting. Exorcist 2 is a hilarious epic fail and I can't recommend it enough to all those who enjoy campy, unintentionally funny flicks. The others probably won't have the patience or the sense of humor to appreciate it. Burton's performance makes this an exquisite example of so bad it's good.Here's a tip watch it with the completely insane Zardoz (Sean Connery walking around in red diapers!) for a Boorman double feature with Extra Cheese. "},{"Title":"It Was Utterly Horrible... and Fascinating","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I think that the original Exorcist is, by far, one of the greatest movies ever made. It's the only movie that actually scares me and it's a magnificent piece of work, really. Except for the music (with the exception of Tubular Bells), I wouldn't change anything about it.Now comes this other movie, this *sequel* (hiss!) directed by the man who gave us Deliverance. Linda Blair returns as Regan, and Kitty Winn as Sharon, along with Max von Sydow for some fill-in-the-blanks work, but they're the only prominent talents behind or in front of the cameras to return.How dare this movie pretend to be in the same league as The Exorcist, right? Wrong.Going in with absolutely no expectations whatsoever (I recommend that state of mind), I found a good story told in a not-particularly-good fashion. The acting is mostly awful, except some capable moments by Linda Blair and James Earl Jones. However, the actors deliver lines that weren't really meant for Hollywood-- metaphorical, psychospiritual stuff about locusts and the demon Pazuzu, who, four years prior, got all up in little Regan's grill and may be doing so again. This is, at its core, a fantasy, not a nightmare.Some scenes of the movie-- a ritual at a clifftop church in Africa and Father Lamont's meeting with Kokumo, just a couple examples-- are actually fascinating. John Boorman is a good director, mostly, and makes choices that are bewildering, but not as terrible as you've heard. The movie also distances itself from the original-- the patchwork, obnoxious soundtrack of the first is replaced by a single score by the legendary Ennio Morricone, and the visuals appeal less to claustrophobia. Some tracking shots in Africa are absolutely breathtaking, but then William Fraker, the cinematographer, has a long history of doing great, underrated work-- see also 1941 (1979) and Paint Your Wagon (1969).All in all, it's not a great movie. I can't say I'd recommend it to anyone looking for a carbon copy of Exorcist 1, but that's great. Honestly, I can guarantee it began as a moneymaking scheme by the studio to recapture the original's instant, intoxicating success. But another sequel to a religious-horror classic was like that, and it will never be acquitted-- Damien Omen II, a disastrous joke of a movie. Exorcist II is acquitted. "},{"Title":"Gulp","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It appears the devil has returned. in the form of this movie. The Exorcist II The Heretic is a sluggish, sparse, scattered and monotonous film. It has none of the awe-inspiring scenes from the original and instead relies on lacklustre acting and sub-standard puppets to scare. The only thing barely chilling are the flashbacks from the original considering the action scenes in this one look as though they were shot in a blender.This story is about Regan (Linda Blair) four years later who has no recollection of the demonic presence who possessed her in the first film. Since she doesn't have the bloodied make-up on when the devil starts squatting her mind, it's hard to tell whether her zombified acting is part of her performance or not. Unfortunately she uses her own coarse vocals in this one making the original demon's voice seem soothing and giving her no finesse when she babbles those colourless lines. For some reason, unexplained, she goes to Dr. Gene (Louise Fletcher), a psychiatrist even though she continually states she has no problem. So Doctor Gene uses her magical hypnosis machine. Which is a box with two light bulbs and two dogleashes attached to it. So Regan and the good doctor put on their dogleashes, round their heads, and stare at the pretty blinking lights for an hour (no time elapsed) before getting lost into a deep trance where she is lucky enough to see herself in the former movie. Regan comes out of the ordeal fine but doctor Gene who gets her heart squeezed, suffers from a cardiac arrest and sees someone violently killed emerges completely fine and still doesn't believe Regan was possessed. Just one of the abysmal scenes and an example of dismal characterisation. The whole monosyllabic script seems as though it was written by  a senile old man who continually forgets he just said the same thing 5 minutes ago. Father Lamont (Richard Burton) comes into the picture as the priest who harasses Regan insisting she's the devil. He- like any other logical person would do, goes to Africa to find the demon who thinks is within Regan, more script flaws (if there was one). Regan remains balmy, Father Lamont is stupefied after every pointless event and Dr. Gene gets more skeptical as increasingly bizarre things happen. I guess it is scarcely scary, I mean Linda Blair dances in it, the (hardly) special effects are horrifyingly bad and the ending will put you into tears upon the realisation that you actually paid to see this atrocity.P.S. (If you're reading this Rod G, I did write it)  "},{"Title":"As bad a movie as has ever been made!","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I am not exaggerating!!  This movie lives on in my mind as the worst that I have ever seen!  (Sorry, I don't usually speak in exclaimation points but I can't avoid it while speaking about this movie!)  Some people seem to be able to enjoy it FOR its badness but not me.  It wasn't funny, just ridiculous.  I sat in the theater many years ago feeling completely stupified.  How could they have turned such rich source material into this pile of trash?  I don't know and I don't want to know.  It could only have been done intentionally for some sinister reason.  Did the filmakers have some kind of vendetta against the studio?  Were they trying to force it into bankruptcy?  Was Boorman possessed by,...oh, I don't know,... SATAN?!   "},{"Title":"One of the best made awful films of all time...","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I am a big fan of big-budget, well-cast horribly-written films (If there is a big-name director on board, all the better). I think of Michael Mann's The Keep with Scott Glenn, Sir Ian Mckellan (of Lord of the Rings Fame), Gabriel Byrne and Jurgen Prochnow. I think of Zardoz, with Sean Connery and Charlotte Rampling - Curiously enough, the director, John Boorman brings us to the present subject...William Friedken's The Exorcist, in my estimation, is one of the finest films ever made. Certainly it is the greatest horror film of all time. I heard that the sequel was atrocious and literally had to be in front of a television when it was on to watch it - This happened recently.I always enjoy watching fine actors grope their way through horrid films and thankless scripts and I came to pity Richard Burton by the end of the film. Furthermore, I was amazed to see an Oscar-winning actress like Louise Fletcher appear so ineffectual - 2 Oscar-winners were rendered helpless... Only Max Von Sydow had a chance and that was mainly because his scenes consisted of flashbacks with no dialogue...The film was sunk about 10 minutes in - The whole concept of the mind-synchronization machine set the destruction of the film in motion. Friedken wanted his film to appear real - an account of something that could have actually happened and he achieved this through many techniques - hand-held camera; low-key music (usually NO music)but above all, naturalistic, well-thought out and subtle dialogue. The Exorcist II's screenplay is absolutely embarrassing - I have read that a 180 minute version exists and it is mind-boggling to imagine how a film-maker of Boorman's pedigree could conceive of such a film given the material he had to work with...This film is absolutely awful but in a fascinatingly watchable way - Akin to watching a Concorde crash into a Bullet train.  "}{"Title":"Oh Good God.....","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When a film as great as the Exorcist is made, a sequel is inconceivable. Well, apparently not. This is a cheap cash-in which clutches onto the plot of the original in sheer desperation. The direction is all over the place is an attempt to distract you from how bad this film is and to make it seem weird. It makes it seem crap. James Earl Jones, you were Darth Vader dude! You were Mufasa! What happened in between? Oh well, at least they never made a third..... doh! "},{"Title":"Stupid and just plain laughable","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is more of a sci-fi than a horror movie.  First they have this thing called a sysatizer that you plug on top of your brain like a monster from Frankenstien and the other person brings the person opposite them into their mind.  As Father Byron plays around with this thing with Reagan and thinks this is a pretty nifty toy he never seems to come out of his comatose state throughout the whole movie.  He keeps becomming possessed.  And then Sharon becomes possessed at the end which is something the directors had to throw in because they couldn't find something else to add in order to spice up the movie a bit.  The scene of Reagan tap dancing is absolutely hillarious as well as James Earl Jones as the African priest.  God, what happened there?  And all those locusts were unnessisary.  The flop scene with Reagan waiveing her hand all in the air like she's just lost all purpose in the script during the end was boring and the scene during the end, I'm not going to tell you what happened looked like the whole thing took place on a stage.  The doctor was anoying in this movie and wish she could have been killed off or something during this film because I was getting sick of her attitute; it reminded me of the snippy doctor in Nightmare on Elm St.3.  I did like the flashbacks of Max Von Sydow and that was about it. "},{"Title":"Words fail me","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  For once, I'm nearly lost for words. This is, quite simply, one of the worst films I've ever seen. Nonsensical drivel involving Richard Burton (why?), Louise Fletcher (why?), James Earl Jones (yup, why? again), Linda Blair (no why here), and a cameoing Max Von Sydow (contractual obligation, perchance?), and a plague of locusts from Africa. The first and third instalments of the trilogy (so far) are good, but this is dreadful. Wasn't Linda Blair a tad too young to be wandering round in a near-transparent nightdress? Surely she wasn't yet 18?Avoid like the plague... (bad pun...)Not so lost for words as I thought, eh? "},{"Title":"A Deeply Misconceived Project","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The original The Exorcist was immediately iconic that still regularly tops lists of all-time scariest movies. It also made bunches of money. The seventies were not as sequel crazy as our current climate but a hit of that magnitude still demanded continuation. But how does one sequelize the scariest film of all time? The assigned director, John Boorman, had made Deliverance and Excaliber, great films in their own rights. He also made Zardoz an unintentionally hilarious piece of tripped-out seventies camp. That film informed Exorcist II The Heretic more then Boorman's other. The film was derided when released and is still considered one of the worst sequels ever made.Exorcist II The Heretic makes the same mistake many sequels make. It takes a very simple film and attempts to build an elaborate mythology around it. In the first film, the entity possessing Regan was referred to as just the demon or the devil. Going off one line in the original novel, the sequel identifies the demon as Pazuzu, a Babylon wind spirit. Granting the evil entity a proper name, and especially one as silly sounding as Pazuzu, tries to explain the monster, making it weaker. Similarly, Regan McNeil is revealed to have a special purpose. She can heal the sick, has psychic powers, and a great ability to fight off evil. This overlooks two key points from the original film. Regan was a normal little girl, an everyday person, which is what made her possession so awful. Secondly, the girl was merely a stopping point between the battle between the demon and Father Merrin, part of a far older duel between good and evil. Making Regan special negates both of these points. Lastly, The Heretic is knee-deep in seventies pop psychology and pseudo-science. There's the whole business with the hypnotism, long since discredited as a psychological tool. It's achieved in an especially goofy way, with a machine that flashes lights at a slower speed. The original Exorcist is still timeless. The sequel is immediately dated.Despite a story that dramatically misunderstands the point of the original, Exorcist II is not without its pros. John Boorman's strength frequently lies in his ability to create a dream-like tone of unreality. Though mostly ridiculous, The Heretic occasionally makes use of this. The flashbacks to the events of the first film make use of a clumsy Linda Blair look-alike and a voice actor that kind of sounds like Mercedes McCambridge. Similarly, the sequences showing Merrin exorcising the African boy years ago are silly as hell. However, Boorman creates some striking images. He uses sets that are intentionally artificial, with high-contrast, orange lighting. The camera sailing over the Ethiopian desert or the looming clouds of locusts are effective. Probably the best sequence is the dream-like encounter between Father Lamont and an adult Kokumo, which involves a spitted out tomato and a bed of spikes.Unfortunately, any time Boorman creates a lyrical moment, he immediately undermines it with an ill-conceived moment of unintentional camp. The sound design makes extensive use of high-pitched shrieking and repetitive chanting. There are hard cuts between Lamont's adventure in Africa and Linda Blair tap-dancing in a ridiculous outfit. When Lamont is pelted with rocks, Regan begins to spasmodically convulse. Aligning the demon Pazuzu with locusts is a strange choice, especially when it leads to stationary shots of fluttering grasshoppers. Before the character become hypnotized, their eyes roll back in their heads in a rather comical fashion. The bleating sound of the hypnotizing machine are also a really silly sound effect. The Heretic is frequently affected by a very silly streak.Further troubling the film is its two main performances. As the pre-teen, non-possessed Regan, Linda Blair created a naturalistic, workable performance. In the sequel, Blair has grown a squeaky, distracting voice. She seems like an out-of-her-element teen girl and not in a good way. Her range proves limited. Blair is unbelievable in every scene in the film. Blair was basically still a novice at the time. So what's Richard Burton's excuse? Burton is sweaty, over-the-top, and constantly starring wide-eyed. Constantly being forced to yell Pazuzu! and Kokumo! doesn't help any. He stuffs every line with as much unearned pretensions as possible. Burton's ridiculous performance puffs up the film's already overheated tone. Kitty Winn, returning as Regan's tutor Sharon, seems unsure what to do with her part. She's usually given the expositionary dialogue, which is a real bad fit. Some performances are better though. Louise Fletcher is fine. Max von Sydow retains his dignity. James Earl Jones even adds some gravitas to his brief moments of screen time.Exorcist II The Heretic is a silly movie with an as silly conclusions. It has the good idea to return to Regan's Georgetown bedroom but, otherwise, ridiculousness has totally consumed the film by this point. Swarms of locusts explode from a door. A car slams into a wall, an unconvincing special effect. A girl burns in a fire, despite the actress seemingly not being anywhere near the fire. Linda Blair, wearing very silly contact lens, attempts to seduce Richard Burton. Regan banishes the evil spirit by dancing and spinning her arms around. Think of how stark and intense the last act of The Exorcist was. It's like the sequel goes out of its way to create the opposite of those emotions.Exorcist II The Heretic is not the worst movie ever made or even the worst sequel, for that matter. It is, however, a deeply misconceived project made by filmmakers who truly did not understand the power of the original. The disliked sequel has found some defenders over the years, including Martin Scorsese. It's not scary, thought-provoking, or well thought out. At least John Boorman had a vision. Was that vision anybody's idea of a good sequel to The Exorcist? No but give the guy some credit. "},{"Title":"Exorcist II The Embarrassment","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was a failure. The only real connection to the Original is that it stars Linda Blair. I mean, there aren't even any exorcism's. No wonder William Peter Blatty would have nothing to do with this sequel. Though contrary to most sequels, this one makes no attempt to continue the first movie. Any real Exorcist fan would know to skip this one, and go straight to The Exorcist III, which Blatty himself directed. I guess he should have called it The Real Exorcist II. "},{"Title":"Unworthy of the Exorcist name.","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Exorcist was a masterpeice.  Each shot assembled with artistic delicacy, as described in the 25th Anniversary edition.  Exorcist II The Heretic falls short in every way.The ShortcomingsLinda Blair's performance is no where near up to par with her performance in the original.The cinematography does not even match the genius of the first film--its your average movie, get the shot however, style.Lack of Oldfield's Tubular Bells (Ennio Maricone's score was all right, not his best or worst).Different writer -- he attempted to explain the original movie and add backstory.  Writers today are still making this mistake (Halloween, Friday the 13th, Texas Chain Saw Massacre, Scream 3).  Okay, here's a rule of thumb  You don't have to explain everything for it to be scary.  In fact, most times it's a let down when you do try to.And on this note, I will admit that Exorcist II (unlike most other horror sequels) did have strong points in its script, which actually tried to get somewhere . . . but mixed in with poorly conceived & cliched ideas, and the poor delivery of the film (via, acting, directing) . . . it's just too hard to see exactly what the author was trying to do.  A few script revisions, and a more careful approach to the directing, cinematography, & music and this would have been an acceptable sequel.  If you can cut this movie a lot of slack, watch it.  Thanks. "},{"Title":"I've seen Worse!","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  All i can say about this movie is that it isn't bad.  Its not great, but not bad.  I know that this movie wasn't as good as the first one but most sequels aren't.  I just watched the movie the other day, i was curious about all the bad comments i heard about it.  To my surprise i liked the movie. I agree that some of the parts should have been cut out, like all the business in africa and the grasshoppers, that kind of confused me.   There are terrific performances by Linda Blair, Richard Burtan and many others.  I enjoyed it.  ***/***** "},{"Title":"I really wasted my time","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I understand what is expected from the second part of this film is equal to or better than the first but this issue really was disappointing. Bored of the beginning to the end, I had to repeatedly press the right arrow keys to jump later. Is not well understood the plot, the characters, I find only a couple of interesting passages in the message you want to give, but only that. Wrongdoing by the way, except the lead actress with her ​​angelic face and her good expressions. If the movie had lasted 1 hour instead of 2, you would raise a couple of points to the final score.Sorry my English. My score 2. "},{"Title":"What was that about?!","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Starting from what would usually be the end of a review, I'm giving this film 9/10. The reason? Because it is hilariously awful. I love a bad sequel, and this is the ultimate in bad sequels. Still, nothing was really ever going to be able to top the original Exorcist film.The Heretic isn't so much a movie, as a collection of random scenes and dialogue that neither make much sense or move the story on in any logical direction.The early scenes in Dr Tuskin's office are just bizarre, and surely if you're visiting a psychiatrist you'd want to be consulted privately? Not so in Regan's case - she gets to be consulted in what appears to be a collection of telephone boxes with an assortment of 70s brown furniture and some special needs children about the place. Linda Blair seems to have lost all the acting ability she had in the first film and delivers her lines as though she was making elevator floor announcements.Richard Burton, no words can describe his 'acting' 'style' in this film. You just have to sit and watch. No piece of scenery gets away without some of his teeth marks in it. My favourite Richard Burton moments do happen in Dr Tuskin's office. His reaction, or lack of it when he's connected to Regan's mind using the flashing-box-memory-swapper- thing/strobe light is something to behold. And you will get to behold it because the camera pans to his lack of reaction a lot.Moving on, other scenes include flying locusts - there are a LOT of flying locusts in this film. There's also a lot of 'African' landscape. Or, African landscape recreated badly on a Warner Bros sound stage... For some reason the sky is also permanently yellow in this 'Africa' we get to see. Along with 'Africa', we also get to see the Georgetown house from the original movie, but again not actually on location, but recreated on a Warner Bros sound stage. Some of the scenes in the 'Georgetown' house do actually make a bit of sense. Unfortunately all sense soon goes out of the window once Linda Blair starts trying to be all sexy in lingerie whilst apparently possessed again. Only this time the possession doesn't come with injuries and disfigurements all over Regan's body, it comes with a vaguely-evil-but-not-that-evil cartoon-demonic voice.Sharon, Chris Macneil's live-in assistant from the first movie is back, but rather than being the young, likable, and concerned woman she was, she seems to have become some weird nun-like character who does very little except look concerned and come to an abrupt end that again doesn't make much sense.I have purposely made my review slightly mixed up and confusing, because the film itself is like this. I've sat through it a few of times, usually laughing/cringing at the Razzie-worthy performances of all the cast and the hilarious dialogue they deliver, and even after several viewings I really have no idea what actually happens. Everything moves at a really uneven pace - either really slowly, or blink-and-you-miss-it quickly. If you've ever seen the trailer for this film, yes the one with the 'Disco' soundtrack then you've already seen the best bits of the film, and would probably have as much idea about the plot of the full movie as I do now.To sum up - what was that all about?! "},{"Title":"Sympathy for The Heretic.","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Linda Blair reprises her role as Regan in The Exorcist II The Heretic. Directed by John Boorman, the film finds everybody's favorite possessed little-girl growing up as a teen. Now under the care of a nurturing psychiatrist (Louise Fletcher) and Sharon (Kitty Winn), her live-in nanny from the first film, while her mother is away (a.k.a. Ellen Burstyn didn't want to do the flick), Regan leads a seemingly normal life until a priest (Richard Burton) sent to investigate the events of the first film shows up and stirs her inner demons. Slowly but surely, Regan becomes aware of some new-found powers and a connection to the past that leads the film into Africa, where it all began.Forever cursed as an inferior sequel, The Heretic is no doubt subpar compared to the first, but that's not to say that the film is not without its merits. Fact of the matter is that the film is host to several solid performances in its cast, most notably Linda Blair, who plays a very charming and very likable teenaged version of her signature character. Louise Fletcher, who had won an Oscar for playing the cruel and unusual Nurse Ratched in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest one year prior, does a complete 180 and anchors the film with heart and compassion. Like Ellen Burstyn in the original, you believe she loves and has a bond with Regan. Richard Burton is solid as the troubled Father Lamont and you'll spot a young James Earl Jones as well as Max Von Sydow, also returning from the first film.The film's biggest problem is in its script, which, aside from not making sense at times, doesn't give its characters much to do. The first half of the film is fleshed out rather well and even takes the opportunity to dip into the past, almost like a prequel to the first (27 years later, two very mixed up prequels would emerge) but by the time the film reaches its conclusion, the story comes unraveled with an ending that flat out stinks and has little to no relevancy to the rest of the film. It's a shame, really, as some solid characters are established and the film seems bound and determined to destroy their credibility. The direction by Boorman can't be blamed. The man turns in a solid show and it is obviously the story &#x96; which was reportedly re-written five times, that serves as the film's downfall. Apparently, even in the 1970's, horror films fell victim to studio interference.While it attempts to reach the class of the original film, it ultimately fails. In the end, The Exorcist II The Heretic is a film whose ideas are more interesting than its execution. You'll enjoy seeing some familiar faces and nods to the original, and while it's certainly not a terrible film by any means, it is one that simply can't hold a candle to its original. "}{"Title":"I'm being too much kind with this movie","Date":"25 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I think that if you compared this movie to the original exorcist movie you will immediately consider this sequel a monumental garbage. But if you somehow can forget the existence of The Exorcist (1973) you may like The Heretic. I know that that it is too much to ask or to pretend but it's the only way possible I can think of in order to enjoy or understand the movie. The first time I saw it I didn't understand nothing because I kept thinking about the events of the original movie. You know what I mean. How come the writers never mentioned the character of father Karras??? he was the one who actually saved Regan. And why the movie is called The Heretic?? Who commit heresy? Father Merrin?? Why?? He was given permission by the Church to conduct the exorcism. There's lots of questions unanswered. So, I figured it out that maybe if I could somehow ignored the first movie I could appreciate this one. And it kind of work for me. I thought of the movie as a supernatural drama instead of a horror one, because, to be honest, it never scared me(except for the part when they are trying out the synchronizer and the possessed Reagan appears). Another reason why I liked this movie was because Louise fletcher was here and she's one of my favorite actresses and her character as Dr Gene Tuskin was the best performance of the movie, in opposition to that of Richard Burton and Linda Blair, who were ridiculous and annoying but... hey, it's not their fault, remember? So, toned down your expectations and if you want ( or can), follow my idea. You may find this piece-of-shi_t-movie it's not so bad... ...Somehow. "},{"Title":"disappointing to say the least","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After watching the Exorcist, I was looking forward to see how the story continued. Unfortunately, Exorcist II was a disappointing waste of time. The story started promising, a priest, Richard Burton, being sent to investigate the death of Father Merrin, Max Von Sydow. Instead of following the actions of the demon and how it effected the principal characters, the movie veered off in directions that seemed strange. The entire movie was tied around a theory of a deceased Jesuit priest. Few have heard of the theory, orthogenesis, the idea that evolution occurs in a directional, goal driven way and that there is a global consciousness, or the priest, Fr. Pierre Teilhard de Chardin. I'm not sure if it was the unbelievable psychological therapy or the character of Kokomo or the locust, but the story just didn't deliver. And it is a pity, because there were some of the best actors in this movie. Richard Burton was wasted. James Earl Jones was likewise. Louise Fletcher helped, but she, like Burton and Jones, wasn't able to make the story riveting. What I found surprising is that Linda Blair actually delivered a worse performance in the second Exorcist. After four years, I would have hoped that she would get better, but she didn't. She was very good in the original, but she seemed like an average high school drama student, at best, in the Exorcist II. This is a movie to avoid if you can. "},{"Title":"Funny Movie","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was one of the funniest movies I saw in 1977. Burton was over the top (and perhaps on the bottle again), Darth Vader was miscast, and poor Linda Blair was obviously getting ready for roller-boogie roles.Attacking grasshoppers are just what Washington, DC needs, I guess. Perhaps W would brand them as terrorists and by means of executive order, bring back DDT. Or he just could have Cheney scowl at them, and we'd have a major pollution problem due to billions of dead locusts.Meanwhile back to the plot of the movie! It comes down to a fight between good and Eeee-Viiillll! May the latter win! Little did Richard know, when he was over-emoting that word, that he was providing a capsule review of the movie.Avoid no matter what! "},{"Title":"You will spit out something for sure (but not a leopard)","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Seriously. Do yourself a favor - go watch your friends' vacation video - the acting is better, the plot is better, and it will certainly be more frightening.There is NOTHING to recommend in this film - not even schlock value, and comparing it to films like Plan 9 From Outer Space is an absolute insult to Ed Wood et. all - they meant to do that, Boorman didn't.I went into this with no expectations (good or bad) and was still let down (to say the least). Wasn't watching it as a 'sequel' - good thing, as there is no cohesive plot whatsoever - it can't even tie into itself, much less another film. And as for the concept that if you didn't like it, you didn't understand it goes - please, this movie couldn't have been more spelled out to the viewer. You could wear earmuffs and a blindfold and still not fail to 'understand' it (still wouldn't make it any better though)The only thing they got even a little bit right in this film was leaving half of it on the cutting floor - the only thing they could have done better would have been tossing the rest of it there (and then burning it maybe, with a priest standing by to make sure it was gone). "},{"Title":"Have you all forgotten...?","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The reason this piece of cinematic sludge isn't higher (lower?) on the bottom 100 is that many probably haven't seen it or forgotten the reaction this caused when it was first unleashed; reports of booing, loud bronx cheers and projectiles being thrown at the screen. Seeing this at a drive-in, the management needed to make frequent announcements to warn viewers of noise by-laws. The movie, which cost something like eleven million dollars, a fair budget in those days (by comparison Star Wars, in release at the same time cost much less)was also given a unanimous (or close to it) critical response that was unusually savage for a big-budget studio picture. Understandaably, there are people out there who may view this as a guilty pleasure or a masochistic good time (who can forget James Earl Jones dressed as a giant locust or his classic line Tear this ship apart until you find those plans....oops sorry that was another movie that year....I flew with Pazuzu on the wings of a demon It should also be noted that the same year Richard burton did this, he gave one of his finest screen performances ever in Equus. The response to Exorcist II may have inadvertently cost him the Oscar that year, another reason this thing deserves a higher placing. It may not be as inept as Manos or any of the various zero-budget pictures listed above, but its reputation should be preserved.  "},{"Title":"Maybe the worst sequel of all time","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ﻿This movie had some good moments in it, such as the Africa scenes and the James Earl Jones scenes. I watched this film right after the original one. Now, I am one to forgive certain movies for some mistakes and so on, such as the beginning of this film with Richard Burton's overacting, which I said 'well, okay.' Then there's the telepathic machine with the flashing light and beeping sound, I thought that was kind of cheesy, but I still stayed on the ride. Then the middle of the film started to drag, but I kept saying to myself that John Boorman's going to take me to a good finish.Then came the ending which was not scary at all and just simply awful. Man, I've got to tell you this movie p***ed me off. I forgave and forgave this movie all the way to the end and when it was over, I came to the conclusion of 'This film blows dog.' I mean, hearing that the demon that possessed Regan was named Papuzu and hearing Richard Burton say it with such seriousness was making me laugh but Jesus. I haven't been this p***ed off since watching Van Helsing recently. If you want a real sequel to The Exorcist then watch The Exorcist III. William Peter Blatty handled that one and despite company executives trying to ruin that film, it still turned out to be a decent product.Man, Papuzu, what the hell was Boorman or the Warner Brother Executives thinking anyway?  "},{"Title":"Messy","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I received the Exorcist Trilogy for my birthday because I am a huge fan of the first and third films, I hadn't seen the second film, but I wasn't too worried. I'd heard bad things, but I figured it would be watchable. It isnt - the first half isnt so bad - it seems to be building towards something (but never makes it). I particularly liked the scene where Regans psychiatrist and the priest are under hypnotherapy and the demon from Regans past is grabbing at the psychiatrists heart. I wasn't expecting horror, I knew the film was more from the spiritual angle - but it didnt even seem to get there, the whole plot just dissapeared half way through and became a messy jumble of about three different story-lines. The old priest in Africa, Regans psychic ability (which is never explained)and the main priest dithering around and upsetting everyone. I found him a particularly unnecessary and annoying character.The scene at the end where Regan and the Priest are battling the sexy evil Regan is laughable - its so cheesy, there  is no tension or suspense - (the scene I believe inspired many of the half horror half porno films of the early eighties).Also the acting of Regans maid was horrendous and thats all I want to say about her.This was a messy film - it started with the right idea, but someone got confused along the way. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Exorcist II The Heretic (1997)","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *½ out of **** (below-average, slightly entertaining)Linda Blair and Max Von Sydow are the only people from the original EXORCIST to return in this disjointed sequel. Regan (Blair) seems to be plagued by bizarre nightmares and a Vatican investigator (Richard Burton) discovers that Regan still remembers what happened in Washington and tries to rid her of her problem. Although beautifully photographed, this film is usually badly acted and badly scripted, though some sequences (not entire scenes, mind you) are effective. Overall, an unworthy sequel with nothing much to give any sort of positive award to.Rated R for Violence "},{"Title":"man they shouldn't even have tried","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first Exorcist was great.  They shouldn't even have tried with a second and ESPECIALLY with the third.  Seriously, they sucked.  I can't help but wonder if the second and the third ruined these directors' careers.  I gave this one 2 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Give us strength!!!!!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  For a kind of obscure reason, me and my friends decided to stumble upon this comedy. A friend of ours had it in his collection and kindly lended it to us. And it was worth it! I think that this holds the record for me laughing the loudest in a movie that's not a comedy. But although it's not made to provoke laughter, it certainly makes me think if they were trying to. Everything fails - Richard Burton looks like a permanent statue, Regan looks like a Victoria's Secret catalogue, and the special effects look like Ed Wood. WHAT THE HELL WERE THEY THINKING?!? It shames even me to see James Earl Jones and Ennio Morricone involved in this sub-product, where the terror scenes look like the cinematic equivalent of something that holds on together by the use of band aids. The memorable moments are continuous, you won't be able to avoid laughing, even if you try to take it seriously, which is, frankly, impossible. Masterpiece of failure, they should never have tried to walk those steps again. An unmissable piece of ****t, whose main purpose is to show how you can waste a large amount of money.  "}{"Title":"Skip this one, go to #3","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was a shame to the first exorcist. I had a friend who hasn't seen the first one, but because he saw this one. He's avoiding it. I am going to make this review short and sweet. The entire movie is slow and confusing, with cheap special effects. If you watch exorsist 3 (which is worth watching) without watching this one entire storyline makes more sense. So if you enjoyed the exorcist. Don't spoil it by watching the sequel. "},{"Title":"I was possessed by a demon. Oh, it's okay. He's gone.","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One of the all-time stinkers. A sequel to a classic film that gets it wrong on every level, technically and artistically. It's such a silly mess of bad acting, cringeworthy dialogue, and a laughable music score. The great Richard Burton, undoubtedly inebriated half the time, plays to the rafters in the worst performance of his career. Cherubic Linda Blair seems to have lost whatever acting ability she exhibited in the first movie. She's 'all growed up' here, a fact director John Boorman wastes no time exploiting in her first scene where she bralessly jiggles her way through a tap dance number. Later scenes have her in a see-through nightgown and various tight tops. It's tacky but is anybody really surprised? Boorman's direction is at times interesting but he seems to forget that this is supposed to be a horror movie. The only thing scary or horrifying about this film is that it was even made. So many unintentionally funny scenes that it should be classified as a comedy. The synchronizer! Oh my god the synchronizer! This has to be seen to be believed. It's a turkey, for sure, but not one without some comical merits. Sadly, Paul Henreid's last film is so far removed from Casablanca it might as well have been shot on Mars. "},{"Title":"Problems all around but a nice film.","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There's three types of films in this world the good ones, the bad ones and the ones that leaves you with so many doubts you can't tell if it's good or bad. Deeper in these classifications there's another level the films that are so terrifying you won't even want to see (a good challenge to some) and the ones you've heard so many bad things about it that you don't wanna see at all. Exorcist II - The Heretic falls into this very last category but after years of delay I decided to go ahead and see what's so bad about it. And what did I get a good film, actually, but far from the greatness of the 1973 classic.It's really tough to succeed when you predecessor film is considered the best horror film of all time, it's impossible. Friedkin's classic was revolutionary, groundbreaking, shocking and human at the same time, it had everything that a horror film needs, in my opinion. Above all, it was believable, you could and can care about those characters. This sequel was totally unnecessary except to Warner Bros. who saw a great way to use the film as a great money grabber (and they succeed it, no matter what people think this film made money but was trashed by public and critics in terms of quality). No matter how many rewrites they have to do to make this decent it would fail anyway.However, somehow I enjoyed this film. The bomb didn't exploded after all. Once again, we have the story of people trying to save the life of poor Regan (Linda Blair) from the destructive forces of evil. This time faith and science, represented by a priest (Richard Burton) and a doctor (Louise Fletcher), will have to join forces to fight against an supernatural and powerful enemy. Along with storyline there's an investigation that finally reveals to us what happened to Father Merrin (Max von Sydow) in that room years earlier. It's pretty enjoyable to watch their drama in fighting back the problems but as a horror film is quite laughable, it's not scary and it's very problematic (no mention to Father Karras at all; the scenes in the desert are very boring; the conclusion was so confusing I didn't know if I should laugh or cry). They should've go easy on the locusts, there was too many and go on without making James Earl Jones appear dressed as one. John Boorman is not an horror director and I saw that as a big problem for this film, he didn't have the rhythm for this project; Friedkin is the same thing but he managed to do it with perfection (even if he had to fire a gun on the set just to get the right reaction from the actors). The final result is a script without originality, confusing and with far too many stories to focus. In a way I'm disappointed for not being disappointed, the pubic overreacted to this. Good performances can be found here (Burton mainly), the cinematography is wonderful and there's enough space for good moments.Never intelligent and memorable like the classic film, Exorcist II is just an easy entertainment to save you from a boring day. To some viewers it can be a decent film, to others it can be just like when Burton says about Regan's possession Horrible, horrible...but it's fascinating. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not ALL that bad","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is strictly for die-hard fans of The Exorcist. I will be the first to tell you that it is very difficult to watch this whole movie. It is very long, drawn out. The story is filled with holes and there doesn't seem to be a lot of reason behind many things which occur here. However, it is still a decent movie. I think it should have more than a 3.7 (as of 2/24/08) but hey, thats not up to me. This movie had some good scenes, particularly the ones from the past. Like the exorcism in the beginning. Also where we see Kokumo during a locust swarm was good. Even older Kokumo was pretty interesting in explaining why locusts swarm. The acting wasn't really bad, so can't complain there. Gene Tuskin was much different in this movie than in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (where she played the sadistic Nurse Ratched). Regan wasn't really bad either, she actually had a personality here other than just being possessed. Over all, not a great movie at all but not horrible either. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Possibly the greatest drop in quality from original to sequel EVER!","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Granted, EXORCIST is a tough act to follow. In my opinion it is still the finest horror film ever made. Now, there are many brilliant sequels in movie lore (some exceed their predecessors); GODFATHER 2, EMPIRE STRIKES BACK, BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, WRATH OF KHAN etc., the list goes on. EXORCIST 2 is NOT one of these. From conception to execution, it fails all over the place! One of its (many) mistakes is the acting style. In the first film, the actors are very natural. An almost documentary feel to it. In this one, you have a bug-eyed Richard Burton (looking like he'd spent the night in a detox facility) playing Father Lamont, who's sent to investigate Father Merrin's death from the first film. Burton uses drawn-out, pseudo-Shakesperean line delivery that utterly KILLS any reality this film might've aspired to. Linda Blair, as Regan, delivers all of her lines as if she were still 12 years old. Kitty Winn reprises her (now) thankless role as Regan's guardian Sharon, from the first film (even though we saw Sharon QUIT that job at the end of the first film; if only continuity troubles were this movie's single worst sin!). Anyway, Regan is in therapy at her(off-screen) mother's wish (Ellen Burstyn wisely side-stepped this whole mess). The therapy center looks like a hi-tech Supercuts franchise. Louise Fletcher plays Dr. Tuscan (badly, I might add) who uses hypno-therapy, strobe-light nonsense to help Regan remember THAT night in Washington (yeah, good idea...the most traumatic event in her life, and you want her to remember it in vivid detail!). Later on, we get a glimpse of a much younger Father Merrin in Africa (mentioned in the first film as an event that occurred only 10 or 12 yrs. before; same time-mistake the prequel made) doing an exorcism on a young boy of the demon Pazuzu. I now understand WHY the demon was never named in the first film! Pazuzu sounds about as threatening as Pokemon! A lot of malarkey about locusts and other stuff the audience doesn't care about soon follows, including a cameo by James Earl Jones as the formerly possessed African boy all grown up. Somehow, this all leads to the big climax, with all the principals heading to THAT house in Washington for a Pazuzu Hell-a-palooza smack-down! Regan (who spends half the movie in nightgowns looking helpless) pleads with Father Lamont, who is in some kind of trance, to hear her (seems the movie's left him as catatonic as the audience!). Sharon and the therapist race to stop them. Why? Who knows, who cares. If we were meant to care, this movie might actually have to MAKE SENSE! At the house, they meet Regan's possessed-self from the first movie (a double in bad makeup), with a Witchy-Pooh voice that sounds just plain silly this time (Mercedes MacCambride was sorely needed!). And in the biggest, laugh-generating moment in the movie (with so many to choose from), evil Regan pretties up and tries to seduce the good Father! But you can tell she's still evil; she wears evil contact lenses! Evil Regan's heart is torn-out; not in the metaphorical sense, but in the bloody, still-beating sense. Locusts crash the party (oh, why NOT at this point?) and 'good' Regan does an 'anti-locust dance' to get rid of them (in all fairness, the film DOES show Regan tap-dancing in musical theater! So, the training was there!). Sharon and Dr. Tuscan get in a fiery car wreck right at the front gate, where we see Sharon go evil on us as she burns up like a Salem witch (apparently PAZUZU tried to stop them! Sure, whatever)! The house itself then collapses, leaving a nice view of a sound-stage backdrop of Georgetown. Th-th-that's all, folks! Everything that felt so real and true about the first film is utterly gone in this superstitious, wildly off-the-map sequel. Even the music sucks (with obvious cues; right down to the angelic, all-is-well end-title theme). Watch EXORCIST 3 for the proper sequel to THE EXORCIST. It doesn't revisit the events of the first film (mentions them only in passing), avoids any reference to part 2 (thankfully), and goes off in a different direction; a bolder, more intriguing, thoughtful approach. As for EXORCIST 2 THE HERETIC (at least the title fits, for the movie IS heresy!), watch it only as a case study in just how far a sequel can plummet from its original! As for Part 4; THE BEGINNING...it's better than 2 (even Barney videos are) and far worse than 3. Has one or two moments, but it's easily forgotten. Stick with the first and the third. The only two that are, excuse the pun, worth a damn! "},{"Title":"So boring compared to the original","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Exorcist II The Heritic (1977, Dir. John Boorman)It is four years since Regan MacNeil experienced her exorcism, and now something mysterious is happening again. Father Lamont works on helping Regan, but unfortunately finds it extremely hard. To help with his mission to help Regan, Lamont travels to Africa to gain knowledge from Kokumo, who he had previously exorcised the same demon. Will Father Lamont be able to help Regan MacNeil? I saw the original 'The Exorcist' and was quite optimistic about its sequel. Unfortunately I was very disappointed with this. The characters were OK, but I just found the story just so dragged out and slightly boring. The action and interesting areas of the story didn't really happen, until you reached the end, and then it was too late. I was actually watching this film, whilst wanting it to hurry up and finish. I only decided to stick with it, so I can actually say I've watched. This is a very, very bad sequel to a truly terrifying film. Be joined with us, Father. - Regan MacNeil (Linda Blair) "},{"Title":"The Bad outweighs the Good","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was looking for a favorable review for this film somewhere on the Internet but I simply couldn't find one. The film seems to be universally reviled. When I finally got around to viewing it my expectations were as low as they could be. Described by many as the worst sequel of all time and some call it the worst movie ever made. I would not go that far. But one thing's for sure; It's not good.What Boorman and co. were exactly trying to do with the flick is puzzling. It's not a horror movie, it seems to be trying to be a psychological thriller but it fails completely. In fact, there is no suspense to be found at all. Haphazard editing and a confusing (read rather shitty) script ruin all chances of atmosphere and suspense. The dialogue is very silly as well.Acting is OK I thought. Richard Burton is not all bad. Most reviewers trash his performance and accuse him and Linda Blair of not being able to pull off a single scene together convincingly. I think he does pretty well under the circumstances. As does Louise Fletcher in a horribly written role. This quality actress has never found a decent role since One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. Linda Blair, Max Von Sydow and James Earl Jones perform decently but the material lets them down.Big plus also for the cinematography and overall look. The film may be trash, but it's a well filmed trash. Exterior shots in Africa look quite nice, some interesting color schemes throughout and the artsy look on many scenes look great. The music by Ennio Morricone is nothing short of fantastic, much better than the film deserves.The main problem is that this flick doesn't make any sense. Where it's going is never clear and when it's over you still don't have a clue. Originally Exorcist II was a three hour feature which (reportedly) made some sense but Boorman had to chop it down by a third. I don't know if there's a masterpiece buried in the film archives somewhere but I seriously doubt it. But I do believe that everyone involved had some point to make which simply got completely lost.After reading countless reviews claiming this as one of the worst films of all time I can't say I was bored to death as my expectations were very low. There are some things to admire here but the bad outweighs the good. "},{"Title":"Horror at it's most bizarre.","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have mixed feelings towards this famous for being bashed sequel. All I know is that there's no room for logic. So my advice is to sit and let Pazuzu do the rest for you. It will be a weird, disturbing experience because your brain will be forced to work at it's maximum trying to getting explanations to the movie's events. The first reaction after watching the movie is what was Booram smoking during production?!. The man was on an acid trip or something but surprisingly enough, The Heretic is a bizarre Horror movie that tries to explore different fields in order to find conclusions for the movie's events. Why would Pazuzu possess Reagan one more time? What the heck is Merrin's spirit doing here? How many dollars did J. Earl Jones get for wearing that Halloween lobster outfit?! The plot is not as bad as you think but it's very complex and leaves a lot for interpretation. In order to get conclusions you need to have a wide imagination. The explanations for Reagan's situation are very complicated. Also, the ending is really confusing. I won't spoil it because as a scene it's very memorable and visually stunning. The Heretic is a good visual experience as it has great settings in Africa, for example. The f/x are actually very good for it's time. The score is stuff for legend. The Devil surely enjoyed Disco music back in the 70's! Now that I think, The Heretic is a very well produced Horror movie. It's production values are not in discussion. The big problem is the non sense, bizarre plot. Every single scene is filled with a lot of information that is really hard to connect with the movie's past or future events. This sequel is a sui generis Horror movie because it's so bad it's almost good. Having the characters from the 1973 masterpiece was great and that's the main reason to watch the movie. Also, Linda Blair was beautiful in this one! Sorry I had to point that out.Anyways, this movie is filled with bizarre scene, something that might be good for people who like complex Horror movies. The point of this movie is to exploit the Reagan character and it does it very well. The problem is that in order to understand the movie, a second and third view is necessary.Watch The Heretic in order to witness one of the most bizarre Horror movies in history. I'm not kidding, this movie deserves it's right of self defense. Take it as what it is a dark sequel that tried too hard from being different from the original Exorcist, the best Horror movie of all time. "},{"Title":"Not as god awful as i thought it would be, but still god awful","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" For a while now, i have been on a search for the worst movie of all time. For a while, I've been saying Manos Hands of Fate, but I still feel something is worse. Thats when i realized i still had never seen Exorcist 2. Having loved 1 and 3, i skipped this one considering its reputation. But I decided one day at Blockbuster to check it out.And yes, this movie sucked. The score was cool, the cinematography was great at some parts, but other than that, this was horrible. I think my favorite bad acting/line from this pile of crap was She didn't, it did. It was horrible......utterly horrible......and fascinating, all the while Burton is looking right at the camera.I was hoping for this movie to be a lot worse than it was. Yes, James Earl Jones in a locust costume, sexy possessed Linda Blair, and those stupid fake looking locusts were bad enough, but I was hoping for more.I can still see why people were so mad when it first came out though. If the memory of only the original Exorcist was still in my mind, and then i saw this, i would be very, very p*ssed.3/10 "},{"Title":"WTF was that all about!?!?!","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" So, I just got done watching this abomination that is posing as a film. I have not seen this for a while, and had truly forgotten how genuinely BAD this movie is. It's so bad, that it's almost genius! Was Boorman even trying? Every performance is so stiff and unreal, that you have to wonder if he was intentionally going for the worst possible outcome. It' must take hard work to be so utterly terrible, because I can't believe anyone ever thought this was good.I think the best moment (SPOILER ALERT!!!) is that Sharon and the Nurse are in a violent, car spinning out of control, fatal car crash on the steps of the house in D.C., Sharon goes up in flames, Nurse runs into the street screaming for help, but not a single person comes out. Tough street... Also, after Sharon kicks the bucket, they just leave her on the neighbors porch steps. I'll remember that next time I'm looking to dispose of a burnt corpse - I'll just drop it off next door!!! Beats the heck out of the flaming bag-o-dog poop prank!At any rate, EVERYONE should see this movie. We all need to witness something this terrible so we can learn to appreciate the good things.We also need to come up with a drinking game for this... "}{"Title":"Worst sequel ever made?","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Now I've always respected director John Boorman (The Emerald Forest, Excalibur & the classic Deliverance) so when I got to see his sequel to William Friedkins 1973 classic I was expecting something special. What I got is a horror film I will never forget - and all for the wrong reasons!Exorcist IIThe Heretic is just mad! I mean c'mon - swarms of locusts, Richard Burton hamming it up big time, James Earl Jones looking really confused & Regan (Linda Blair) having 'special powers'. Is this a sequel to one of the greatest horror films ever made? Shame on you Boorman!This film REALLY is as bad as people say & deserves its status as the worst sequel ever made. Avoid, big time! -10/10  "},{"Title":"Evil has a new name.  Linda Blair.","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It's hard to imagine how, proceeding from the greatest horror movie of all time, adding in towering talents that include no less that Richard Burton, along with Louise Fletcher, Max von Sydow, James Earl Jones, Paul Henreid and John Boorman, a film could possibly turn out bad.  But oh how bad it is.Pazuzu, the demon who terrorized young Regan MacNeil in the classic predecessor, has become essentially a giant grasshopper that drives locusts, and apparently entire film studios, mad.  Linda Blair must have been truly possessed to have rendered such a heinous performance.  She actually may be the worst actress alive.  And nothing, not even the massive talent squandered on so thin a story, can redeem this hopelessly lost horror of a movie.It's four years later, and what does she remember?  Apparently everything except how to act.  It would be 17 years before anyone attempted another sequel, but 1990's Exorcist III is infinitely better.  My suggestion  pretend this one doesn't exist, and enjoy the trilogy, minus one. "},{"Title":"It was horrible. Utterly horrible.","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  EXORCIST II is the polar opposite of its predecessor.THE EXORCIST has excellent performances, brilliant direction, a tight and intelligent script, excellent effects, intellectual seriousness, and philosophical coherence.EXORCIST II has literally laughable performances, incompetent direction, a script which sounds like it was improvised during shooting, lousy effects, utter witlessness, and complete incoherence.The only thing the two films have in common is Linda Blair jerking her body around in a completely nerve-wracking manner. There, she was in a bed and they called it possession. Here, she's on a stage, and they call it tap-dancing.A bit of interesting trivia for bad movie buffs (a quick Google search shows me that I may be the first person to have ever noticed this) during the scene where Regan calls Dr. Tuskin from the train station, the enormous gentlemen in the booth behind her is Ben Frommer, who gives a stilted and totally superfluous speech as one of Bela Lugosi's mourners in Ed Wood's PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE.Quite appropriate, if you ask me. "},{"Title":"Pure Train Wreck Material","Date":"23 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Where to begin? There are 5 star actors giving one star amateurish performances that make Showgirls seem like Gone With The Wind in comparison. The story is so complex that it defies logic, the pseudo-science is nuts (love the synchronizer), the cutting is bizarre, and the direction is schizophrenic.The Omen was a great flick. Omen II was nearly as good. They both featured 5 Star actors giving worthy, compelling performances. How was it that this film had equally accomplished actors and was able to reduce their performances to caricatures of themselves? No one shines, and no one gives a performance above a D. Except the locusts which do what locusts are supposed to do. Too bad they didn't eat the filmThe only real mystery is how so many fine actors were signed to this film with a story too ridiculous to mention and didn't demand to have their credits removed after viewing the film. Was Burton totally smashed during the entire filming? If the director didn't like the original, why bother with a sequel? Just before the end, after the locusts and the defeat of EVIL, a spectator runs to Louis Fletcher and asks what happened? I'd like an answer to that too. "},{"Title":"Exorcist II Electric Boogaloo","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The worst of the sequels and prequels (it falls into both categories) but also the only one to show a profit on its theatrical release, Exorcist II The Heretic is a hugely ambitious film with over-reaching ideas married to a typically bad Rospo Pallenberg script filled with lumbering construction and crudely on-the-nose direlogue that typifies everything that's so painfully wrong about John Boorman at his self-indulgent worst. Originally intended as a more conventional sequel to be directed by Rosemary's Baby editor Sam O'Steen, the studio instead decided to hire a more experienced name director who made no secret of his hatred for the original, giving him almost complete creative control and taking the material on a huge leap into the esoteric from which it never recovered.Instead of projectile vomiting and genital self-mutilation-by-crucifix it opts for a more metaphysical plot, embracing controversial Catholic philosopher Father Teilhard de Chardin's theories of a spiritual and mental evolution that would ultimately lead to man developing a universal consciousness and becoming one with God. The film's premise is that the Devil is sending the demon Pazuzu to seek out and possess healers (or good locusts) to prevent that happening while the Church is too busy rationalising evil to fight it. Any potential that premise might have had is drowned in a sea of inanity in a film bad enough for even Jon Voight to drop out of after reading the script.Bizarrely, every horrendous misstep it takes has a perfectly valid idea behind it that sounded perfectly reasonable when Boorman explained it but which became laughable the moment it hit the screen. Where Friedkin set out to achieve reality, Boorman set out to distort it, filming the majority of the exteriors on soundstages (even the house on Prospect Street was recreated at Burbank) that make no real attempt to hide the fact that they're just plywood and hardboard to give it an air of unreality. Sets were designed to resemble the central nervous system and all blues and greens were banished from the film. The intention was to create a dreamlike texture and add a subtext of impending ecological disaster, but the result is a perfect illustration of the void between film theory and reality. The overwhelming impression of this bizarre spiritual odyssey into the director's psyche is car crash cinema at its most WTF. As Richard Burton says &#150; or rather spits as if on the brink of an asthmatic attack &#150; it's horrible, utterly horrible&#133; and fascinating.It's hard to pick the most absurd moment in a film increasingly filled with them, be it James Earl Jones' witch doctor dressed as a giant locust 'spitting a leopard,' the king of the evil spirits of the air being portrayed as what looks like a really big moth, a crass jump cut from a burning South American faith healer to Linda Blair rehearsing her tap dancing (according to Boorman intended to symbolise her spirit taking flight no, really) or a mind-linking synchronised hypnosis device that's just a headband, light bulb and detonator box contraption that Ed Wood might be proud of. Even the look of the film is horrendously dated (with its 'now' fashions and swarms of locusts descending on Washington, it would make an ideal double-bill with The Swarm). And oh, that dialogue I've flown this route before. It was on the wings of a demon, If Pazuzu comes for you I will spit a leopard, You've got to fight that demon that's inside her! It's preventing her from reaching full spiritual power! I was face to face with the Evil that's inside her. Your machine has proved scientifically that there's an ancient demon locked within her! and the immortal I was possessed by a demon. Oh, but it's okay, he's gone now! Even by Rospo (Vercingetorix) Pallenberg's standards, this is wonderfully woeful drivel that proves him to be screen writing's answer to Merton of the Movies (the fictional inept dramatic overactor who inadvertently became a comedy sensation).The performances veer from the theatrical to the lost-the-will-to-live bad. Throwing away the credibility he had regained with Equus on Broadway for a big payday, you can tell with little effort which scenes were shot when Richard Burton was hung over, sober or drunk (just look at the way he empties that communion chalice); a somnambulistic Louise Fletcher gives a particularly pained performance as a psychiatrist, looking for all the world like she'd rather be back in the cuckoo's nest as she can see her career slipping away one line at a time; Kitty Winn looks like she hasn't a clue what she's doing there but she'll try to find a character in there somewhere if it kills her; Max Von Sydow has obviously seen the writing on the wall and is just reading the lines while he thinks of what he'll buy with the check; while Linda Blair, spending much of the film looking for all the world like a chipper cartoon hamster, tap-dancing like a union boss in cement shoes and with a completely unconvincing double playing her possessed self, waits until the grand finale to hit rock bottom when she depicts the seductive nature of evil by, er, wrinkling her nose a la Bewitched and looking like a cute likkle bunny wabbit. Only Ned Beatty comes out of it with something approaching his dignity intact, but then he's only in it for a couple of minutes and clearly thinks the whole thing's too mad to take seriously.Some of the in-camera special effects and early steadicam work are interesting, with a particularly attractive glass matte shot of a golden city, and Ennio Morricone's occasionally disco-driven score that alternates with more lyrical and plain bizarre cues is enjoyable even if it does sound like it would be more at home in a Dario Argento giallo. Now Dario Argento's Exorcist II &#150; in 1977, that could have really been something! "},{"Title":"THE worst sequel of the horror genre.","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie, in its attempt to be clever, ends up being just plain ignorant. It has absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with the original, and as fantastic as was the original, this detestable sequel is just that bad.Four years later, what does she remember? Apparently, what she does ~not~ remember are those acting lessons. I highly suggest that you watch the Exorcist, the director's cut; skip this one, and move right on to Exorcist 3.You won't even be able to tell you've left part 2 out of the cycle, that's how insignificant it is. It's really THE worst sequel to any franchise, even considering Batman Forever and Pet Semetery 2. Just watch Exorcist the Beginning, Exorcist 1, and Exorcist 3. You won't even miss Exorcist 2.EDIT I have to say that with the addition of the two prequels, this installment makes MUCH more sense now. It does now have a place in the run and should be viewed by franchise fans as a more necessary chapter of the Exorcist story. I'd give it a 6.4/10, now.It rates a 1.1/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Are you looking for Pazuzu or is Pazuzu looking for you?","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" (Spoiler Alert) Checking out all the facts about young Regan MacNeil (Linda Blair) exorcism, that cost the lives of both Fathers Merrin and Karres who preformed it, the Cathloic Church in Rome sends out to New York City the very reluctant Father Lamont, Richard Burton, to investigate the case and clear Father Merrin's name. There are rumors going around in the church that Father Merrin was in fact a devil worshiper. Father Lamont has had it with the exorcism business feeling that there's nothing that he, or anyone else, can do to stop the spread of Evil in the world. Still Lamont goes to NYC to see Ragen and if she has the ability to battle Satan's evil forces.As former African tribesman and now scientist and expert on the African Desert Locust Dr. KoKumo (James Earl Ray) told Father Lamont later in the film that Ragen can keep the locusts, the agents of Satan and his top man Pazuzu, from brushing their wings. Thus preventing Pazuza from turning them into gluttonous crop eating locusts into happy-go-lucky and harmless grasshoppers. What else can be said or added to this interesting observation that Dr. Kokumo tells us? the story about the Grasshopper and the Ant? Father Lamont becomes obsessed with this idea of using Regan as the catalyst to destroy Pazuzu and his hoards after he went to Africa after hearing Dr. Kokumo revelation. Lamont is so carried away with his obsession he's almost killed by a group of Africian villages for suspecting him of being in league with the Devil. Lamont meeting Dr. Kokumo has convinced him that Regan being the human version of the good female locust who can turn the Evil locusts into Friendly grasshoppers. Back in New York an almost deranged and driven Father Lamont is going to put Dr. Kokum's theory into practice!The ending of the movie The Exorcist Part II is really too much with Father Lamont having it out with the Evil Regan who tries to seduce him and thus become corrupted by her. Meanwhile the good Regan, both parts played by Miss. Blair, just stands there on a ledge wondering what she's doing in the movie. As the battle between good and evil begins millions upon millions of locusts swarm all over the city of Washington D.C. All the action centers around the closed down and shuttered house where the exorcism of Regan took place four years ago. The scene with Father Lamont and the Evil Regan having it out in her bedroom is just too off the wall to watch without cracking up. Lamont looked as if he were drugged or drunk and acted as if he were a zombie throughout most the film. Lamont battling and ripping the Evil Regan's heart out has to be one of the most outrageous and ridicules scenes ever put on a movie screen. There's an even funnier scene earlier in the movie where Father Lamont and Regan had both their brains electronically synchronized, in a cheap hotel room in Washington Heights! This brainless action was done so that Lamont & Regan could think alike in order to combat Pazuzu and his boss the one and only Big Man himself Satan. Richard Burton looks completely out of his head in most of his scenes in the film. I wondered if after making the movie Burton accelerated his drinking just to forget that he ever made it and thus also accelerated his untimely and early death in 1984 at the age of 59.Linda Blair was a real knockout even at the early age of 17. It's no wonder that after she survived from that disaster of a movie Linda became famous for playing roles of sexy frisky and hard hitting young women who can give as good as they take from the same as well as opposite sex in films like Roller Boogie and Savage Streets.Acadamy Adward Winning Actress Louise Fletcher, who played young Regan's psychiatrist and friend Dr. Gene Tuskin, also survived the movie, more or less, with her reputation still in tact. Fletcher happily got the roles in future films that her fine talents called for. Even more encouraging her role in  The Exorcist Part II is almost totally forgotten by most of the movie going public.The Exorcist Part II was voted by both critics and movie goers alike the worst movie of 1977. Watching it today, some thirty years later, the only thing wrong with that opinion is that it's not just the worst movie of that year, 1977, but very possibly one the worst movie of all times. "},{"Title":"part 2 is scarier then part 1","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Don't get me wrong. The first Exorcist movie is very scary. But this one is scarier. I can think of scarier movies then this one. The Exorcist III is scarier. Exorcist the beginning is also scarier. Dominion a prequel to The Exorcist is also scarier. But still this is a very scary movie. This one of the scariest movies made before 1990. This movie has a great story line. This movie also has great acting. This movie also has great special effects. See this movie. See all the The Exorcist movies. They are all most sees. I need more lines. And I am running out of things to say. This a great movie. Great movie great movie. "},{"Title":"Every bit as entertainingly bad as its reputation","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Exorcist II begins as your run of the mill schlock with some bad filmmaking that might give you a smirk, but about a half hour in, the infamous synchronizer scene will drop your jaw to the floor. It's so misguided and absurd, director John Boorman must have been as sauced as Richard Burton while conceiving that sequence. Ennio Morricone's tribal type score is nails on the chalkboard atrocious and sounds like a mentally challenged woman having a full blown temper tantrum. The film hits a slow patch when Burton goes to Africa and while his character wanders around distressed, he just looks drunk and bored. The last 15 minutes come back to campy life with a locust filled finale and state of the art wind machines to really earn this a place in the history of entertainingly bad movies. "},{"Title":"Possessed again.","Date":"4 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Linda Blair returns as the possessed Regan in this sequel to The Exorcist, where she is in an institution being treated with bad memories and flashbacks. The demon actually still lurks within her and is threatening to wreak havoc again, all the while Father Philip Lamont (Richard Burton) investigates the death of Father Merrin from the first movie, and visits Africa to locate another recipient of Merrin's exorcism.This sequel lacks the tension and overall demonic fear from the first movie, mostly delving on Father Lamont's exorcism fact-finding mission in Africa, which really deviates from the main plot of the story. The Africa subplot was interesting but wasn't explained very well, as the movie cuts back and forth from Regan's scenes to Kokumo's (James Earl Jones) scenes in Africa. And, the deal with the locusts was awkward and off. But, you still get some hair-raising ghost action in much of the rear of the movie, which I thought were nicely done in sophisticated special effects.It's a slower film than its prequel, but still has some nice horror elements in it.Grade C "}{"Title":"Bizarre Sequel.","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Linda Blair returns as Regan MacNeil, years after she recovered from the ordeal of the first film. She is now involved in experimental therapy to help her recover, but this comes in handy when another priest(Richard Burton) is assigned to investigate the circumstances of Father Merrin's death, but then finds to his horror that the very same demon that possessed Regan is back, and determined to prevail...Bizarre is the word to describe this film; though script is ambitious, story is utterly ridiculous and nonsensical, leading to some unintentionally funny moments, and a laughable final confrontation with the demon. Direction by John Boorman is energetic but hampered by over-the-top visuals that will leave viewer dumbfounded.Deeply disappointing sequel. "},{"Title":"What the?","Date":"6 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There are truly bad movies out there, like Manos the Hands of Fate and almost everything that Ed Wood did. However, there is no excuse for a movie that has a budget and a director who has shown talent to make something this bad. Yes, Mr Boorman, it is your fault. Richard Burton sleepwalks through this movie and the rest of the cast likewise phones it in. The Exorcist was a well written and directed movie which had a very real statement about good and evil. Mr Boorman must not have liked what it said, because he contradicted everything that was said in the original. What the heck, this is the same man who gave us Zardoz. It is one thing for a movie to be made by people who do not know how to make movies and have almost no budget. But when people who know better and have money make something this bad, it is an insult to the audience. The only thing I wonder is what the studio was thinking. "},{"Title":"More forget able then the first!","Date":"26 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have seen once before but I Could not remember much of it in my first watch It's no were near as good as first movie, We all that coming, There should not even been sequel to this movie, never mind 3, (4 and 5 both of these are the same movies) I did like the sound of plot of movie, I thought it started of decent but really on in the movie is went off into r, science fiction, and fantasy. Which just felt really wrong and Another thing I didn't like how it's was going back and forward to the real and Dream world. It go annoying and it's happens way to many times this, some times those scene were just odd in Bad waythere were some scenes I thought decent in this movie but I don't think was one scary or shocking moment in this movie, will shock anyone!Some of the effects were not bad but Could have been done and the acting was really good from the whole cast! 3/10 - "},{"Title":"The Which Blair Project?","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Considering the astonishing success of 1973's The Exorcist, a sequel didn't seem like a bad idea. However, this one, as delivered up by director Boorman, certainly was! Several years have passed by since Blair was possessed by the Devil and subsequently exorcised by priest Von Sydow (who was killed for his efforts.) Now the Vatican is sending priest Burton to investigate the matter and he finds Blair living with her guardian Wynn and receiving treatment from therapist Fletcher at Fletcher's ludicrous clinic at which children spend their days rolling a massive padded lug nut around the room. (Blair's mother, played by Ellen Burstyn in the original film, is briefly alluded to as being out of the country, the actress wisely having avoided this project altogether.) Almost directly after explaining to Burton that Blair shouldn't be reminded of her experience, Fletcher hooks her up to a device that is designed to hypnotize her into doing exactly that! As a result of this (ridiculous) contraption, it is discovered that Blair was possessed by an evil spirit that had previously and subsequently done the same to other people, notably an African boy. Burton sets off to speak to the now-grown victim (played by Jones) and experiences a variety of strange experiences. Meanwhile (in one of the film's howling moments), as Burton is mistreated by the locals, Blair incurs his injuries, stigmatically, right while she's in the middle of a putridly hideous school revue tap dance!! Somehow it all winds up back in Blair's old bedroom, with the demon in a sexualized form of Blair (she refused to wear the ghoulish makeup this time out) coming on to the craggy Burton while Wynn and Fletcher endure a wrangled taxi crash downstairs! Locusts, a motif throughout the film for vaguely specified reasons, descend on the scene in droves until the big finish. Burton, probably considered a bit of a casting coup despite his decayed appearance and questionable career path by then, alternates between stone-faced apathy and over-the-top hamminess. Blair, pneumatically filled out in all the right places by now, especially in her chest and in her chipmunk cheeks, is really horrible. She was exerting as much control as she could, based on the status of her career to that point and the need for her presence in the film, and she got what was coming to her when the film was greeted with peals of laughter upon release. Her career never rebounded, especially when the other shoe (Roller Boogie) dropped. Fletcher, in a role that was written for a man and ought to have stayed as such since the film comes off as oddly female heavy, seems to be trying to convey feeling into her part, but it's a rotten role and she frequently comes off badly. Wynn's part, clearly augmented to make up for Burstyn's absence, makes little sense. Von Sydow appears briefly in flashbacks as a younger version of the character he played in the original. Jones' role is small, but not as small as Beatty's (apparently working as a favor to Boorman following their Deliverance collaboration?) and Henreid adds a degree of presence as a Cardinal. Beatty's real life wife has a part as one of Fletcher's assistants and Plato appears as an autistic child mysteriously aided by Blair. Despite some striking imagery, the film fails because it is muddled, wrong-headed, not in any way scary and ultimately quite ridiculous. This being the era of the all-star disaster film, a number of destructive elements and effects are introduced along the way (check out the lady behind Fletcher on the plane who hits her head!), but the biggest disaster of all is the script. And people are still scratching their heads over the subtitle of the film! "},{"Title":"At least Linda Blair looked good...","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm going to keep this as short as I can because I could go on for hours with a long barrage of insults on this movie. I must note that I am a supporter of the original Exorcist, not because I think it was a wonderfully scary movie, but because it was original for its time and it is now a classic. I just really like old horror movies. Of course, when you like a horror movie, you're drawn to watch all the sequels in hopes that they'll live up to the original. humph... Basically I thought this movie was stupid. I have reasons, but the main one is that I just found, after watching it twice that it made no sense. If the story did make sense, it was so buried in the twisting storyline that I lost the point less than halfway through. Acting was bad, the movie was too long, and the hypnotism machine was a horribly hokey idea. Seriously, what the heck was this mess? Oh well. At least we get to see Linda Blair look hot in her late teens. "},{"Title":"Confusting","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film is so bad that it is almost impossible to take your eyes off it when watching! I sat there thinking What the hell is going on? for an awful lot of it. The dialogue seems to make no sense with what is actually happening in the scene.I am sure there were some massive cuts made in this movie by the director because some part of it just jump from one scene or situation to another with no logic at all.The script is just hideous and the cast don't look like they are even making any effort to portray it with any seriousness.The scenery and sets generally are awful- obviously there was no budget to actually shoot in Africa so they just painted some polystyrene brown for the mountains, and even the Macneil's house in Washington from the first film has been recreated on a sound stage rather than actually filming in the original location.That said, some of the special effects are great by 1977 standards. The musical score just got on my nerves.This is a truly bad film but one of those bad films that is totally watchable just to see how much worse it is going to get right up to the hilarious climax - fires, swarming insects, Linda Blair in wedge healed espadrilles... its all there.The film is confusing, very silly, and badly acted but I still think everyone who likes horror films should watch it! "},{"Title":"point to the movie?","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I had no high hopes of this movie at all. I love the original as it seems to get better each time i watch it. I've heard so many bad reviews of this one i never got round to watching it until now.The experience was so bad that I've had to come online to moan and warn other people about it, no one i can ring would care so here is my review.There was nothing at all which grabbed my interest. I wondered if the film is paced to quickly, but it can't be because i spent an hour and a half hoping it would be over soon, so in that respect it wasn't paced quite quick enough. But I kept missing bits because the lack of interest lets your mind wander. I found myself thinking i wish they had waited just a year or two more before filming so that Linda Blair would look that tiny bit older then it wouldn't feel so wrong to fancy her And the actress in makeup to look like Regan from part 1 is truly terrible, i want to say more about how bad it really looks, but i cant put into words without obscenities.What exactly made this the most expensive movie WB had ever made at the time? I reckon it was all spent 1st class travel expenses for the cast and crew, cos i don't see where it was spent on screen. The ending of the film may have cost a bit but it doesn't look very good even for 1977.Richard Burton has quite a long career behind him with some big movies in there. Cant say i remember him in any of those titles but i will always remember him for giving the worst on screen performance by an actor, i have EVER seen as the father. He just sort of wanders in front of the camera, or lingers there waiting to deliver his lines. When he does speak you just wish he would put a bit of emotion into his voice, its just monotone. Oh yeah and when he walks his hands stay perfectly by his sides, his movement is that wooden, just like the performance.CONCLUSION - You have either already watched this movie and you want to see how bad other people though it was, or you've only just found out there was a sequel and you're going to watch it anyway. I honestly think this is the worst horror movie I have ever watched in my life, what do you think? "},{"Title":"Unnecessary sequel.....","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After many years, I finally purchased and viewed this film for the first time. Utter trash! This story takes place years after the events of the first film. Regan, once again played by Linda Blair, is trying to be a normal teenager. With the help of a priest and her psychiatrist, she begins to remember the original demonic possession that happened to her years ago.Totally unnecessary film is incoherent, and not scary at all! The original film was a classic, and this film, as well as the other sequels, are just trying to cash in on the success of the original.The original was genius, this film is a turd! Avoid at all costs! "},{"Title":"Two hour commercial for metaphors","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Exorcist II is meaningful, archetypal, and heavy on metaphors. It's epic in scope, provocative in nature, and expansive in its subject matter. The only thing it's lacking is a plot and characters worth following.It's absolutely hilarious how hard Heretic tries to be a good movie. Watching the film is like watching a kid pulling, and pulling, and pulling with all his might. Pulling with every once of his soul. Pulling with all of his being . . . and he never realizes the sign on the door says Push. The lesson Exorcist II learned the hard way is that without an entrance &#150; without the audience's intrigue (that precious suspension of disbelief) &#150; the audience will not care to interpret the visual metaphors regarding the phenomena of synced consciousness, transcending the body, and limited human understanding. It's not that Exorcist II lacked meaningful substance, it's that I didn't care. And that's why Heretic fails as a film.At the forefront of the film's turnoffs is Father Lamont. The character is both written and played one dimensionally. The problem is only compounded by the fact the one dimension we get is both stale and repulsive. Father Lamont has no life. He has no personality. He has a handful of facial expressions. His calling is to single-handedly find the weapon (the healers) to stand against Satan. His faith goes beyond a calling, it goes beyond a mission, it's a full blown obsession that makes me want to see him locked into a psychiatric ward. He strikes me as the type of priest who would drive the atrocity known as the inquisition or the Salem Witch trials. The last thing I wanted to do was follow him and his one note Must stop evil attitude for the entire film.The original film scored points for humanizing its servants of God. We caught glimpses of the lives these holy men lead, we find out they face problems too. And some even lose their faith. Friedkin and Blatty made Father Karras and Father Dyer full blown sympathetic characters &#150; characters I wanted to follow for the length of the film. John Boorman and William Goodhart make Father Lamont the equivalent of the holy Terminator with less interesting characteristics, less memorable lines, and a smaller emoting range than our favorite cyberdyne systems model 101. It doesn't work.On a similar note, the Exorcist was an intimate story about a handful of normal people living their lives, dealing with their troubles, and just trying to survive. The Exorcist was epic only through suggestion &#150; through the imagery of Merrin in Iraq, climaxing as he stands across the frame from the statue of Pazuzu. Exorcist II, by contrast, lives, breathes, eats, and sleeps Epic. This isn't the battle over a few people's faith, and the soul of a little girl &#150; we're constantly bombarded with reminders that this is the war between Good and Evil.In the spirit of the film, let me say that again This is the ultimate battle between Good and Eeeeevil! And it's not that it breaks from the stance of the original film that bothers me &#150; it's the fact that Exorcist II can't stand on its own in its new position. The film goes so epic that it loses touch with its audience. I really don't care about Pazuzu's grand mission to destroy the new breed of healers/warriors of God in a battle between superpowers with us as their pawns. The film wants to go in that direction, and I don't want to follow it. Every creative impulse within me resists it, stating, This is a bad idea. Don't go there. Alas, the film goes there.The nail in the coffin, though, isn't where the film goes. The nail in the coffin is the method in which it uses to get there. Heretic uses deliberate visual metaphors that draw attention to themselves &#150; like giant billboards, screaming Look, I'm a deep meaningful movie! I find it ironic how the film drains the power and meaning from its images by flaunting (dare I say prostituting) them. Granted, the film addresses some interesting topics about joint consciousness and the psychological effects of hypnosis, and it jumps to represent them with the cinematic arts using methods that strike me as both unsophisticated and primitive &#150; like something a novice filmmaker would churn out in film school. As a result, the film sells itself cheaply, exploits itself, and whimsically throws out its deepest darkest secrets front and center of the screen, which leaves the viewer with two options Believe what the film says, or believe how the film says it. I take option B - the film is a cheap whore.But surely &#150; surely &#150; one of my all time favorite composers, Ennio Morricone, would contribute a positive element to the film. The prolific and legendary composer behind the Leone Spaghetti Westerns, De Palma's The Untouchables, and Joffe's The Mission among many many others . . . I literally perked up reading his name in the credits and mouthed a quiet yes! But for the life of me, despite my deep admiration and affection for his body of work, I did not like his score for Exorcist II Heretic.In the end, while Heretic does have a few powerful moments, they're just so vastly outnumbered by, to be quite frank, boring or silly sequences just begging for abusive commentary. Take for example the numerous times the process of hypnosis is shown &#150; characters staring dumbly at a blinking light, speaking in the generic delayed hypnotized monotone. Who cares to see this (not only once, but several times)? When the film is over and done with, when the credits rolled after characters have lived and died and one minuscule victory is gained in the depressingly never ending epic battle of Good and Evil, I'm still asking that same question. Who cares? "},{"Title":"As some viewers have noted, inside this awful, awful film is a great one screaming to get out","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Almost every comment or review I ever read about Exorcist II panned it as one of the worst movies of the year it was made, and possibly one of the worst movies EVER made. I finally saw it on American Movie Classics last night, so I could judge it for myself. I have to make allowances for possible censorship and being chopped up so they could stick in commercials, but in the end I have to agree that this movie is phenomenally bad. What makes it worse is that here and there are some pretty effective individual film special effects, sound effects, bits of stage business and delivered lines that DO hit the mark, and these glints of potential hint at a really unsettling and creepy apocalyptic thriller that could have left the viewer shaken and afraid. But someone - Boorman the director, or the writer, or someone - couldn't keep control of the material, or make the script work the way it was supposed to, and the film will veer from brain-numbingly stupid to jolting and unnerving and back to stupid and overblown several times in a given scene. That's even more exhausting and irritating than if the movie just sucks. Burton is simultaneously the best and worst thing in this film. He's the best thing because he IS Richard Burton, and even his hammiest, most scene-chewing performances are worth watching in any film he happens to be in. In this case, Burton works overtime to give his character all the gravitas and portent he needs to carry the film. But he's the worst thing in the film because, well, the lines he has to deliver and the scenes he has to participate in are just plain ludicrous. It hurts me to see Burton like this...I hope he managed to pay off his condominium (or whatever financial need he had for this paycheck), because it's pretty obvious that he despises what he is doing in this film. As for the other principle, Linda Blair...well, it's almost impossible to be fair to Blair regarding this movie. She can't really act, but the camera lends a certain hypnotic quality to her face in this movie, and Boorman exploits it for all he can. I think she tried hard to give Boorman what he wanted, but unfortunately what he wanted was for her to alternate Rebecca Of Sunnybrook Farm with Pea Soup Vomiting Biker Slut From Hell, and the results are basically unwatchable. I mean, we are talking Hayden-in-Attack-Of-the-Clones unwatchable. Blair was far better suited as a post-pubescent actress to the kind of Roller Boogie/Women in Cages things she did later,or as walk-on roles as herself, and I can only hope she eventually found happiness and contentment on the fringes of fame and celebrity. This is said to be one of the most expensive films ever made for its time, and in E2Heretic's defense, most of the money is there on the screen. The African scenes are photographed and lit perfectly, detailed, and obsessively put together... they must have been murder to stage and shoot. The apocalyptic scenes (locust attacks, etc) are not especially convincing (especially to modern eyes accustomed to millions of dollars in CGI eye-candy) but there are plenty of them and the soundtrack and sound design work strenuously to convince the viewer that Nasty Things are going on here. In fact, I'd argue that the sound design is possibly the best thing about Heretic, and if it hadn't been so meticulous and suitable, the movie would have been even less watchable than it is now. Heretic is a mess, no doubt about it, in the way that only a great director working from a horrible script (and with his head jammed firmly up his own rectum ) can make it. It's worth seeing once for Burton and Blair, and a weird role by James Earl Jones. But don't go out of your way to see it and DON'T, under any circumstance pay more than $5 to purchase, and then only on DVD with all the trimmings and extras. "}{"Title":"It's an insult to part I!","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Enough said. This movie is very boring, the stuff with Pazuza is quite too much exaggerated, and very dumb. Linda Blair however acts very well but she's a victim of this kind of movie. I mean, with her talents make a better movie! In many cases, when a new director shows up for a sequel, it's better to not make a sequel at all! It's very clear that they didn't understand that! It's so pity full! Exorcist is brilliant in my opinion, really brilliant! It's a shame, but it could always get worse! The exorcist II is a very dumb movie, but if you would like to see a real insult to the original, watch part III! Or better, don't watch it at all! ) "},{"Title":"Out of Africa","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" John Boorman had the onerous task of following the original Exorcist and he decidedly fails. Yet, is this film REALLY as bad as everyone would have you believe? No way. I have seen a whole lot worse. I think what the major problem is pertains to high expectations and low achievement. Nonetheless, Exorcist II the Heretic is an entertaining film to degrees and though it is definitely a bad film - a film I found humorous for all the wrong reasons. Taking Richard Burton seriously as a priest is just one of the many problems the film has. Burton gives one of his typical performances but is competent in front of the camera. Academy award winner Louise Fletcher also is there to give varying degrees of credibility. The biggest problem is easily the muddled mess of a script. I saw the film and could not really explain what happened competently. I know that Regan is back and she still has the subconscious memories of what happened years ago. In order to exorcise these memories Burton goes to Africa to find James Earl Jones who is connected with a locust demon(?) Anywy the story sucks. But Boorman and his cast wend their way through the material and at the very least put something together that makes a little sense and is a bit of fun. I wasn't bored, and for me the worst thing a movie can be is boring. There are some powerful scenes in this film. I enjoyed SOME of the footage of Burton going to Africa. The opening scene of him exorcising a demon was well-shot. Max Von Sydow is back ala flashback. And last but certainly not least, Linda Blair returns giving a pretty good performance and looking quite beautiful and sexy. Make no mistakes, this film is a dud - but one of the worst films ever made? No way! "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" How do you make a sequel to the greatest horror film of all time? You shouldn't; but John Boorman has to disastrous effect. The confusing and boring story is poorly acted by a cast that most films would love to have and John Boorman's direction is so awful you can't help but laugh at the film which is, at no point, scary. Richard Burton, Louise Fletcher, Linda Blair and Kitty Winn all look like they can't be bothered with the film and, if the rumours of Burton's drinking are true then I can't really blame him given the rubbish he was asked to read, Burton and Blair seem to have a strange relationship which Vladimir Nabokov would've been proud of and when James Earl Jones appears dressed as a giant locust the whole movie descends into farce. "},{"Title":"Complete crapola!","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Blasphemy! That's all that can be said about this film! This shouldn't even be considered a sequel to the Exorcist as they are two completely different films that have completely different directions. The only thing they share is Linda Blair (who I don't mind saying has 'grown up' a little more in this one! BOINGGG!) who reprises her character of Regan McNeil. And what's the deal with that brain synchronisation machine? Who thought of that? James Earl Jones lends his powerful presence to the proceedings but doesn't really do anything. Avoid if you want a horror movie, I don't know what it is, but it ain't horror! "},{"Title":"zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Snoozer of a sequel to the popular 1973 film, is a complete bore of a movie that only gets worse as the film goes on. The story goes that LINDA BLAIR'S character REGAN has been demon free for 4 years, but suddenly weird supernatural occurrences happen & she begins to wonder if she's really demon free. The film may even try the most die hard of horror fans as it does not do anything interesting. The movie just moves at a snails pace & the numerous problems the sequel went through while shooting also never helped the film any. A sequel followed a few years later called EXORCIST 3 LEGION, penned & directed by the original films writer & thus was a better sequel, but sorry no LINDA BLAIR in that one! Avoid this one.* (star) "},{"Title":"Particularly Bad...","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I think John Boorman is a wonderful filmmaker; Deliverance and Excalibur are two of my favorite movies -- so is The Exorcist. However, I just saw Exorcist II The Heretic last night, for the second time (after many years), and was surprised by how bad it really was.What was so bad? First, the acting -- there was not a single strong performance. This is perhaps Richard Burton's weakest role (and I think Burton is great). Max Von Sydow was good; I wish his role had be larger. Mainly, each character was a cliché.Secondly, the story development. While many of the ideas in the script are interesting, they do not come together to form an interesting story. Nor are the ideas in themselves well presented, and much could have been made of many of these ideas the synchronized biofeedback technique, the priest's relationship with the demon, the boundaries of heresy.Thirdly, the production design. I notice from IMDb that Richard MacDonald designed some visually stunning movies (Jesus Christ Superstar, Altered States); in this film, every set looked like a set -- from the psychiatric center to the apartment, to the stone dwellings in Africa -- and even the house in Georgetown as it crumbles.Perhaps I am being too harsh. I love movies, though, and there is something sad about seeing such a particularly bad one -- with a great cast, crew and director. I otherwise highly recommend Boorman's movies. "},{"Title":"The Highlander 2 of horror movies","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Yet another movie I have watched recently that was just terrible. The usually bad acting comments stand. I'm going to throw in a brief *SPOILER* for a minute (nothing really important though).Regan is really a super hero with the power to heal mental illnesses and kill bugs. Merrin was secretly searching for these people because they had the power to save the world and stop evil forever. Regan uses a telepathy machine with her shrink to remember dreams that she isn't having about the possession, and later uses it to help Father Lamont spend 2 hours of screen time acting poorly and confusing the audience.I remembered hearing that in the theaters during The Exorcist, people had been running up and down the aisles. I suspect that people did this in Exorcist 2, but in anger and confusion rather than terror.I just watched Exorcist The Beginning (good movie, see it), and I was so mortified that Exorcist 2 had nothing to do with the original or the new prequel. This was literally the Highlander 2 of Horror movies.My closing comment Thank god I work in a video store, and didn't have to waste my money renting this travesty.  "},{"Title":"Evil is a spiritual being, alive and living, perverted and perverting, weaving its way insidiously into the very fabric of life.","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" We have great director John Boorman, Italian music maestro Ennio Morricone, and a cast including James Earl Jones, Louise Fletcher, Richard Burton, and Max Von Sydow...what went wrong??? Exorcist II The Heretic is a lousy attempt to create some sort of follow-up story to The Exorcist before Blatty wrote his own (far superior) sequel Legion. This story is just boring and very silly. It tries way too hard to tell a story that isn't there. Linda Blair stars once again as Regan and is hypnotized to find out what she remembers about those shocking events four years ago. It's a real snoozer. I couldn't even watch it in one sitting. That's how boring it was. I was very surprised at how bad Exorcist II was. It is in no way horrifying (well, maybe the fact that it was made). John Boorman even tried to escape directing duties but was threatened with a lawsuit. William Peter Blatty directed his own sequel, Legion, in 1990 and thankfully ignored this awful mess. Go watch it instead. "},{"Title":"Movies that make you go huh and not in a good, David Lynch kind of way!","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Richard Burton gives one of the hammiest, sweatiest performances of any leading man in the history of cinema! I think the trivia page for this film says the director cuts to Burtons face where he just stares off-screen not doing anything something like 25-26 times! It seems like more than that. What was he staring at anyway? Probably that bottle of cutty sark? The scene where Burton, drunk out of his mind, has to fight the sexy underwear clad Pazuzu has to be seen to be believed. The plot, if there even one was, has to do with the demon Pazuzu up to no good again (or as Burton intones, eeeeeevviillllllll). Louise Fletcher just stands around spouting pseudo-psychological mumbo-jumbo while Linda Blair, who finally hit puberty, looks like a Kewpie Doll with a nice rack. Anyway, Burton has to ride the wings of a demon in Africa to talk to James Earl Jones, dressed in a giant lion skin, to learn how to fight the demon pazuzu. Then everyone has to go back to the house where it all began so they can get attacked by a giant locust swarm AND an earthquake in the middle of Georgetown! There are two versions of this movie, one version ends with Blair coming out of the house over a disco beat, the other version has Blair walking down the famous steps. I presume that audiences threw rotten tomatoes at both versions? This film was one of the most infamous flops of the '70s and was laughed out of theaters. "},{"Title":"lobsters? Richard Burton?","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie shouldn't be considered as a sequel to the original Exorcist. I can't believe how bad this film is! The acting, the poor special effects, and the plot are factors to make this a terrible movie. The Exorcist II  The Heretic demonstrates one more time, that sequels can't match the original... "}{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This review applies to the 118 min. version. If you ever watch this film, please stay away from the 110 min. versions and TV prints. All they do is cut out important scenes that will leave you confused.The demon that plagued Reagen (Linda Blair) in the original Exorcist is discovered to still be haunting her. A doctor (Louise Fletcher), who acts as a mother figure to Reagen, and a priest (Richard Burton), who is also sent to discover what caused Father Merrin's (Max Von Sydow) death, are sent to help her. However, the priest discovers that the same demon that haunts Linda Blair is the same one that he exorcised from an African tribalsman (James Earl Jones). After his inquiry sends him all the way to Africa, Burton finds out from Jones that the demon travels worldwide in locusts. After arriving back in the states, Burton discovers that Fletcher's treatments have caused Reagen to be possessed again.Possibly the most under-rated sequel in history boosts a  terrific cast (that also includes Ned Beatty and Kittty Winn) and features a good leading performance from Linda Blair. The direction is top notch and the special effects, score, & cinematography are all very impressive. Also the film tries to build upon the original by giving it complex layers and by taking this franchise in a brand new direction. This first-rate thriller only suffers from one thing, the script (which I will admit is quite good) is like an H.P. Lovecraft book, it is nearly impossible to translate to the screen. Still you got to give the cast and crew a lot of credit for really being original and daring. Rated R; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Was It Just Me, Or Did This Movie Really Suck?","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"      Okay, here I am watching The Exorcist 2, thinking, was this sequel really needed???. To start off, Linda Blair did a good job as Reagan, as she did in the original, and the rest of the cast I had no problem with. Yet, the original Exorcist was brilliant and didn't even need to have a hint for a sequel, but yet they did it again, they added another piece of rubbish onto one of the best horror films ever made. This movie was really weird, including the scenes of the people in Africa with the father in the original. This movie was really pointless, and was never needed. I give The Exorcist 2 Heretic a 5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Worst sequel ever!","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Bad, bad, bad. I don't know what these film-makers were thinking! Bringing back Linda Blair to reprise her role as Regan couldn't save this. Bringing back Kitty Winn as a tougher Sharon couldn't save this. The Georgetown house and infamous staircase couldn't save this. So, let's bring in Richard Burton and Louise Fletcher. We'll make Burton a priest and Fletcher's character a mother figure for Regan. Why not? She's the closest resemblance to Ellen Burstyn we're going to get. I am not even going to go into the whole locust idiocy. Let's just say that the producers must have used every locust in the free world to film this movie. Bad script, bad acting, cheesy special effects and a horrific (not in the good way) ending make this one of the worst films ever made in the history of Hollywood movies. On the plus side, Max von Sydow is the only watchable player in the film. My rating 2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Boorman's worst.","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A tale told by an idiot etc...  Boorman, who at times shows some genius (The General) seemed more interested in cashing in on the franchise than adding to it.  It's hard to believe they made a third Exorcist (a surprising success, all things considered.)  Von Sydow was wasted.  The only bright spot is Linda Blair, whose porn career is prefigured by her outrageous chest, scanty attire, and acting skills. "},{"Title":"A big joke","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is a real turkey. While almost nothing happens, R. Burton looks scared from the beginning until the end. The girl who plays Regan is miscast (I wouldn't rely on her to save the world), the new age message is absolutely laughable and the whole movie is as pretentious and empty as one of Nicholas Roeg's. One has to be VERY IMPRESSIONABLE to like (or even be scared by) this one. "},{"Title":"Exorcist IIThe synchronizer","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I wonder... What could have made Linda Blair accept this stupid role in this awful film? Did she want to mock at the original Exorcist? Really, this movie is so bad it makes you angry! We never get to realize why Regan is in danger, the priest's aim during the whole film is rather incomprehensible and all the synchronizer scenes with the light bulbs going rapidly in and out are so annoying! In fact, this film should be called Exorcist IIThe synchronizer! On top of this, there are some of the stupidest lines that could ever be heard in a thriller and a feeling that the director wanted to fit in any wacky idea that came to his head in order to scare us.However, we have to acknowledge a couple of good scenes, especially the last one, the beautiful Africa shots and (although inappropriate at times) Morricone's soundtrack. "},{"Title":"I deserve a T-shirt for getting through this film!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Torture comes in many forms.  In this case the torture is Exorcist II The Heretic.  Arguably the worst sequel ever made, this cheese filled disaster can only be watched as not a sequel but a singular monstrosity.  The acting is amazingly pitiful, despite a nice effort from Louise Fletcher and Richard Burton.  Burton attempts to get through those pretentious pieces of dialogue even if he has to yell them, and he does!  The scenes displaying hypnosis are not only hilarious, but are embarrassing.  The original film stands alone as a masterpiece, but this useless sequel was obviously made specifically for those few moviegoers who truly enjoy pain.  An Exorcist sequel was obviously a hot property at the time, attracting prestigious actors, but to their dismay the film is horrific.  The film was pulled from theaters after it's initial release so John Boorman could recut the film. Obviously the recuts were all for not!!  The scenes taking place in Africa are well shot and slightly disturbing.  Burton being stoned by a group of angry villagers crosscut with Linda Blair tap-dancing is hysterical. Someone must have known during the making of this film that something was really wrong.  Oh wait, maybe someone should have said something after reading the script.   "},{"Title":"bad","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was a terible movie, skip it.  Exorcist 3 was much better, this movie sucked, thats all i have got to say it sucks.  I mean seriously do not see it unless you have spare time, besides only losers would like this movie. I can't say how much this movie sucked i couldnt watch the whole this cause it sucked so bad.  "},{"Title":"The first hour is decent, but it all goes downhill from there.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Young Linda Blair discovers that the demon that haunted her in the original film is still inside her. The script is pretty awful, but the direction is acceptable and the special effects are remarkable. The problem though is that this becomes boring after about an hour and will leave die-hard viewers fast asleep. It is also overlong. Rating 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This movie was possessed by the demon of bad film-making.","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Allow me to summarize those portions of The Exorcist II The Heretic that I was able to watch before needing to turn it offA still-too-young Linda Blair tap-dances bra-less on stage, with short-shorts that are nearly illegal. Louise Fletcher is a therapist who treats patients with a machine that actually allows people to literally enter the subconscious minds of others. Nevermind that a technology like this could revolutionize the human experience, especially with respect to psychology, art, literature and religion. It is quietly tucked away in a treatment center for children with autism (where, for some reason, a psychological trauma victim is also being treated). A giant , sentient, demonic locust chases wildebeests across the African grasslands. James Earl Jones gets ticked and magically turns into a leopard. This was a thing. This happened in the movie.WHY did I not just turn it off?! WHY DID I NOT JUST TURN THE MOVIE OFF?!?!(Perhaps I was possessed.) "}{"Title":"A Beautifully Crafted Mess","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There is no question Warner intended Exorcist II The Heretic to be their prestige film of 1977; a frontrunner come Oscar time and a blockbuster sequel to what was a pop culture sensation. No expense was spared in the casting and construction of this spectacular production which assembled an A-list group of artists including several Academy Award winners. Unfortunately this gorgeous, brilliantly crafted film was built upon a LOUSY screenplay. The dialogue is preposterous. The plot devices are ludicrous. And despite the effort made to create a bigger and better Exorcist someone forgot to include scares when writing this fiasco. Even the show-stopping climax; an exorcism-to-end-all-exorcisms is rendered laughable because of unspeakable dialogue forced from the mouths of an embarrassed cast. A black eye for all concerned. One of the very best WORST films. "},{"Title":"Dull sequel to a classic original","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Exorcist 2 what a waste of time watching this film i would be disgraced to call it a sequel to the Exorcist it was just all wrong apart from the ending in fact it was the ending that made me give it 5 and not 1. The story is that Reagan the girl that was possessed in the first film finds out that the evil still lurks within her whilst Father Lamont tries to uncover the death of Father Merrin (Reagan's exorcist during the first film). This film starred Linda Blair, Richard Burton and Max Von Sydow In my opinion this was a bad film apart from the climax it was a dull film there was basically nothing to smile about at all until the last 20 minutes.**/***** "},{"Title":"Has got nothing to do with The Exorcism","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" John Boorman (director of the boring overrated Deliverance) hated the original. So if Warner Brtothers wanted to cash in on the originals success, why did they choose a director for the sequel that hated the first one?? And why would Boorman want to do it? Did he think he could make a better movie?? What was his motivation to make this pretentious crap?? Screw you John Boorman for ever making this unbeliavably lousy movie!! This is not a movie about excorsism, its not even a horror movie. And the acting, the lines and the music is awful. The plot makes no sense what so ever. Nothing ever happens.Instead of Reagan being possessed once again or a whole new cast we get a dumb boring story about an investigation of what really happened to Father Merrin when he exorcised the deamon in the original. As it is told in the very beginning he was killed by the deamon so why an investigation is even needed is one of the many Things that makes no sense in this movie. During this investigation the moronic Father Lamont asdsigned to investigate, travels to Africa who is apparently one big desert and we get some bogus story about grasshoppers who represents the fight between good and evil on some philosophical symbolic level. And it's all connected to Reagan. Yes it really is that stupid. Appaerently Reagan is in great danger, but apart from acting like a retarded 5 year old, Reagan is perfectly fine and healthy. But Lamont thinks he needs to save her from this deamon who is never possessing her once during the entire movie. At the end there are two physical Reagans, a possessed one and a normal one. Give me a break!! John Boorman (that arrogant British jerk) should have been forced to apologize for making not just one of the worst movies ever made, but the worst sequel ever made because it has got nothing to do with the original. "},{"Title":"Not Such A Bad Movie After All","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" OK Maybe I'm One Of The Very Few Who Get's This Movie, & Likes It, But I Had To Say Something Good About It. Not Once Did It Make Me Laugh. I Was Intrigued & Interested The Whole Way Through, I Understand The Movie & What Was Trying To Be Portrayed To The Audience. Not To Mention Linda Blair's Acting Was Outstanding, I Was Disappointed A 3rd Movie Fallowing The Heretic Wasn't Made Continuing On with Regan's Story. That's What The Movie Was About To Me Regan's Story & I Want To see The Next Chapter In Her Story. So To Linda Blair, This Was Not Your Worst Movie Ever Made. It Was One Of Your Best, Your Acting Is What Makes It So Good, So I Thank You For Sharing With Us Your Incredible Talent, & Look forward To Seeing More Form You On Screen. "},{"Title":"One Of The Most Anticipated Sequels Ever Bombs","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Not long after the success of the original film, several of the makers of The Exorcist tried to plot a workable sequel. After an earnest attempt, they abandoned the idea. This included director William Friedkin, writer William Peter Blatty, and actress Ellen Burstyn. Several reviewers have rationalized there's an entertaining film hiding inside of this highly anticipated sequel to The Exorcist, but the truth of the matter is there isn't. Father Lamont is called upon to investigate the death of Father Merrin from the original film. In so doing, he manipulates his way into Doctor Tuskin's office, who is providing some experimental treatment to a teenage Regan.Richard Burton, although obviously not in one of his better roles, is the best thing in the film as Father Lamont, until near the end of the film when Regan (Linda Blair) seduces him momentarily. Max Von Sydow appears briefly as Father Merrin again. Louise Fletcher, in her first film since her Oscar-winning Cuckoo's Nest turn as Nurse Ratched, is Doctor Tuskin, some sort of mumbo jumbo psychiatrist. The plot has Regan, Doctor Tuskin, and Father Lamont taking turns with a neural device called the synchronizer which transports the participant into a hypnotic/dreamlike state. Here, the viewer (and the participant opposite Regan) sees the point of view of Regan and the dreams that supposedly still haunt her. In retrospect, the device is laughably phony and as dated as the high waist pants sported by Linda Blair, Louise Fletcher, and Kitty Winn, who returns as Sharon Spencer. Like the first film, The Heretic begins earnestly enough with a nice visual metaphor of Father Lamont meeting Regan, viewing her through a darkly tinted glass door. However, as soon as the synchronizer appears, the film loses some credibility. Clearly, the audience comes to a sequel like this to be scared, not to go on a metaphysical travelogue. The high rise apartment Regan lives in is wasted too. Why have a high rise setting in a horror film, if you're not going to exploit for its worth? The IV pole is back again; only this time, Regan pulls out the IV, which is clearly not flowing, and then the IV pole disappears in subsequent shots. After a half hour, the anticipation builds for the first set of shocks which never comes. After an hour, interest begins to wane, and after ninety minutes, it becomes a chore to sit through the remainder of the film, realizing the film is vastly inferior to the original, has no suspense or horror, and isn't even a passable film at all. Linda Blair does the film no favors with the limited scenes she has. She's always in scenes with other actors, and she's always the weakest actor/actress in the film. Watch her reaction as she enters her old bedroom from the first film, and viewers will see what I mean. She screams/yells, but the expression on her face never changes from the neutral affect she enters the room with. She's a major liability in this production. That's right. The film ends where the horror began in the first film Regan's bedroom. The seduction scene with Father Lamont is laughable and simply attempts to throw a shock at viewers when there hasn't been any up until that time. Reportedly, Boorman pulled the film from release and reedited it not once but twice to no avail. The film garnered a strong negative audience reaction and never recovered critically. It remains one of the most disappointing sequels in motion picture history. Mercedes McCambridge is sorely missed. James Earl Jones and Ned Beatty appear briefly in small roles. This was prominent 1940-1950's actor Paul Henreid's final film. * of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Fire! Fire!","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Skip to number three in the series.Being the Sequel to one of the greatest horror stories ever written, Exorcist 2 sure does make sure that it follows the tradition of disappointing sequels. But it goes further than that. This film makes sure - with it's top starred cast and an director who's already renowned as a influential individual in the genre - that it does much more than being an awful sequel but instead to strive on becoming a horrific, life-changing for the worst and all around crappy film in general.Richard Burton, while not miscast, seems not to be bothered about his role. Most scenes he's in ( which is many ) are filled with unintentional humour. Fire! Fire! Expressionless facial impressions and monotonous line deliveries leaves the poor bugger into a blackening ditch in which he can't climb out from. Funny, but depressing to watch him waffle around.Then you have Linda Blair. As a child actor in the first film, she did alright in not becoming one of those obnoxious kid actors we often see. Sadly, now that she is older, her inability to act can not be accused on her being a child. Very young she still is but talent stems from a young age and watching her in this, i can expect she stars in TV roles after this.I could write a novel on how many scenes and shots will make you laugh but like any bad film, laughter tends to be the prime reaction from the audience. Is there anything worthwhile to mention? It's interesting in parts. The back-story of Father Merrin and his initial exorcism on the African kid is intriguing but unlike Father Karris, Father Lamont personal quest on discovering himself and his beliefs is so uninteresting that the whole film collapses. Instead we get to watch the evil Reagan attempting to seduce the priest with her evil powers...MehAwful film with awful acting. Skip to number three, the true sequel. However, you can always close your eyes and listen to the soundtrack, composed by Morricone. "},{"Title":"Less Bugs, More Blair","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Perhaps adventurous director John Boorman (DELIVERANCE, THE EMERALD FOREST) chose to direct an EXORCIST sequel for the rugged exterior locations, as the new Priest in town, played by a melancholy Richard Burton, travels to Africa in hopes of destroying the demon Pazuzu in its origin.These are the worst parts of the film, centering on swarms of locusts and screaming possessed natives, straying from a lovely teenage Linda Blair as Regan who, with the help of Louise Fletcher, recovers at a mental telepathy center. One scene, as Fletcher's plugged into Regan's mind and relives the death of Father Merrin, is intense mostly thanks to Fletcher's acting.And any part involving Regan's attempts to remain a normal kid as the demon closes in (or perhaps he's there already) are comfortable &#x96; it's great seeing the character all grown up, allowing Linda Blair to use her own voice for the entire trip.But as a horror film it's not a bit scary &#x96; nor are their any effective moments of suspense. Although the finale has potential as Burton and Blair literally put their minds together to destroy the demon once and for all. But flashbacks of the original and the eventual return to the same house (where Regan swats a swarm of locusts!) is downright blasphemous to the classic original.And when a sultry, possessed Blair lures the priest to her bed&#x85; one can only imagine just how many ways this movie could have gone without all the bugs and backstory.For More Reviews www.cultfilmfreaks.com "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This sequel to the Oscar-winning horror film based on the novel by William Peter Blatty was virtually laughed off the screen when it came out in 1977. It was an unintentionally hilarious mishmash and received such terrible reviews that director John Boorman yanked it out of theaters. He reedited it, cutting eight minutes in hopes of getting the story (written by William Goodhart) to the point of coherency, to no avail. The film remains a kind of reverse gold standard for sequels. It's still a ridiculously overacted, although at times visually haunting, movie. Richard Burton stars as a troubled priest (something of a specialty of his) who is brought in to follow up on the case of Linda Blair, who is institutionalized, still troubled by her encounter with the devil (who wouldn't be?). By the time they confront Satan's minion in the final struggle, you'll be rooting for evil to win. "},{"Title":"Horribly, Hilarious Sequel!","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Deliverance director John Boorman's The Exorcist 2 The Heretic, the sequel to William Friedkin's The Exorcist (1974), tries to be a metaphysical thriller rather than a cheap thrills gut-grabber of a horror movie like its predecessor. Not only does it fail to be as fascinating as the original, but it also fares worst as a sequel. Instead of intentionally thrilling us with insights about good and evil, The Heretic unintentionally spends more time making us laugh as its silliness. This is a shame when you consider the enormous talents squandered in Warner Brothers' production of this 118 minute monstrosity.Director John Boorman delivers little more than first-rate production values, including many cinematic innovations, which were squandered along with the talent in this $12.5 million stinker. The plot deals with Regan MacNeil (Linda Blair of The Exorcist) four years after undergoing therapy with a shrink, Dr. Gene Tuskin (Louise Fletcher of Russian Roulette) who uses a device which enables her to penetrate Regan's mind and determine if there are any scars left from the exorcism. Meanwhile, understandably disturbed by the death of the priest who exorcised Regan earlier, the Vatican dispatches Father Lamont (a lamenting Richard Burton of Where Eagles Dare) to investigate the circumstances of the death of Father Merrin (Max Von Sydow). At first, because he feels unqualified, Lamont is reluctant. When he meets Regan, however, and confronts a vision of Evil, the challenge to pursue Evil to its source, to destroy it, and to purge himself as well as Regan obsesses him.In the screenplay by Generation scenarist William Goodhart, Father Lamont heads to Africa in search of the source of the Evil which Regan identifies as the Demon Pazuzu. What a name! After a tense build-up, you'd expect Boorman and company would offer us more than an ugly looking locust. That's right! The villain in The Exorcist 2 The Heretic turns out to be a dumb old grasshopper, and from the moment that you see this one grasshopper you know he's a fake and you want to laugh insanely out loud. The Exorcist 2 The Heretic emerges as a comedy of errors, complete with a tap-dancing musical interlude. Reportedly, Boorman re-edited the picture at least twice, but nothing could have saved this turkey.The problem with The Exorcist 2 The Heretic is that Boorman, Goodhart, and uncredited scenarist Rospo Pallenberg&#151;he adapted Excalibur never developed the suspense and therefore cannot involve audiences in this lifeless epic. Consequently, the film grinds on like it will never end, and then ends abruptly and unconvincingly. Along the way, Boorman drags in a scientific method to control Evil, while he uses a lot of leftover film footage from Mutual of Omaha's Wild Kingdom. Moreover, Boorman rarely brings in that nasty little which from the original, but when he does, she speaks so lady-like that you wonder if The Exorcist 2 The Heretic is an in-name only follow-up film. When he set out to helm this superficial, second-rate horror yarn, Boorman promised that he would not stoop to the vulgar tactics of the original Where The Exorcist was a negative and debasing experience, Boorman sought to make The Heretic into a redemptive and thought-provoking sequel. Clearly, Boorman wasn't the ideal choice as director. And in his effort to make a meaningful film out of what was to be remake of The Exorcist, Boorman has sunken even lower with a film that vomits claptrap philosophy, wastes a sterling cast, and teases its audience with never-to-be delivered horrors. Skip it! "},{"Title":"Wrongly maligned cheesy film","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Exorcist II The Heretic is a highly camp, cheesy good time.**SPOILERS**Trying to get on with her life after the previous battle, Regan MacNeil, (Linda Blair) in a home for special children when Father Phillip Lamont, (Richard Burton) arrives to figure out what happened. After seeing the results of a hypnosis machine in Dr. Gene Tushkin, (Louise Fletcher) care, Lamont decides to use it to help him in his investigations, and only seems to draw dead ends. Taking a trip to Africa in more need of discovering what went wrong, Father Lamont is able to piece together the final understanding needed to help Regan, and it takes both of their powers combined to defeat the demon from returning a second time.The Good News One of the most maligned films in history, this does have a few bright spots to help it out. The most obvious is it's complete cheesiness. Everything in here is mistakenly bad, but it's still a fun watch. It's fun to see how everything comes together, and much fun can be had from seeing just how it goes through events. It's got a quality that most don't have, in that everything in here is so over-the-top that to reveal in it is a great factor that few films have. It's great to see how this plays out, and the standout scene is the finale. A real spectacle in the film, it's a huge action set-piece that really has a great impact to it. This is really the high point of the film and the main reason to watch it, as is the high camp factor.The Bad News There's several things about this that didn't really work. The main issue is that the film really goes on far longer than it should. This is really stretched out and contains a lot of useless moments. The Africa scenes are twice as long as they should be, the sequences in the hospital are equally overlong and in general there are scenes in here that are there for pretty much no real reason. That just makes it more hopeful when something will happen, only for more dialog to take place. It was a mistake in the first one and it wasn't corrected in this one either. The other main issue here is the complete disregard for comprehension in here. It makes no sense at all and has a feeling that it enjoys being that way. Going through everything in here that makes no sense at all is a task that's far too hard to try to explain and get out of the way, and it feels like that's what the feel was going in, as there's no way that something this incomprehensive was by fault. Some of it can make for a headache causing time, the wrong feeling when trying to explain something that was really hard to understand the first time around. These are the main things wrong with it, but they do count for a lot.The Final Verdict It's not as terrible as it's been said, but there's some fun to be had with it. The fact that it's so serious is a huge error, and it makes the film really only for those interested in the bad side of the genre or those that can enjoy high camp every now and then.Rated R Violence and Language "}{"Title":"Errrrrrm ?","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I recently thought I'd give the Excorcist II a second chance after watching it as a teenager. I remember thinking it was a pile of &&&& back then. I was hoping that my more forgiving older mind would allow me to see hidden depths in this movie. Unfortunately my older mind isn't as forgiving. The sets seem to be borrowed from Star Trek the TV series. Chris McNeal has seemingly been abducted and everyone doesn't care, though Sharron lives with Regan in a NY penthouse (for some reason that isn't explained). The 'Syncronizer' looks like a Radio Shack intruder alarm that has been as hastily glued together as the script has. Richard Burton is as wooden as the sets. The highlight for me was Louise Fletcher having a prolonged I'll have what she's having moment brought on by Linda Blair's frantic molestation that reminded me of the Light Switch scene in Faulty Towers. Bizarre. "},{"Title":"Wooww,","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I cant really believe what i just saw...When i decided to watch this i never expected for this to be a magnificent and not even getting close to the original one, but i have to say (out loud) that i am very disappointed about The Heretic.Not original, badly written, it didn't have anything to keep me in so i struggled to finish this and i was glad when it did.But this movies has one good side, the acting, i must say that the actors Linda Blair, Louise Fletcher did a good work they tried hard to keep up but even those performances couldn't save The Heretic.Those to stars are explicitly for the acting part as The Heretic didn't have anything else to deserve another star. "},{"Title":"I think even Uwe Boll did not enjoy this film","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I think that the only people who watched this movie and perceived it as a true horror movie were the actors from the movie when they saw into what they were tricked to act in. Definitely one of the worst movies I saw. I couldn't believe all those earlier reviews who stated the same thing. I thought this sequel to the original The Exorcist, which was an excellently made movie, can't be that bad. Well it can. I think even Uwe Boll did not enjoy this film.Now, what are the reasons for such a movie production disaster with otherwise such fine actors in it? I don't know of course, how could I? But one reason I do know - the main reason even the worst movies do make money! "},{"Title":"The ultimate homage to style over substance","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear...The central problem with this $14 million mess of a movie is that it purports to be a sequel. Given that Boorman hated The Exorcist I have no idea why he tackled the project in the first place. I think it was Kurbrick who suggested if anyone was going to make a sequel they'd have to use multi coloured vomit this time. And thereby hangs the problem, whether you love or loathe the original movie you'd have to be very brave, or very stupid, to try and re-invent the wheel.Boorman's attempt falls flat on its face. Clearly lacking love for or understanding of the material, what we get here is a mishmash of metaphysical baloney, clichéd visual metaphor, dreadful acting, laughable dialogue and a bizarre cross-cultural theme which makes no sense at all.I can well believe Burton was drunk most of the shoot; you'd need a bottle of whiskey inside of you to pluck up enough courage to say some of the lines. In fact the dialogue is so bad it is actually comic in parts. I am equally amazed that Dick Smith was behind the FX in this one after his incredible work on The Exorcist. The effects here are lame and almost non-existent, the tension absent, the shock value nil. There is absolutely no dramatic tension since the plot makes no sense at all and the final payoff is a bizarre mixture of a collapsing building, a car crash and a swarm of locusts. What can you say in its favour? Boorman's visuals are fine, Blair is angelic and suitably cute and the music is good. And that's about it.Let's not forget James Earl Jones dressed up as a locust, a groovy telepathy machine (every psychiatric ward really should have one) and a little razzmatazz by way of some impromptu tap-dancing scenes. I think I'd better lie down in a darkened room and have a rub-down with a copy of Fangoria magazine. Oh deary, deary me.... "},{"Title":"What the hell did I just watch?!?!?!?","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" OK, if you are planning on watching this film don't bother... in fact, actually watch it out of curiosity like I did but don't expect anything good to happen for about 2 hours or so. The bad reviews don't lie it is as bad as people say it is. Anyway enough of the babbling.The films I love and that I find scary are the ones with good story lines (The Omen, The Shining, The Exorcist etc.) but I had no idea what was going on. Even at the end. I found with The Shining everything came together towards the end but this I still have no idea what I watched. I would like to be able to press 'Contains Spoiler' but I don't know what there is to spoil. Most of this film is funny as well! I have no idea why they re-shot the exorcism, and the demons voice in it is laughable. I'm surprised William Peter Blatty (Author of The Exorcist) let this film be made.Another thing, why is this film an 18?!?! It is not scary, has no gore, has no profanity at all, and has the slightest nudity (A pair of babylons for about 2 seconds). This film should be a 12 if anything.I supposed the only reason this deserves a 2 is because the music is composed by Ennio Morricone, who I love. and 'Regans Theme' is a beautiful piece of music.As I say, watch this film out of curiosity but not because you want to see an interesting film. 2/10 "},{"Title":"How could Boorman do this thing ?","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If this movie was not a sequel of the amazing movie The Exorcist, it would have been a normal movie, not good at all, but with some interesting things in it. However, if you felt terror with The Exorcist, you will feel a very poor impression and even some laughable moments when you watch this movie. Unfortunately, the overall quality is poor, the performances are not good, the script and story are weak,.. it is like a serious parody of the first movie... shall I continue ?.To be honest, if you liked the first one, do not try this one. You will loose the fascination that the original characters raised in your mind. I am quite a fan of other Boorman's movies. In fact this is why I decided to watch this one, regardless of the bad critics. However I have to say that it is not worth watching it at all. "},{"Title":"Exterminator!","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well, here it is--one of the most vilified sequels in the horror genre, and not without due cause. John Boorman's follow-up to William Friedkin's thoroughly unsettling adaptation of William Peter Blatty's novel is so far-removed from the mythos of The Exorcist that one wonders if the script was originally intended as a sequel in the first place. For the most part, The Heretic is a muddled possession tale whose intentions are never made clear Father Lamont (Richard Burton) is drafted to investigate the details of Father Merrin's (Max von Sydow) death in the first film; this leads him back to recovering Regan (chipmunk-cheeked cutie Linda Blair), techno-psychiatrist Gene Taskin (Louise Fletcher, doing a kindler, gentler Nurse Ratched), and Kokumo (James Earl Jones), the young man Merrin exorcised in Africa. Given that The Exorcist is one of the best horror films ever made, it is hard to imagine what this sequel could have done to even remotely stand in its shadow. In 1973, Friedkin complained that Blatty's original screenplay relied too much on oblique symbolism; Friedkin wisely jettisoned these elements. Here, William Goodhart's script is heavy with ill-defined symbolism (locusts, y'dig?), and Boorman's direction is both bombastic (the conclusion has airplane turbulence, a car crash, and a house torn apart by supernatural vibes (or something) and ponderous (no less than 20 minutes are spent watching a dazed Burton aimlessly wander African villages). The film is filled with nonsensical moments why does Taskin stop to help the crash victim when she has a plane to catch? why does Sharon (Kitty Winn, returning from the original) shatter the headlamp? how does Regan help the autistic girl talk? More importantly, why am I still watching this damn thing? Well...like the silly 'reverse hypnosis' machine employed by Dr. Taskin, Exorcist II lulled me into an apathetic trance...I didn't like the film...but I didn't hate it, either...it's fascinating, but in a completely ridiculous way...and not enough for anything more than an unintentionally-whimsical rental...(are you coming down to my level?) "},{"Title":"A useless The Exorcist II. Bad film-making. Awful sequel.","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It is really deceiving to see The Exorcist II The Heretic. I was awfully frustrated to see that such an amazingly awesome flick like the original Exorcist was completely destroyed by a lame sequel. It deserved so much better than this. The cinema industry sometimes need excuses to create a sequel but - for God's sake - make it worthy! I think Warner Bros. should have waited until they had a very good script for a sequel for the one written by William Goodhart simply raped with no mercy William Peter Blatty's masterpiece. I wasn't even born at the time when The Heretic was released back in 1977 but I can imagine the rage of the public that was expecting something at least on the same level of the first one.We all know that it is a tough task to put out a sequel that is better than the first one. Yet, it is not impossible. We can mention, for instance, Terminator 2. But in the case of The Heretic there simply was no reason at all to make such a crappy piece of work just for the sake of having a sequel.However, I do share the view that some people hold toward the idea that AT LEAST The Heretic explains how Father Karras really died in that room with Reagan. That is probably the only reason why someone should ever see this film.By the way, let's not forget that back in 1977 The Heretic was the most expensive production Warner Bros. had ever done. God! - why didn't they wait until something worthwhile appeared!?!?!? It just really makes me angry. Sadly, The Heretic is a dull failure.Just to add something positive to The Heretic Ennio Morricone's music to the film kicks ass. He is the man! "},{"Title":"Exorcist II The Heretic (1977) *","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The negative criticisms against this travesty are legendary. And each and every one of them is right on the mark. You might be surprised to hear this, but I'd still recommend seeing EXORCIST II THE HERETIC, and especially if you enjoyed the original; it's such a jaw-droppingly awful abomination that you need to see it in order to believe it. What the hell were they all thinking? How do you follow up one of the scariest and most powerful box office horror classics with this type of garbage? You know you're in a heap of trouble when you've got actors like Richard Burton, Louise Fletcher and James Earl Jones and it turns out to be Kitty Winn (as Sharon) who gives the only credible performance. Linda Blair is terrible as Regan too, but nobody was expecting anything earth shattering from her anyway. It's so much fun to trash this movie. There are so many areas to tear apart that one doesn't know where to begin. The script is utterly implausible and plays like the stuff born out of a bad acid trip where someone fried his mind the night before, wrote the film while tripping under the notion that he's found the key to life itself, and then awakens the next morning in a pool of vomit with no recollection and just a piece of paper with chicken scratch that he can't even read himself. There doesn't seem to be any point to the goings-on, and whatever plot can be surmised at all is ludicrous and confusing. The film is dumb, pointless, boring, badly acted, abysmally directed, and NON-FRIGHTENING. Idiotic dialogue abounds everywhere (Kokumo? Pazuzu?) and the music score from the great Ennio Morricone is stillborn.I've mentioned the poor acting, but I must devote a paragraph alone to Louise Fletcher (who had just won the Best Actress award for ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST). She takes top honors as Worst Performer, even over Linda Blair. It's entrancing how ineffective and disinterested Fletcher appears throughout this film, delivering her lines as though she hasn't slept in a week. Yet another sign that director John Boorman was asleep at the wheel himself, or maybe a revelation that Miss Fletcher could never really act at all; her listless delivery makes me wonder if her emotionless nurse from CUCKOO'S NEST was not so much an Oscar worthy performance as it was Louise Fletcher just being herself. That about covers it. The best thing that can be said for this turd is that some flashes of the cinematography are stronger than it deserves. You really owe it to yourself to see this thing at least one time. It's absolutely unbelievable. * out of **** "},{"Title":"The worst sequel ever","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I agree with the earlier comment, that this movie does not deserve the exorcist name. The first movie, and the third were brilliant; however, this movie is just stupid. I do not recommend this movie to anyone who loved the first Exorcist.  "}{"Title":"A Bigger Disaster Than The Titanic!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film is a complete mess. Nobody seems sure what to do with the preposterous material. The always underrated Linda Blair actually rises above a script that seems to have been written under the influence of illegal substances. Some of the worst performances of all time are in this film, as well as some of the worst lines ever uttered on screen. The only person who seems well adjusted in the film is Regan. Yet, all the maladjusted adults spend most of their time trying to make her crazy, in the guise of helping her. None of it makes any sense, and it ultimately becomes laughable. Watch for the goofy, wired helmets and the flashing light bulb synchronizer. You'll be holding your sides from laughing. I may be wrong, but I don't believe that was the intent of the filmmakers. It's a horrible film. But it is the only film that has completely wretched performances from Kitty Winn (looking rather butch), drunken Richard Burton, dreary Louise Fletcher, laughable James Earl Jones; with screeching African natives and locust and flashing light bulbs and the ability to see into another person's mind by wearing a Tom Swift looking head contraption. It's beyond boring and dull. Just a really bad film. "},{"Title":"Just awful","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie certainly ranks among the worst of the 1970's.  Painful to watch, without a single enjoyable minute or redeeming feature of any kind to compensate for the incompetent writing, direction and editing. "},{"Title":"Oh, God, it's so bad...","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Exorcist is one of my top five films of all time.  Imagine my horror and dismay as I watched this stench-laden sequel.  Awful dialogue and a horrible storyline kill the movie.  Quality-wise this movie isn't in the same solar system with its predecessor or the REAL sequel to The Exorcist, the underrated Exorcist III.  Shun this movie unless you're looking for laughs. "},{"Title":"NOT EVEN CLOSE TO THE FIRST","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"       Four years before this sequel was the first Exorist . Now four years later this movie wasnt even close to as good as the first one . The acting is worst , and the script is Horrible . It does have a good cast but still maks this movie broing .       It is about a priest ( Richard Burton) who has a believe that something is still wrong with the girl ( Linda Blair ) . This movie was very hard to understand . It had James Earl Jones on the cast and he was only in the movie for 1 little scne and Max von Sydow also on the cast and i didnt see him once the hole movie . Kitty Winn also stars . * of of **** stars . It got * only cause on its cats . "},{"Title":"Hey, it's not THAT bad","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Prominently featured in the Medved's Golden Turkey Awards, and a fixture on world's worst lists everywhere, this film had me resisting it for years, despite my love of the first film.  Finally, I sat down and gave it a chance.  Since I happen to like John Boorman, I really tried to be objective.  My final opinionIt's not that bad.It's not great, but it certainly doesn't belong in the same company as Plan 9 From Outer Space.  The primary problem is this  when the plot of a film revolves around hypnosis sessions, you are necessarily going to wind up with long scenes of people staring at each other and speaking in even tones. This is not thrilling viewing in the best of circumstances.On the plus side, the performances range from adequate to quite good (a film with Max Von Sydow can't be all bad), and a few of the African sequences have some mild creep value.Unfortunately, the plot takes the tactic of attempting to explain WHY the demon chose Regan, which, as any real fan of the original knows, is pointless.  In a scene excised from The Exorcist, a conversation between the two priests points out that there IS no reason.  Secondly, the loud and overly bombastic ending betrays the quiet tone of the rest of the film.  It almost becomes worth it when a gorgeous teenaged Linda Blair attempts to seduce Richard Burton (in fact, we are treated to several scenes of Linda in nighties).Ultimately, it isn't as bad as you've been lead to believe, but it certainly isn't good. "},{"Title":"More of a link then a horror story","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  OK, so the movie wasn't exactly the scariest movie ever. Well It wasn't scary at all. But atleast it gives some sort of explanation for the demon that posses Regan. In my opinion this movie is more of a well... documentary or saga about what Regan goes through after the whole ordeal with the demon we now know was Pazuzu. So if you don't try to think of it as a horror story it isn't that bad and atleast it gives you some sort of closure to whatever it is that happened to Regan in the first place. I enjoyed this movie unlike most other viewers and I look forward to seeing what the new exorcist coming out in 2000 will be like.   "},{"Title":"It is a silly, silly film.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If there was ever a sequel that made no sense at all it was this one. The problem is that it was *marketed* as a sequel. As a stand-alone film, with a different title, it would have fared quite well... but for the complete silliness of the plot.And one other thing, why didn't somebody think to buy some insecticide, instead of flapping their arms about wildly and screaming when the locusts come bursting in. It is a silly, silly film, and for some strange reason Richard Burton is crap. He acted better on the Jeff Wayne CD War of the Worlds than in this.And Ennio Morricone's score is very clearly based on Tubular Bells, if you listen properly. "},{"Title":"Bad, bad and bad.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I think this movie is bad, I think it´s really bad. =) The first Exorcist was a masterpiece, but this... don´t see it!I vote 1 of 10 on this one!  "},{"Title":"Utterly worthless","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The original move from 1973 was undoubtedly a masterpiece a and must have for each horror fan, but this sequel is just worthless, it's REALLY underrate the title 'The Exorcist'.There wasn't any reason why to create a second movie, there wasn't any need to continue the story because it's ended without any clues or open ties. But I think someone tried to make some money with the success of the original movie, but damn he failed big time.From the first scenes of this movie, I knew it gonna sucks balls. I won't tell too much cuz I don't want to explore you the plot, but most of the time the movie deals with what happened in the first movie and digging it till it find an excuse to create another problem, and a way to get something happen in the movie. However, there is nothing scary nor unique as the first movie. Not any thrilling atmosphere or unforgettable moments. The act is pretty bad and constrained, especially when there is an attempt to reach the satanic moments of the first movie.Overall, I just say this is a bad movie, even without comparing it to the first one, it's just a tedious and boring movie which makes you laugh when it's trying to thrill you. Don't expect for something which is a bit similar to the first movie. And ignore these who tells you it's a good movie, they are must be a blinded die hard fan of the first movie. I can't remember when was the last time that I saw such a pathetic horror film, it's just drags on and on and when it's ends, you feel nothing but why the hell it was released and why you wasted so much time for nothing? "},{"Title":"It was horrible, utterly horrible... and fascinating!","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Set four years after The Exorcist Regan MacNeil is still recovering from her previous demonic possession, but the evil may only be repressed. A priest and Exorcist is tasked with investigating his late teachers death.As a stand alone film or sequel it's shocking and for all the wrong reasons. Maybe with another script the fantastic actors, Richard Burton and James Earl Jones to name a few wouldn't have been wasted. The music score by Ennio Morricone, dreamlike atmosphere and some effects are the films redeeming features.With fancy locations, sets and lighting Boorman's direction is fine (who brought us the excellent Excalibur (1981)), but it seems the failing is in the script. It never seems to flow. Not even a good performance from Burton can save it nor another edit as it delves into unsatisfactory trance driven telepathic melodrama  - sadly it is pale in comparison to it predecessor.Watch it if only for curiosity or Burton's and Blair's performance. As Burton's Father Lamont states, It was horrible, utterly horrible... and fascinating! "}{"Title":"A masterpiece of stupidity...","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First of all,why do we need sequels?Usually they suck and this one is no exception.Exorcist 2The Heretic is painfully bad,incredibly boring and dull.Nowhere near as scary as the original it's an absolute let down.To be fair some of the photography is great and the ending is almost okay.This is not a worst horror movie ever made(really I've seen worse for example Troll 2,Grim,Evil Altar or Sorority Girls and the Creature From Hell),but it is close.Watch this one only in case if you like Linda Blair(the first Exorcist and very underrated Hell Night). "},{"Title":"Yes its bad. But  strangely very watchable.","Date":"24 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" OK. before I start, I just want to say. Mark Kermode, You are wrong Exorcist II The Heretic is not the worst movie of all time. Yes its bad.In fact in terms of screenplay,its pretty much appalling. The trouble is that Mr Kermode rates the Exorcist as his all time favourite movie of all time. So I can quite understand his hatred of its first official sequel. So firstly I would like to point out why people dislike Exorcist II The Heretic so much.1)The screenplay is terrible.It really doesn't hold water. We are supposed to believe that Regan still has that demon Pazuzu trapped and suppressed inside her and the only way to uncover the truth is to use a hypnosis strobing machine so that another person can travel in to her subconscious and witness the events of father Merrins death in the first movie. Plus we find out the Regan can cure the sick ,see the future and draw scary pictures depicting forthcoming events that only father Lamont can decipher.2)The acting.. Well its pretty much hilarious. Richard Burton made this movie when he was fighting his Alcohol addiction. Half the time, he seems to be reading all his lines off cue cards. This makes his performance both mesmerising and infuriating. Linda Blair fairs little better. She really hasn't got much to do and Like Burton she is saddled with terrible dialogue that keeps her character two dimensional though the entire film. This also applies to Louise Fletcher who had just won a deserved Oscar for One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest. In this movies she is forced to say the the most inane lines, with which she speaks with total indifference. Kitty Winn, James Earl Jones and Max Von Sydow fair only slightly better with Ned DELIVERANCE Beaty having a great cameo as the Pilot. And finally3)John Boorman. A great director who seems totally out of his depth with this material.The trouble is that Boorman has always been a straight story teller but the film storyline is so all over the place that no director could rain it in. The original worked because it presented its story in the most realistic way possible. Its almost scientific in its presentation of good verses evil leaving its meaning up to its audience. Boormans film is overly complex and as a result it becomes slightly pretentious.So you may ask yourself, what is right with Exorcist II The Heretic and why did I give it a 6 stars when most people have given it one or even none. Well. I think its is one of the most visually stunning movies ever made. I personally watch it for the visuals alone. Strangely Exorcist II The Heretic is as film of many different palates and styles and although some say this is a weakness in my humble opinion it is one of its strengths. Also the films horror elements have a strange and eerie beauty to them. from the opening where the possessed women burns to death to the aerial demon riding the wind sequence with reminds me of those cinema virtual roller coasters. There are also tremendous visuals that utilise models, such as the climb to the cliff top Temple. Plus the African Locust attack. All these sequences have a dream like quality to them that is as good visually as anything we can do to day with computer graphics. I should also mention Ennio Morricones excellent score. Although it seems out of place in some sequences it is non the less powerful and works well with some of the visuals. To sum up.As I have said before Exorcist II The Heretic is not a good movie. But its isn't no where near as bad as certain critics would have you believe. Over the past 10 years I have seen many movies that I would class as a lot worse than Exorcist II The Heretic.Take the film 2012. A movie made by accountants. Yes Mr Kermode,I'm quoting you. Then you have THE TEN COMMANDMENTS which suffers from all almost all the problems that Exorcist II The Heretic. It has great visuals but suffers from, Bad dialogue, hilariously miscast actors but it is based on a best selling book. I could also mention titles like Sex In The City 1 and 2. Australia. The movie not the place. Glitter,Meet the Spartans, Mac and me, Troll 2 and many many more.I believe you should try watching Exorcist II The Heretic. Or if you have already seen it and hated it. Try watching it again it may grow on you. It did on me. To me Exorcist II The Heretic is like a Wedding video where someone has filmed you dancing like you dad or doing Karaoke. You know you shouldn't watch it, but some how you can't help yourself. Plus secretly you quite like it. "},{"Title":"A merciful God would have ended this production with bolts of lightning","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Now, I am by no means a movie snob. I'm one of the few people on the planet who saw Honky Tonk Freeway on its original release. Glen or Glenda is, in its own bizarre way, a favorite. I will stoutly defend the notion that there should be an honored place for films that are SO BAD that they are good--that are, in fact, mesmerizing in their awfulness. Would we want to be without Valley of the Dolls? Or The Oscar? Or Showgirls? However--there are many types of bad films, like the A-list picture that is so tedious and pretentious that you would gnaw your arm off to escape (The Unbearable Lightness of Being, anyone?). There is the treaclefest--the entire output of Frank Capra. And, rarest of all, there is The Movie For Which There Is No Excuse whatsoever. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly what we have here.Broadway playwright William Goodhart wrote what has to be one of the most convoluted and nonsensical screenplays ever. It's as if the producer went in to pitch the film as Four years later, the demon is still after Regan and Richard Burton is a new, tormented exorcist! Great, eh? and for reasons best known to God gets greenlighted. The author then promptly takes a massive hit of LSD , starts gibbering strangely, and writes the screenplay. In spite of the fact that it's incomprehensible, producer has signed Burton, Louise Fletcher (as a kinder, gentler Big Nurse), Linda Blair, Paul Henreid (a far cry from Now, Voyager), and James Earl Jones, who provides one of the film's striking moments dressed as a giant locust.The problem with all of this, of course, is that the screenplay is stuck in a kind of limbo--not bad enough to be good, and not good enough to be good--and it ends out being just boring. Even at a running time of under two hours, one longs for a pair of scissors.I really haven't got the heart to try and articulate the confused mess that passes for a plot. Rather, consider the players. Linda Blair spends a good deal of time in trances. Unfortunately, it's difficult to determine when she is in one or out of it. Kitty Winn has a thankless task as a combination of the two nannies in The Omen. Louise Fletcher glides through this mess with a surprising degree of grace.And Richard Burton. Ah, Richard--probably the saddest example of the early and rapid decline of an actor with the potential for greatness. From notable Shakespeare in the fifties to this. There is a chilling resemblance to Vivien Leigh's performance in The Roman Spring of Mrs. Stone. There, she had exactly two expressions--tight and tighter. Here Burton is either tight or tighter and hysterical. In consequence, not a stick of scenery goes unchewed.The sum of all this is this is a staggeringly bad movie on every level--even some of the FX, although I did like the locust cam. And it's not fun. The only reason I give it two stars is for marginal my-God-I-don't-believe-that-I'm-seeing-this value.In the words of one friend--it's a heap of stinking poo. "},{"Title":"What in the devil's name have I been watching???","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"12 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Unlike many other cinema fanatics, I don't necessarily consider William Friedkin's the Exorcist an absolute masterpiece but at least it kept me fascinated throughout its entire playtime. I really had to struggle my way through this lousy sequel and it might easily be the most redundant film ever made. Due to a combination of several unfortunate aspects, this film is a complete failure but it hurts to see that a few, really good, aspects are completely lost, like the outstanding Ennio Morricone score and the ambitious skills of scriptwriter William Goodhart. Far too ambitious, actually. For some incomprehensible reason, the plot of this sequel focuses on unraveling the events of the original, expanding the terror's origin with environmental influences and occult African rites. Father Lamont (played by Richard Burton) is burdened with the investigation of Father Merrin's last exorcism (the one on young Regan, which cost him his life) and discovers that there's still a battle between good and evil going on inside Regan's body. The premise might sound okay but the elaboration is far too complex, incoherent and even downright uninteresting. The stupidity of several far-fetched themes results in very ridiculous lines and several WTF-sequences. I will spit out a leopard? What the hell does that mean? What's even worse is that the horror is totally ignored. Exorcist II is a completely bloodless film that doesn't even features some obscenity or grim moments. Say whatever you want about story-driven horror films, but a project that completely avoids action or gore is doomed to fail no matter how massive the cast and budget are. Speaking about the cast I rarely saw a film that starred so many big names and delivered so few intrigue. Richard Burton overacts terribly while Louise Fletcher doesn't seem to care about the lines she's driveling. In fact, why would she care because even director John Boorman seems frustrated over this job? Many little details featuring in the movie actually show that Boorman regrets not having made the original in 1973, which would have provided him with an immortal status. The only decent performance is given by Linda Blair who &#150; by the way &#150; looks gorgeous here in her teenage years. She's sexy and cherubic looking at the same time and her appearance distracts you a little from the dreadful wholesome that is this film. Very much NOT recommended, folks! "},{"Title":"Incredibly Dumb Movie and What Was Burton Drinking","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Exorcist II The Heretic (1977) * (out of 4) Extremely confused sequel takes place several years after the events in the first film. Regan (Linda Blair) has fully recovered from the events and appears to be living a normal life. A psychiatrist (Louise Fletcher) plans to prove via science that everything that happened to the young girl can be explained. While that is going on, the Catholic church has asked Father Lamont (Richard Burton) to find out what really happened to Father Merrin (Max von Sydow).EXORCIST II THE HERETIC has been considered one of the worst movies ever made since it's first screening. The stories behind the opening day and weeks of this movie have become legendary and even though the movie made money for Warner, the studio was still highly embarrassed by it and the following decades haven't been kind to the picture. You really have to place blame at director John Boorman's feet because he's the one who agreed to the screenplay and according to all records, he's the one that kept out some pretty interesting ideas that they had for the film. In later interviews the director seemed to admit that he simply didn't deliver a film that people wanted to see.That's certainly an understatement because this thing is just a complete mess from the opening sequences to the incredibly awful finale. It's clear that Boorman didn't want to just copy the first film and for that you can respect him. With that said, a direct rip-off of the first film would have been much better than what we actually got. It's funny but there were countless rip-offs of THE EXORCIST that happened since the time that film was released and this sequel was released and what's sad is that the majority of them were better than this. The biggest problem, for me anyways, is that there's really nothing that happens throughout the two-hour running time. The film's pacing is so incredibly slow that by the forty-five minute mark I was already about to fall asleep.What follows doesn't get any better as we got the psychiatrist and the priest going at one another while Regan is curing sick children (really?). Then you've got Father Merrin working in Africa, which just adds up to nothing. Look, I realize this film has its defenders including Martin Scorsese, but for my money it's a complete waste of time. The finale is just downright stupid and appears to be trying to match the original film but there's no drama, no suspense and nothing memorable at all. Even worse is that the special effects really aren't that impressive nor is the music score.There are a few good things with the film including some of the performances. Blair does a good job in her role but sadly she really isn't given too much to do. Fletcher and von Sydow are both good in their supporting roles and Kitty Winn, James Earl Jones and Ned Beatty do what they can with the screenplay. However, Burton doesn't come off very good and at times he's quite laughable as he overplays everything and some of his line delivery makes you wonder how much he had to drink before filming. It's obvious this was just a paycheck to the actor and lets hope he enjoyed the money.EXORCIST II THE HERETIC might not deserve its reputation of being one of the worst movies ever made but it certainly deserves to be called one of the dumbest. Again, I can respect the fact that Boorman didn't want to just deliver another possession film but I think most people would have preferred that over the mess we ended up getting. "},{"Title":"Exorcist II Rise of the Boobs!","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" First of, you need to check the Alternate Versions page of this film on IMDb because there are two or three versions that are significantly different. I watched the original cut that ends with Father Lamont surviving.I have to admit that I don't have the fetish everyone else has for the first film. To me it was OK and I rated it 5/10, so my expectations weren't really high watching the sequel. The first thing I noticed was the director's fascination with Regan's boobs! She was 17 at the time of filming and in most places of the world that's a year older than age of consent, still I found it creepy as camera angles kept emphasising the shapeliness of her newly developed breasts time after time. As if that wasn't weird enough, we see the woman Regan was staying with coming out of the bathroom to answer the phone wearing a wet see-through gown virtually showing her breasts, and before that scene we see a needlessly topless African woman. I have as much appreciation for movie boobies as any other single straight man, but these shots served no purpose in this particular movie and only added to failure of the entire thing.The premise of the film seems non-existent and rather forced on us. The girl doesn't have a problem and she's smiley and fresh, yet they insist that she's in some sort of danger. The therapist who didn't believe in demons suddenly changes her mind without any persuasion and asks father Lamont to come and participate in the following session. Those sessions were basically people being hooked to a ridiculous looking and sounding machine called the Synchroniser that has no particular task yet it takes anyone anywhere and connects brains/memories of people together, and amazingly takes the therapist and the priest on a tour of Regan's subconsciousness even when Regan is not connected to the machine. Hmmmmmmm...! The stupidity of the fire scene pretty much summarises the poor quality of the writing/directing. She leaves the priest desperately fighting the fire with a crutch, then AFTER she takes her time making a call to the fire brigade she picks up a fire extinguisher and puts the fire out. What can I say? The subsequent scenes were random and pointless and almost tedious to sit through, except maybe for the African cliff church and Muslim village, both made using degenerate effects and sets that add some charm to the scenes. Oh, and someone needs to tell the writers that Muslims do not tolerate prostitution and they cover up their women to the point of absurdity, so that topless woman they offered to father Lamont was probably one of the most asininely ignorant scenes I've seen, and I'm including B-movies here. A few pointless shots and 10,000,000 locusts later, the film ends in a messy senseless fashion, but not before we see Regan's cleavage as she is jumped by the priest who obviously harboured a raging desire for the 17 years old but it was never shown or explained or given a viable objective before or after that random scene. The film is crap, but watch it because I want you to suffer as much as I did! "},{"Title":"Could not have been worse","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This must surely rate as one of the worse sequels I have ever seen in my life. I had been looking forward to seeing this one for many years and never expected it to be a touch on the original but I never thought it would be this awful. This really could not be any more different than the brilliant first film. Everything in the sequel is badly thought out, poorly realised and totally disjointed especially the ridiculous plot! The script is truly uninspired, the acting is either stale, boring or stupidly over the top. This sequel tries to make something epic out of a relatively simple premise which is partially what made the first film so tight and tense and fails spectacularly trying to do so. One scene we are in a crappy looking mental therapy institute that looks like a cheap 70's game show set, then we are flying across grainy footage of Africa on the back of a badly animated locust, with cheap Arial clips of zebra's and buffalo spliced in all over the place probably nicked from a wild life show accompanied by some truly hilarious sound effects of wailing, which I can only assume was supposed to be disturbing! Then we find ourselves back on solid ground amidst an African village that looks like it's made out of cardboard and spray paint! This makes a mockery of the original, i'm not sure it's even worth a watch for comical value I just found it irritating, boring and slightly painful to watch, don't waste your time!! "},{"Title":"this is the worst sequel in the 70's","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" the exorcist 2 was a disappointment. when i saw the first one it literally had me screaming for a priest! now i see this movie on AMC and i fell asleep. it took me 6 times to watch this movie. after that i was so used to the second one i almost forgot that they made the original. Linda Blair looks cute and tries to hold down the storyline but didn't make it. it had some original scenes from the first but it the movie still was a failure.there's no real scares in it. the director tried but it still was a load of crap. there wasn't even a possession! no wonder why it the studios to 13 years to make the third one. if you want to see the full exorcist story watch 1&3,or you end up confused! my bet just skip it. "},{"Title":"hmmmmmmm...what is this piece of trash?...but what about LINDA BLAIR","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  How can you spend two hours of your life watching this BAD MOVIE without thinking that this is the sequels to one of the greatest movie ever!God...this is so trashy.The only good thing about this movie is Linda Blair.She's so cute.Watch out Linda....after this movie your going NOWHERE in your career.But I love her anyway.But watch The Exorcist IIthe Heretic without sounds because it will be painful if you don't.Linda........you're so bad it's great! "},{"Title":"Crap I repeat Crap.","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The first Exorcist movie is definitely not my favorite film, but even it did not deserve a horrible follow up like this. All this film goes to prove is that Linda Blair as an good actress was a one time fluke that she could never reach again. This film made me lose all respect for her. She took no charge in the film and just wined the whole time. I am very, very glade that William Peter Blatly had nothing to do with this and came back to make the great film that is Exorcist 3. I love that movie and recommend that you skip the first two and go onto the third one as it is the only one with any real substance. This film sucks. Never watch it. You'll hate yourself for giving up two hours of your life for it. It's not even a good bad. "}{"Title":"So bad... it's just really bad OK?","Date":"27 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The 1974 original is hands down my favourite movie of the 70′s and probably my favourite horror movie of all time, but I never saw the sequels as I heard only bad press. So when while trawling the weekly horror rack I spotted the Exorcist 2 I thought why not? Now that I have seen it I can tell you why YOU shouldn't bother.Following on about 4 years from the events of the first film we find Linda Blair back as Regan, who is either delusional or simply in denial about her previous demonic possession, though she still frequently visits a psychiatric practise with several other patients.An early highlight is a meeting with a fellow patient which results in the following exchange Patient - What's wrong with you? Regan - I was possessed by a demon. It's OK he's gone. What cracked me up is the light and breezy way she says the above, almost like she was saying Looks like rain, don't worry I've got an umbrella. Anyway plot Richard Burton is Father Lamont, a priest commissioned to look into the events of Regan's exorcism, in particular the death of Father Merrin, who reappears in flashback and whose reputation had come into question as a result. After Lamont gets too involved in Regan's situation he is removed from the case and goes to Africa to find another boy possessed by the demon (now named Axui-Xui ah-zoo-zoo) to discover more..... and hilarity ensues.Without spoilers, Lamont and Regan can share visions by putting on headbands with cords attached to nothing and looking at a cheesy disco strobe light and speaking slowly.In the very first usage of what they call synchronised hypnosis Regan's doctor goes into shock and Lamont simply picks up the headband and without ever using the thing before is able to drag her out. After which the event is never spoken of again! One more clumsy exchange featuring the spirit (apparently piloting a helicopter and buzzing wild animals) later and off goes the plot into whatever is required to set up some pretty awkward scenes that I am sure the director felt would be coo-oooollllll. My favourite recurring motif is that of the hover-locust, literally a locust that is able to furiously beat its wings without advancing.The less said about the finale the better, I really had no idea of what was supposed to be happening, who was in danger and what was real or a flashback. It just seemed they ran out of ideas and noisy and confusing means scary, not just noisy and confusing.This movie is the poster child of why a good movie sometimes should be allowed to stand on its own, without being soiled by dodgy sequels. I can't believe that quality actors signed up for this rubbish. Richard Burton! Max Von Sydow!! James Earl Jones!?! The special effects are pretty dodgy but that is probably more a by-product of the film being made in 1977.My biggest criticism, and the harshest I can render on any flick, is that it achieve its primary purpose. A comedy should at least be funny, an action flick should have some action and a horror movie should be scary. Obvious right? The only time I got scared of this movie was when I checked the time and realised there was 25 minutes still to go.Finally the director should be ashamed for sexing up Linda Blair, who was about 16 or so when filming, the first shot has her jiggling about in a crop top and it is obvious that the costume department didn't have room in the budget for a bra! I hate a lot of films, this one is so boring I couldn't summon the passion to even care. I can't come up with anything worse really.Final Rating - 3 / 10. So bad it's... just bad.If you liked this (or even if you didn't) try oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"A film that needs to be seen to be believed.","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Exorcist II The Heretic starts as a Cardinal (Paul Henreid) from the Catholic Church ask's Father Philip Lamont (Richard Burton) to investigate the death of Father Merrin (Max von Sydow) while has was performing an exorcism on a young girl in Washington named Regan MacNeil (Linda Blair). Father Lamont finds Regan now living in New York & under the supervision of psychiatrist Dr. Gene Tuskin (Lousie Fletcher), using a device called a synchroniser Dr. Tuskin can enter Regan's mind & share her thoughts, feelings & memories. Father Lamont thinks this may be a good way of finding out the truth, he hooks himself up & enters Regan's mind as they are both attached to the synchroniser. Father Lamont discovers that the demon Pazuzu is still within Regan, Lamont also sees an African witchdoctor named Kokumo (Joey Green) who has the natural ability to defeat Pazuzu...Co-written, produced & directed by John Boorman this was the follow up to William Friedkin's controversial & successful classic The Exorcist (1973) & what a complete total & utter mess it is too. Upon it's initial release The Exorcist II The Heretic was absolutely trashed by critics & audiences alike, Warner Bros. & Boorman pulled the film from theatres at least twice to reedit it & it exists in a few different versions including the original studio cut that was released to theatres & on video in the early 80's which ran for about 100 minutes, the 120 odd minute director's cut which is the one most commonly available now on DVD & the one I will be basing my comments on along with further different versions aired on TV & released in Japan which are significantly different enough to warrant a mention. Anyway, the script by William Goodhart & an uncredited Boorman with Rospo Pallenberg is a real mess from start to finish, it's incredible how a big budget major Hollywood studio financed film could turn out to be such a disaster but the Exorcist II The Heretic is living proof. Apparently the film underwent several major rewrites which obviously didn't help things & the film feels like a mixed bag of unrelated ideas which were all thrown together without any regard for continuity or the audiences enjoyment. To be honest I don't really understand the story as it is, I don't know why the makers just didn't give us more of the same, more of what made the original Exorcist such an effective horror flick. The whole notion of the synchroniser machine which lets people share thoughts & feelings is just ridiculous & is taken so seriously it becomes unintentionally funny & don't even start me on the whole 'good locust' thing, the dialogue is awful, the story is bizarre & makes little sense & the makers just disregard everything that made the original such a success. For me Exorcist II The Heretic was like a car crash, I know I shouldn't look at it but I couldn't help myself in a morbid masochistic sort of way.Director Boorman has made a real mess of this, there's nothing scary in it at all & at times it doesn't even feel like a horror film that much. At almost 2 hours (the widely available director's cut that has been released on DVD) it felt like it went on forever, nothing of any real interest happens & it has absolutely zero momentum as it randomly shifts back & forwards between America & Africa. Some of the special effects are reasonably impressive, the scenes where the camera seems to follow a single locust in close-up are very, very impressive as is some of the African cinematography. Unfortunately flying locusts just aren't that scary or interesting & there's no blood or gore apart from a ripped out heart & Regan only appears possessed for a very short period at the end. Apparently actress Linda Blair refused to wear Dick Smith's possessed make-up again so a double was used, who the hell does she think she is Joan Collins?!With a supposed budget of about $14,000,000 this was the most expensive film Warner Bros. had made to that point, it's well made I suppose but a bit lifeless & bland. Actors David Carradine, Jack Nicholson & Christopher Walken were all considered for the role of Father Lamont while Jon Voight had agreed to play him but dropped out due to concerns over the screenplay which is fair enough I suppose & now seems like a pretty good call. The acting is pretty poor which makes it even worse to sit through & Blair has stated that Burton would turn on set drunk.Exorcist II The Heretic is a bit of an embarrassment all round for everyone involved, there really isn't much here to enjoy unless your your a fan of bad films. Followed by The Exorcist III (1990), Exorcist The Beginning (2004) & the reworked Dominion Prequel to the Exorcist (2005) although ironically considered by most as better films none of which were anywhere near as successful as Exorcist II The Heretic despite it's terrible reputation... "},{"Title":"The Heretic","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A Priest(Richard Burton, sleepwalking)has his work cut out for him when he must somehow destroy Pazuzu, a demon buried deep within Reagan(Linda Blair, blossoming into a young woman). When going deep within hypnosis, interlocking thought and mind with Reagan, Father Lamont discovers a possible Voodoo Priest Komumo(James Earl Jones)who has power over Pazuzu. Lamont will seek out Komumo, against The Church's order to break away from a case where he was only to investigate the reasons behind the mysterious death of Father Merrin(Max Von Sydow), in the hopes of joining together to defeat Satan's angel and save Reagan from certain future horror.Louise Fletcher portrays Dr. Gene Tuskin, Reagan's doctor in charge of seeing that Reagan gets proper psychiatric care. She invented the tacky, wacky hypnosis machine with it's strobe light and mechanical sound. She is a scientist and simply will not accept that Reagan has some sort of supernatural evil buried within(in a startling sequence where she is interlinked with Reagan, Pazuzu almost kills her gripping her heart in it's evil grasp).I will not take up for the film overall, because I think it's crap like the majority, but will give credit to William A Fraker for his stunning cinematography and the great Ennio Morricone for his eerie, spine-tingling score which brings an atmosphere to this wretched exercise it really doesn't deserve. The dialogue and acting is anything but great and Burton looks embarrassed(I read that the only reason he'd even accept this role was that he'd get the lead psychiatrist role in Sidney Lumet's marvelous, Equus)to even be in it. Fletcher has her bright career moments, but doesn't spark or even glimmer in her role. She's like an actress just starting out trying to remember her lines. All this could be because they do not believe in the material and no inspiration seems to be in the story either where we follow ESP and Voodoo mumbo jumbo, not to mention we actually ride on the wings of a locust in a dream as Burton's Lamont is being led by Pazuzu to the Voodoo Priest within Reagan's hypnotic state.The final climactic showdown is merely the tip of the iceberg in that it is a noisy, ridiculous, special-effects laden incoherent mess which leaves the viewer(..or at least me)feeling like they do not know what just happened. It's derivative and laughable and closes the door on the fact that this film couldn't be saved from being a laughingstock and disappointing considering those involved. "},{"Title":"Might Be the Worst Studio-Film Ever Made","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  My this is such a sorry film.  I cannot think of one good thing to say about it.  The first film was one of the best films ever made in my opinion, but this one is easily one of the worst films ever produced.  The plot is totally incomprehensible, but I will try to give a little insight.  Linda Blair is now a 17-year old girl who is helping out other young children who have psychological problems.  Psychologist Louise Fletcher wants to know just how much Blair remembers from the exorcism of the original.  Blair swears she does not remember much of anything.  Enter priest Richard Burton who is also curious of the circumstances of Blair's ordeal.  Burton fears that an evil demon spirit named Pazuzu is the one that originally possessed Blair and thinks that he is trying to re-possess her to take over the world.  We see a disjointed history of the original exorcist, Max Von Sydow, and his struggles in Africa with the first exorcism he performed.  The young boy who he saved is now James Earl Jones, a scientist in Africa who has amazing insight on insects.  Pazuzu's main form of transportation has been insects and they are the catalysts to his very existence on Earth.  Burton goes to Africa and learns that the only way for Blair to be free of Pazuzu forever is to meet him at her old house in Georgetown.  Of course she agrees and we see that Blair's character is a powerful person who is very special in many ways.  That is just a small sliver of the terrible screenplay which tries to add new wrinkles to the original.  This film was little more than a project to generate revenue for Warner Bros.  William Peter Blatty had nothing to do with the screenplay and William Friedkin refused to direct knowing that a sequel would be difficult to pull off without Blatty (boy was he right!).  Thus the studio got English film-maker John Boorman (Deliverance) to co-write and direct.  His vision of the franchise was so outlandish and confusing that the best director would have had no luck with this film.  The fact that the first was such a hit brought him established actors like Burton, Fletcher, Jones, and Ned Beatty (in a very short cameo) to be in the film.  However, I cannot imagine Blair, Von Sydow, and Kitty Winn saying yes to this project.  I guess they felt that they had a can't-miss film on their hands.  They were sorely mistaken.  The fact that Boorman decided to pull the film from theaters when it was first released, so he could re-cut the film, did not help matters any either.  Turkey (0 out of 5 stars).          "},{"Title":"A fun game - the Kokumo drinking game","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While undoubtedly the worst sequel I have ever seen (it's like if Alan Parker's Bugsy Malone was released as The Godfather Part 2) The Exorcist 2 is at least highly entertaining on the Bad Film scale. That acting! That god-awful African village sound stage! The boop-boop mind- meld device!But my recommendation to really enjoy the movie is to take a shot every time someone says Kokumo. It appears that the screenwriters never tired of the name. FUN FACT Richard Burton was actually playing this game while making the movie, which explains why he appears to be practically comatose for the last 20 minutes. "},{"Title":"cant do a classic","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" as a big fan of horror films, the classicthe exorcist..it does not matter how many sequels you make on this classic..it won't work,not remaking in many ways.the heretic is an example of how awful they try to make a classic horror into a quick ,messy and tricky film..when i saw the previews back in 1977,i was amazed and that was the trick part into going to see it..having Linda Blair,Richard Burton,Louise Flether,Max Von Sydow,James Earl Jones and Kitty Winn returning to play her part...you will say,wow.a great cast with some returning to do their original parts.but i came out feeling like popcorn without the butter.Linda refused to do her scary makeup.(instead we get a double cheesy one)Max Von Sydow didn't even said a word.the best scary part giving credit was when Kokumo was possessed.the exorcist will always be a classic,while exorcist 2 try to destroyed the original "},{"Title":"So stupid it's... merely stupid!","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When The Exorcist managed to cram patrons into seats despite its rather adult-oriented nature, Warner Brothers were quick to develop a sequel. Unfortunately, most of those involved in the original did not want a bar of the sequel, and so a new director plus screenwriter had to be hired. According to estimates, fourteen million 1977 dollars were spent on this sequel. At that time, it was the single most expensive film that Warners had put together. Nowadays, the film is a staple of the bad film culture, with sites devoting masses of space to mocking the results. Oddly enough, the film supposedly made a profit at the box office, but not enough of one to compare with its (overrated) predecessor. Certainly not enough to even draw comparison to the surprise hit that Fox and Lucasfilm cooked up together that year. But Exorcist II was not without its impact. Blair's career, such as it was, never recovered, and writer William Goodhart was only able to sell one more screenplay three years later.Linda, for her part, acts very solidly with material that not even the worst soap opera star should have to endure. According to what she has said, Richard Burton started out sober on the film, but progressively became more and more intoxicated as the film rolled on. Perhaps he saw the impact this monstrosity would have on his career and decided to drown his sorrows in advance. The scenes with the so-called synchroniser, a piece of film prop designed to go down in infamy, make it all too clear the actors knew they were making crap. These sequences, in which a mass of ignorance regarding psychiatry and hypnosis is displayed, will probably haunt Goodhart and director John Boorman for all eternity. Granted, portraying these concepts in film was at a childish level then, but even audiences of the late 1970s knew better than to not mock this rubbish. Apparently, the reaction from the audience at the premiere was so strong that Boorman cut seven minutes out of the film in the hopes it would go over better. Since none of those seven minutes involve the synchroniser... well, you get the idea.Especially funny is a moment when Regan prompts an autistic girl to speak to her. Maybe in America, the concept of not being able to speak was linked with autism, but in today's world where individuals who could speak and read at adult levels when toddling are finding out they are on the spectrum, it just adds more to the unintentional comedy factor. Also adding to the fun are scenes in which Richard Burton is wandering around in what appears to be Africa, trying to make sense of scenes in which few, if any, of his castmates speak English. Maybe these scenes are where future producers got the idea for the Wookiee sequences in the Star Wars Holiday Special. It is clear that these scenes saw the beginning of Burton's decision to give up and drink his way through the film. James Earl Jones signs up for the Embarrassed Actor league in this film, informing Burton at one point that if Pazuzu comes for him, he (Jones) will spit a leopard. I only wish I were making that up. Just as well for him that his other project in 1977 associated him with the most fearsome villain the big screen ever saw.This explains why Jones is the only alumni from Exorcist II to have ever enjoyed solid, uninterrupted work since 1977. One can put him in a bad film, but he will rise to the occasion of making his character among the most memorable. Its just unfortunate that he is swimming against the tide of a film that attempts to create a conflict between a monotheistic god and the science that is the source of all improvement in the human condition that has occurred during the past hundred or so years. Is the implication of the previously-mentioned scene meant to be that this god can cure autism? Maybe the autistic civil rights movement is only getting started some thirty years after this crock was released, but that does not make the fact that those of us on the spectrum who can speak for ourselves will not be hesitant to tell this normalistic god where he can put his cure. While I am thinking of it, I do not wish to understand what acting in this film must have done to the eyes of its cast. With my hypersensitive vision, every scene with the synchroniser is giving me a rotten headache.Translate all of the above to the following. Many things have been blamed for the critical failure of Exorcist II, but the party most at fault is the script. Goodhart throws a ton of mystical concepts from faith healing to voodoo (or whatever they are trying to demonstrate in this film) at the viewer, and the sad fact is that none of it sticks. Put simply, the film cannot make up its mind what it wants to be. In some moments, it even gives the impression of copping the X-Men comic books of the era, and not very well at that. The bad writing even extends into individual reactions that make no sense in context of the action and situation that prompts them. I realise this is unrelated to the writing, but the back projections for scenes in cars are also downright hilarious. Would it really have been that expensive to shoot in a real car, driving down a real street? Or to make gates that look like they are made from real iron and stone for that matter? Nothing in the film is convincing, and it almost makes one feel sad for the human element. Almost.For that reason, more than anything, I gave Exorcist II a one out of ten. If stupidity is currency in Hollywood, then the makers of Exorcist II are analogous to Donald Trump. "},{"Title":"Lousy sequel","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  lousy sequel has some good acting but the confusing script and it's failure to live up to the first ruin it first of all did we really need a sequel? NO! yes Linda Blair and Richard Burton give good performances that is still not enough to recommend this sequel it has a neat ending but it is just too confusing throughout  and the rest of the actors do okay still this is till quite a lame sequel that could have been much better if better written and made  this has some stylish sequences and some cool lighting techniques and some nice settings save this from the BOMB rating this isn't total trash it does have the tasty looking Linda Blair though so that will help you sit through it so i give this a *1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"How could they do it THIS badly?!?!","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Considering that The Exorcist is considered a classic and made a bazillion dollars, it's amazing that this sequel is as inept and stupid as it is...and it IS a truly terrible film. It makes you wonder, as any boob with as big a budget as this film could have made a good film and had no right to make one this bad!!The film picks up several years after the last one. Most of the original cast are gone but Regan (Linda Blair) is back. Now she's a seemingly well-adjusted and shapely young lady who loves working with disabled kids(!). An annoying psychiatrist (Louise Fletcher) works with Regan and assumes that all the publicity about her possession can easily be explained away using science. At the same time, a totally nutty priest (overplayed badly by Richard Burton) investigates the case and is certain possession did occur--and wants to be certain that Blair is not repossessed! Where this goes next is pretty dumb...no, it's INCREDIBLY dumb. It turns out that there is some sort of African demon named Pazuzu (or something like it) and the film just gets dumber and dumber. Badly made scenes involving the demon and locust swarms look amazingly silly and the plot goes very, very, very far from the original film--a bizarre choice, that's for sure! But if that isn't enough, there is an ear-piercing shrill sound that simply made me want to gouge my eardrums out to make it stop! At this point, I was ready to scream....and it never got any better! Too many dumb and annoying scenes and an African tie-in that made no sense--why did the script go this way?! The film is the trifecta of badness--horribly written, directed by a chimp and badly acted. An annoying and dumb film from start to finish and this is saying a lot considering that it was re-edited several times to even get it to this level of badness! "}]