[{"Title":"A chaotic road trip to justice!","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A rundown cop who's always on the drink named Ben Shockley is assigned to accompany a foul-mouthed prostitute in Las Vegas to a protection program across the country in Phoenix to testify against highly placed authority figure, although first they have to get through a gauntlet of bad cops and the mob who actually want them both dead. So now the odds aren't in their favour, but Shockley is determine to do his job, no matter how big the odds are against them.Classic Eastwood is on show here people. Although, it's not one of his greatest nor particularly original. But this reasonably familiar cop / action film delivers what it intended to do by giving us a taut little road movie across baron landscapes with a tremendous amount of brutally fast-paced shootouts and grand chase scenes. I mean a lot! To sum it up, shootouts, shootouts and even more shootouts. Watch things go boom with a lot going on at such a furious pace! What more could you want? So you ask, why is this nothing out of the ordinary? Because this kind of thing wasn't particularly new within this era of films. There were definite shades of Dirty Harry; Eastwood's character Shockley was the exact opposite to Harry though. The one thing you'll notice is that there is no real excuse or depth behind the plot, but to stage one chaotic and stretched out shootout after another. Sometimes they feel like they go on forever! Nonetheless, they might be far-fetched and fail logic, but they're rather well set-up by director Eastwood. Giving us a sudden burst around each corner and because of that there's hardly a mundane moment&#133; uh, maybe Eastwood did overkill certain shootouts, but it did get the blood pumping! So, when the exaggerated climax hits the screen - at least the film was consistent in that aspect. The performances were top-notch, with Eastwood's persona making any film his in watchable. He gives a stellar performance. Sondra Locke as Gus Mally was perfect. The chemistry between the leads was outstanding. The scathing and rough dialogue amongst them was a treat with great use of sarcasm and offbeat humour. The biting conversations truly built on the paranoia at hand with many top one-liners. This gives the film a buddy type of feel. Other key factors are the soothing blues soundtrack, well established camera shots that capture a beautiful landscape, but also the panic of the situation they face. While, there might be underlining themes running throughout the plot, I just didn't read too much into it. Just leave your brain at the door and enjoy the total chaos and destruction that follows with your screen being sprayed with bullets! Definitely recommended for fans of Eastwood and gritty action films. "},{"Title":"Ridiculously entertaining","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A one-time Steve McQueen-Barbra Streisand vehicle until McQueen met Streisand, and subsequently a Clint Eastwood-Streisand vehicle until Eastwood met Streisand, The Gauntlet sees Clint sending up his Dirty Harry image as a none-too-smart washed out drunken cop escorting Sondra Locke's foul-mouthed nothing witness in a nothing trial from Las Vegas to Phoenix and finding the Mob and every cop in two States determined to stop them - even the Vegas bookies are taking bets on ever-lengthening odds (70-1) on their not making it. From the days when Clint still made films in broad daylight and could film interiors without turning all the lights out and seen as wildly over the top at the time (even the famed Frank Frazetta poster art offered Clint as a Conan-esquire muscular figure in ripped shirt with girl in one hand and gun in the other), now it's almost an exercise in naturalism for the genre. Sure there's more firepower on display that in all of Eastwood's previous films combined (including both Where Eagles Dare and Kelly's Heroes!), with cars, houses and buses shot to pieces with gleeful abandon while helicopters crash into power lines, but somehow Michael Butler and Dennis Shryack's script manages to sell the increasing absurdities in a perfectly conceived audience picture that's designed to entertain and does just that.There's a nice line in self-deprecating wit that never quite crosses the line into outright stupidity and Eastwood's tight direction keeps the action moving without losing sight of the fact that it's the characters that really need to sell the film. Just as importantly the on screen relationship between Eastwood and Locke hadn't overstayed its welcome yet as it quickly would over their subsequent films, their initial vicious sparring giving way to genuinely convincing tenderness in the later scenes, giving you a pair you can actually root for. Great fun if you're not expecting gritty realism - like the end credit says, 'Law enforcement procedures depicted in this film do not necessarily depict those of any law enforcement agency mentioned herein.' No **** Sherlock. "},{"Title":"The Gauntlet is hardly one of Eastwood's most substantial works&#133;","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The challenge of playing the cop, Ben Shockley, in The Gauntlet was that the character was virtually the opposite of Harry Callaghan he's a loser, a man resigned to doing twenty years in the force and then looking forward to collecting his pension&#133; His car is full of empty whiskey bottles, his life is a shambles, he's never even been given a big case let alone solved one&#133; He is sent from Phoenix to Las Vegas to 'bring back a nothing witness for a nothing trial'.The 'nothing' witness, Gus Mally, is not the man he expects; in the first place she's a woman, Augusta Mally, secondly she's a hooker, thirdly, despite her non-stop profanities, she's a graduate of Finch College and lastly &#150; and hereby hangs the tale &#150; she's not a 'nothing witness'. The mob who are to be tried will do anything to prevent her testifying&#133; The dangers inherent in their journey together only slow1y become apparent to Shockley despite the fact that the Vegas police literally raze to the ground the couple's initial hideaway, while they remain inside almost to the last moment&#133;Within the turbulent situation, Shockley and Mally manage to transform their original dislike for each other and each other's way of life into a love of sorts, in the 'African Queen type tradition.' As the couple begins to understand each other, they realize how their relationship could serve each other&#133; She would no longer need to be a whore&#133; He could regain his self-esteem as a policeman&#133; Shortly before the final showdown Mally telephones her mother to say she has found her man; from then on there is an added imperative that they survive in order to give their love and their relationship a chance to work out&#133;Sondra Locke achieved the improbably-written transformation from hooker to sociologist convincingly&#133; But in this film, more than ever, Eastwood wasn't trying for any praise or approval from the critics; probably the reverse&#133; The overkill is part of the entertainment' he claimed.' You just have to accept it on an outrageous level.' There were those who didn't&#133; But these comments only served to inform Eastwood that at least he had been excessive enough to upset some people&#133; It would be awful to think you're being outrageous and to outrage nobody&#133; But Eastwood knew just how far he could take an audience with him&#133; By surviving the unsurvivable, Eastwood proved to himself once more that the mass audience will suspend all sensible disbelief &#150; as they do in the best of the Bond films &#150; providing the action carries them and their fantasies along&#133;In the context of many of his other films, The Gauntlet is hardly one of Eastwood's most substantial works&#133; The appeal of an unlikely love affair between opposites, fertilized by an unceasing barrage of gunfire was undoubted1y considerable&#133; But as a whole, the film tended to operate rather as an exercise in special effects than as any more considered piece of social statement of the kind that gave such strength to Dirty Harry. "},{"Title":"Once again, Clint shows you why he's the best in the business.","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"24 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" How many rounds of ammunition can you fire into a house before it will collapse? Or maybe you'd like to see how many rounds you can fire into a bus before it will stop running. If you're interested, or if you just like Clint Eastwood, then The Gauntlet is for you! Our film centers around Clint playing a sloppy policeman from Phoenix who is assigned to transport a sassy hooker (Sondra Locke) from Las Vegas back to his jurisdiction. This will not be an easy task. First of all, this Eastwood character is no Dirty Harry. His Ben Shocklee is an alcoholic, and barely capable of doing his job. The hooker's testimony could potentially bring down some important figures, so the cops and mafia also don't want them to return to Phoenix. In addition to all that, the woman is such a bitch that even a trip across town with her would be almost too much to bear. The two are put in one harrowing situation after another as Clint proves that he has the moxy to simply get the job done.This film, if made by or starring inferior talent, would be nothing short of ridiculous. Several situations that arise in this film seem improbable at best, and often ludicrous. Eastwood's charm, and the razor-sharp dialog keep it moving along. You end up almost believing it could happen. Clint Eastwood is that talented. His acting and direction are as good as ever.The film has plenty of memorable scenes. Along with the shootouts, we get some very amusing and often very funny situations. One of my favorites is when Eastwood single-handedly talks an entire motorcycle gang into surrendering one of their bikes or facing the consequences of his pistol. And what would an Eastwood/Locke film be without a scene where she is sexually assaulted? Though disturbing, the scene has a hilarious conclusion. Another scene belongs to Locke, herself. In it, she puts a foul-mouthed police flunky in his place using some very sexually explicit words.That a film which would seemingly be quite ridiculous on paper is made into such a fine product is a testimony to the genius of Clint Eastwood. He is without a doubt my favorite actor of all time.9 of 10 stars for The Gauntlet.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Clint runs The Gauntlet with a lady named Gus.","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This baroque and utterly implausible action drama subscribes to the over-the-top theory of movie making. Huge quantities of bullets, bikers and bad apples are unleashed on Mr.Eastwood, Ms. Locke, his remand witness, and us, the audience. Eastwood executes the gauntlet with great resolve and resourcefulness he even knows how to fortify a bus with armored plates. Clint is in peak form and Locke will never again reach the heights that she does here. Clearly, the two have wonderful screen chemistry and would remain together as a couple for more than a decade. Watching the film today, I think there is a scene that went missing--or was cut. It occurred at the beginning of the movie and involved the sadistic police commissioner and Locke's prostitute. The scene is later described in great detail by Locke when she and Clint are on the lam in a desert cave. So where is it? My dad took me to see this R rated film on a bitterly cold night in early February '78--it was released in late '77. I think he was unaware of the rating because I did get an eyeful that night. Make sure you see this movie letterboxed in order to absorb all the destructive power and subtle artistry on display. "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure for me","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"24 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Theatre of the absurd -- Clint-style.  This fast-paced, mindless, often silly film always remains true to itself, and thus succeeds on its terms.  Excessive violence is used repeatedly as a metaphor for absurdity.  William Prince and his protege who plays Federspiel are two of the most memorable malevolent bureaucrats in film history. Supporting cast members are all in on the joke, and play it for all its worth -- even the usually uptight Sondra Locke scores wonderfully in this one.  I usually abhor excessive violence, but this film really uses it for laughs.  A guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Violent actioner - good dumb fun.","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  In the 1970s films became more violent. No doubt about it. And The Gauntlet is unquestionably a violent film. Buildings are reduced to rubble, vehicles are shot to pieces, people are pumped full of lead, and plenty of blood is spilled.... all in the name of entertainment! This noisy Clint Eastwood vehicle is good fun, with lots of exciting sequences, though thoroughly unbelievable pretty much from the start.Honest, hard-working Phoenix cop Ben Shockley (Eastwood) is sent by Comissioner Blakelock (William Prince) to bring in a prostitute who may be able to provide key testimony in a high profile trial. But from the moment Shockley meets Gus Malley (Sondra Locke), he suddenly finds himself in the firing line.... and it's not the usual bad guys who are after him, but the cops. Seems Malley's testimony could implicate a major police figure in sleaze and scandal, and the man in question is none other than Shockley's boss Comissioner Blakelock. Shockley attempts to get his witness back to Phoenix, despite the fact that every cop on the force has been ordered by Blakelock to gun the pair of them down.The climactic sequence, in which Eastwood and Locke head for Phoenix City Hall in an armour-plated bus while sharp-shooters try to blast the living hell out of the vehicle, is truly astounding. As a destructive set piece not many sequences can rival it even to this day. The film contains many similarly noisy, destructive, memorable scenes. Admittedly, there are times when believability is markedly lacking (e.g the bit where Clint and Sondra are pursued by a helicopter while aboard a motorbike - and the sniper aboard the helicopter repeatedly fails to gun them down). However, on the whole The Gauntlet is good fun. Switch your brain down a gear or two and enjoy....  "},{"Title":"Reading between the lines","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"26 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Hands down, Sondra Lockes best performance.So then,why does this film need all the over the top violence? It does so because most men won't want to admit they like a love story, or go to the movies to see one. This movie is a top rate love story, from beginning to end. What possibly could this movie have in common with Fight Club,,or even As Good as it Gets? In Fight Club, Ed Norton meets a girl that he obviously can not handle , so he reinvents himself. Same with Ben Shockley. He meets his match, so he must act quickly, making up a story about snakes at the cave. He then thinks on his feet, and acquires himself a bike, impressing the girl and cementing their alliance. Jack Nicholson breaks down to Helen Hunt and claims You make me want to be a better man.Estwood starts saying please, and and emotes a deep trust in his counterpart; He realizes he must soften up a little to keep the lady around.He does. Shockley isn't some phony Top Gun hero who loses the girl, he's a loser who does what he has to get the woman in love with him, and it works, this is his only chance at love.This is Lockes best film. Is it because of the acting or is this Lockes personality? She does it well enough where you honestly believe she is ad libbing at least half of her lines, pulling them off the top of her tongue. She sizzles, oozing sex in the back seat of the cop car. You honestly believe she is so used to verbal abuse that she sits there and takes the insults. She is just playing possum, lying in wait. She takes her turn, and delivers a knockout counter-punch to the constable,forcing his mind to admit that he is just a sleazeball flunkie. What is best, is that nothing but honesty and cold reality come out of her mouth. Eastwood accepts the truth, and lives. The constable refuses, and dies. Locke is the anti-feminazi. She saves her mans life, and immediately wants to go back to being a real woman, in his arms.This movie deserves a ten, because the action scenes are just there so people can handle all of the raw truth in the movie. A must buy. "},{"Title":"The dumbest group of policemen ever","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Possible spoiler - As the bus drives through Phoenix, police line up on either side of the street to empty thousands of rounds into the bus. Literally dozens of policemen are in the line of fire (across the street from each other) and nobody seems to notice. Also, at the courthouse, as they're again surrounded by dozens of police on ALL sides, Clint gets shot by the bad guy (police standing next to & behind everybody) and NOBODY flinches - apparently certain that bullets at close range don't go through people. Finally, as everybody is lying there bleeding (but not dead) not ONE policeman offers assistance or bothers to start taking all the guns away. Could be the dumbest &^%$%#$#ing movie ever. "},{"Title":"I've Got The Gun, Clyde","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The Gauntlet is the second of six films that Clint Eastwood did with Sondra Locke, an amount that certainly qualifies them as a screen team of note. They were for 15 years a team off the screen as well.The Gauntlet casts Locke as a hooker who is being subpoenaed as a witness in an organized crime case. She's in Las Vegas where if you'll recall prostitution is legal and apparently she's learned some interesting information. More interesting than she realizes because there are some people who want to make very certain she does not reach Phoenix where the Maricopa County District Attorney has her for a witness.Assigned to the case is Clint Eastwood who is characterized by himself as a tired old time server of a cop. He's not by reputation with the Phoenix, PD a Harry Callahan. But to the regret of forces who want to see Locke dead and consider him an incompetent and expendable, Clint fools them all.As a film The Gauntlet goes at a good clip and the suspense from the first attack against Eastwood and Locke does not let up for a second. The dialog between Eastwood and Locke is crisp and entertaining and the action sequences well staged. The two leads get good support from Pat Hingle as Eastwood's luckless partner and William Prince the corrupt Chief of the Phoenix PD. I'm not sure whether Prince wants Locke dead for her testimony linking him to organized crime or for the fact she can testify to some alternate sexual practices he favors. Either way Prince is absolutely manic about making sure they never get to Phoenix alive.For fans of Clint Eastwood, The Gauntlet is one of his best films, one of my favorites of his, and something not to be missed. "}{"Title":"Did Clint Eastwood really direct this (or was it Ed Wood)?","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The entire police forces from two separate states come out to fire thousands of gun shots at a dimwitted, but well intentioned cop and a college educated, hyperactive hooker because said hooker is going to testify in court that she saw the new police commissioner masturbating. And it gets better.What do you do when every gangster and peace officer in Arizona and Las Vegas have orders to shoot you on site? First, of course, you increase your list of enemies by unnecessarily agitating a gang of fifty large bikers, then you hijack a bus in broad daylight and spend a half hour unloading luggage, at gunpoint, in full view of hundreds of people, then you provide the people who want to kill you with a written trip syllabus so they know when and where to expect you, and then you drive your bus right into the six hundred cops who are firing non-stop machine guns at you.And it still gets better. After spending ten minutes firing thousands of shots at a fellow officer and his courtesan friend, on the orders of the new, clearly psychotic commissioner, six hundred heavily armed cops stand and watch, without blinking, as said commissioner is gunned down in the middle of the street by said hooker. And of course, after having more shots fired at them than the population of Iraq, our hapless hero and his hardy harlot humbly hobble away, relatively unscathed.When Joel Mcrea and Veronica Lake chased a freight train, it defined movie magic. When Charles Grodin and Bobby De Niro chased a freight train, it was a moment to treasure. When Sandra Locke and Clint Eastwood chased a freight train, you might as well have been watching a bad Heckle and Jeckle cartoon. Comparing THE GAUNTLET to past and future Eastwood directorial efforts, like PLAY MISTY FOR ME, MYSTIC RIVER, and UNFORGIVEN is like saying THE GODFATHER in the same breath as GIGLI. "},{"Title":"Flawed, Absurd, but Highly Entertaining","Date":"10 September 2012","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" In Phoenix, the alcoholic and mediocre detective Ben Shockley (Clint Eastwood) is assigned by the Chief Commissary Blakelock (William Prince) to bring the witness Gus Mally (Sondra Locke) from Las Vegas for a minor trial. Shockley travels to Vegas and finds that Gus Malley is an aggressive and intelligent prostitute with college degree and she tells him that the odds are against her showing up in court. Shockley learns that she will actually testify against a powerful mobster and the mafia is chasing them trying to kill them both. He calls Blakelock and request a police escort from Phoenix to protect them. But soon he discovers that someone is betraying him in the police department. Now, Shockley and Malley hijack a bus and Shockley welds thick steel plates and transforms the cabin in an armored bus trying to reach the Forum. But they will need to drive through a gauntlet of police officers armed with heavy weapons.The Gauntlet is a highly entertaining movie with a flawed and absurd story. There is no press representative or judge from the tribunal to question the reason for the shooting to stop the bus. The helicopter chasing the motorcycle with the sniper failing in his shots is funny. The situation of the gauntlet in Phoenix is hilarious and the police force is incapable to shoot the bus tires or engine to stop the vehicle. Sondra Locke is very beautiful in the role of a smart prostitute and this is the type of movie that the viewer must shut down his or her brain and have lots of fun. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Rota Suicida (Suicide Route) "},{"Title":"Manages to combine preposterousness with heavy-handedness","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" In The Gauntlet, as in a number of his other films, Clint Eastwood plays a tough cop. Ben Shockley, however, is very different to Harry Callahan (or, for that matter, to Walt Coogan, Eastwood's cool dude character from Coogan's Bluff). Whereas Dirty Harry is a ruthless but dedicated officer who gets all the tough jobs his colleagues don't want, Shockley is a disillusioned alcoholic (the first sight we have of him is a whiskey bottle falling from his car and smashing on the ground), a man who wants the important cases but never gets them and is counting down the days until his retirement.Shockley is given what seems like a routine assignment. He is to travel from his base in Phoenix, Arizona, to Las Vegas to extradite Gus Mally, a witness in a forthcoming trial. (Coogan, coincidentally, was also based in Arizona). When he arrives, however, he receives two surprises. The first is that Gus is not a man but a woman. (It's short for Augustina). The second is that she is determined not to be extradited to Phoenix, claiming that she will be killed if she gives evidence at the trial. Shockley realises that Gus is due to give evidence against powerful Mafia figures, who will go to any lengths to prevent her from doing so. Worse still, it gradually dawns upon him that some of his colleagues in Phoenix are in league with the Mob and have set him up to be killed along with his witness. He is forced to run the gauntlet to get himself and Gus back to Phoenix alive, despite being pursued not only by Mob assassins but also by most of the police forces of Arizona and Nevada. (The bad guys have convinced the authorities that Shockley himself is, in fact, a killer).Whereas Dirty Harry asked some important questions about law enforcement and the nature of justice, The Gauntlet is simply an action-adventure film with some romantic elements thrown in. (Gus starts out as a foul-mouthed prostitute, but it soon becomes clear that she has hidden reserves of courage and resourcefulness, and she and Shockley fall for one another). There are a number of set-pieces as Shockley and Gus try and outwit their pursuers. It never, however, tries to be a realistic action film. The set-pieces are all way over the top, sometimes almost hilariously so, more closely resembling battle scenes from a war film than the sort of shootouts one normally sees in cop movies. In one scene Shockley and Gus are under siege in a house which collapses after a relentless bombardment from police marksmen; they emerge untouched. In another they are pursued by a helicopter which crashes after hitting overhead power lines (a denouement I could see coming as soon as I saw pylons in the distance). The most bizarre sequence must be the finale when Shockley rides back into Phoenix in a hijacked bus. Although phalanxes of armed men fire enough ammunition into the bus to wipe out several regiments, he still succeeds in getting through the lines, suffering only a slight flesh wound. Gus is completely unharmed. The whole thing is made to seem even stranger by scenes that seem taken from a surreal comedy; the idea of bookmakers offering odds on whether a witness will survive to give evidence at trial could be out of Monty Python.Preposterous action sequences do not always make for a bad film; think, for example, of how many unfeasible stunts the hero manages to perform in the course of every James Bond movie. The Bond films, however, manage to get away with being preposterous because they are made with a wit, style and lightness of touch largely lacking in The Gauntlet, a film which manages to combine preposterousness with heavy-handedness. The action sequences may be fun to watch in themselves, but they do not really add up to a satisfying film overall. One of Clint Eastwood's weaker efforts. 4/10 "},{"Title":"70's masterpiece from Eastwood. Feast for Clint fans.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"21 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Everyone has a number one favorite actor, I'm quite sure about it. I just simply love legendary Mr. Clint Eastwood and every work he has ever done. I don't know why, there's something so peculiar about him, something different. I wonder what would've the 70's been like without Clint and his roles as a for example Dave Garver in his directing debut Play Misty for me, Harry Callahan, Joe Kidd, John Thunderbolt Doherty in Thunderbolt and lightfoot, Josey Wales, Philo Beddoe (yes, even him) and the mysterious stranger in High plains drifter? He's done so much for the audience and I'm thankful for everything we've got from him over the years. I can't help of admitting I love his flicks even if they aren't as good as they normally are or should be.I'm not referring to this movie, I'm just saying that if I love those much poorer films (Firefox, Pink Cadillac, Any which way you can...) it goes without saying I adore The Gauntlet because it's unconditionally one of the best movies from him ever and there isn't a real movie freak in the world who can possibly deny it. It's the 6th motion picture he directed and Clint's role as a drunken cop Ben Shockley is one of the coolest in his long and successful career and one my personal favorites. They don't make movies like this anymore. Plot is so fast, funny and ridiculously amazing it brings me into a total ecstacy. I'll promise when you've seen the crazy end sequence of The Gauntlet you'll never forget this film. One of the most memorable Eastwood classics of the 70's and a much better than for example many of the Dirty Harry sequels. I also think that this is Sondra Locke's best performance in Eastwood's movie. From Clint's own directions, this is by far his very best police film. Definitely 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Commence firing","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This film is one of the dumbest ever.  Spoilers  If Clint fixed a few Grey Hounds in Black Hawk Down, I am sure all the troops would have made it. This is a 70's the system is bad movie, too the extreme.  How corrupt can a police force be to have hundreds of cops shooting at an armor plated bus with a mob informant witness in it.  I like escapism, but this is unbelievable!  There are a few good scenes in it, like when the house collapses from bullet holes, but nothing, and I mean nothing could save this one. Even Rambo! I give this a 4/10. "},{"Title":"One of the worst scripts ever","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" It's hard to imagine how movies as bad as this get made. I blame whoever allowed Clint Eastwood to direct it. As the big-star-turned-director perhaps he had too much authority for anyone to point out when this project left the rails. What a terrible waste. It's got great cinematography and the acting's OK. It could so easily have been a '70s cult classic if someone with half a brain had edited the schizoid screenplay. It starts off with a vaguely plausible storyline aimed at adults. But it suddenly veers off into a blend of spaghetti western chaos and Scooby Doo idiocy which even a 10 year old would snigger at. Keep watching right to the end, because the risible finale is so bad it's almost good. "},{"Title":"Predictable and stupid","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" STAR RATING ***** Unmissable **** Very Good *** Okay ** You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead * Avoid At All Costs Ben Shockley (Clint Eastwood) is a washed-up, typically loose cannon (well, he would be played by Eastwood!) detective whose best mate goes by the name of Jack Daniels (if you know what I mean!) who gets assigned to transport a volatile prostitute named Gus (Sondra Locke) across state to testify in a trial. Of course, some people, namely in the shape of the mob and some crooked cops, aren't having this and decide to give them a hard time about it. Cue the typical explosions, gun-fights and general mayhem that you all payed to see...Legendary British film critic Barry Norman once stated that, among his many fallings-out with many famous, high-profile Hollywood stars (including the likes of Robert De Niro and John Wayne!), he actually made friends with Clint Eastwood by providing him with some refreshing frank honesty as opposed to all the pompous butt-kissing he was used to receiving from the publicists and hangers-on around him. When he asked Norman what his feelings were having just watched a preview of The Gauntlet in his professional capacity as a critic, obviously expecting another delivery of 'yeah, Clint, it was great, you're fantastic', he was instead hit with the blunt truthful opinion yeah, it was okay, but it was a bit preposterous. And I can see what he means...Thinking about it, I actually think Eastwood's enduring longitivity has been down to how safe he is. He'd dedicated to the art of film-making, plain and simple. He goes into the studio, he directs, he acts and he produces, whatever...Some of his work with the legendary Malpaso company has been great, others not so great, which this dross is certainly an example of. It opens deceptively well and promises another great Eastwood film to come, but as events roll on, the absurdity of the plot and the predictability of the script wear you down so much that boredom rears it's ugly head and you're tempted to switch it off before it's reached the end. I love the guy, but some good action scenes are sadly not enough to make this a script Clint should have chose not to pick. ** "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  There's only one small problem with this movie. It couldn't possibly happen.What am I referring to specifically?EVERYTHING!Not one scene, not one line, not one event, not one moment of this movie, from the first frame to the last, is credible. None of this stuff could happen in the real world.Hey Clint, if you wanted to give your lady friend an expensive present, you should have just bought her a car. "},{"Title":"An okay movie, but Eastwood could have done better","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I am a Phoenix native and I was on location in May of 1977 when they filmed the scene with the bus going east on Adams before it went up the steps of what was shown in the movie as Phoenix City Hall, it never was city hall, the building was, and still is the Phoenix Civic Plaza.The movie has a good plot, but the shooting scenes were a little over-done to the point of silliness, especially the one at Gus Malley's house in Vegas when Las Vegas PD officers fire a storm of bullets into the house that tear it down completely. The scene where Shockley was crawling through the house trying to get away from the firestorm of bullets that are flying all around and tearing up everything next to him, and... he never gets hit(???) What are the odds of that happening? There were other scenes they could have done a better job on, like at the end when Malley shoots Blakelock, and all the police officers behind him just stand there as if nothing was happening instead of getting out of the way of the bullet trajectories.That's why I thought Eastwood could have done a better job with some of those scenes that were a bit far-fetched from reality. But again, this is Hollywood. "},{"Title":"It's an entertaining, absorbing and fun film, great music and remarkable photography.","Date":"6 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The Gauntlet is performed by Clint Eastwood, who stars in it as an actor, and was shot in Las Vegas (Nevada) and Phoemix and Superior (Arizona).The main action takes place way in Las Vegas and Phoenix, over 10 days, Ben Shockley (Clint Eastwood), tough police officer, laconic, unintelligent, alcoholic protagonist aspires to be granted professional success promotion you've always wanted. The senior police chief of Phoenix gave him a routine mission. Hi has to go to Las Vegas to take under his protection to Gus Mally (Sondra Locke), arrested for prostitution, and move to Phoenix to testify at trial.The film claims that corruption reaches high places, and criticizes the lack of control of some officials. The figure of the woman acquires a higher profile presence in the filmmaker's previous films. Gus Mally, has an important role, her character is strong, tenacious, independent and brings along the story suggestions and ideas that will not happen to Shockley less intelligent than she. The trip between Las Vegas and Phoenix is full of dangers unheard the explosion of the prepared car for them, sinking shot of the house of Gus, the confrontation of Ben with a band of angels of the devil , the pursuit of a motorcycle, helicopter and others. The implausibility of some episodes have a lot to do with the nonsense tone that turns the movie into a delicious piece of humour mixed, black, surreal and tragicomic.The music provides a strong score of jazz, with excellent solos on clarinet, trumpet and saxophone. Reinforces the action and also sets comedians. The photography shows the beauty of the desert landscapes of Arizona and flaunts narrative skill. In this sense, the hard fight of three angels of the devil with Ben, seen from a camera located in the middle of combat. The dash board action, drama, thriller, romance, humour and reporting, combined in a well-written.Sondra Locke's interpretation is correct and convincing, and the director printed on the action Eastwood an intense pace. "}{"Title":"idiotic, boring, unbelievable, shallow. A bomb!","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I don't have enough room here to list all the faults in this show. It was written as a serious police movie, and came off as a boring, totally unrealistic shoot-em-up. Eastwood played his usual tough, maverick cop part, but not with the flair he has in some of his better films. This junk has been done and done and done. He needs to search for a better script, I know he deserves much better. I think my main objection to this movie was the ending. I expect realism when I pay for a film like this. What I got was a thoughtless mishmash. 1/10th of a star. "},{"Title":"Stupid Clint.","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood stars as Ben Shockley, a gruff, tough maverick cop (natch!) who is given the task of extraditing Las Vegas hooker Gus Malley (Sondra Locke) to Phoenix, where she is to testify at a mob trial. Unfortunately for Ben, the mob have connections in the police force, and what seems like a simple job at first turns into a fight for survival against the odds.It would be easy to fault The Gauntlet for its incredibly dumb premise&#x97;the finale, in which Shockley and Malley must run a gauntlet of heavily armed police in order to reach city hall is preposterous in the extreme&#x97;but a lack of credibility is actually the least of this film's problems. Clint Eastwood's bland action direction is partly to blame, the star failing to generate any sense of excitement despite numerous situations in which certain death seems like the likely outcome for Shockley and Malley; the film's biggest drawback, however, is Sondra Locke, who couldn't act her way out of a paper bag if her life depended on it, and who doesn't even have the looks necessary to excuse such a lack of talent. "},{"Title":"'Dirty Harry' meets 'Mad Max' in this ludicrously fun title.","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" 'The Gauntlet' is an action thriller starring Clint Eastwood and Sondra Locke. In the film, Eastwood &#x96; playing an unpopular 'Dirty Harry' kind of police officer &#x96; must escort a prostitute (Locke) to a trial, at which she is to be a witness. However, there are high- ranking officials in the police department who'd rather see Locke not make it to her trial, and so the duo soon become the county's most-wanted, and it transpires that the authorities will do anything to keep the cop and the prostitute out of court. They must tackle a number of increasingly deadly obstacles in their path, with police snipers, vengeful bikers, helicopters and drive-by shootings all serving to impede them. With these developments, it becomes apparent that 'The Gauntlet' isn't a film to be taken seriously; once this is acknowledged, the film is quite good. It isn't as nail-biting as 'Dirty Harry' or as solemn as 'In the Line of Fire', but 'The Gauntlet' still manages to entertain, albeit in a lighter, 'Mad Max' way. (I think that Eastwood attempted this with the film 'Coogan's Bluff', but I'd say that 'The Gauntlet' is the superior title.) The film is supported by some enjoyable and opportunistic cinematography, a lovable jazz score, and two surprisingly good performances. 'The Gauntlet' isn't really a title to be remembered, debated or written about, and if you approach it in consideration of what it is &#x96; a fun, 'Bullitt'-like action film with mature themes &#x96; you're likely to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Great comic book cop thriller with Eastwood and Locke","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" In 1977's The Gauntlet Clint Eastwood directs and stars as Ben Shockley, an irresponsible detective in Phoenix, Arizona. He's assigned the job of going to Vegas and bringing back a hooker, Gus Mally (Sondra Locke), a supposedly nothing witness for a nothing trial. If this is so, why are so many people determined to kill them? Shockley is a drunk who has no passion for his job and just goes through the motions. He's submissive to his superiors (saying yes sir after almost every conversation, even when hung up on), as well as gullible and trusting to a fault. In other words, he's opposite to Dirty Harry in almost every way. Instead he has to be built-up to the Dirty Harry mold and gets there by the last act.The Gauntlet is quasi-believable like the Dirty Harry pictures, but only to a point; there's so much exaggerated violence it becomes amusing, e.g. the police shooting up a house until it literally collapses. There are also plot holes if you look too closely or too logically. For instance, when the Arizona squad goes to the Nevada border to intercept Shockley & Mally in the police car they just blow it to smithereens and depart without even checking to see if the intended targets were in the vehicle and if they're dead. Thankfully, the movie's so compelling and fun that you simply overlook plot holes and take amusement in the joyous preposterousness of it all.The pacing is great. While the first ten minutes is uneventful drama, introducing us to the characters and basic plot, the next fifteen minutes go into overdrive with one thrilling action scene after another. This keeps up for over an hour of the runtime before taking a breather in preparation for the final act. The riveting action sequences include wild car chases, assassination attempts, spending the night in the desert, an encounter with an outlaw bike gang, a fight on a moving freight train, a chase where their (stolen) motorcycle is pursued by a marksman in a helicopter. And then there's Shockley's final stubborn charge into Phoenix on a bus while hundreds of cops blow holes into the vehicle.The Gauntlet is a movie that appeals to the teenager in us all. It's hip, raunchy, ultra-violent, cool, absurd and just so darn entertaining from beginning to end. You'll also see some depth that you wouldn't think would be there if you look closely. The two protagonists, for instance, are unlikable trash, but that doesn't mean they're irredeemable. Moreover, love conquers all.If you object to my high rating I'm grading it according to what it is, an outrageous cop thriller with pop-art violence. For what it is, it's a great movie.Locke incidentally starred in six Eastwood flicks in seven years from 1977-1983. While she never really tripped my trigger (not curvy enough) I liked her and she was good in every one of these films, particularly 1983's Sudden Impact (my second favorite of the Dirty Harry franchise).The film runs 109 minutes and was shot in Arizona and Las Vegas.GRADE A "},{"Title":"The flat screenplay and direction are the gauntlets for action fans...","Date":"24 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" It's difficult to believe the stories that have arisen over the years involving numerous top Hollywood players vying for a chance to appear in or direct this action vehicle the turgid, one-dimensional, inane screenplay by Michael Butler and Dennis Shryack would seem to mitigate any interest from the likes of Streisand, Kristofferson, McQueen, MacGraw or Peckinpah. A boozing, faded police detective in Phoenix is assigned to pick up a prisoner in Las Vegas and escort them back to Arizona to testify in a trial; he has no idea what trial the police commissioner is talking about, nor he does he realize that the prisoner, Gus, is a woman (much ado is made about the gender flip-flop, for no apparent purpose). Oddsmakers in Vegas are already betting the pair will never get across the state line alive, which causes the cop to ask this lady--a hooker, naturally--why everyone wants them dead (her story, something about the mob and the commissioner and a kinky sex act, is barely intelligible). The noisy action, sloppily-staged by director and star Clint Eastwood, consists mainly of thousands of rounds of gunfire decimating a house, a constable's car and a stolen bus (when the police shoot up the car, why doesn't anyone bother to look inside for victims or open the trunk?). Eastwood's relationship with college-educated prostitute Sondra Locke seems to bloom off-screen she screams, he squints, but love is in the air! Locke has a lengthy phone-monologue where she talks to her mother which, I'm guessing, is supposed to substitute for character content. Eastwood stays in a guttural low-key, somewhere between his disc jockey from Play Misty For Me and his other cop, Dirty Harry Callahan. They look good together riding on a chopper in the desert, but it would be impossible for anyone to care about these characters or whether or not they make it to City Hall unscathed. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Misfire Eastood & Locke Action Comedy.","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood directs and stars as alcoholic and undistinguished Phoenix cop Ben Shockley, who is given a seemingly routine assignment of escorting a prisoner(Sondra Locke) from Las Vegas back to Phoenix to stand trial. Shockley then learns that his prisoner is really a witness set to testify against the mob, and that there is even public betting on him losing her! Shockley then decides he will bring in his witness, no matter how many attempts on their lives are made(and corruption in the police department is revealed), even if they have to drive an armored-plated bus(and survive the gauntlet of police) by city hall to safety.Though filled with action, and peppered with salty dialogue, this film becomes increasingly preposterous, leading to a truly stupid, heavy handed finale. So bad it is almost good; certainly a cult classic. "},{"Title":"Bringing it home!","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" So, what we have here is an mildly entertaining action film that is simply brainless fluff. Because everything about it is so over-the-top that its just stupid and repetitive. I enjoy watching Clint Eastwood, but really... just give me Dirty Harry and I will watch that film again. Eastwood basically slums about in his role, but Sondra Locke gave a fun performance and spat out some hilarious dialogue. The staged action scenes are very shoddy, but still rather amusing because they are just outrageous. The way it plays about it seems like all of America is trying to stop the two from getting to their destination. Just who is on their side?It's trashy with it's many faults, but still highly watchable. It's just like watching a car accident take place. "},{"Title":"Planes, trains, and automobiles, and motorcycles, and a bus .......","Date":"13 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Although The Gauntlet has maximum firepower, it makes minimum sense, so if you cannot suspend disbelief, skip this one. What I found most entertaining were some sharp conversations, like the motorcycle gang confrontation, and Sondra Locke's job description to the kidnapped constable. Unfortunately there are other less successful dialogs, like Locke's call to her Mother from the motel room, that do nothing but expand an already overlong running time. The stunts are also a mixed bag. There is a spectacular helicopter crash, and a brutal Clint Eastwood box car brawl, but the bus with hundreds of rounds pumped into it without blowing a tire is a real stretch. - MERK "},{"Title":"The Gauntlet","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" From director Clint Eastwood, I guess the description sounded interesting enough to draw me in, so I watched it. Basically Phoenix cop Ben Shockley (Eastwood) is assigned to Las Vegas to escort prostitute Gus Mally (Sondra Locke) who is meant to testify in a mob trial. Shockley wasn't picked to get the job done, he is unreliable and expendable, and they are constantly in the firing line of not the mob, but the police. The only person who Shockley can talk to about this setup is friend Josephson (Pat Hingle), and until they find a way to stop the authorities trying to kill them, they have to run. They are constantly fired at by gun fire, escape a bombing, get chased on a bike by a helicopter, and end up in an armoured bus with more guns being fired, but they eventually stop arriving at the courthouse. Also starring William Prince as Blakelock, Bill McKinney as Constable, Michael Cavanaugh as Feyderspiel, Carole Cook as Waitress, Mara Corday as Jail Matron, Douglas 'Doug' McGrath as Bookie and Jeff Morris as Desk Sergeant. Locke, who I first saw in Every Which Way But Loose and Any Which Way You Can, is still as irritating as in those, so much so that I am unsure what Eastwood saw in her. He meanwhile is good in his role, there are some small exciting moments, it isn't the most plausible story, but it is an alright action crime drama. Worth watching, at least once! "},{"Title":"Cheap immitation of Bullit","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  My brother belongs to this DVD Clint Eastwood club on Columbia House. (since CH hasn't sent any of the original spagetti westerns yet he may cancel it) But anyway, this comment is for the DVD version.Spoiler??????Ahem, it was a fun movie to watch true.  But I came of feeling it was a rip off of Bullit.  Came an inventive way of destroying a house by literally shooting the damn thing to peices.  Nevermind the bus at the end.  The plot is watery thin.  And the two main characters wouldn't marry each other except in this scenerio.  They are like ice cold.Big thing, this movie isn't worth the watch on VHS.  Go watch it on DVD. Not much on special features, heck the cast crew area is stupid.  It lists like 5 actors and only one available is the star.  Totally worthless in my opinion.  Sometime's the setup is confusing too.  But it's presented in widescreen and the sound rules. The ending may disappoint some, because it comes to an abrupt ending with a soft landing. "}{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review aging, skip it","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The Gauntlet is another run-of-the-mill cop flick, but unfortunately it's now somewhat dated. The dialogue and interplay is not very interesting. Although I'm sure it was fine for the 1970s, a lot of stuff has blown up in the last 25 years -- including in some fine Clint Eastwood films such as Unforgiven and In Line of Fire.I'm an action movie guy, so I didn't require a deep drama to enjoy this film, but I just couldn't get through it, primarily thanks to Sondra Locke -- or maybe it was just her character as written.Who should see this film-- nobody-- feminists under the witness protection program who like to complain constantlyI'll give The Gauntlet only a 4 out of 10. Check out Midnight Run with Robert De Niro, or Eraser with Arnold Schwarzenegger instead. "},{"Title":"Best of the 1970s action movies","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The big part for Sondra Locke, who plays Augustina Gus Malley, was dealing with a very tough cop, Clint Eastwood (who plays Ben Shockley). Both have to deal with a Phoenix police commissioner who thinks he is going to be good on the outside---but very sneaky and nasty on the inside.Throughout the movie, it seems like Sondra is almost like an Annie Oakley of some kind especially when she carries a gun...and it was scary to find out that Gus was targeted for death by several parties around Arizona and Phoenix if she tries to testify in a wasteful trial.This Gauntlet flick may not be Mission Impossible, but Ben accepts an assignment from the commissioner that cannot be revealed at all except by him and the commissioner. Then, as soon as he picks up Gus, they face a maze of attempts on their lives.The camera-work during the helicopter gunman/motorcycle chase scene was actually the best. You see the chase on a variety of angles--close up, panoramic, cutting away, and zooming in.The fight scene on the freight train between the crazed bikers, Ben, and Gus reminds me of the phrase Throw Momma Off The Train---but even more than that---it reminds me of Clint Eastwood's appearances in spaghetti westerns like A Fistful of Dollars.The soundtrack in the flick reminded me of Charles Mingus's jazz style. "},{"Title":"action-filled and kind of stupid","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Ben Shockley (Clint Eastwood) is a drunken wasted Phoenix police detective. Commissioner Blakelock assigns him a nothing job to transport prisoner Gus Mally (Sondra Locke) to Vegas. She is sure that she is getting assassinated. Shockley dismisses her and has her tied up to be transported by ambulance. There are car bomb and gunfire. Gus is a prostitute with mob ties and incriminating information on highly placed people. They're being hunted by both criminals and police alike.Sondra Locke is great at being spunky. She and Eastwood have always been a combustible couple just like in their real life. They're great together. This is a lot of gun action. It is action-filled and playing to the cheap seats. The simplistic story doesn't pass most logic test. This is a good movie to stuff your face with popcorn at all the action as long as one don't think too much. However, the last scene is so preposterous that it leaves a bitter taste with the popcorn. The cops are literally standing around in a circle while people are shot to death. It could have been a pass if the last scene is staged better. "},{"Title":"Another version with Ruff & Reddy","Date":"30 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" What would happen if Hanna-Barbera's people decided to do their version of The Gauntlet? Don't worry there will be the house & The Constable's car scene & The Bus Ride scene will be intact. Also Scrappy Doo will be there & taking lessons from Hadji from Jonny Quest. Ruff & Reddy was a cat & dog team that put H-B on the map. Now for the story. Commissioner Blakelock appoints Ruff & Reddy as cops and go to Vegas to get a witness for a trial & if you saw a Ruff & Reddy adventure in the 1950s & 1960s there at home in the story. However Gus Mally, will be portrayed by a cool, black girl who resembles Edsel in Matt Wagner's series and dress up like her. The dialogue with The Constable & Gus will be toned down. The ambush at the State Border line will be performed by 10 black women in Sailor Girl attire from Anime stories and have high-tech weapons & drive 5 unmarked, 1957 Chevrolet 150 Series, 4-Dr. Sedans which are all black. Also the motorcycle club become fans of Ruff & Reddy & also in the boxcar is some of the relatives of Ruff & Reddy enemies & when Gus comes in the fight she fights like a Japanese warrior and most of the bad guys off the boxcar and the hijacking of the bus goes thru & stopping at a compound where Professor Butch a professor resembles a WWE Wrestler and has a animal compound & Scrappy Doo a toned down version rides on the bus & has a clear plastic dome covering the bus during the cross firing & also a father & son police partners are there. The police shows respect when they see Ruff & Reddy, Scrappy Doo, Professor Butch & Gus. Josephson, will be shown as a black character named Charlie Brown who got serious from The Coasters' song Charlie Brown. When Blakelock tried to fire at Professor Butch & Feyderspiel, the gun has no bullets because Scrappy Doo did a Hadji trick which Hadji did in Double Danger episode from Jonny Quest. Gus off screen beats the hell out of Blakelock & Scrappy is allowed to use his Puppy Power on Blakelock & Feyderspiel. A Sheriff Joe stand-in takes the villains to jail & the group goes to The Courtroom place. That's how The Hanna-Barbera people would have done it & I would have the role of the LVPD Captain that shoots down the house & uses candy instead of a cigarette for himself and a cool rookie cop. That's how H-B would have done Clint Eastwood's Gauntlet story. Ruff & Reddy were used because they never seen action when their series were over & now there back & this time made not come out on top. Ruff & Reddy never loses. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood Brings Out His Inner Dirty Harry!","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" First off, I want to make one thing clear about the movie and the title. This is not any of the Dirty Harry films, however the character Eastwood plays, Ben Shockley does have uncanny similarities, although their ethics and view towards authority are different. Now before delving into The Gauntlet, y'all should suspend your beliefs because this movie have scenes that are just totally absurd and ridiculous, although they are very fun. For example, there are scenes where there is like a ten-minute shootout by like a thousand cops, so it was hard to believe that would happen. But I certainly enjoyed watching that scene.Clint Eastwood's film is about a rugged alcoholic cop who seems to be going nowhere in life. One day, the Phoenix police commissioner gives Shockley a seemingly innocent job and that involves the transport of a key witness from Las Vegas to Phoenix. Was he ever proved wrong! The ride back turns into a ride to hell as Ben must keep himself and his prisoner alive from corrupt cops, the mafia, and gang hoodlums.Clint Eastwood does a very good job here. In sense, he always does a good job scowling and kicking butt when needed. He had excellent chemistry with Sondra Locke, the prisoner named Gus Mally who also happens to be a prostitute. She was excellent and quite smart for the ordinary hooker. We also get some good supporting turns by Pat Hingle and William Prince who was Commissioner Blakelock.Overall, the Gauntlet is an absurd, over-the-top action movie and the film will never let you forget that. There are some scenes that will just have you laughing due to the absurdness of the scenes. But I'll be darned if I said they were not fun and enjoyable. It's a crazy, action-packed movie and a film that should be enjoyed as it is. It is just Clint Eastwood having a good time, in turn giving the audience a good time. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Not among Clints' best, but fun.","Date":"14 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood pays Ben Shockley, a tough, hard-drinking, washed up and not overly effective cop. Not much is expected of him, yet he's assigned to escort a nothing witness (feisty hooker Gus Mally, played by Eastwoods' gal pal of the era, Sondra Locke) to a nothing trial. However, he'll find that the truth is different from what he's been told, and that there are powerful people who will not want to see him accomplish his mission.The movie, which works as something of a predecessor to Midnight Run, is well shot (by Rexford L. Metz) in Panavision, and adequately paced. It has just as many decent character moments as it does thrills. The action is deliberately made to be way over the top, with tons of bullets pumped into a house, a car, and, eventually, a bus. So, as an exercise in excess, The Gauntlet does do its job.Clint is fine as always. He still exhibits a trademark cool and his character displays an unexpected tenacity he's going to prove that he's a better cop than people (including himself) might believe him to be. And Locke actually does just fine, in one of her better roles. You do like her more as the story plays out, and she and Clint work well together.The supporting cast is excellent, especially Pat Hingle as Shockley's old friend and colleague Josephson. Deliverance villain Bill McKinney has a memorable role as a constable forced to drive Ben and Gus to a rendezvous. Other familiar faces include William Prince as the police commissioner, Michael Cavanaugh as the assistant D.A., Mara Corday as a jail matron, Doug McGrath as a bookie, Jeff Morris as a desk sergeant, and Roy Jenson as one of the three vindictive bikers.The amount of firepower unleashed in this thing is truly mind-boggling. The final set piece is pretty damn intense, but there's a well executed helicopter / motorcycle chase preceding it that is exciting. It's true enough that The Gauntlet defies credibility at times, but those Clint fans just hoping for some good non-think entertainment should be satisfied with the amount of action doled out.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Typical 1970s Eastwood Fare, Fun but Completely Unbelievable","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood strays a little from his Dirty Harry character in this violent, ridiculously illogical, but enjoyable film. Eastwood plays Shockley, a fairly dim-witted detective who must bring witness Gus Mally (Sondra Locke) from Las Vegas to Phoenix. Along the way, there are lots of gunshots and explosions before Shockley's corrupt political superior Blakelock (a deliciously evil William Prince) is killed at the end of the movie.If you don't mind lots of mindless violence and don't care whether a movie makes any sense, you should enjoy The Gauntlet. I found myself almost laughing at times at the ridiculously contrived plot, and I've never seen so much gunplay in one film. Pat Hingle is good as Shockley's police force friend (you know he'll never live through the movie), and it's good to see Mara Corday briefly as a jail matron. Eastwood's character is somewhat unusual because Shockley just isn't too bright. It's also interesting to see what Phoenix looked like 37 years ago before lots of explosive growth. The Gauntlet is worth watching, but it sure won't win any awards for credibility. "},{"Title":"This one's great","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood plays a Phoenix cop sent to Las Vegas to bring a witness back to testify at a mobster's trial. The witness is a tough, smart prostitute, played by Sondra Locke. The two clash instantly but soon find they have to rely on each other to survive because nobody seems to want Locke to make it to Phoenix alive.Underrated Eastwood movie that blends road trip comedy, romantic comedy, action, and drama all into one. Gritty and violent with an epic amount of gunfire for a '70s movie. Today that would all be CGI and lame. Clint's great. Sondra Locke has probably her best movie role here. Very good supporting cast of familiar faces. Like I said, this one's pretty underrated. If you're an Eastwood fan, you definitely should check it out. "},{"Title":"Clint's finest","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Gets this high rating from me because of the excellent casting, the motorbike scene with Sondra Locke on the back, and, well, for Sondra Locke. She and Clint made an unforgettable couple. No wonder they hitched up in real life. Okay, people following my reviews (both of them) will notice my fascination with Chase movies, DIRTY MARY CRAZY LARRY, OUTLAW BLUES) involving close encounters with the leading lady during the chase. This is one of them. It is also quite likely the most implausible chase movie of the lot. Armour-plate that bus all you want, Clint, what the hell about the tyres? The entire American Police Force and their dogs await that bus, a fusillade ensues, but nobody shoots out the tyres IMMEDIATELY like it would have gone in real life. It's the most ludicrous farcical action scene committed on film and remains glaringly inexcusable, but... but it works so beautifully!The idea of the two who are so at loggerheads way into the movie, is as appealing as the gruff violence against little Gus is unappealing. In a remake of this, the conflict would surely remain verbal, or maybe a little slap or two. But this movie features another favorite theme of mine, the protagonists who are at first in opposite camps, as in THE RAVINE (1969), but then find each other, passion ensuing. It is as it is said, The War Between Men and Women, there is so much fraternization...One of your reviewers, that 339 guy, spoke about a missing scene involving the sadistic law enforcement officer and Gus. He didn't mention details, but while watching DVDs years later after having seen a movie, like decades before, I often remember stuff that then doesn't materialize, and without consulting my DVD, I do remember that perhaps this concerned rape at gunpoint with the barrel of the revolver. If this is what he referred to, he is indeed correct. DVDs are pricey enough for them to carry alternative versions on the movie's menu, which could be ignored by the more squeamish among us.All in all, a most glorious film, despite it being as plausible as the wildest science-fiction. "},{"Title":"Eastwood is a man of his word","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The Gauntlet is an enjoyable thriller/action movie about a cop that must deliver a witness to the court . The story is mostly quite predictable , yet there are some nice twists and ideas along the way . Eastwood as the director nicely switches the mood of the movie from very serious to ironic. The shootouts and the fights have some raw energy that is impressive. Some of the dialogue here are very quotable . My favorite is  I give her 2 , because I haven't yet met a woman I could give 1.Clint Eastwood is , well , Eastwood . You know he will be badass . He's a cop that not only follows order , but also thinks. Sondra Locke is great as the prisoner and ex-prostitute . She's feisty and tough . She and Eastwood has a great chemistry together.The helicopter chase is really nice . I must admit that Sondra Locke talking by the phone in the hotel is one of the sweetest movie scenes I have ever seen. The image of all those cops standing on the street and the destroyed bus is quite powerful one . Only the ending seems a little clumsy and rushed.All in all it's a nice one from Clint. Watch out for Pat Hingle (Batman) as the loyal friend of Eastwood . I give it 6/10. "}{"Title":"The worst of Eastwood","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" First, I have NEVER liked Eastwood as an actor. Only because I have never considered him as well. From the very beginning he used to play almost the same characters, the lonely and nameless hero, justice lover, with an inexpressive face, with nearly no dialogue at all, the perfect guy who ALWAYS make it, without a scratch. Thanks to Sergio Leone... I hate that, at a scale you can't even imagine. Only in THE BEGUILED, WHITE HUNTER - as far as I remember - and GRAN TORINO, he dies at the end...Of course, he was great in BRONCO BILLY and BRIDGES OF MADISON COUNTY...In his first part of career as a director, with the exception of PLAY MITSY FOR ME, he was a lousy film maker. Nothing to do with the second part, with masterpieces such as FLAGS OF OUR FATHERS and LETTERS FROM IWO JIMA and some other features.Back to THE GAUNTLET, it's a corny movie to me. The film for the actual life - unmarried - couple Eastwood - Locke; a sort of equivalent of LOVE AND BULLETS for Charles Bronson and Jill Ireland. And with nearly the same story !!!And besides, if you know the actual Eastwood character - after reading the unauthorized biography written about him by Patrick Mac Gilligan - you'll agree to say that he was a disgusting and selfish man who never let anyone alive around him to suggest anything which may have improved the quality of a film. He was nearly a tyrant on the set...I'll stop here. But, Eastwood fortunately got better after all these years. It remains although that many of his first decades as an actor and director were not so good to me. "},{"Title":"No Shortage of Bullets and Over the Top Action","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Watch this if....you don't mind a far fetched action film with Clint Eastwood recycling his role as a run-down, fed up cop. Plenty of over the top action and bullets if that is your thing.Acting/Casting 6* - You get exactly what you would expect from Eastwood in his lead role as the cop who must get a key witness from Las Vegas to Arizona to testify. He plays the disgruntled, worn out, cop role well, but this is one of his niches. I would have preferred to see a different female lead, but Sondra Locke is serviceable in her role.Directing/Cinematography/Technical 6* - The movie has some dull spots, but overall has a nice pace. The action is plentiful when it happens, but I would have preferred to see a little more throughout. All considered, the action sequences are still pretty impressive considering it was made in 1977.Plot/Characters 6* - Vegas has bets down on whether Clint Eastwood can get a key witness from Las Vegas to Arizona alive to testify for a trial and the odds aren't in his favor. The synopsis was intriguing to me, but really was a different take on a very common storyline.Entertainment Value 6* - Not a must see Eastwood film, but is still fairly entertaining. If you really like Eastwood, then it is likely a movie to see.My Score 6+6+6+6 = 24/4 = 6.0Email your thoughts to filmwatchinfool@gmail.com "},{"Title":"Nag, Nag, Nag...","Date":"17 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The Gauntlet is a silly action comedy starring Clint Eastwood and Sondra Locke. It's overloaded with over the top action scenes, excessive shootouts and insanity that would make John Woo proud. There is nothing really much beyond that and it completely relies of Eastwood's charisma and skill as a director to carry this nonsense.And he does it without breaking a sweat. Clint Eastwood gives his usual gruff, tough guy performance which works well with the painfully mediocre Sondra Locke. Her performance was fine I guess, but a more likable and charming screen presence would have been more welcome. Jessica Lange, Isabelle Adjani or Season Hubley and if you want to remake it, cast Jun Ji-Hyun in it. Or just about anyone who has more likable screen presence. The rest of the cast pretty much did nothing. The villains were over the top, the cops very goofy and so on and so forth. You practically spend all the time with Eastwood and Locke so there isn't any major supporting rules there.Like I said before, Eastwood is both the star in front of the camera as well as behind it. The Gauntlet is very well executed and shot flawlessly. The action is engaging and goes for just enough time to not get repetitive. The highlight of the film being the helicopter-bike chase scene. It goes at good speed and never drags for too long. Some of the more quieter scenes are less engaging since we have to listen to more Sondra Locke acting tough, which isn't the least bit entertaining. But aside from that, the action is fun, it's vulgar, bloody and mindless fun.The Gauntlet is a must see for anyone who likes Clint Eastwood. It's hardly his best work in action genre and is a fairly minor entry in his legendary career. But for all it's problems, The Gauntlet is very good fun for those who can enjoy these kinds of films. "},{"Title":"You're between a rock and a hard place, boy!","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie gets a bad rap for it's implausible story line and outrageous shoot outs, but if you're in the mood for that sort of thing, it's a hard one to top. Clint Eastwood serves double duty as the film's director and leading man, with then live-in companion Sondra Locke. Locke always struck me as a good looking woman as long as you caught her at just the right angle. She showed a few of those here, but facial profiles didn't do her justice. I made the mistake once of telling someone they looked like her and they took it as an insult, so on that basis, I now refrain from telling women they look like movie stars.But Locke does get to deliver some intelligent dialogue in the film. Even though her character is a prostitute, she's also a college graduate who seems to be a couple of steps ahead of detective Ben Shockley (Eastwood) in figuring out why they're considered a fifty to one shot against making it back to Phoenix for a mob trial. I thought Eastwood was actually pretty generous in the way he allowed her to spell out the situation so he could catch up. Not many leading actors are confident enough to accept that kind of dynamic with their co-star.Anyway, the film offers a lot of unbelievable scenarios that are quite ridiculous when you take a minute to analyze what's going on - like the house massacre, the helicopter chase, and especially the bus scene from which the picture takes it's name. But hey, it's Eastwood and you could cut him some slack because not not just anyone could have pulled off something like this. Like the eventual odds in the story, The Gauntlet pulled off a hundred to one shot in kick-ass entertainment value. Say, I wonder if Gus Mally ever collected on her bet. "},{"Title":"Riveting","Date":"2 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Some critics were a bit savage about the plot and 'bad language'; ignore them. It doesn't matter that it's totally implausible towards the end, when the whole police dept seems to be deployed against our heroes. What we get is well-paced, high-octane action sequences throughout and a convincing mouthy and sassy Sondra Locke accompanying Clint in his usual (and only?) macho mode. This wasn't part of the 'Dirty Harry' series - but in most respects it could have been Clint strolling from one set the the other.You get a sense of the film's capitalising on a distinctly '70s interest in political and police corruption.There are some quite well-crafted 'explosive' scenes; the film's just the kind to view over a pizza of an evening when you fancy some involving, trashy drama... "},{"Title":"No-Brainer Macho Escapism","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" In his sixth film as both director and star, Clint Eastwood plays a Southwest detective who is illustrated as a hopeless drunk. The sexy, clever Sondra Locke plays a Las Vegas hooker who graduated from Finch. The schoolgirl look is very popular right now, someone says as per clarification, which isn't actually going to help. This 1977 actioner steers clear of reality and plows headlong toward tough guy fantasy, which is invariably about a wayward man that sheds light on a shady world. It's about the severities confronted by Eastwood's detective when he tries to escort Locke from Vegas to Phoenix to give evidence at a mob trial. En route the cop and the girl begin a resuscitating rapport He'll quit his sour mash whiskey if she quits her demeaning johns. But the movie is more interested in the mob's labors to thwart the completion of their journey.There are ambulance getaways, gunfights in racing sedans, a helicopter assault, a jaunt on a motorbike he steals from a dirty hippie and, for the climax, the eponymous roadblock of gunfire during the ultimate bus ride up the steps of the Hall of Justice is an extravaganza of noise and action throughout which, inconceivably, no one is hit. It's a movie lacking even a sole fresh inspiration, but its action sequences are so heatedly played that it's hopeless not to be engaged most of the time. It's not merely that the film is loud. It has a sort of violent polish, as when a car, a bus and an entire house are demolished via storms of bullets, which were apparently informed by the saturation gunfire police had used against the Symbionese Liberation Army. It's purely about the spectacle. Characters stroll untouched from the perforated bus, but the house gently admits defeat, like an animal having been hunted for sport, and crumples into gauzy wreckage.The screenplay feigns the development of a relationship between its underdog duo, but ultimately subsists to oblige the pandemonium much in the way that the libretto for a musical is bone structure connecting the songs. Having already dismembered his cowboy image, the Dirty Harry shell already tattered from first appearance, as audacious and extreme as late Peckinpah, Eastwood's early knack was for what he'd learned from his inspired work with skilled action director Don Siegel, poised and measured style. Locke is not just hot, but also genuinely funny on occasion. Eastwood has such a macho image that perhaps audiences haven't observed that his female characters have minds of their own and are never supposed to just be ornamental. In supporting roles, Pat Hingle has nothing much to do as an even remotely realistic character and as Eastwood's persnickety, worried-mother precinct pal, and William Prince sits and stands in some very well turned-out suits as the highly placed overseer of exceedingly well consolidated criminal activity representing the use of lawmaking command by government officials for illicit secret advantages and vice within Eastwood's department.Maybe a more tolerable way to view the movie is as a fun satire of the police, most notable for its set pieces, but I suppose what draws me to Clint Eastwood's work as a director, his explorations of morality and outsider themes, is more than a foolish streamline of worn-out plot and pigeonholed characters. Perhaps he felt compelled to perpetuate a certain iconic archetype he'd fashioned for himself with The Gauntlet. It certainly has the grace and confidence of a genre veteran, telling a readily, laughably ridiculous and predictable story with excellent liveliness. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Arizona The Grand Canyon State","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" **SPOILERS** Given the assignment to bring in a witness from Las Vages to testify against Arizona mobster Deluca disheveled and somewhat inebriated Phoenix detective Ben Shockley,Clint Eastwood,at first thinks that it's like what the new police commissioner Blakeock, William Prince, told him. The person he's bringing back to testify is nothing more then a nothing witness for a nothing case; how wrong that turned out to be.Picking up Agustina, know to everyone in the movie as just plain Gus, Mally (Sandra Locke) at the Las Vages lock-up Shockley is confronted with a scared to death hooker who tells an uninterested and by the books cop that there's a contract out on her. Gus also tells Shockley that he'll end up together with her, dead, if he as much as leaves the police station. Taking Gus' statement with nothing more then a grain of salt Shockley goes on to do his duty and follow orders. Within the next five minutes he suddenly realizes that Gus is right and he's not only a fool but a pasty set up to take the hit together with Gus! By non-other then his boss back in Phoenix police commissioner Blakelock!Not that believable to say the lest yet very exciting Clint Eastwood auctioneer The Gauntlet has some of the most wildest shootouts in motion picture history. With thousands of bullets being expended, enough to deplete the ammunition arsenals of an entire US Army infantry division, yet end up not as much as killing anyone that the shots are aimed at until the very last few minutes of the movie. There's this scene towards the end of the movie where hundreds of policemen standing on both side of the street are blasting away at the armor plated bus that both Shockley and Gus commandeered. The cops not only miss hitting their intended targets, Shockley & Gus, but don't even kill or wound themselves! As their actually firing at point blank range, or within 50 feet, at each other!The fact that Shockley was picked by commissioner Blakelock to do the job of extraditing Gus should have alerted him that something isn't kosher. Since he's the last person on the force that would normally be assigned to do a job like that. Shockley would be expected to end up in a Las Vegas bar rather then in the city's police station. Feeling that somehow he's been given an important assignment to do Shockley was determined to succeed and impress his superior. What he didn't know is that his superior commissioner Blakelock wants him to fail in having his prisoner not make it back to trial because her testimony will end up putting him behind bars for the rest of his life.Obviously made for laughs, you can't take this movie seriously no matter how hard you try, The Gauntlet is undoubtedly one of Eastwoods' early attempt at doing comedy and in a way succeeds even beyond Clint's wildest dreams. By having him and his then girlfriend Sandra Locke run the gauntlet as the entire Phoenix PD and Arizona highway patrol, as well as reinforcements from the neighboring states, try to stop Clint & Sandra or Shockley & Gus. The movie ends with two making it back home and alive to the Phoenix City Hall with the goods, protected witness Gus Mally, on the sleazy corrupt and mobbed up police commissioner Blakelock who by then had, with all the stress and frustration he went through in the film, gone so completely off the wall that he would have easily gotten off with an insanity defense. "},{"Title":"A great action film","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I recalled really enjoying this when I saw in on television as a child back in the eighties, although I assume that was a cut version. When I saw it on offer at a good price I decided I'd get it on DVD... It was just as much fun as I'd remembered.Clint Eastwood plays Phoenix cop Ben Shockley who is given the task of bringing a nothing witness for a nothing trial from Las Vegas. He is somewhat surprised to find that his witness, Gus Mally is in fact a woman (Sondra Locke). When they meet she is convinced that somebody has no intention of letting the two of them make it to Phoenix alive. Shockley doesn't believe her at first but when the car he intended to drive her to the airport in explodes he realises she was telling the truth after all. They stop off at her house and he calls his boss to get local police to escort them to the airport however this doesn't go as expected either; the police surround the house and soon open fire, in fact they fire so many bullets into the house that it eventually collapses, luckily Shockley and Mally managed to escape though an underground pipe. Assuming that somebody in the Las Vegas police is corrupt he hijacks a patrol car and takes it to the Arizona border where he expects to be met by his colleagues in the Arizona Police.As the unlikely couple make their way to Phoenix they must content with the mob, a biker gang, corrupt cops and a sniper in a helicopter.Don't expect realism in this film but do expect over the top action, plenty of explosions and lots of gunfire. The acting from both Eastwood and Locke is good as is Eastwood's direction. This certainly deserves a place the the DVD collection of anybody who likes '70s action or Clint Eastwood films. "},{"Title":"Worst Film Mr. Eastwood ever made","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Before watching this, I thought that The Dead Pool was his worst film. The film does follow a plotline, but then so did Plan 9 from Outer Space.  I have Plan 9 also, and I have to say that I enjoyed it more than The Gauntlet.  In Plan 9 about the only thing really bad was the cheap things Wood had to resort to in order to make his film. He couldn't use real actors and had to make do with a lot of things that to say was second rate would be to be complimentory.Nothing in The Gauntlet was at all plausable, nothing. Hundreds of police officers were in on a mob hit. I ride a bike and I can tell you that the last thing you want to do is to ride your Harley out on a dusty dirt road. At the end of the movie after hundreds of police officers have been shooting to ribbons a non-threatening bus, when the bus finally stops on the steps, Eastwood and Sandra calmly open the door and proceed up the steps with the officers who had been shooting seconds before allow them to go unmolested.Absolutely stupid film. It is rather scary to me that there are that many people who have a high opinion of this movie. For them, it would seem, all you have to put in a movie is lot of violence and the quaility of film art is not even desired; not wanted. Until another film comes along, I will have to rate this as the worst film I have ever seen.  Why? Because you should expect more from a man who has indeed made some very good films. I am sorry, I and my wife sat through this on a digital wide-screen, on DVD. We both looked at each other at the end and said Turkey. "},{"Title":"Quick, dodge that bullet!","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Another outing for Eastwood and Locke.  Clint is the not-so-bright macho cop with Sondra as the College graduate hooker.  They must have bought the annual supply of bullets for the whole state of Arizona just before making this film, because they use them all on our two heroes, who skillfully avoid getting scratched and walk away into the sunset to live happily ever after. This isn't a bad film, it just isn't a good film either.  Will appeal to Eastwood fans. "}{"Title":"Asks far too much suspension of disbelief","Date":"26 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I'm a big Clint Eastwood fan. From the man-with-no-name spaghetti westerns, through Dirty Harry's black and white adventures, and into his career as director and sometimes actor, I've enjoyed most of the cinematic projects into which he's had an input. Which is why I started watching this film late one night a couple of years back. I kept waiting for tension, for something to bite and grab me but it became increasing ridiculous, forced, and far-fetched and laughable. About three quarters of the way through I gave up and left everyone to their Hollywood fates .. I didn't feel any attachment to any of the characters. Clint must have been very much in love with Sondra (Locke) at the time her inability to act, of which he must have been aware, was the most grating element of the film. Then again, maybe it was meant to be tongue-in-cheek. Clint probably hopes so. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood's Most Embarrassing Movie","Date":"24 December 2012","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The plot is simple-hard cop has to escort a prostitute from her home to testify in a mobster's trial several states away. Of course the mobster does everything he can to prevent the pair from making it to the courthouse-and it involves a number of corrupt police officials, including the commissioner.So at the beginning, when the cop arrives at the prostitute's house, a number of machine-gun armed men also arrive and shoot the house into lace (literally), and it collapses. But cop and prostitute still make it out unharmed. So they travel a long distance, get intercepted by a helicopter, and hop a freight train-in a car with a biker gang, and the cop has to deal with them.Near the destination city, the cop tells the commissioner he will get through a street to the courthouse which he knows is going to be full of more machine-gun armed men, and he does so by commandeering a tour bus and somehow finding some armor plate to put around him and the witness as the bus drives through and it too is shot to lace.Basically the movie is porn for seeing thousands of bullets fired. "},{"Title":"Fairy-tale for the Dirty Harry generation","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A modern fable from Eastwood wherein Prince Charming is now a washed-up alcoholic cop with a bad case of burn-out and the Princess in peril is a foul-mouthed, skinny, smart-ass white hooker. The dragons, demons and villains much in need of slaying are bikers, crooked cops and pursuit helicopters.Always an artist with a rare nerve for taking a risk, Eastwood experiments here with a movie that takes the cop action/drama genre and cross breeds it with an urban fairy tale of fantastical proportions. Intended essentially as a piece of slick entertainment rather than a gritty, realistic message movie to be taken seriously, The Gauntlet just about works it's mojo on the level it is pitched at.Obviously, no one could realistically survive the sustained hail of bullets that Eastwood and Locke do throughout it's running time and no law enforcement agency in the civilised world would be allowed to dispense such apocalyptic firestorms at just two people.If you accept that this film is, at its core, a shadowy cop fantasy flick rather than a neo-realistic expose of, say, police corruption, then you may get a fair deal of enjoyment out of it. If you can't, then you probably won't.Admittedly, it isn't the most satisfactory of Clint's efforts, it has to be said, yet definitely worth a look for the fans and those willing to suspend disbelief. Quite a lot of disbelief. "},{"Title":"Fast Paced, but Silly, really Silly","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Evidently transfixed by the hail of bullets finale to Arthur Penn's Bonnie and Clyde, director Clint Eastwood decided to recreate the scene, not once, but three times in his far-fetched 1977 police thriller, The Gauntlet. While Penn dispatched his two anti-heroes in a rain of gunfire, Eastwood manages to destroy a house, a police car, and a bus. Thrilling? No. Ridiculous? Yes. However, the film's underlying premise is intriguing, if unoriginal. An unkempt, hard drinking cop is sent to Las Vegas to bring back a key witness for an upcoming trial. The witness, named Gus, turns out to be Sandra Locke, a lady of easy pleasure, who is sharper and faster than Clint in grasping the situation at hand. Some one does not want the witness to testify. Clint as a dumbed-down Dirty Harry is long on action, but short on smarts. The audience even out paces Locke in identifying the villain, while Clint is still on the phone.Eastwood's direction is steady, especially in the action scenes, and the film moves along for a mindlessly diverting two hours. However, the silliness quotient is off the charts, driven sky high by nonsense with a motorcycle gang; asides from an obnoxious redneck cop; and Phoenix police who do not seem concerned about shootings in their midst or targeting a bus in city streets with scores of rifle-totting sharpshooters. Clint Eastwood is among the pantheon of great film directors and a fine actor to boot. However, everyone has an off day. "},{"Title":"Clint's Ironic Big Dumb Action Thriller Is a Lot of Fun","Date":"15 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood's sixth directorial effort The Gauntlet qualifies as an outlandish, audacious, unbelievable, but thoroughly entertaining contemporary crime melodrama about a lackluster Phoenix detective sent to Las Vegas to bring back a nothing witness for a nothing trial. Clint Eastwood stars as Ben Shockley with the Phoenix Police Department. Shockley is pretty far from being anything like Harry Callahan in Dirty Harry. In fact, his superiors are hoping that his fair-to-middling record as a cop will make him the perfect choice. You see corrupt individuals in the Phoenix Police Department are banking that their hired killers can eliminate both Shockley and the witness before they leave Las Vegas. The first surprise for Shockley is that his prisoner isn't a man called Gus Mally, but a woman called Augustina Mally (Sondra Locke of The Outlaw Josey Wales). Mally is a prostitute and she doesn't like Shockley the minute that he lays eyes on her. Repeatedly, Mally tells Shockley that they don't have a chance. Shockley checks the betting opportunities at a Las Vegas casino and sees the name of horse called Mally-No-Show as part of the tenth race with incredible odds against winning. The odds keep going up against them. Eventually, our slow-witted protagonist figures out that everybody from the Las Vegas Police to his own men-in-blue as well as a gang of bikers are out to kill both Mally and himself. Shockley and Mally survive several North By Northwest style attempts on their lives before our hero commandeers a bus, covers it in armor and runs it through a gauntlet of Phoenix cops to the courthouse where he takes Mally for the court date. The villains try to kill Shockley on the steps of the courthouse. Mally kills the cop that tries to ice Shockley. During their time together dodging killers of all kinds, Shockley falls in love with Mally and plans to marry her. Eastwood keeps the action moving along at a steady pace as his hero struggles to figure out who is trying to kill him and his prisoner. Incidentally, although he is armed with a revolver, Shockley never shoots anybody! The improbable Michael Butler and Dennis Shryack screenplay comes with plenty of reversals and gritty humor. One of the interesting peripheral visual humor bits is the recurring use of billboards to cap off a scene. Another running gag is Shockley recurring use of the phrase Nag, nag, nag whenever Mally bothers him about details. The Gauntlet has one of those opposites-attract romances like the classic road picture It Happened One Night. The Gauntlet opens at dawn as Ben Shockley (Clint Eastwood) leaves a lounge and cruises across town to police headquarters. As he is climbing out of his car, the whiskey bottle in his lap hit the street and shatters. Inside police headquarters, Shockley's former partner for fifteen years, Josephson (Pat Hingle of Hang'em Hang), struggles to spruce Shockley up before he meets with police commissioner. Phoenix Police Commissioner Blakelock (William Prince of Objective, Burma) assigns him to fly to Las Vegas and pick up a prisoner. Shockley observes that he belongs to Metro Squad, and Blakelock tells him that he has every confidence in our hero's ability to carry out the mission. Your division commander says you're a man who gets the job done. Before Shockley leaves Blakelock's office, Blakelock advises him to shave because he represents the Phoenix Police Department. Later, Shockley describes the assignment to Josephson as a two-bit witness for a two-bit trial. It doesn't take long for the irony of the situation (as well as the entire movie) to sink in. The witness turns out to be a bombshell both for Shockley and the Phoenix Police Department. Shockley takes off for Las Vegas on a Hughes Air West jetliner. When Shockley arrives at the Las Vegas Police Department, he is surprised to learn that his prisoner is a woman, not a man! When Augustina Mally gets her first glimpse of Shockley, she isn't impressed. Terrific! My life on the line and they send me an on-the-ropes bum. Shockley isn't impressed with Mally. See we've got a problem, you and me. We don't like each other much, but we have to take a trip together. Now, you can be a pain in the ass. But I'm warning you, you mess around, I'll put the cuffs on you. If you try to run, I'll shoot you. When Shockley has to transport her from the jail, he has Mally strapped down on a stretcher in an ambulance. They rendezvous with a car that the cops have left for them. One of the ambulance attendants cranks up the car and it explodes. A carload of killers pursue Shockley and Mally and they elude them and sneak off to Mally's house. Shockley calls Blakelock and he alerts the Las Vegas Police, but somebody delivers the wrong message. The Las Vegas police arrive, but they have been told a different story about Shockley. Literally, they blast Mally's stucco house until it collapses into a pile of rubble. A tunnel enables Mally and Shockley to escape from the barrage of gunfire. Our heroes run afoul of a rough motorcycle gang and the bikers try to rape Mally on a train. Eventually, Shockley armor-plates a bus and drives it into Phoenix after he has given his route to city hall. The cops pour a withering amount of lead into the bus, but our heroes make it to the courthouse. The theme of The Gauntlet is our trust in people that we hardly know that either are trying to kill or jeopardize our lives. Butler and Shryack have penned some memorable dialogue that it much too profane to reproduce here. "},{"Title":"what it is,is this it's a nothing witness for a nothing trial.","Date":"7 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" if only it were that simple for Detective Ben Shockley(Clint Eastwood),who's assigned to escort the witness from Las Vegas to Phoenix.but as it turns out things are not that simple.what follows is a good mixture of action,excitement,good acting,funny one liners and good dialogue,and a well developed story.i enjoyed every moment of it.the ending is especially good.Eastwood not only stars in the film (with Sondra Locke)but also directed as well.overall,this is a very good effort,and well worth the watch.Clint can obviously play a cop whose last name is not Callahan,without reminding you of said cop.for me,The Gauntlet is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Bullets over Fraud Way.","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood takes the bus to work.THE GAUNTLET is a ludicrous, riotous, guilty pleasure, Eastwood at the helm as director and star, doing all those outlandish things only Clint Eastwood can get away with in a Clint Eastwood Movie.Clint is Ben Shockley (cool name, huh?), a hard-drinking, unreliable Phoenix cop, who must escort a nothing witness for a nothing trial, Gus Mally (Sondra Locke), from Las Vegas back to Arizona to testify against - who else? - The Mob.Shockley discovers Mally is not as small potatoes as his slimy police commissioner (William Prince, channeling Dick Cheney) made her out to be, as The Mob are placing bets on Mally as a no-show. And sending assassins with lots and lots and lots of bullets to try to stop him.Shockley thought he was chosen to escort Mally because I get the job done. Ironically, the crooked commissioner chose him because he knew drunken slob Shockley would be an easy target. No one to call, no one to help, no one to trust, Shockley is on his own; set up by his own department, with bullets coming at him every which way, Shockley at last finds incentive to really get the job done.Sondra Locke looking her most delectable with those big doe eyes and 70's-wench bellbottoms, doing the best acting of her nepo-Clint-istic career. She never achieved this level of natural-ness in any of her other roles with Eastwood; just a guess, but maybe she became too complacent as his main squeeze. After leaving Eastwood, she left Cinema.Just another guess, but maybe her ousting was self-imposed after her directorial debut with RATBOY (1986), where Clint lent her his A-Team production crew (David Valdes, Joel Cox, Bruce Surtees, Lennie Niehaus, et al) only to have her pump out a landmark of filmic sewage.In THE GAUNTLET, the ludicrousness starts when police open fire on a house that Shockley and Mally are hiding in, and shoot it up so badly it collapses. Film immediately redeems itself by having Mally change into something more prostitutable - tight velour bellbottoms laced up the ass-crack and a shirt-top tied up to expose her midriff.Plot? What plot? Working with many familiar cast (Bill McKinney, Dan Vadis, Michael Cavanaugh, and Pat Hingle as a doughy superior officer - again), Clint stages one chase-and-shoot set-piece after another, each designed so that only an icon as audacious as Clint Eastwood could survive them.The funniest slice of non-pc violence has to be Shockley punching the biker chick off the train. The act of punching ladies seems to advocate violence against women, but Clint's avenger characters - of which Shockley is one, albeit more reluctantly than most - have always advocated only punching people who deserve to be punched. If they happen to be female, so be it.The feature piece of THE GAUNTLET is also its grandest stupidity Shockley and Mally driving an armored bus up the main street to the courthouse, while policemen line both sides of the street, unloading millions of rounds into the bus. Where do we start the one hundred questions?...Have any of these guys heard of crossfire? Why didn't Shockley drive faster than 10mph? Why didn't the cops shoot out the tires? Even if the commissioner falsely warned against armed and dangerous perps onboard the bus, is it really police procedure to open fire on a city bus without it opening fire first? Is their aim to stop the bus or the people, because as soon as the bus stops and Shockley and Mally exit, the cops stop firing. And if their aim was to stop the bus only, why not a spike strip across the road? Because nothing can stop Clint Eastwood.--Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania). "},{"Title":"a good time in escapist Clint Eastwood-land","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" It's hard for me to really rank the Gauntlet that high up among the chain of Clint Eastwood films as producer/director/star, as it often doesn't really take itself much seriously anyway aside from being a one-track-minded crowd-pleaser. But on that level, as it is, The Gauntlet gives its Eastwood fans their well-spent time. It's an action-film pot-boiler about an on-and-off again alcoholic policeman who is assigned to transport a prisoner from one jail cell in Las Vegas to another in Arizona. But the trip wont be easy as people are out to get him and her- as it might be (played by Sandra Locke)- at any cost. There's a neat, if not particularly amazing, duo in Eastwood and Locke, the kind of uneasy bond that forms between cop and criminal, which then starts to lessen as the forces around them close in. There is lots of action, and among the set-pieces two stand-out. One is a chase where the two run around (or on motorcycles as it were) chased by a helicopter that won't stop. The other one is probably the best reason for any non-Eastwood fan to check out the film, as a bus sequence that still ranks up with the best scenes in Speed is done to maximum effect as Eastwood pummels through a barricade of heavily armed officers and guardsmen to the corrupt den of a jail-house. There's also a really funny scene (if a little uncomfortable) where Eastwood hassles a bunch of bikers who've impeded on his and her's hiding spot in the desert, as the gruff and take-no-s*** Eastwood pops up more than ever. It's competently directed and with a fairly good cast, though aside from what's mentioned it's not one of the most stand-out of the films he's made. Though it would probably fit a nice double-bill with another of Eastwood's many cop thrillers from the 70s (or even the other notable Eastwood/Locke combo, Sudden Impact). Enjoyable and diverting, with a good 'old-school' spirit,. "},{"Title":"Running the Gauntlet","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Most of the plot for The Gauntlet is in the realm of comic book fantasy so the viewer must suspend belief in the possible and accept the impossible to enjoy all the action and witty dialog. Once this is done, The Gauntlet is exciting and entertaining. Clint Eastwood plays the role of loser Ben Shockley to perfection. Not only is Shockley a washed-up drunken bum, he is also short on savvy, easy for a college educated Las Vegas prostitute, Gus Mally (Sondra Locke), to manipulate. Eastwood and then live-in lover Locke make a good team, keeping everything light and breezy.Setting Shockley up as a fall guy, the Phoenix police commissioner sends him to pick up a prisoner in Vegas. Not knowing that the prisoner, Gus, is the key witness in a trial involving mobsters with police connections, Shockley becomes suspicious when he learns that the Vegas gamblers have put odds on the delivery, eventually 100 to one; plus he discovers that Gus is short for Augustina. In the process of escorting his prisoner out of Vegas, Shockley and Gus begin falling for each other which leads Gus to begin helping thick-headed Shockley evade the traps waiting for them.One of the holes in the plot involves the idea of the gauntlet. Why should Shockley tell his only friend on the Phoenix police force, Josephson (Pat Hingle), the exact route he is taking to deliver his prisoner to city hall? It does make for a thrilling denouement for the film. Shockley and Gus jack a bus, empty it of passengers, then Shockley puts armor on it to defy the army of cops lined up on each side of the street to kill him and his prisoner.Sondra Locke, who later seemed to use her romantic ties to Eastwood for self-aggrandizement, does some fine acting in this film. She makes her unbelievable role of Gus believable, especially during the rape scene in a box car. Bill McKinney, who became one of the most notorious villains in cinema history by playing the perverted mountain man in Deliverance, turns in another winning performance as a Nevada constable who likes to talk dirty while citing the law. One the other hand, Pat Hingle is somewhat waisted in a one-dimensional role. The rest of the cast is adequate with particularly effective acting by a gang of bikers corralled by Shockley who even expropriates a hog from them. Since this is basically a Clint Eastwood, Sondra Locke flick, the spotlight is always on them. Eastwood's direction is good enough to show his potential that would lead to his copping an Oscar for the magnificent Unforgiven. One criticism During the fight in the box car between Shockley and the three drifters, Eastwood utilizes closeup so extensively that it is difficult to see what is happening. Adding to the problem is the low light employed. All in all, this is one of the best non-Dirty Harry films from Eastwood during the 1970's, certainly a must for his many fans. "},{"Title":"Average Cop Film","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Another Eastwood cop movie. DVD review.A cop (Eastwood) brings a hooker (Locke) to City Hall but the mob and police are after them.Not as good as the Dirty Harry movies but is watchable. Eastwood must get his prisoner to headquarters but he has to abort plans to fly there. He only trusts friend Pat Hingle who's back in the police office. Foul-mouthed Locke is the smart prisoner who falls for Eastwood. There's some good scenes including that mouthy cop and the shootout in the house. But the plot is non-existent and many scenes aren't that well handled. Plus, there's far too many shootout involving anonymous cops.The Gauntlet is average. "}{"Title":"Action packed but awfully silly","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Gauntlet is one of those movies where you just have to turn your brain off and enjoy the action. If you try thinking about it the film just gets dumber as it goes. I held out high hopes for the film with its promising beginning. Clint Eastwood, box office star, gets out of his car and a bottle of whiskey comes tumbling out and crashes on the ground. Clint as an alcoholic? Clint looking unshaven and not glamorous? Clint playing a flawed man and not an action hero? Alas my high expectations were quickly dashed. The film becomes just a basic chase film as our hero tries to transport a woman (played by a very wooden Sondra Locke) from Vegas to Arizona to testify in a mob hearing. Naturally no one intends for either of them to make it back alive so much so that Vegas is even taking odds on it? I wonder who is making the bets?The bad guys are easy to figure out. The chase scenes are well directed but highly routine when they aren't out and out silly. And the ending? One of the silliest final sequences I have ever seen in a movie and it shocks me that a director of Eastwood's caliber filmed it as is. Let's face it folks but you would think that some of those bullets might have hit the tires on the bus and disabled it blocks before getting to its destination. And what happens after is just plain stupid and below Eastwood's high standards.All in all it might be a guilty pleasure. If it's on I will stop to watch but it never fails that I shake my head in dis-belief. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood's wonderful action movie","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Oh, how I love this movie! Coming between The Enforcer and Every Which Way But Loose, The Gauntlet often seems to get lost in the shuffle, but it's always been one of my favourite Clint Eastwood films. It's just such...fun!Eastwood plays Ben Shockley, a Phoenix cop who might be good at his job if only he wasn't such a slob. He's sent to Las Vegas to extradite a witness, Gus Mally (Sondra Locke), to a seemingly low-profile court case. On the way back to Phoenix, various attempts are made on their lives, and Shockley starts to suspect that he's been set up...What we have is a rip-roaring action movie - and a very scenic road movie - and a rather sweet love story. The Gauntlet is all of these and more, as Shockley and Mally start off as captor and prisoner and soon find themselves allies against implacable enemies.It's full of terrific characters and moments the Commissioner (a chilling William Prince) telling Shockley that Mally is 'a nothing witness for a nothing trial'; Shockley and Mally's car ride with the lecherous cop (Bill McKinney), a sequence which is practically a short movie in itself; the night-time argument in the cave, Ben and Gus illuminated just by firelight; the encounter with the bikers; the long bus ride towards the final showdown. And check out the chemistry between Eastwood and Sondra Locke. As with all successful screen couples, even though their characters spend much of the time bickering, it would appear that they really do need each other. Shockley hardly seems to have a single likeable character trait, and yet Eastwood, at his most adorable, really makes you root for him. Mally is that oldest of film cliches, the wise hooker, but Locke's performance is so fresh in that it makes her part lover, part sister, part mother to Shockley while retaining her single-minded self-preservation. No wonder he falls for her.Look closely at The Gauntlet and you'll spot the odd gaping plot hole or moment of downright barmy motivation. And yet somehow this film gets away with it all. It's made with such conviction, it just whisks you along, right up to the absurd, and yet riveting, bullet-drenched ending. Top marks go to Jerry Fielding's jazz score; to cinematographer Rexford Metz, who conjures up the sense of being out on the road with nowhere to hide; and to editors Ferris Webster and Joel Cox for keeping it moving with such momentum we never question its outlandishness until way past bedtime. Oh, and I have to say, I always love the sound in Eastwood's movies. There's lots of clutter, lots of background noise; in short, they sound like real life.Incidentally, there's an alternative version of this movie, which contains different takes of scenes with the language toned down for TV broadcast. It's that version which I first saw, on British TV in the mid-80s, and, in toning down the language, it actually improves the dialogue in a couple of places. Whereas in the cinema (and DVD) version Eastwood is quite profane, it's even more menacing to hear him, in the TV version, saying 'Would you cut the tourist jazz, man?' and 'I didn't do diddley'! It would be so great if that version could be unearthed and put on a Special Edition DVD! Anyway, do seek out The Gauntlet - it's well worth it! ('Nag, nag, nag...') "},{"Title":"Mixed Bag From Clint Eastwood","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Possible spoilersThe Gauntlet is a mixed bad from Clint Eastwood, combining some very good scenes and character interplay with frequent periods that stretch believability.  Eastwood is Ben Shockley, a burned out Phoenix policeman assigned by his CO, Blakelock (William Smith), to escort Gus Malley, a nothing witness to a nothing trial, from Las Vegas.  But somebody doesn't want your nothing witness to testify at your nothing trial, because the man on trial is a mobster named DeLuca.  And someone on the Phoenix PD works for DeLuca and is determined to get rid of Gus Malley, leading to a series of ambush shootouts, an encounter with a biker gang in the middle of the desert, an attack by a helicopter, and a showdown on an interstate bus.  Unlike in some of his other directorial efforts, Eastwood never really elicits much sympathy for his characters here, though there is a great bit of dialogue between Shockley and Gus Malley aboard the interstate bus before the final showdown, and interplay between Shockley and his parter Josephson (Pat Hingle) is well done, especially when Josephson tries to talk Shockley and Malley into turning themselves in to safety.But the excess of ambush shootouts gets tiresome and ultimately the film really doesn't work.  It's basically a quickie actioner, but it has enough good scenes to not be a total loss. "},{"Title":"Too funny for Eastwood fans?","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie, when it came out, is the one that convinced me that there's a lot more to Eastwood than the Man with No Name and Dirty Harry. It's a straight-out action comedy, as some of the people who have commented figured out, and others seem to have missed. And, there's no orangutang!Eastwood's humor is more subtle (the only thing about the movie that is) here than in some of his later pictures, and I have to disagree with earlier assessments of Locke's performance, as well -- watch her reactions in the scenes with the Vegas cop.Looking back afterward, I more fully saw the humor in the Leone and Dirty harry pieces, as well. The DVD looks and sounds terrific, though Warner Bros. certainly does skimp on the extras. "},{"Title":"Devastating stylistic exercise wasted on a bland story","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Eastwood has a penchant for styling films way beyond the naturalistic but audiences have an even stronger habit of seeing anything to do with cowboys or cops as necessarily naturalistic.  They want realism, Eastwood wants them to see past that to the issues at work. Audiences - and the reviews here on IMDB support me on this - want characters who are amusing or interesting in Eastwood's high style, the characters represent points of view, philosophies or, in the case of his heroes, principles.This high style finds its expression in Pale Rider and High Plains Drifter, where the hero has no clear identity.  Each story is about a man with no name.  He is what he does, in a manner very reminiscent of the two directors who appear to have influenced Eastwood the most, Leone and Kurosawa.The highly stylised cop in The Gauntlet doesn't appear out of nowhere.  In film terms, he begins in Don Siegel's Dirty Harry.  People seem to enjoy taking Harry literally - but I think the film works better if you look at what Harry represents rather than who he is.  And so it is with Shockley in The Gauntlet.  He represents the American Everyman, the guy who is going to get the job done.  He has his flaws he's not too bright; he drinks too much.  He gets paid bupkis and he's not going to win any promotion.  But he's honest. And his superiors aren't. He could be Gary Cooper in Meet John Doe, or James Stewart in It's a Wonderful Life. Frank Capra didn't make those films naturalistic the private militia of DB Norton in John Doe, Doe's willingness to come back and commit suicide on Christmas Eve; Clarence the angel in Wonderful Life did anybody ever pretend they were realistic?  They are great films presented in a very non-realistic way.The high point of the gauntlet is, of course, the gauntlet that Shockley has to run.  Actually he trundles through it, as slowly as possible, and this seems to offend some viewers who think it's dumb.  They just don't get it it's a protest.  It is a protest that persuades the masses, ie the Phoenix police officers who, initially reluctant to fire upon one of their own, put down their weapons en masse as Shockley survives, in recognition of the fact that he represents the cops they want to be rather than the tools of corruption they sense they have become.  His corrupt chief is left alone, futile, and despised as they group around him, in a victory for principle. It's a daring way to present a moral tale, wrapping it inside a cop movie and giving none of the clues - an angel, for example - that scream not realism at the audience.  It deserves better recognition.It also deserved better than Sondra Locke as the prostitute more worthy of Shockley's protection than his corrupt boss, and Pat Hingle as his morally inept friend.  William Prince, however, is chillingly brilliant as the centre of corruption.  (Old principle of story-telling a hero is only as great as the villain challenges him to be.)Unfortunately, this level of movie-making also deserved a story that hasn't been done so many times before. "},{"Title":"Ok, so it ain't Hamlet...","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I think this movie must have set some kind of record for number of rounds fired in a film.  Yeah, even the idea is stupid and Sandra Locke couldn't act her way out of a wet paper bag.  But it is fun to watch and besides... Did you ever see a house just disintegrate? "},{"Title":"Locke's best work with Clint","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The goings on in The Gauntlet have no bearing on reality, even movie reality.  Of course very few action movies are based in reality.  But the movie is fun to watch for Clint as a non-Dirty Harry type cop, mind boggling use of fire power, and an array of odd characters along the way. Surprisingly, one of the best things about the movie is Sondra Locke, as the hooker with brains and a heart of gold.Sondra Locke appeared in quite a few Eastwood movies and was the  frequent cause of groans for those fans who wanted to see Clint but had to endure her as well.  But she's given good lines and the dialogue in the patrol car with Locke and Eastwood favorite Bill McKinney as the constable is priceless.In between the action set pieces, Director Clint does his usual slowdown with good scenes between the actors.  He's usually never acknowledged as a director, but he does a good job balancing the preposterous action scenes.Not Clint's best, but certainly not his worst.  Worth a couple of hours and a couple of bucks for a rental.  A solid 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Eastwood and Locke... together again.","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  In yet another installment in Clint Eastwood's macho actionmovie resume, The Gauntlet is a taut action movie where thephrase Been there, done that comes to mind. How many times wasthe plot device where an honest cop's superior's turn againsthim, therefor the cop must take on them as well as thecriminals? It's practically it's own genre!Anyway, Eastwood is teamed up with his then wife Sondra Lockeagain, for about the fifth time. Clint is Shockley, a Phoenixcop who is dispatched to the north to find a hooker with theunlikely named of Gus, played by Locke. Through a bit of astruggle, Shockley arrests Locke and one the way back, the twoof them battle hitmen and bikers, not knowing that Shockley'sbosses arranged a little welcome wagon for our two heroes acompletely armed police escort, which is basically what thetitl "},{"Title":"I got a witness for courtroom G","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  or something like that being Clint's closing line. Typical line for the Clint character, not much fuss about it, because his character keeps calm and sensible all the way in the middle of sound, fury and love. Thus the importance of constantly generating love and justice is emphasized, not just talking about it or thinking well now we got it. Neither of them declares their love, but it is supposed to be understood, because only action is important.All this is contrary to mainstream method-acting action dramas that see the explicit declaration, in words, of love and justice as important, which it of course isn't, since it's a work of art and should be interpretable.Great, underrated movie, because of all that's implied but never said - like Tarantino's Jackie Brown only with a happy end.  So happy birthday, Clinny. Stay calm. "},{"Title":"A Good Movie.... Almost","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This was actually a fun movie with a good story and amusing characters.  The pace moves along nicely and the action is mostly fun to watch, too.The problem is the ending, which is near impossible to talk about without giving anything away.Regardless, the ending is over-the-top, uncreative, unimaginative, unsatisfying, unbelievable, and dull.  I enjoyed the first 100 minutes immensely, but I thought it was headed toward some well thought-out climax.  Instead, we get High School Dinner Theatre, and I'm sitting there watching the credits thinking, What the heck just happened?Hopefully someone will remake this someday, and give it the ending it deserves.  This version, 6/10. "}{"Title":"Warning This film may lower your I.Q. by twenty points!","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  It's difficult to comment on this film without giving away the ending but it seems that a down-on-his-luck cop (Eastwood) is ordered to bring a jailed prostitute (Sondra Locke) to Phoenix because she is needed as a witness at a trial. Neither the Mob nor certain police elements are enthusiastic about this and they try to stop them from getting to Phoenix, expending enough ammo to sustain a small war in the process. Of course, you know his would-be assassins turn out to be careless klutzes, brainless zombies and awful shots (Eastwood only gets hit once before being shot at close-range by the principal villain). Perhaps the ultimate piece of stupidity is Eastwood s-l-o-w-l-y driving a bus through Phoenix while an army of cops turns the vehicle into swiss cheese without managing to hit the tires until it stops. This is a shamefully stupid movie and surely the least enterprising and interesting film that Eastwood was ever involved in. Recommended to pro wrestling fans. "},{"Title":"squib city","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is without a doubt the dumbest movie I've seen in a while.  And don't get me wrong - I love Clint Eastwood flicks, love a good chase film, and enjoy seeing things blow up real good.  But this?  Gimme a break.Did someone decide that they were going to use more squibs than anyone ever had in the history of film-making?  This film makes the closing scene of Bonnie & Clyde look restrained.  It makes Sam Peckinpah shoot-em ups look like 2001.  There's a lot of shooting in this.  A LOT.But it's dumb shooting.  It's let's surround the house and level it with lead kind of stuff.  Are cops that dumb?  Okay... maybe some of them are that dumb.  But The Gauntlet scene at the end takes the cake.  Two lines of cops on the opposite sides of the street shooting at a bus??  Not likely.  There'd be more fatalities on the other side of the street than in the bus.  And when Sondra avenges the day by blasting the bad guy (who is standing in a crowd of people) nobody flinches - not the dozens to his left, the dozens to his right, or the dozen guys the bullet would have gone through who were standing behind the guy.  Did I give anything away?  Oops... sorry.  But the film is a waste of time.  Rent The Getaway - the original with Steve McQueen.  Better film.  More fun.  And oh hey... a PLOT! "},{"Title":"Eastwood returns, but shys away from Dirty Harry","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Clint Eastwood portrays a cop with a drinking problem, in which he sips Jack Daniels, and accepts an assignment to transport a prisoner that is about to testify against the mob.  Unknowingly to the plot was that the new police commissioner, the Las Vegas P.D., the mob, and his own department, along with a deputy prosecutor, are tied into the whole deck of cards that are interlinked, and throughout the film, the plot thickens, while Eastwood and then-live in girlfriend Sondra Locke share an unforgettable moment on screen.  At first, Eastwood's prisoner is beligerent, and dispises him, but they get along together during the trip back to Phoenix.  Along the way, Eastwood tries to fit the puzzle together, where a chain of events (a car bomb, being shot at, and crooked police acting under direct orders) are linked, and has to surpass all of the obstacles to return to Phoenix in one piece.  Throughout the film, some elements are analogous to police corruption and abuse of power, and some of the influences for this film came from real-life events (e.g. the standoff between the LAPD and the SLA in 1974, as well as the issue of police corruption and the abuse of power). Between this film and Tightrope, these were the four films where Eastwood portrays a cop, which isn't connected to Dirty Harry.  Any fan of Tightrope should enjoy this film, and a definite classic for many generations to come.  This film sets up a trend in other action-adventure dramas, where one is set up or framed, and relies on instinct to know who is the perpetrator, and in some cases, a plot twist occurs, and makes the dark allure of the conclusion more revealing.   "},{"Title":"Not his best film, but the most entertaining","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is my favorite Clint Eastwood movie. The story is predictable by today's standards (it was basically remade as MIDNIGHT RUN), but in 1977 it had a lot of original ideas. The police department head as villain was still a fresh concept. The action scenes are excellent, as is the cinematography of the desert southwest. The actual gauntlet during the finale is still an amazing sequence that hasn't been topped. Plus you get the usual witty dialogue. "},{"Title":"Nag, Nag, Nag","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Gauntlet isn't one of Clint Eastwood's better films, but it's still watchable.  While he's supposed to be playing a weaker character than normal, an alcoholic cop who's not thought capable of much, he still seems able to take charge and set things straight.  The twist on this movie is extreme violence (although it seems pretty tame today) and shooting things full of holes.  Lots of holes.To say much more would give away the plot, but before you dismiss the final scenes as unbelievable, there was a mental patient in LA six or seven years ago who did just what Clint Eastwood did, and ran amok for over five hours because the police were powerless to stop him.  Maybe he'd seen The Gauntlet too many times. "},{"Title":"What fun","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" What fun if one can sustain disbelief. Actually, it's quite a comic film. Like a live-action cartoon. Not one scene in the entire movie is believable, which makes this a classic cop/villain comedy. You must see it to believe it and then one has to wonder....What??? Clint Eastwood was made for this role and while Sondra Locke was good, any actress of her time could have done just as well. Basically a two character movie, this merits a look for fun. Well photographed and edited with a nice jazz score at the beginning. Much credit goes to Eastwood for his fine direction. This could have been a DIRTY HARRY movie, but then it wouldn't be as fun as HARRY was a much better cop than the one Eastwood plays here. "},{"Title":"Absolutely absurd and predictable...but somehow still great","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" If I had to compile a list of absurd movies with predictable twists, thin plot, and limited character build-up, this movie would win hands-down. However, it is still a good movie.Clint Eastwood plays Ben Shockley, a mediocre cop who must transport a witness, a prostitute named Gus Malley (Sondra Locke) to a trial against the mob. However, them and the paid-off police have other plans.Clint and Sondra were actually good here in my opinion. Pat Hingle nearly stole the show as Josephson, Shockley's cop buddy. William Prince was excellent as Blakelock, their commander. Michael Cavanaugh did well as Feyderspiel, the DA. And Bill McKinney was skillfull in playing the Constable that Shockley and Gus run across.There were many great scenes, and although they were beyond absurd and unrealistic, they still were very entertaining. More so than many modern blockbusters.8/10 "},{"Title":"This movie has great action for a 70s film","Date":"8 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The Gauntlet is a story is pure courage shown on behalf of Clint Eastwood. Also,his directing talents have not gone astray. The film centers around a police detective named Ben Shockeley,who is transferring a prisoner who was with the Mafia. However,the police know of the close bond he has with the prisoner and send out a bunch of their forces to stop him. Shockley eventually crosses paths with renegade bikers,police crooks,and more,with the story eventually finding him driving an armored bus through town to City Hall with millions of police shooting at the bus. I think Clint did a great job in hiring Annie Pearl Curtis as the stunt driver for the bus.She did all the steering and driving through the streets. She's currently a bus driver in Alachua County,FL. Bus 2306,of course. Unfortunalty,this movie was her first and last performance. She's now taking it easy and doing her duty. Overall,the action is great and the movie is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"One of Eastwood's most underrated films","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" For some reason, when I was a kid, I was never a big fan of Clint Eastwood. At all. His films were just not something that seemed to interest me back then. Now, I can't get enough of them! And I'm not talking about ANY of the stuff he's made in the last 20 years! I'm speaking strictly old school. As a matter of fact, some of his films would probably make my short list in certain categories of my favorite or even best films. For example, A FISTFUL OF DOLLARS and HIGH PLAINS DRIFTER make my list of favorite Westerns. DIRTY HARRY definitely is near the top of favorite (and best) cop films. I even like all of the DIRTY HARRY sequels (except maybe THE DEAD POOL) and appreciate them the more I see them. Point is Mr. Eastwood knew how to entertain and make really good, solid films, whether he starred, directed, or did both. And this film, THE GAUNTLET, is among my favorites of his.The irony is that, I don't think that THE GAUNTLET was too well-received when it first came out. Probably thought of as some kind of DIRTY HARRY rip-off since Eastwood played a cop, named Ben Shockley. But in THE GAUNTLET, Shockley ain't no Dirty Harry! In fact, while Harry Callahan was a cop who ALWAYS got results, Ben Shockley seems to be rather a lazy cop on the brink of losing his job and who drinks too much. Also, Shockley doesn't have near the machismo, toughness, and confidence that Dirty Harry has. Even in the scenes where Shockley acts like a tough guy, it doesn't come off nearly as effective as when Harry does it. But that's not a knock against Eastwood's acting. I think it is purposeful to show that Shockley is a rather under-confident cop with seemingly nowhere to go. Harry was a high-ranking Inspector in a big city (San Francisco) where he witnessed and was exposed to all kinds and degrees of crime; Shockley is basically a desk cop in a not-as-much-of-a-big-city (Phoenix) where pretty much nothing happens and he is essentially living a boring existence. Harry acted tough as result of being jaded due to losing his wife at a young age and from years of being exposed to big-city crime and scum; plus, he was good at it!Shockley acts tough as an absolute last resort and has never had a prominent relationship to speak of and lives in a rather 'peaceful' town. And it is these anti-Harry characteristics that Shockley brings to the table that makes THE GAUNTLET a unique film all its own and not a DIRTY HARRY wannabe. Shockley wants to get this one job done to redeem himself and realize that he can do it. Shockley's mission is to transport a prisoner from Las Vegas back to Phoenix to testify in a big court trial. The prisoner is Augusta Gus Mally (played by super-sexy Sondra Locke, Eastwood's old flame from the 70s and early 80s). Locke has appeared in several Eastwood films, mostly as his female lead or protagonist and this is my favorite collaboration of theirs. It seems like in THE GAUNTLET, Eastwood brings out what was so desirable and sexy about Locke, while at the same time creating a refreshingly interesting character in Gus Malley. Gus is a prostitute who unwittingly overheard a conversation of some Phoenix big shot who is in collusion with the mob and she is needed to testify against him in the hopes that he will help bring the mob down.Gus actually has a lot of those characteristics that Shockley lacks. Gus is tough, streetwise, confident, cocky and has a take-no-prisoners attitude. She is the perfect compliment to make Shockley a complete cop. Locke exudes sexuality in the role of Gus, but it's not because she plays a hooker. Her sex appeal comes not just from her looks, but also from her attitude, confidence and smarts, not just street, but also book smarts (she has a college degree, which doesn't mean much now but definitely meant something back in 1977!).Gus doesn't want to go back to Phoenix to testify because she knows that the mob has put a hit out on her. At first, Shockley doesn't know that Gus is an important witness, he just thinks she is testifying in some low level trial. So their initial relationship is strained to say the least mutual hatred would be the best way to put it! Eventually, as the bullets and body counts multiply, Shockley becomes even more determined to get Gus to Phoenix to finish the job. He wants to prove to the big boys that he can do it.THE GAUNTLET is a very entertaining film and shows Eastwood's talents as a director. It is shot mostly outdoors in actual locations of Vegas, Phoenix, and the desert. The action scenes are crisp and confidently shot. Even the small roles are memorable and well-defined. You'll see a lot of old Eastwood collaborators playing small parts in this film that you recognize from his other earlier flicks. The main appeal of THE GAUNTLET though is of Mr. Eastwood. It shows how truly talented he is in his craft and that he could cut a damn good action flick! "},{"Title":"The Most 5 Bothersome Things In This Movie !","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Although it's so original idea for an action thriller with two beautiful stars which you can see its influence on later movies such as (Midnight Run - 1988) and clearly in (16 Blocks - 2006), BUT I have a few things to complain about  1 &#150; From the 1970s to the 1990s (Clint Eastwood) mostly used to be nothing more than THAT police inspector. For more than 2 decades he was one die hard devoted actor, director for the genre playing just about the same guy all the time over and over again to the extent that you must ask yourself a lot  didn't he or his audience get bored with that ?, but Hey.. He's Clint Eastwood anyway, and we have only one Eastwood for sure ! So the thing which I want to say here that he didn't even bother himself making his personality as different as much every time. For clear example watch him here as another type of the good old Dirty Harry except for the drinking part which by the way we wouldn't hear about it much after the opening credits scenes !! It would've been that good if we watch the bad effect of his drinking's love on his mission, and how that would hinder him in a way during the chase, but they used that only as a reason for putting the girl in his custody as a definite loser and he of course WASN'T !. 2 &#150; The actual criminals of the movie and their motives ??!! I couldn't understand nearly anything about that ! Precisely WHAT was the real danger of this little whore on them to make all of this crazy fuss with mobilizing the whole police forces in around 2 states just to have her killed ?! (and they failed too !). 3 &#150; Sure you'll ask yourself with this numerous number of bribed police men.. Who for god's sake in the American security forces is not corrupt yet ?!! 4 &#150; The stupid chase between the helicopter and the motorcycle !, actually what kind of moron sniper who couldn't miss such an easy target and in the middle of the desert !.. OH GOD he could crush them easily by approach the helicopter a little !!, it's stupid not only because it's unbelievable at all but because also it was so very too long for any body sane out there.. or even not ! 5 &#150; The last too long, too dumb, and too exaggerated scene !!!, truly what was Eastwood thinking of ???, I couldn't, wouldn't, shouldn't BELIEVE, especially with such a world record (8000 blank bullets had been fired on the bus !!), I think this kind of overstatement and hyperbole would be the things which put us far far away of being content with the movie or even enjoying it, and I think also that this was at the same time the very things which Eastwood was wanting for his movie as  Too Much Of Everything, it's an early example for the big and loud nonsense which Hollywood used to make after it and till now as huge professional absolute crap ! "}{"Title":"'The Gauntlet'","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  In 'The Gauntlet', Clint Eastwood plays an opposing variation on his 'Dirty Harry' persona.  This time around Eastwood plays Ben Shockley, a washed-up cop really going nowhere in life. Unlike, 'Dirty Harry', Shockley has never cracked a big case or really accomplished much as a cop. He's just a drunk cop that no one really gives a damn about. The is precisely the reason why he draws the assignment of escorting a prostitute witness (Sondra Locke) from Las Vegas into Phoenix custody. No one is betting that he'll be able to make it through this mission alive.There is nowhere near as much as 'Dirty Harry' type action (plenty of shootings, blood and bodybags) in 'Gauntlet'. This movie could have used more gritty action. But, here the movie is more about chases and dodging bullets, particularly in an intense climax, involving a bus. Even when the movie gets rather silly and over-the-top in its nature, the pursuits and at times humorous dialogue will keep you watching. Just sit back and enjoy the ride.Rating (6/10) "},{"Title":"Pleasant but unimaginative.","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Eastwood looks unusually relaxed and he is very pleasant to watch. But his performance is the only strong reason to watch this movie. The action scenes are staged (by Eastwood, who directed) unimaginatively. They are mostly repetitive shootouts. This undistinguished film deserves (almost) 6/10. "},{"Title":"The Bus That Wouldn't Die","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" What happen? This film started out pretty good, it had a nice plot, two good actors and most of all it was believable. Yea, Yea I know the left will say look at all the guns and violence in this movie, but hey, one of your on (Barbra Streisand) begged for this movie, but McQueen wouldn't have anything to do with her what so ever.This move turns into the Bus That Wouldn't Die horror show in the last 15 minutes. Over 8,000 rounds and you can't stop a Bus. If only O J had watched this movie before he tried to escape to Mexico in his Bronco.Just when you thought it could get any weirder , guess again. Commissary Blakelock pulls out a weapon in front of 600 armed policeman and just starts firing away at Clint, now you would think people would scatter everywhere with a mad man shooting, or at least try and stop him. Not these policeman, in fact you can see some of them in the background chewing gun.But all is not lost, after shooting good old boy Clint, this ex prostitute (Sondra Locke) just picks up a gun and kill's the Police Commissary right in front the whole Phoenix police department without them lifting a finger to stop her. OK, OK, sorry about spilling the beans about the ending, but trust me, I just did you a favor, now you don't have to watch this horrible movie. We love you Clint, but man, what happen here? "},{"Title":"The Gauntlet!","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The Gauntlet is an excellent film that is very much like a Dirty Harry film! It stars Clint Eastwood, Sondra Locke, Pat Hingle, William Prince, Bill McKinney, and Michael Cavanaugh. The acting by all of these actors is very good. Eastwood and Locke are great together! The action is really awesome and the bus scenes are excellent. The movie get quite rough at time. The film is very exciting and the music is very good. The movie is directed greatly by Clint Eastwood. This is a great and thrilling film. If you like Clint Eastwood, Sondra Locke, Pat Hingle, and the rest of the cast I've mentioned above and the Dirty Harry series and exciting non-stop action films then I Strongly recommend this film! "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood played a Dirty Harry type in Phoenix instead of SF. This movie was incredibly implausible. Everything was phony, cartoon-like, and fake. The plot was very vague. A police commissioner with ties to the mob....so the entire police force in both Las Vegas and Phoenix will unquestioningly act out his command to pump one million bullets into a house and another three million bullets into a slow-moving bus. That's about it. Clint also holds an entire motorcycle gang at bay with one gun...as if none of the bikers would have been armed. As if none of he bikers would have followed him after he stole a Harley. A helicopter pilot chases his bike and a guy with a telescopic rifle keeps missing his target dozens of times while the chopper dips and turns. I know - why didn't the helicopter pilot just remain stationary in the air and let the guy aim? The ending was incredibly stupid, as about two hundred cops stood around and let the police commissioner shoot Clint and another guy point blank. They remained motionless as Sondra Locke picked up the gun and shot the evil commissioner twice in the groin. Then, all 200 cops remained motionless while Clint ( who was shot four times) and Sondra walked away. I can only recommend this film for those who really get off on watching a slow-moving bus get riddled with 3 million bullets. "},{"Title":"Excellent Eastwood film","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my very favorite films starring and directed by Clint Eastwood. It also stars his former girlfriend, Sandra Locke. They really mesh on the screen and it is easy to see why they were together for a time.The story is, of course, highly improbable, so a suspension of belief is certainly in order. Shockley (Eastwood) had to deliver a witness (Locke) to the courthouse before the mob or the police could get to them. Believe me they are both shown to be completely incompetent in the film. But this is a movie and forget that. Look at the interaction between Eastwood and Locke and the action. That's what makes it all worthwhile. "},{"Title":"The Dangers of Alcohol Abuse","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" One of the only interesting parts in this indefensibly bad movie is that Clint Eastwood does, in fact, portray the alcoholic loser of a Phoenix detective Ben Shockley with admirable accuracy. When I first saw this mess, I was taken aback by how bad Clint looked. I know what alcoholics look like, how they smell, and how they react to the dreary struggle to get by every new molecule getting in their way (they drink). Shockley oozes a sort of whole grain dissolution and his face looks as if it's going to drop off in a splat if he doesn't get out of that damnedable sunrise! Eastwood gets off to a believable start in The Gauntlet, then all Hell breaks loose (the far fetched and bullet ridden story gets started).You can read any of the other reviews for a detailed recap of the plot. I hate doing that; I want to talk about the things that make a movie stand tall or fall flat. The Gauntlet has an interesting premise--loser cop gets jammed up in a plot to kill a whore who knows something about the brass on the Phoenix Police top floor. But the interest simply can't stand up to the relentless and ridiculous gunfire. It's a shame because Sondra Locke's hardened hooker-with-a-heart-of-glass-shards is the best performance in sight and we lose sight of her amongst the torn metal, broken glass, exploding helicopters, and stupid things the screenwriters keep trying to get her to do.Eastwood is pretty good because he's not Harry Callahan (screenwriters Butler and Shryack actually give him some depth of character and we begin to like him, a lot!), the brass is uniformly slimy while veteran Pat Hingle does his huffy-puffy thing as Eastwood's desk-bound partner, and Bill McKinney, one of Eastwood's travelling roadshow of regulars, is wonderful as a thoroughly corrupt and repulsive deputy-constable-something-or-another who gets verbally disemboweled by Locke's Augustina Mally. All this gets jammed up, like Shockley, in an increasingly preposterous set of circumstances that eventually turns The Gauntlet into a noisy and idiotic farce.The best single thing in this movie is the dandy score by Jerry Fielding. I've had the album for years, but I threw away the tape I took off HBO years ago. You can't hear any gunfire on the LP! "},{"Title":"great action movie","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This film is one of the best action movies i have ever seen the movies about a cop (Clint Eastwood) who has to escort a prostitute (Sondra Locke) from Las Vegas to Phoenix and along the way the cops are trying to kill them.This film is full of great action scenes like when Clint and Sondra are in a house and the cops open fire shooting heaps of bullets into the house so much that the house falls down but luckily they both got out of the house and the scene in the end of the film where Clint and Sonra where driving a bus down a street and there where 200 or more cops armed with hand guns,shot guns and machine guns shooting the hell out of the bus and bye the end of the shooting the bus looked like swiss cheese.Clint Eastwood one of the greatest actors of all time does a good job at acting in this film and if u like Clint u should see him in these films Milliom Dollar baby,Dirty Harry,The Good The Bad And The Ugly,Blood Work and Unforgiven just to name a few.This film is a must see and u should buy it for $16 or less and this film keep me entertained from start to finish and there was never a boring scene.And my rating is 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of Eastwood's better action films","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  My opinion is that this is one of Clint Eastwood's better actionmovies.  The action sequences are straight-forward, butsometimes they are somewhat overdone and it feels like if this isone of the action movies with the most bullets fired.Sometimes the action sequences are pretty dumb and you are ofthe opinion of that they could have been made better. Despite that,it is very forward-moving and never really pauses.  Eastwood himself is very good (he usually is), as the quite slowcop Ben Shockley, who is sent out to do what seams to be a minorassignment. The casting of Sondra Locke as Gus Malley  was notthe best choice though. She does not do a very good job in themovie, at least not in the beginning, but there is nothing wrong withher looks. Pat Hingle as Josephson, Shockley's friend and partnerin the movie, was rather good. It's a rather OK film to watch evenfor those who are not Eastwood-fans.  "},{"Title":"Not a great film, but not a bad one either.","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  THE GAUNTLET stars Clint Eastwood and Sondra Locke in a film with a pretty basic plot and some over the top action sequences.  The high points of the film are it has Eastwood in his usual tough guy role which is always great to see, and there are a few good action sequences, including and exciting helicopter/motorcycle chase in the desert.  There are a few low points in the film.  A lot of the action scenes seem to involve desintegrating things with bullets, from a police car, to a bus, to a house.  This is pretty cool at first but gets tireing after a while.  The film is also very vulgar at times, which may offend some.  Overall, a decent action film that is silly at times but still fun. "}{"Title":"considerably better than i expected!","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  What could have been a run of the mill chase thriller was given a great boost by the fantastic pairing of Clint eastwood and sondra locke who were lovers at the time.            the script is funny the direction ( by clint himself) excellent the acting well above par.        my only complaints about the movie1.) The over the top shootout scenes go a bit tiresome after a while.2.)The ending was pretty disappointing and could have been a lot better.although not as good as Dirty Harry, it is one of clint's better movies from the 70's Rating 8/10  "},{"Title":"Flinty Clint","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  THE GAUNTLET (1977) *** Clint Eastwood, Sondra Locke, Pat Hingle.  Clint is a burnt-out loser cop hand-picked to deliver an eyewitness (feisty Locke) facing impossible odds by double-crossing law enforcement.  Best dialogue Motorcycle gang member, facing the loss of his vehicle to gun-toting Clint Hey these are our choppers Charlie!  Clint This is my gun...Clyde!! Clint also directed "},{"Title":"Two (losers) is a couple","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is of course a minor outcome in Clint Eastwood's career as a director. Though, it should be seen because it is a good example of his view on life and his fine touch when dealing with minor heroes, bound to lose but still trying hard to get to the goal. Violence is absolutely unreal and paradoxal, as well as the silly gunfires (which tear down a house, for instance). A lot of dirty cops were impersonated by Clint Eastwood during his careers, but Shockley is one of the favorites, because its contradictions (violent and funny, desperate and willing to have a better life, though and ironic) make the character the best thing of this movie (rated 7). "},{"Title":"Coming in on a wing and a prayer","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Eastwood must have wondered what to do with his image after playing two sock 'em characters in earlier movies -- The Man With No Name, and Harry Callahan.  What do I do now, Ma?  It's easy to visualize Eastwood sitting down alone and frowning, because he's really thinking hard, you know?  And kind of doing thought experiments.  And ruminating somewhat along these lines  The Western is headed toward the graveyard.  Not much future there.  The main battle in the early 1970s is in modern society, corrupt as it is, what with Watergate and whatnot.  Dirty Harry Redux?  No -- not yet.  Not again.  How can I remold this image in which I've been cast.  Sergio Leone said that Michelangelo could look at a block of marble and see the man inside, but that he, Leone, could look at me and see the block of marble inside.  Not very nice.  A good thing he didn't speak English and I couldn't speak Italian.  Wait!  I think I've got it!  We'll take Dirty Harry, give him a new name and location, and turn him upside down!  Well -- sideways anyhow.  We'll suggest that he's a drunk, but drop it pretty soon.  There's a limit to how dirty we want this guy to be.  And this time we'll -- that's it! -- we'll give him a girl!   Ben Shockley isn't the brightest cop on the planet, but despite that initial pint of booze falling out of his car, and his day-long stubble, he gets the job done.  The job is picking up an informer in Las Vegas, Gus Malley, and getting him to Phoenix so he can testify.  The Phoenix police force however is corrupt at the top and the betting in Vegas is against Shockley and Malley reaching Phoenix.  Gus Malley turns out to be the ravishing, finely educated, and perceptive Sondra Locke.  Eastwood once explained carefully to an interviewer why he had chosen her he wanted to get away from the cliche of the dumb whore.  Right, so he chose his beautiful young girl friend to play the hooker.  (If he really wanted to avoid the cliche of the dumb whore, he could have chosen Colleen Dewhurst, except that she would have knocked him out of the box.)  Nice photography, fantastic and unbelievable plot, with exploding ambulances, sniping, helicopter chases, an armored Greyhound bus and a house turned into lacework by fusillades of bullets.  Nice performances by Bill McKinney as a Las Vegas policeman who is shot to pieces.  (He's played so many mean parts that one is pleased when he gets it, even though he's nominally a good guy.)  And by Pat Hingle, who deserved better.  (Did anyone see him in The Grifters?)  And especially by William Prince.  Prince is a real smoothie, and a pleasure to watch, professionally competent as he is, and a Cornellian too.  He had a decent role as a handsome young corpsman in Destination Tokyo.  Following that, he had virtually no lead parts but has turned in an interesting series of increasingly older character studies.  (He was the likable sketch artist in The Stepford Wives.)  Sondra Locke is easy on the eyes.  Speaking of eyes, hers seem an almost unbelievable cobalt blue.  There's less to Eastwood's character here than meets the eye, no development to speak of, and nothing of much interest.  The Greyhound bus, wheezing and sighing and flapping its tires, gives the best performance.  "},{"Title":"Action spectacular ahead of it's time.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  If you even dared take a Die Hard  film seriously and deem this film bad just pause and think. It is a piece of frenetic fun that transports the viewer on a fantastical comic book style adventure with no real attempt at a serious plot. It is not meant too. Every inch of this film is a cliche. Even the poster work shows how OTT it is meant to be. The  climactic 'bus into the centre of Pheonix' scene is fabulously ridiculous. Eastwood turned his masculine persona on it's head and has created a wondeful parody of hollywoods invinsible hero. John McClane should look on in awe. "},{"Title":"A-list actor in a B-movie","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie. I recently watched it for the umteenth time, and I find it a highly entertaining time waster. The first time I saw it in the theater, way back in '77, my friends and I sat through 4 consecutive showings, (back when theaters would let you do that for the price of one admission). The one-liners became part of our vocabulary. Admittedly it isn't Eastwood's best effort, but its not his worst. Over the years I've lost track with the three best friends I've ever had, but every time I see this movie, it takes me back to my youth... "},{"Title":"Clint's best (cult)movie","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Although Clint made about a dozen of these movies, this one is the best. I love it and I think it should be considered a cult film. I mean the shooting is elaborative and overdone (especially when the police starts shooting down a house with pistols and rifles) and Clint is looking cooler than ever; riding a bike, wearing sunglasses, walking around with a good-looking woman, waving his gun, fighting of bikers and driving an armoured bus into a hostile 'copland'. In other words this movie is underrated.   "},{"Title":"Coming to the rescue","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I find I must comment on this film after reading the other reviews and seeing the lame rating from users. First of all, yes I am a huge Eastwood fan. However, I usually don't disagree all that often from the average movie lover and when I do, I feel that something is wrong. Do I think this was a 10? No, but I do think it deserves better than the abysmal 5.9 it received. I thoroughly enjoyed the outrageousness of the action and the dialogue. This was really a fun movie to watch and certainly far better than most of today's silly cop stories. Not that many people have checked this one out apparently (only 172 votes) , but they should. There's probably many out there who would love it, but maybe don't even know about it.  "},{"Title":"Where bullets fly and believability goes out the window","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A generic action film with Clint Eastwood, featuring more action and less plotting than most of his other cop films from this era. The story, which involves Eastwood's cop and a star witness going on the run from both the police and the mob, seems to have inspired countless other action films from the '70s and '80s, but I didn't find it anything special about it. Instead the film seems to focus and revel in superficial, larger than life stunts and set-pieces while forgetting to give us much heart at its core. Hell, even Stallone's COBRA had more of a plot than this!Still, the movie isn't all bad and I found it difficult to really dislike. Eastwood and his love interest Sondra Locke were together in real life, so their chemistry is for real. The laughs, mostly stemming from Eastwood's deadpan humour and the bizarre situations in which he finds himself, are solid, and there are good supporting turns from actors including Pat Hingle and ex-peplum star Dan Vadis as a biker. The action scenes are impressive, although there's an overwhelming feel of macho overkill in scenes in which a house and bus are absolutely destroyed by hundreds of rounds. I would have preferred a more suspenseful and realistic feel to these sequences, but this is far from Eastwood's best as director.The lengthy motorbike-chased-by-helicopter sequence, for instance, requires an absolutely massive suspension of disbelief and has a too-obvious outcome on top of that. I've made THE GAUNTLET sound like a bad film, and it isn't, not really; the climax, for instance, is highly memorable and sets a new precedent in over-the-top showdowns. It's just that I've come to expect so much from Eastwood as both actor and director, and this light-hearted vehicle doesn't come close to the quality of the DIRTY HARRY films. "},{"Title":"Vastly under-rated, smart cop flick with lots of great action","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Upon re-viewing The Gauntlet, I've gained a new appreciation for the script and for Sondra Locke. It's a tight, interesting story that's well-directed and well-acted, but it got lost in Eastwood's 70s stew of Dirty Harry and Josie Wales. Was there a film before in which a woman talked to a cop the way Locke's character does from the backseat of the cruiser early in the film? That scene alone could be considered ground-breaking. Is the finale over the top? Maybe. It's a metaphor, though... that's the point. One honest guy against a corrupt system. Enjoy it for what it is. It's well worth seeing if you haven't already. It's Clint at his best. "}{"Title":"Not Clint's best yet this is still an underrated Eastwood classic!","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Never really watched a lot of Clint Eastwood films in my movie viewing life, just caught a few here and there. But this one The Gauntlet was certainly a good one to watch and sure it's not one of Clint's tough guy westerns or his bad ass cop movies, still this movie has plenty of action and excitement and thrills even though his character is flawed. Eastwood is Ben Shockley a Phoenix, Arizona police officer who's also a Jack Daniels drinker and rugged looking guy who appears burned out and down on his luck. Yet it's his time to go to Las Vegas and pick up a witness to testify in a trial. And this is where things get complex his pickup is a Vegas hooker named Gus(Sondra Locke) and in the town of all odds the odds are against them both! Then the film takes off on a twisted path of betrayal and fast and furious excitement starting with blazing shootouts of bullets, flying helicopters, and crazed bikers and crooked police all round out the journey. Thru it all the story unfolds into a game of setup and police corruption tied into the world of the mob. And true the story and plot may not be strong or in depth this is still a treat for any Eastwood fan with it's action and fireworks, really it's a thrill ride of a watch and again the chemistry just like in so many of their early works is in top form between both Locke and Eastwood. Overall a nice watch and The Gauntlet in my opinion is an underrated classic. "},{"Title":"Great 70's Eastwood fun but with a huge believability gap","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I'm a firm believer that the 70's and 80's Eastwood films are his best. It's a shame in his twilight years he has to constantly try and win an Oscar by making these dramas he does these days. I wish he'd go back to these old style ones that were so successful...but not necessarily...believable.It's pretty obvious by making this film he was cashing in on the Dirty Harry craze. A similar character with similar flaws and the same job. For some reason he just makes these types of films...fun.Right now I wanna get into the credibility gap in this film and it's premise. It's a laugh and big one. Can you imagine the Police Chief of a big city having the ability to just get anyone to shoot anyone he wants on his word? I mean we all know the premise of this film is for Eastwood's character to get his prisoner back to Arizona to testify but the Chief is obviously the one causing all the havoc...and the havoc is beyond an insane level. I mean he gets the Las Vegas mob to just shoot up everything and the Las Vegas Police to shoot up an entire house. On what grounds does any Police Department have the right to shoot up a house to bits? What about evidence? It's ridiculous.What's also funny is the helicopter-motorcycle chase seen. Don't you think that while they were on the main highway there would be at least a little traffic? And someone would have called the police mentioning that there's a guy in a helicopter shooting at people? How crazy is that.The final funny is the last sequence when he drives the bus into the city. Take a look at the cops and the positioning of them when they envelop the entire bus with bullets. They're right across from each other. Don't you think that would be a bit of a risk accidentally maybe...I dunno...shooting each other? Just a ridiculous idea. The great part is how the ole Police Chief again can get an almost entire Police Department to stand on a designated road way...in the middle of the city....and just let his Officers fire at will. What about property damage and the mass amount of windows being broken when he bullets fly? NO way on this planet would this fly in any city or town but as it is...this is still a really fun film from the 70's. When he and Sandra Locke teamed up they were electricity on screen. They complemented each other very well. It's a shame he doesn't do these films anymore...he could sure pack em in again if he did...guaranteed. "},{"Title":"The action is good but the plot's mystery is an insult to the viewers's intelligence","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood plays Shylock a police officer with a simple mission to escort a prisoner who is going to testify in court in some case. Easy? NO! This prisoner happens to be a prostitute named Gus (Sondra Locke) and she's quite a tough figure who knows that her life's in danger. Who's after her? The whole Phoenix police department (?) and some other dangerous guys. In The Gauntlet things are not what they appear to be and Shylock and Gus are gonna face countless shootings and other dangers.Good reasons for watch The Gauntlet Very effective thriller with good tension, memorable shootings (the final shootout in the bus is the best) and Clint Eastwood who is always good to see playing the good guy. Bad reasons Sondra Locke's first half hour is completely annoying. Her character only wants to get in the way of Clint but doesn't know what to do to stay away of trouble. But the main reason why you don't want to watch this movie is that it insults the intelligence of the viewers in some strategic points. Sondra's character is about to testify in some big case involving a powerful guy who is on the police side and therefore this same guy is gonna sent many policeman to kill her and Shylock. Now big quiz question If that guy (he's discovered later) is so powerful and he knew that she was arrested in Las Vegas and he had all this connection with the police why not pay some corrupt police officer to kill her in prison? It sounded pointless and stupid to make all this fuzz to kill a prostitute (by the way, the motive why she's testifying should appear on screen, and it's also a little bit not well explained and yet it still not believable). Still, it's a good action movie that presented us with some good escape and shooting scenes, very well directed. Good performances of Pat Hingle (Clint's only friend) and the memorable and scary villain of Deliverance Bill McKinney (the shameless and infuriating police officer kidnapped by Clint). Highly entertaining. 9/10 "},{"Title":"It's not Dirty Harry, but it's got plenty of BANG to it!","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This crime action was high on action and fire power. Clint Eastwood did very well playing Ben Shockley. Sondra Locke was outstanding playing the highly uncooperative Gus.Though this movie contained more violence than any gangster movie I've seen.The best parts of the movie when three things get shot to pieces The house, which Shockley was barely able to escape, The police car where the constable was blown away by the mob. and the big daddy of them all was the bus laced with armor that took a lot of bullets.The train scene was a bit shocking when Gus let herself get raped by the crazed biker gang. That's what got me wondering what Shockley was looking at.The finale was climatic the police gauntlet brought all the works to stop Gus and Shockley. But it goes to show that the loyalty of the officers was a factor of the loyalty of the superior. The Phoenix PD saved themselves from total outcasting to society when the saw Shockley. And Blakelock brought shame to the department in which it resulted, TERMINATION! Their loyalty to Shockley overruled Blakelock's order.This movie was great, though it's not Dirty Harry, Eastwood puts on a great performance. Rating 4 out of 5 stars. 9.5 OUT OF 10! "}]