[{"Title":"The man who saw too much","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"45 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Richard Chamberlain is David Burton, a tax lawyer living in Sydney, Australia who is drawn into a murder trial defending five Aboriginal men accused of murdering a fellow native in Peter Weir's apocalyptic 1977 thriller The Last Wave. Taking up where Picnic at Hanging Rock left off, the film goes deeper into exploring the unknown and, in the process, shows the gulf between two cultures who live side by side but lack understanding of each others culture and traditions. Weir shows how white society considers the native beliefs to be primitive superstitions and believes that since they are living in the cities and have been domesticated, their tribal laws and culture no longer apply. From the start, Burton is drawn deeper and deeper into a strange web of visions and symbols where the line between real time and dream time evaporates. Water plays an important symbolic role in the film from the opening sequence in which a sudden thunder and hailstorm interrupts a peaceful school recess to Burton's discovery that his bathtub is overflowing and water is pouring down his steps.  As violent and unusual weather continue with episodes of black rain and mud falling from the sky, the contrast between the facile scientific explanations of the phenomenon and the intuitive understanding of the natives is made clear. Burton and his wife Annie (Olivia Hamnet) study books about the Aborigines and learn about the role of dreams in the tribal traditions. When he invites one of his clients Chris Lee (David Gulpilil) to his home for dinner, he is disturbed to find that he is the subject of an inquiry by Chris and his friend Charlie (Nadjiwarra Amagula), an enigmatic Aborigine sorcerer involved with the defendants. As Burton's investigation continues, his clients make his work difficult by refusing to disclose the true events surrounding the murder.After Chris starts to appear in his dreams, Burton is convinced that the Aborigine was killed in a tribal ritual because he saw too much, though Chris refuses to acknowledge this in court. Burton, becoming more and more troubled by a mystery he cannot unravel, says to his stepfather priest, Why didn't you tell me there were mysteries? This is a legitimate question but, according to the reverend, the Church answers all mysteries. Burton knows now that he must discover the truth for himself and enters the tribal underground caves. Though we do not know for certain what is real and what is a dream, he comes face to face with his deepest fears in a haunting climax that will leave you pondering its meaning into the wee hours of the morning.In this period of history in which native Hopi and Mayan prophecies predict the end of history and the purification of man leading to the Fifth World, The Last Wave, though 25 years old, is still timely. The Aborigines are portrayed as a vibrant culture, not one completely subjugated by the white man, yet I am troubled by the gnawing feeling that we are looking in but not quite seeing. Weir has opened our eyes to the mystery that lies beyond our consensual view of reality, but he perpetuates the doom-orientation that sees possibility only in terms of fear, showing nature as a dark and uncontrollable power without a hint of the spiritual beauty that lives on both sides of time.  "},{"Title":"Have lived alone in a cave on high ground, since the film's release!f","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"41 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Pretentious seems a popular word amongst reviewers of this thought-provoking film. HOW I wonder would they have made it, given the opportunity? I am saved from further contemplation along these lines by the fact that Peter Weir made it.....and rather well, I hasten to add.A worthy successor to PICNIC AT HANGING ROCK in as much as the viewer is left with his or her own interpretation of what they have just seen. Events occuring in an everyday environment but where the line between fantasy and reality is so blurred, no lens can be found to bring up a sharp focus. It is a disturbing film which highlights and pays homage to the Aboriginal dreamtime.Chamberlain, in one of his best roles (made even better when you reminisce about the celluloid embarrassments BELLS, KING SOLOMON'S MINES and NIGHT OF THE HUNTER) plays a hot-shot Australian attorney (complete with DR KILDARE accent) who is called upon to defend a small group of Tribal Aborigines on what appears to be an open and shut case murder charge. Initially he finds his clients anything but co-operative and seemingly disinterested by the threat of the white man's legal system. Aspects of the case begin to disturb him and he is drawn into a world of ancient beliefs, symbolic half-lives, a very dimension that causes him to question his own comfortable existence and purpose. Central to his dreams is one of the Defendants (brilliantly played by Australian actor David Gulpilil) who appears existentially, perhaps a disembodied spirit (?), holding out to him a sacred stone with ancient cabalistic markings. He learns that the aboriginal man who was killed was the victim of tribal law and that he must not, cannot, intervene.The nightmare spills over into real-time...black rain, (we have already witnessed hailstones crashing into a tiny outback school from cloudless skies!) water prophetically leaking through his roof and cascading down the stairs. Visions of a great flood. He becomes obssessed with seeking the truth, not only of what is going on around him, but who he is? The scene where he confronts the Head Tribal Elder in his inner city squat is totally chilling. The viewer's own close and comfortable existence is challenged and put up for re-evaluation here.Eventually and too late of course, he stumbles across the truth. But IS it? Has he been played for a fool?  Has the audience? Much was made at the time of the film's release, that the final scenes were a total cop-out. I even thought as much myself at the opening night. Amazing what a almost a quarter of a century's personal development and insight can do for you. Like 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY, this film needs to be seen at different stages of your life to appreciate what Peter Weir knew and was trying to say in 1977.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorites for atmosphere","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I am a big fan of this film and may not be able to make a coherent case for it, especially after reading some of the lukewarm comments some of the viewers offer.  I agree that some of the themes could have been developed better, and think that the ending smacks of a Planet of the Apes solution to a mystery, yet this film is superb for its relentless atmosphere of otherworldly possibility.Perhaps I associate this film with the strangeness of the 1970's, when Pyramid Power, UFO cults, and interest in occult phenomena occupied much of popular culture.  Weir plays on the apocalyptic feelings of many in that decade with his shots of mud falling from the skies and other phenomena.  One of my all time favorite scenes is when Charlie the shaman visits the urbane upper-middle class household of Richard Chamberlain et al. and asks to see the family photo album.  I still get chills up my spine thinking of that one.An element that I enjoyed is the counter-intuitive idea that there are no tribal aborigines living in Australian cities...they are all assimilated into the European worldview.  This opinion, asserted by the most prominent aborigine in the movie, is subverted bit by bit until the very structure of European logic (as represented by the lawyer Chamberlain) is completely undermined by the end of the movie.  Another amazing touch is the juxtaposition of the aboriginal sacred cave complex and what the Europeans are using it for, and Chamberlains descent into all that darkness.Don't try viewing this one on a commercial channel, it will make very little sense broken up in pieces.  Rent it, suspend disbelief a little, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"part of a wave of really good movies","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The Last Wave is one of those movies that relies heavily on the mind. The title refers to the Aboriginal doomsday theory there will be one last wave that wipes out everything.David Burton (Richard Chamberlain) is a Sydney lawyer hired to defend some Aborigines accused of murder. Around this time, there has been unusually heavy rainfall in Australia. While defending the Aborigines, David learns the last wave theory, and begins to wonder whether it's just mythology.The movie's last sequence is a metaphor for descending into the depths of one's mind. Peter Weir created a perplexing, but thought-provoking, movie. Aboriginal actor David Gulpilil (whom you may have seen in Walkabout, Crocodile Dundee and Rabbit-Proof Fence) provides an interesting supporting role as one of the defendants.If you get a chance, watch the making of feature on the DVD. Peter Weir explains some of the film's undertones, some of which relate to Richard Chamberlain's background. "},{"Title":"Incredible!","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This supernatural Peter Weir thriller is truly one of the most haunting and fascinating movies ever seen. Richard Chamberlain does his best performance here as the Australian lawyer who defends a group of young Aborigins accused of murder. As he gets closer on the case, he discovers more about the main defendant, Chris, and not least about himself. Chris tells him that he is a Mulkurul, which appear to be a race of supernatural beings that lived in Australia thousands of years ago. At the same time, extraordinary high rainfall seems to confirm the Aboriginal prophecy of the coming of the LAST WAVE, the one that will drown the world.The dream sequences and the supernatural effects enhance this movie and make it a spectacular experience. Olivia Hamnett and David Gulpilil are solid in the supporting roles, as well as the chap with the difficult name who plays Charlie, the old Aborigin who can turn into an owl. The climax and the ending don't disappoint, in contrast to many other supernatural thrillers who fall flat after a promising hour or so. However, this can not be called a pure thriller. It is a drama as well and talks about spirituality and spiritual identity in the modern world. A masterful work by Peter Weir, the master of visually stunning dramas. "},{"Title":"Eerie thriller with unique Aussie slant.","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Peter Weir's first international success, THE LAST WAVE is an effective chiller with a fascinating back story based on Aboriginal myth. Richard Chamberlain is quite good as a defense lawyer whose life becomes increasingly unmoored from reality as he delves into a murder case involving Aboriginal tribal rivalries. David Gulpilil plays one of the suspects, who does his best to guide Chamberlain thru the realm of 'Dreamtime', an alternate reality/timeline central to native Australian history and tribal custom. Heavy on atmosphere, deliberately ambiguous in plotting, the film builds to an unsettling finale which is somewhat diminished by poor effects, probably due to budgetary limitations. Nevertheless an intriguing film whose overall impression of mystery and dread lurking just below the surface of what we perceive as 'reality' will stay with you. "},{"Title":"Gives new meaning to the word mystique.","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I notice a lot of viewers are trying to 'understand' The Last Wave. Sometimes...understanding is 'the booby prize'. In an age of in-your-face special effects and fast action that negates thinkiing at all, this film is brilliant. Peter Weir is truly a remarkable film maker. He does something so few director's do anymore. He allows us to be involved with the story...to think for ouselves. Same as with Picnic At Hanging Rock, which I have to watch at least once a year, The Last Wave allows ME to think for myself. "},{"Title":"Stands the test of time.","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" 'The Last Wave' is far more than the sum of its parts. It's not merely a disaster film, not simply an exploration into Australian Aboriginal spirituality, and certainly more than a simple court drama. Writer/Director Peter Weir manages to take these elements to the next level to produce a truly effective and thought-provoking film with the same eerie atmosphere he gave to 'Picnic At Hanging Rock' two years earlier, that you will continue to remember years later.When lawyer David Burton (Chamberlain) is called to defend Chris Lee (Gulpilil) over the death of an Aboriginal for which he may or may not be directly responsible, he finds himself not merely struggling to get the truth from Lee, but making sense of what he hears when it does come. As with the Aboriginal belief that there are two worlds - the everyday and the Dreamtime, the truth exists on two completely different levels, with ramifications more disastrous than Burton could ever have imagined.No doubt the reason why 'Picnic At Hanging Rock' is better remembered is because of its enduring mystery. We are led along the same path but forced to find answers for ourselves. In 'The Last Wave', we can piece everything together by the end of the film. However, even with all the information, we have to choose how much of it we want to believe, because the film takes us beyond the borders of our normal realities.On the production side, Weir uses his budget to great effect, progressively building a sense of doom in everything from soft lighting, to heavy rain, to good use of sound. The incidental music is unobtrusive, never trying to be grandiose. Richard Chamberlain manages to convey the bafflement the audience would doubtless feel as he tries to unravel the mystery. David Gulpilil excellently portrays a man trapped between two worlds, wanting to do the right thing, but afraid because he already knows the ending.Put all these things together, and you have a perfect example of why David Weir is a familiar name in cinema thirty years on. Strongly recommended. "},{"Title":"And the Sun became black as Sackcloth, and the Moon red as Blood.","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" ****SPOILER ALERT**** All throughout Australia the summer turned into a deluge of rain and hail stones the size of baseballs that was causing havoc in coastal cities like Sydney. It's under these hectic conditions that tax lawyer David Burton, Richard Chamberlain,got involved in a case, as a defense attorney, involving the death of a local aborigine who was found dead outside a Sydney bar. Having five fellow aborigines arrested for Billy Cormans,Athol Compton, death it's determined by the police coroner that Billy died of drowning not by violence even though he had bruises on his neck and shoulders. Yet the court decided to prosecute the five for his death charging them with manslaughter instead of murder.David defending the five gets no help from them in their defense with the accused assailants opting to remain quite and keep what happened to Billy to themselves and take what's coming to them from the court. One of the defendants Chris, David Gulpili, begin to somehow invades David's dreams as if he want's to tell him what was really behind Billy's death.David at first not taking his dreams of Chris seriously begins to sense that their real when he meet him at the courthouse. Chris confirms David's dreams by showing him a strange looking black rock that David saw Chris have in his dreams. Later meeting Chris and, what turns out to be an aborigine shaman, Charlie (Nandjiwarna Amagula) who came to his house that evening David is told that he, like Charlie, has spiritual powers that he inherited from his mother's grandfather. Those powers will reveal to him the future that has to do with the strange weather conditions that are flooding the Australian continent. The earth,Chris tells David, is going through a gigantic cleansing cycle with the old world about to be washed away and the new world ready to take it's place.David is confused about what both Chris and Charlie are telling him but as the rains continue to increase and the ocean waves start to rise he feels that something terrible is going to happen. David want's to know if it's all aborigine folklore or there's some scientific facts, or logic, behind their end of world-like revelations.By now it's obvious that both Chris and Charlie are members of an aborigine tribe right in the heart of modern Sydney. That alone can get Chris off, as well as his four friends, for the murder of Billy. Since the Australian government will not prosecute tribal aborigines, leaving any justice to be done by the tribes themselves. Still Chris refuses to admit he's a member of a native tribe and he and his four friends are convicted of manslaughter in Billy's death with the sentences to be handed down by the judge within days.David now determined to find out what was the reason for Chris' silence, and why Billy had to die, is taken by Chris to the scene of the crime. It's there that David finds out that Billy betrayed Chris' tribe members by going there with Billy not being a member of Chris's aborigine tribe. It's also revealed to David that he himself has some kind of spiritual connection with the Austrailan aborigines as both Charlie and his step-father Rev. Burton,David Parslow, told him. The stage is now set for the great and final cleansing cycle that David's been seeing in both his night-time dreams and day-time visions. It comes in the form of a massive tidal wave rolling out of the Pacific Ocean into the Australian coast city of Sydney and then submerges the entire continent. "},{"Title":"Culture Shock or nightmare comes true","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Peter Weir's early films were devoted to uniquely Australian themes which he tried to make universal. Without a clear understanding of the aboriginal culture some of the strange things which happen in this film, fall truly into the horror genre a la Steven King,and that is unfortunate. A wealthy Australian tax lawyer, born in South America, with a uniquely American accent (played very well by Richard Chamberlain), watches as his world slowly falls apart. His day of reckoning begins when he has to defend six aboriginal defendants accused of killing another man after a disagreement in a bar. Not normally responsible for court trails, Chamberlain fights court, his own counsel (in Aussie trials there are usually two lawyers involved in the defense) and even his family, Chamberlain's dreams, the unnatural weather and the eventual discovery of tribal secrets the men tried to protect...leads Chamberlain to his eventual downfall...He is to the tribe, a bridge, a man from the East....(across the water from Sydney who can and does live in the dream world these aboriginals believe in...) Chamberlain's dreams came true as a child...and now he sees time and time again....Sydney.. under water....There is here a clash of cultures....As one lawyer mentions..we all but obliterated the Aboriginal presence in the city...there are no tribes left...and in the end...Weir sides with the native...earlier culture...in a sense trying to revive it ...by filming an Aboriginal myth come to life....and so at least in the dream world....Chamberlain's life ends....when the last wave...a huge tidal wave crashes against the shore....With that perhaps as a symbol.. the culture of these few tribesmen and those who understand them...begins and ends with the fate of Chamberlain...I liked the film....but its not an easy one to understand...nor is it Weir's best effort....Gallipoli, Witness and the Trueman Show are all better and deal with the theme of mystic communication so much better.. But this film was an Australian Right of passage and a mourning of the loss of Aboriginal culture...well acted and superbly written. 8 of 10 "}{"Title":"Magic in practice","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  While to most people watching the movie, this will be of little interest, but out of the many hundreds of movies dealing with magic and the occult in one form or another, this one is probably the best in many ways.From The Golem to The Craft the subject seems to be of endless interest to the movie industry.  The majority of movies which touch on it in any way do so childishly (for example Witchboard, a true piece of utter garbage in every way) either taking the transcendental elements as cheap excuses for cheesy special effects or cardboard cutout villians (cf Warlock).  More frequently the subject comes up in an hysterical religious context (in the various Revelations-oriented movies, the antichrist is inevitably an advocate of some kind of new-age style practice).  Rarely, a movie seems to show at least some passing experience with magic as it is practiced in real life, but the presentation of the occult in such movies can at best be described as allegorical and not literal, or symbolic, or ... just not quite right.I watched this movie again after many years tonight.  I had seen it before on VHS;  it is a dark, moody piece, and after watching it on DVD, I would say if you have any intention to watch this movie, watch it on DVD, don't watch it on VHS.The darkness and moodiness are overpowering in VHS but in DVD the movie takes on a very different tone.  I think Weir pushed the dark aspects intentionally for style, but when the movie is converted to the lower color medium of VHS this goes over the edge.  DVD brings the movie to life again and I saw it differently.Anyway, seeing it as if for the first time, I realized that the treatment of magic is extremely good in this movie.  It's difficult to go into all the reasons why, I don't care to take the time to do so.For anybody who's curious, anyway, if you want to see what it is like in real life, this movie is just very right on countless levels.And for anybody who isn't, you really wasted a lot of time reading to this point. "},{"Title":"Subdued Supernatural Mystery","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Although I've long been a fan of Peter Weir, I hadn't watched any of his Australian movies until I watched The Last Wave. And it was a pleasant, unpredictable surprise.Richard Chamberlain plays David, a lawyer invited to defend five aborigines charged with murdering another Aborigine. For David's peers it's a clear case of drunken disorder and they think they should plead guilty and serve a quick sentence. But David believes there's a mystery underneath the murder, linked to tribal rituals. As his investigation proceeds he learns not only things about his clients but about himself too.To reveal more would be to spoil one of the strangest movies I've ever seen. I can only say that this movie goes in directions that no one will be expecting.There are many elements that make this a fascinating movie Chamberlain's acting, for instance; but also the performances by David Gulpilil, who plays a young aborigine who introduces David into tribal mysteries; and Nandjiwarra Amagula, who plays an old aborigine who's a spiritual guide. The relationships between these three characters make the heart of the movie.But there's also the way Weir suggests the supernatural in the movie. David has dreams that warn him of the future. Australia is undergoing awful weather, with storms, hail falling and even a mysterious black rain that may be nothing more than pollution. But it's also related to the case David is defending. How it's related is one of the great revelations of the movie. Out of little events Weir manages to create an atmosphere of dread and oppression, suggesting future horrors without really showing anything.Charles Wain's score is fantastic, especially the use of the didgeridoo. The photography is also quite good. Russell Boyd, Weir's longtime DP who won an Oscar in 2004 for Master and Commander, depicts a dark, creepy world full of mystery.I also find it remarkable that for a movie centered on aborigines, it doesn't turn into an indictment against white culture or into a sappy celebration of the their traditions, like Dances With Wolves or The Last Samurai. This movie is too clever to be that simplistic.Sometimes it can be frustrating, and it may upset viewers who expect to finish a movie with everything making sense; but for those who don't mind some strangeness or ambiguity, The Last Wave is a great movie to watch. "},{"Title":" We step into the world of darkness, through the Dream door ","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Across the great divide which we call understanding, there is still much we do not know about that which was explained by the early tribal Elders. In every instance, there is much concerning the dangers of knowing too much. Conversely, there are those who warn us of not preparing for what they warn is the 'End Time.' In this movie called  The Last Wave  an aboriginal native is murdered for no apparent reason. When those responsible are arrested, they remain silent less they disturb the order of things. David Burton (Richard Chamberlain) plays the Defense Attorney assigned to defend the accused. Although haunted by prophetic images from his own childhood and warned by modern signs given to him by an sympathetic Aboriginal named Chris Lee (David Gulpilil), Burton proceeds to defend the infraction as Tribal Law and therefore not subject to standard justice. The movie is fraught with puzzling, dark foreboding images of apocalyptic end world disasters and warns of a future island tsunami and doom. Black drama and deep rituals are what gives this film it's frightening allure and therefore is not for the faint-hearted, in fact the simplest haunting apparitions can last for years in the nightmares of innocent movie goers. Good silent drama. **** "},{"Title":"Black rain, and fire, and hail will burst O hear!","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I remember seeing this when it was released, in a theater in Palo Alto, and not expecting much. I mean -- an Australian movie? Chips Rafferty would be in it somewhere. But it finally got to me. Here's a scene. Richard Chamberlain is sitting cross legged on the floor of a shabby apartment in Sidney, facing an Australian aborigine elder named Charlie.Chamberlain You were outside my house last night. You frightened my wife. Who are you? And Charlie at a deliberate pace replies, Who are you? Who are you? Who are you? Who are you? Who are you?. . . . Are you a fish? Are you a snake? Are you a man? . . . . Who are you? Who are you? Who are you? It's a stunning scene, shot all in close ups, with Chamberlain's blandly handsome face filling the screen in opposition to Charlie's black, broad-nosed, unyielding bearded visage.The two guys couldn't be more different and this film is the story of how Chamberlain accidentally stumbles from his humdrum lawyerly existence into the inexplicable, almost unspeakable, mysteries of Charlie's world.I don't think I'll go on much about the plot. It's kind of an apocalyptic tale. But I must say, whoever did the research on Australian aboriginal belief systems should get an A plus. They've got everything in here, from pointing the bone to the dream time, a kind of parallel universe in which dreams are real. It's an extremely spooky movie without any musical stings or splendiferous special effects. Charly's world simply begins to intrude into Chamberlain's dreams, for reasons never made entirely clear.If there's a problem with the script, that's it. Nothing is ever made entirely clear. Does Chamberlain, who seems to have some extraordinary rapport with the aborigines, die in the last wave? Do the aborigines? Does the entirety of Sidney? The basic premise is a little hard to accept too, though granted that this is a fantasy. The aborigines are invested with the kind of spiritual power that Americans bestow on American Indians, whereas the fact is that mythology is mythology and while one may be more complex or satisfying -- more elegant and beautiful, if you like -- mythology is still an attempt to transcend an ordinary, demanding, and sometimes disappointing physical existence. The mysticism of Charlie is more convincing that the miracles of Moses in Cecil B. DeMille's The Ten Commandments, but they're brothers under the skin.But I don't care about that. Taken as a film, this one is pretty good, and it's especially important for marking the celebrity of the director, Peter Weir, and the Australian film industry. This was the first of a great wave of films from the antipodes, some of them raucous, like Mad Max, and some subtle and dramatic, like Lantana. I like Weir's stuff, which resembles Nicholas Roeg's in being pregnant with subliminal dread. Try Picnic at Hanging Rock for an example of how to make a truly chilling movie with not a drop of blood. "},{"Title":"Ahead of its time","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I came away thinking that this was a 1997 film, produced 20 years ahead of its time.  Very few films can say that, but The Last Wave really did leave one with the sense that an alien who had seen the future revealed (in a dream?) to the director how films would be shot 20 years in the future. That doesn't make it a good picture, when seen in the present---it just makes it remarkably fresh for an oldie. I loved the willingness of the director to tolerate silence, and to let scenes go, actionless, without screaming CUT all the time.  At times, made me think of Anouk Aimee's wonderful 22-second look when Trintignant first held her hand. "},{"Title":"Tense, somewhat surreal, mood piece","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  A youthful Richard Chamberlain takes on more than he bargained for in helping a group of Aboriginals and the mystery of a slaying. He becomes involved in the civil law of the land and the tribal law of the native people, and as the inevitable clash occurs, Chamberlain, an attorney, finds himself being pulled deeper and deeper into the mystery. The powerful dream time has a life of its own and proves to be the ultimate law. Classic Peter Weir.  "},{"Title":"Fine follow-up to Picnic at Hanging Rock","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Peter Weir made a classic with Picnic at Hanging Rock in 1975, a mysterious, intriguing little film arguing there are things out there we can't really understand, in the world generally and the Australian wild in particular. The Last Wave follows some of those themes and has much of the same mesmerizing, dream-like style.That said, there are differences. Much of the movie is a legal drama, following a white lawyer handling a criminal case of Aborigines accused of manslaughter of one of their own. Although this happened in the city, he becomes convinced the Aborigines are not city people but members of remnants of a tribe. He argues the victim died of sorcery and defends his clients under tribal law. At the same time, he is experiencing strange dreams while Australia becomes subject to strange weather patterns, including large hail and black rain.I'm a kind of person who likes legal dramas, including unorthodox and complex ones- bringing sorcery into the courtroom is unusual, with tricky undercurrents (the lawyer is confused of racism in romanticizing the Aborigines). The supernatural elements are also intriguing, but that said, I was a little disappointed when the movie drops the courtroom story completely (it's mentioned he's lost his case) to focus on the dreamtime story. The remainder of the movie becomes abstract and harder to explain, but it can still draw you in. "},{"Title":"One of the best Australian films I have seen for a long time","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The Last Wave is an atmospheric and moody film about a man's premonition that a giant wave is going to engulf Australia and most likely the world. It begins with scenes of everyday life in various parts of Australia being disrupted by freak weather patterns. Only the Aboriginal people seemed to understand what is going on. Enter a lawyer who is representing a group of Aboriginal men after an altercation in a pub ends in the death of a young man. He agrees to defend them although he is not a criminal lawyer and that is when his life starts to unravel. Strange weather and visions of an upcoming apocalypse plague the lawyer and slowly he realizes that the world is going to end. This is one of the finest films of the genre and one of my favourite Peter Weir films. The settings are dark and at times, almost Gothic. The acting is spot on and Richard Chamberlain is absolutely perfect in the role as the lawyer, a rational man caught in a terrifying situation. While it's not easy to find a copy of the movie here in Australia, if you can, see it. It is a chance to see Australian film making at it's best "},{"Title":"An undiscovered gem","Date":"18 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" In 1977, I doubt if audiences were as open to a film like this as they might be today. Assaulted in the 1970s with such fare as Rosemary's Baby it would have been natural to reject this without giving it a chance.Thankfully, DVDs are forever.Weir creates a film of foreign concepts, foreign to us but at home to an Aboringine still in touch with tribal ways.Hail stones the size of bricks arrive out of a clear blue sky. Muddy rain falls on Sydney. The sky is filled with rainbows and strange southern lights in the middle of the day.If you surrender yourself to the Aborigine concept of dream time, it makes perfect sense. What is surprising is to find that an Australian (Richard Chamberlain) has been forecast as part of this end of cycle.Weir used real tribal people and gave them a kind of supervisory approval for the script to be as authentic as possible.If you let your mind absorb the film without defense systems, it packs a worthwhile punch. "},{"Title":"Get in the Mood","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This motion picture has a steady, haunting pace backed up with great acting (one of Chamberlain's best performances) and a story that is revealed to us over time.Beyond that, the music fully establishes the mood and assists in maintaining an uneasy, cautious and somber tone.Weir's story is enhanced by using aboriginals, their stories and their tensions with the dominant white population to deliver a fantasy tale that is ominous.Although they are unrelated in story as well as genre, this maintained the same feeling within me as Ursula Le Guin's Lathe of Heaven (1980). The Last Wave is a dramatic thriller with some shocking moments. Remember, hacking and slicing doesn't make a film a horror movie, it's the psychological element of fear and trepidation that rests within us all. "}{"Title":"Chamberlain at his finest","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" THE LAST WAVE is never going to win over the mainstream audience. It is a slow-moving but fascinating film for those who are willing to go along with it. An Australian properties lawyer is asked to take on the case of five aborigines accused in the murder of one of their own. All sorts of portents and omens soon pop up, as the man's death involves a tribal issue that was not meant for white man's court, and pretty soon the lawyer is having trouble distinguishing reality from fantasy. It looks like the end of the world may be at hand, and he and the aborigines may know this but no one else does. Richard Chamberlain as the lawyer is at his peak here. David Guptil, a familiar face from several other Australian flicks and a decent actor, is one of the five aborigines on trial. THE LAST WAVE is simply not for everyone, anymore than is MAGNOLIA (both happen to have strange things falling from the sky). Check it out on a slow Saturday night. "},{"Title":"Has Topical Relevance","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" You know the people in the movie are in for it when king-sized hailstones fall from a clear blue sky. In fact, the weather stays pretty bad throughout this atmospheric thriller, and only lawyer Chamberlain has the answer. But he's too much the European rationalist, I gather, to get in touch with that inner being that only reveals itself through dreams.Darkly original mystery heavy on the metaphysics from director-writer Peter Weir. Already he had proved his skill at flirting with other dimensions in Picnic at Hanging Rock (1975). Here it's the arcane world of the Australian Aborigines that confronts that the tightly ordered world of the predominant whites. Something strange is going on inside the Aborigine community when they kill one of their number for no apparent reason. Yuppie lawyer Chamberlain is supposed to defend them in a white man's court. But the more he looks into things, the more mysterious things get, and the more interested a strange old Aboriginal man gets in him. And then there're those scary dreams that come and go at odd times.Well structured screenplay deepens interest throughout. One reason the movie works is the background normalcy of Chamberlain's wife and little daughters. Audiences can readily identify with them. And when their little world runs into forces beyond the usual framework, the normalcy begins to buckle, and we get the feeling of worlds beginning to collide. Chamberlain underplays throughout, especially during the underground discovery tour where I think he should have shown more growing awareness than he does. After all, it's the picking up of the mask that holds the key (I believe) to the riddle, yet his reaction doesn't really register the revelation. Of course, the notion of nature striking back has a certain resonance now, thirty years later. In the film, the notion is wrapped in a lot of entertaining hocus-pocus, but the subject itself remains a telling one. One way of bringing out a central irony is the symbolism of the opening scene. A big white SUV barrels past an aboriginal family, leaving them in the historical dust. The terrain looks like an interior tribal reservation of no particular importance to the coastal fleshpots where industry dwells. Yet, it's also a region most likely to survive anything like a destructive last wave. Perhaps there's something about past and future to think about here.Anyway, this is a really good movie that will probably stay with you. "},{"Title":"One film that relies on the story and mood!","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" THE LAST WAVE is an excellent film that has a non-stop mystery that you can not stop watching! This is one movie that has a cast of characters that you care about and feel as if it is happening to you! This film proves that its possible to make a good horror movie without buckets of blood and outrageous special effects! I believe that THE LAST WAVE is one of the best films of mystery ever made and should be considered a film classic! "},{"Title":"Awesome directorial style, little thrills.","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I just watched The Last Wave in my school's fine arts library. It's intriguing, like all Peter Weir's stuff, but it's not always as attention-holding as I would have liked. I found myself fascinated by the ideas being thrown at me (because they are very well handled by the film's director Weir)but at the same time I was not stimulated enough by them. AKA I got a little bored in spots.The plot surrounds an Aussie lawyer who becomes obsessed with certain dreams he has which link him to an Aborigone group he is defending.It starts out with an intense weather sequence and has some very awesome mood effects throughout (most notably the bizarre, belching sound design)and strong direction; but it just didn't entertain me like Weir's later films do. I might just need to watch it again though.Good film about obsession and mystery. Because, in the end, the mystery that exists between the whites and the Aboriginies offers some very severe consequences.God bless Peter Weir, though. For him alone this film is worth watching ... very organic director. Like an Aussie response Malick! I'd give it a 7 because it's got enough great ideas to overcome its boring moments. "},{"Title":"The Last Wave","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" David Burton(Richard Chamberlain, quite good)is a lawyer, more adept at handling corporate taxation(..and suffers from unusual dreams which bother him seeing this aboriginal man shrouded in darkness), who is called on to take a case concerning a group of aboriginals charged with the murder of one of their own named Billy..we see that he tries to steal stones with ritual painting on them and is killed when a leader of an aboriginal tribe named Charlie(Nandjiwarra Amagula)uses a death bone to stop his heart. Meanwhile, revolving around David, bizarre weather patterns effect Sydney such as rain beating down polluted dirt and rock-sized hail during bright blue skies(with no sights of clouds, such as the one that hits a school in central Australia), not to mention, a deformed rainbow which is split(!)into groups. As David pursues the case he finds that he is far closer to the weird events taking place than he could ever realize. One aboriginal named Chris(David Gulpilil)appears to him in a dream holding a stone with blood and he finds that this man is one of those he is to represent at trial! He finds that it's quite possible, after some strange meetings with Charlie and conversations with Chris, that he very well might be linked to a spirit named Mulkurul and that his dreams are actual premonitions of possible horrors yet to come.Absorbing apocalyptic drama builds it's story methodically and is completely original and unpredictable. With Peter Weir in charge, the film is visually arresting as we see these very overwhelming images of possible doom towards civilization, but the film's most compelling angle is certainly David's journey to find that monumental truth that plagues him as he questions Charlie and Chris countlessly, at first to help his men get off from a crime they didn't commit, and ultimately to find out what he has to do with anything catastrophic that is occurring or might occur later. "},{"Title":"...and still champion","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film when it was first released back in the late 70's. I found it to be somewhat confusing but ultimately fascinating. Imagery from the film has stayed with me all these years and after watching The Mothman Prophecies the other night, I felt compelled to take this out and view it again. It is slow, but it is atmospheric. I like films that are not accesable to everyone. Some call it pretentious, I call it ambitious. Besides, you don't like pretention? Then turn your t.v. on and surf the dial...now, is pretention all that bad? "},{"Title":"Idiot romantic crap about tribal people","Date":"3 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" What Weir succeeds in doing here is maintaining an atmosphere of pervasive dread throughout The Last Wave. With his massive fire hoses he will flood the vast red outback with a rare rainstorm, and then move towards his focused territory, by letting the elements smash windows and enter the man made domain. The rain-clouds hover over the urbanised city like a great grey shroud, and what little life and colour is lost in the showers. And then he will use movement in order to close into our characters. First, closeups of a trickle of water down stairs that seems almost harmless in comparison, but quickly gains momentum and a determined will of its own. Then he will slowly zoom into the family dinner table, as if the water has already reclaimed upstairs and is about to take the dining room too. It's a marvellous little bit of camera-induced claustrophobia, fear in the most apprehensive way, slow moving, implacable, unstoppable. Of course it is just a bathtub overflowing, but it begins to mean a lot more for David Burton, the Sydney-based solicitor. Unfortunately what Weir cannot do is match this with mood with an engaging, thoughtful narrative. It is not dissimilar to the problems I had with Picnic at Hanging Rock; a vague, ominous sense of foreboding, mystical powers that go unexplained, a mystery that goes beyond mankind's grasp. And it is broached in a way that has become more and more wearisome in recent times; a white man accidentally stumbles upon a thousands of years old secret, a festishsised native of the land, the mystic power that runs through their veins. David attempts to unlock the mysteries in a court session, but even more so from a modern perspective it feels like he is not only explaining this to himself, but to the audience. There is no subtext, no discourse attempted to unravel the multitude of issues regarding the Indigenous Aboriginal identity, how it is morphed within a urbanised context, how their morality is at odds with the western-centric law system, how their sense of community has been displaced, and so on. It descends into your standard horror/thriller riddled with suspense. It is a pity too, because the suspense is so well done. The visuals become a way of boring into the subconscious of David, and the awakening of his paranoia and fears - as the Mulkurul's duty is to warn of the coming apocalypse. His visions becomes surreal, and flicker between reality and dreamtime; a plague of descending frogs ala bible style, a stream of water trickling from his car dash that had just giving a rational explanation for the black globs of rain obscuring his windscreen, and then his whole car enveloped in a underwater trance. His dreams begin to haunt him - the camera moves quickly through the halls of the apartment, unnerved, as if running from an unseen beast, and then into David's own bedroom, peering down upon his place of solace, stalking, observing, threatening. Car fog-lights in the night become a shimmering, gliding phenomena, marring his rational mind. And in Wain's soundtrack, with the sinister synthesizer backing, and the soft but creeping didgerirdoo, we become aware of danger before we even see it, as though we too have inherited David's dreamlike sixth sense. But Weir veers too deeply, and what was seductive and fear-inducing becomes disorientating. He robs us of our senses by having David manoeuvre through dark tunnels and caves, and in a rare moment of genius, contrasts the feeble light of his flash-light alongside Charlie's dancing, lively flame. But he turns away, grabs blindly at a relic that may or may not be important, and staggers out into the real world again. This ending is supposed to be ambiguous, but Weir renders this effect impotent by showing the unending wrath and power of the waves of the ocean in an entirely separate frame from from David's blinking, disbelieving eyes. This seems to be the result of a small budget - and if you look carefully and spot the surfer on the beach of David's apocalyptic vision, you would tend to agree. "},{"Title":"Where the mundane meets the unexplainable","Date":"20 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" It does not seem to intertwine with each other on the surface in the beginning, of native Aborigines at the outback, a rural school in the desert, and a traffic jam on the streets of Sydney. But what actually binds them is that there has been an unusual adverse weather condition suddenly appearing in Sydney itself, which the local Aborigines seem to only know what is going to happen.David Burton (Richard Chamberlain) is actually a corporate tax lawyer himself, but he would be finding himself defending four local Aborigines over a mysterious murder of one of their members which took place at a pub on the same day when the sudden adverse of weather conditions had taken place in the city. After he decides to take on the case by himself after his colleague Michael Zeadler (Peter Carroll) had dropped out, he starts to experience an unusual spate of events which would also come to affect his own family as well. But at the same time, he also feels an unusual connection with one of the four accused in Chris (David Gulpilil).It is the scene before the opening montages of seemingly ordinary and unrelated scenes of Sydney which would give an indicator of what is going to happen, of an Aborigine drawing something in a cave. It does make one wonder whether that is a sign of something major is about to happen where it seems that even if there are no more Aboriginal groups in Sydney itself, does the weather has anything to do with what their people had been expecting.There is always something about the role of water in apocalyptic scenarios, and it is present almost all the time even in the lighter moments of the film. It does make one challenge own's beliefs of the unexplainable when someone like David who looks on the surface not relating to the four Aborigines, finds himself that there is more than it meets the eye of trying to defend the four men over what was ruled as a homicide.Thrillers can take in many forms, and it need not always be of the horrifying kind. It has always been said that it is the journey and not the destination, and it shows in the film where it leaves you guessing what is going on. This film does give a look into how it seems like even in the modern world, how ancient reminders from another time are still around us even when we may not notice it with our naked eye. "},{"Title":"A Hard Rain's A-Gonna Fall","Date":"22 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" A crushing hailstorm in Sydney, Australia is bad enough to injure schoolchildren. Heavy rains continue while successful lawyer Richard Chamberlain (as David Burton) dines with his wife Olivia Hamnett (as Annie) and two little daughters. Upstairs, their bathtub overflows, causing water to run down the stairway. The taps seem to have turned on by themselves. The rains continue to slam down on residents as Mr. Chamberlain agrees to defend five Aborigines (native Australians) accused of drowning a man...Chamberlain is startled upon meeting one of his five wayward clients, eerie David Gulpilil (as Chris Lee), who previously appeared to him in a dream or vision. When even more mysterious Nandjiwarra Amagula (as Charlie) appears, the plot thickens. The rain turns darker...The Last Wave is an interesting take on the Sumerian Flood Story re-told in tales of Gilgamesh and Noah. It seems appropriate that a fourth flood (by one count, anyway) should herald an Apocalypse. Although story gets washed away in hocus pocus; it is thought-provoking, well directed by Peter Weir, and beautifully photographed by Russell Boyd. You could probably come up with several better endings; a simple re-editing of what is there would be more satisfying and less confusing.******* The Last Wave (11/5/77) Peter Weir ~ Richard Chamberlain, Olivia Hamnett, David Gulpilil, Nandjiwarra Amagula "},{"Title":"Australian History and its most beautiful lies","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Australia is a weird society. It's filled with good people who enjoy a good life, a much better life than third world folk. The trouble is that good life was gained by the slaughter of it's local population, the Aboriginal people of Australia, a people whose life land and liberty was stolen from them out of sheer evil greed. These are a people that since 1788 White Australia pretends doesn't actually exist. To admit they actually exist, would open White Australia up to dealing with the guilt over its dark past, and possibly dealing with the guilt over the real source of that good life. White Australia can thus be described as a big sooky trust fund baby, every bit as daft as Paris Hilton, a blithering idiot lacking the intelligence to understand or truly appreciate the pain that was wrought to bring about her wealth that she actually, stupidly, feels she arrogantly deserves.Legendary American thinker Mark Twain once wrote that Australian history does not read like history, but like the most beautiful lies.The fact that a British Actor, and not a White Australian actor, played the role of a White Man defending Aborigines in court in what is in point of fact, a 100% Australian movie, wholeheartedly speaks to the above. It took a foreign born actor to truthfully see the Aussie forest through its racist and pathologically disturbed trees. "}{"Title":"Moody but ultimately maybe unsatisfying...","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I saw this film yesterday at my local independent cinema. Both its main man, Chamberlain, and the director Weir are unknown to me although I gather from looking around here that both have had pretty illustrious careers.I won't revisit the plot. Lots of other people have already done that. Suffice to say, the film's main strength, for me, was its unsettling ambiance. Much of that has to do with Chamberlain's unfathomable persona and vaguely alien looks. The electronica soundtrack adds to the mood. The script is spartan, with room to breathe, which further adds to the unsettling tone.The special effects are as simplistic as you'd expect from an Australian film made at the back end of the 70s.As someone else has mentioned, the climax wave probably suffers as a consequence of budgetary limitations. "},{"Title":"The 2004 tsunami gives this film another layer of context.","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" For his follow-up to 1975's Picnic at Hanging Rock, Peter Weir did a good job of crafting a new film that utilizes some of the same themes but stands on its own. The Last Wave is one part courtroom drama and one part disaster flick with some supernatural horror and a lot of suspense mixed in.The cinematography is excellent, an early scene involving a hail storm in the desert particularly stood out. The acting is good if not spectacular, I thought Charlie (Nandjiwarra Amagula) was particularly essential even though he doesn't speak much and isn't a professional actor. Overall the story isn't quite as mesmerizing as PaHR, Weir might have benefited from periodically relieving the building suspense as proof against losing the audience.As an American I found the movie's look at the racial climate of Australia in 1977 quite interesting. In particular the white Australians' understanding and acceptance of Aboriginal beliefs is called into question.Having just recently experienced, through the news at least, a catastrophic tsunami this film seemed especially vital. I think I can still get away without a spoiler warning if I say The Last Wave deals with man's relationship to nature and the idea that at any time a civilization may be wiped out. "},{"Title":"Requires, but doesn't necessarily reward, patience.","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  An interesting premise, with civil law vs. tribal law, and a culture clash so imbedded in a society that it lingers even in the soul (?) of an otherwise unassuming lawyer. However, The Last Wave bogs down in a muddled narrative and loses itself in dark dream/chase scenes that come too late to salvage a story that moves at the rate of molasses. I like Weir, and I can see plenty of Weir-ness here, but this movie taxed my patience. "},{"Title":"Darkly Bizarre Low-Budget Import","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Mood, Atmosphere, and Dread. How's that for a Supernatural Movie Template. The Aussie Director Peter Weir (now entrenched in Hollywood with critical acclaim) uses His Once Limited Resources to Display Artistic Flourishes with Enhanced Realism that Never Allows the SFX or the Sensationalism of the Story's Surrealism to Draw Distracting Attention to Itself.It's an Eeriie and Ominous and at times Chilling Clash of Cultures. The Stoic Portrayal from Richard Chamberlain as a Confused and Confounded Lawyer Bombarded with a Bizarre murder Case and Dreams and Experiences He Struggles to Comprehend is Fine. His Family is Literally Drowned out of the Movie by the Power of Aboriginal Mind Control and His Inability to Understand.There are Images to Impress and a Very Creepy Soundtrack where both Music and Sound Effects are Unique and Important to the Movie's Tone. The Native Aboriginal Actors are Used for Effective Enhancement and the Polar Opposite of Chamberlain's Blonde Hair, Blue Eyed Caucasian Race.The Climax in the Cave is Haunting and may Drag On a bit too Long, but that is a Nit-Pick because it does Look Literally like a Haunted Cave. The Titled Last Wave is Shown as a Minimalist Make Up Your Own Mind Ending. "},{"Title":"Pretentious but Solid","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  In our post-modern age we look over our shoulders with wistful nostalgia at ancient cultures, as if they were somehow superior.  This finds its greatest thrust in the myth of Atlantis.  Certainly there are ancient structures all over the world that are beyond the scope of moderns.  There's also a sense that ancient cultures were closer not only to nature but the spiritual world.  Ancient cultures had strong spiritual beliefs.  Europeans are often put down, but before the so-called Enlightenment, medieval Europe was lived very much in respect of nature and intimately with a mystical spirituality.  The Enlightenment, and the Industrial Revolution helped separate European man from these, possibly to his detriment;  though few of us would prefer to go back to a day without indoor plumbing, central heating, aspirin, good roads, electric lighting, graded food, etc.In reality, most ancient cultures were violent and very legalistic.  Hopefully, no one wants to see the Aztecs return.  Though Cortez crushed the Aztecs, they surely did the same to the Toltecs, and possibly the Anasazi.  They were a brutal people, cutting the hearts out of living sacrifices to appease their bloodthirsty gods.  And many ancient cultures were the same.  They lived close to nature and the spiritual world -- but also in fear of it, and the appeasement of these forces often came in the form of blood.  And because the cultures were extraordinarily legalistic, even small breaches of the law were punished with the harshest penalties.In The Last Wave, a young Australian lawyer, Burton, (Richard Chamberlain, whose performance is remarkable despite, or because of, his blatant lack of an Australian accent) is called upon to defend several young men of aboriginal descent of murder.  Chamberlain is a typical modern man, with a nice house and family.   His case looks typically open and shut.  He will put up his best defense, but it looks hopeless.  The defendants are surly and unhelpful.  Burton is also troubled with dreams and visions.  Especially troubling is the repeated appearance of one of his clients, and ancient stones with aboriginal markings.  Then the odd this start happening, like black rain.  And on top of this, a straightforward murder case is unfolding to be a shamanistic ritual killing of a violator of tribal code.  Burton becomes obsessed with the case, not with trying to prove his clients innocent but to protect his own sanity, and find out what's going on that's tearing his ordinary modern life apart.The Last Wave is a challenging movie.  Nothing is laid out for the audience.  Viewers must rely on their own inferences to deduce the meaning of the movie, if the movie has any meaning at all.  Like many directors in similar situations, Peter Weir can't resist the temptation to be pretentious.  His obfuscation also becomes tedious after a while, and only the sense of desperation Richard Chamberlain projects gives the film tension.  Without an actor of Chamberlain's ability, the film is so thin it would surely fall apart.Worth seeing as an early for of Peter Weir, and for Chamberlain's performance, but don't expect any easy answers.  Don't expect any answers at all. "},{"Title":"Interesting to watch but missing something.","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The film stars Richard Chamberlin as a corporate attorney who has mysteriously taken on a case defending Aborigines in the city of Australia. A few remaining members of a tribe are accused of killing a man wanting to join their tribe.The film has an intoxicating, mesmerizing feel to it with the long, lingering shots, the slower pace, the scenes of rain and water flowing, the dreamy and unusual soundtrack. It is interesting to watch and the film does draw you in. However, something is missing here. The film needed narration, which makes me sound very American, or explanation that is a bit more clear. The attorney has dreams and learns that his dreams come true so does that mean his vision of water and death are prophetic? It seems so but then the film ends and it's a bit anti-climactic, a bit of a letdown.I think it would have worked better for me had the script been a bit less esoteric. "},{"Title":"Peter Weir's The Last Wave is a fascinating movie about Aborigines and their culture","Date":"7 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" When I saw that a DVD of this Australian movie directed by Peter Weir was at my local library, I immediately checked it out. I knew that Richard Chamberlain-star of such miniseries as Centennial, Shogun, and The Thorn Birds-was in this and he played a man defending an Aboriginal for murder. What I didn't expect were the various dream-like sequences in Chamberlain's mind nor the culture lesson concerning the tribal legends of Australia. This certainly was an eye-opening movie to watch for me and despite some slow moving scenes, it's a fascinating watch throughout. I really don't want to reveal anything else so I'll just say that I highly recommend The Last Wave. "},{"Title":"Solid atmosphere, flat story.","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The Last Wave is an excellent example of a director taking a subject that I couldn't be less interested in and making it mildly worthwhile. The bland Richard Chamberlain stars as David Burton, a lawyer in Sydney who has to defend five Aborigines against a murder charge. This could have been a compelling thriller, with themes of racial injustice and the works, but instead it focuses so heavily on the fact that the murder was a ritual one by their tribe and it delves deep into the supernatural element of it all.The film goes heavily into this tribe and an epic prophecy about the rain coming and all of that, but I honestly got incredibly lost in the whole thing. Maybe it was my lack of interest in the subject matter that led me to fall so far behind, but I don't think the script did a solid job of getting the knowledge across. So when the epic final sequence came, I was impressed on a technical level but still didn't understand much of what was happening. Some of the blame could be removed from the script though and placed on Chamberlain, who is such a dull lead performer that it would be hard for anyone to focus on this character. There are some moments built around Burton's family that could have been touching, but when you don't care at all about the character it's kind of hard to care about his struggles with his family.Still, I'm giving the film a slightly positive rating thanks to Weir's direction, which despite my lack of interest was able to impress several times. It takes a lot to leave me thinking about a film whose story I couldn't care less about, and that goes to show the skill of Weir's work here. As with all of his films, there are several powerful sequences that are staged with expert precision on his part. Throughout the film Burton experiences terrifying dreams of the Aborigines and these sequences get right underneath your skin and create an eerie sensation for the whole picture. They are appropriately chilling and set up the entire tone, constantly leaving you in suspense. I just wish that the story itself had been half as gripping as the individual sequences. "},{"Title":"Weighty with waterlogged profundities...","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" In Australia, four Aborigine men stand accused of causing the death of, or perhaps murdering, one of their own; a white taxation lawyer becomes involved, but he can't seem to break through to the secretive defendants--nor can he shake the feeling that something is terribly amiss in his own life, which is juxtaposed by the freaky-wet weather. Would-be apocalyptic mishmash from director and co-writer Peter Weir begins with a marvelously spooky sequence in the schoolyard (where hailstones fall from a cloudless sky), yet the eerie beauty of that opening is allowed to dribble away in a melodramatic study of class and race guilt--the wealthy and powerful whites versus the poor black Aboriginals--underscored with supernatural flourishes. Weir wants to be profound and serious, so there's nothing intrinsically mysterious or exciting about the lawyer's prophetic dreams, nor his relationships with the Aborigine tribe or his wife and daughters. A potentially fascinating situation is kept ominously mundane, while lead actor Richard Chamberlain drifts through in an anxious fog. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"This movie lost me toward its end.","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This movie really starts off promising alright but the movie in the end is being still a slightly disappointing one, with its eventual end result.I just didn't liked what and where the story was heading to. I was really interested at first, when the story grabs you with its original mystery but soon the story starts to go downhill, due to the direction it's starting to take with its story. At first the movie makes you go; that's interesting! But in the end it makes you go; who cares! In that regard The Last Wave is being a slightly disappointing movie. The movie just doesn't do a very great job with keeping your interest, which is also due to the, at times, messy storytelling. Lots of things don't get resolved, or explained properly enough.Still it's a movie that deserves lots of credits. Even though the story doesn't always work out and doesn't manage to be an interesting one throughout, it's still a very original and refreshing one. This is definitely a one of a kind movie, that balances somewhere between a more art-house type of movie and a regular '70's thriller/mystery.The movie also does work out refreshing due to its settings. This is an Australian movie, that is also being set in Australia. So next to its 'change' of settings, the movie also features some different from Hollywood type of characters. Aboriginals also play a large role within this movie and mainly so does their culture.The movie gets for most part carried by its leading man, Richard Chamberlain. He does a great job at it. He has never been an actor that has broken through big time but he basically is a guy that does a great job with any type of role that he plays.It's a movie that I have some mixed feelings about but still, overall the positive and original aspects of this movie outweigh its negative and less successful sides.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Banga goes another kanga on the bonnet of the van!","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I've read in many places that this is Peter Weir's masterpiece (my vote goes to Picnic), but I really thought this was lacking something upon my first viewing. I appreciated the exploration of tension between Australians and Aborigines within the framework of a horror film, but the suggestions of ancient spirits and prophecies and apocalyptic vision never seemed to come to fruition. There is some creepy imagery, but the movie lost me at the end. The structure of the film is very similar to Picnic, where less is more and unexplained mysteries are the true horror, but everything in The Last Wave is seriously confusing. This maybe be a film that demands multiple viewings in order to fully appreciate, so I'll likely visit it again sometime down the road. "},{"Title":"An interesting work of urban fantasy.","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  So what is urban fantasy?  Fantasy that takes place in an urban setting there's no more to it than that.  But an urban setting can have quite an effect on the character of a work of fiction.  Think what Charles Dickens would have been like if he hadn't been a city-dweller.The Last Wave is not, as some have alleged, unclear - unless it's so unclear that I failed to even notice whatever it was I was failing to understand.  The story is so very simple I'm surprised Weir manages to spin it out so engagingly for so long.  Many things Weir will explain, as if for the densest member of the audience, several times, but he somehow contrives to make each fresh telling us what we already know interesting.  Of course, if you listen to the explanations people give about the nature of the Dreamtime, and try to make sense of THEM, you're doomed.  It's like trying to make sense of Catholic theology.  Don't waste your time.I don't think there's anything wrong with Weir's visual sense, either.  He succeeds in making Sydney look and feel storm-tossed and WET the look is sometimes murky (although we open with a blaze of scorching sunlight), but murky, if you follow me, in a clear way.  While on the subject of atmosphere I do wish Weir hadn't undercut his own fine style by throwing in a musically impoverished electronic score.  I'm not surprised, though the music in Weir's films is never very good.  Ah, well.SPOILER What was it with those last few shots?  The conclusion would have been SO much more satisfying if the final shot had been one of David's frozen expression as he gazed out across the sea at the cataclysmic wave.  We'd get the idea.  Curiously, when we SEE the wave, this somehow raises the possibility that it isn't really there - partly because the special effects aren't so hot, and partly because we've seen this kind of improbable image before, the wave looks as if it might be just another one of David's visions, and what's the point of ending the film with one of them?  If Weir was TRYING for ambiguity, he was making a mistake.  The only way to end this story is with the promised apocalypse.  Nothing less will suffice.  It's a private apocalypse; You must remember, the wave is part of 'the Dreamtime' ... well, if that's the case, who cares? "},{"Title":"Worthy effort...","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Peter Weir's first film released in the United States is a worthy effort cinematically (beautiful photography by Russel Boyd), but the script is confused and muttled.  The pacing is slightly off, as the film drags on in the middle after an interesting start.  This, however, was the start of Weir's amazing and illustrious career.  From this, however, spawned one of the top ten directors alive today.   "},{"Title":"Disappointing after all that hype.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I jumped at the chance to view this movie uncut and uninterrupted, remembering rahs and raves for it.  But wherever it seemed about to slip into being truly scary, it backed off and went somewhere else.  The dripping water throughout the house, the black rain, the prophetic dreams, taking the wrong turn in raw sewage were dropped before they could work up to a scream.What a disappointment.  Chamberlain's nearly expressionless mask of a face offered little but confused disbelief, something I found myself mirroring as the film wore on.  What could have been eerie Aboriginal chanting and instruments in the background were instead a cacophony seemingly designed to beat terror into one's head.  The ideas that modern people can embody ancient gods, that the Aboriginal peoples believe red-haired white men were the first priests, and many other possibilities are passed along more like a shopping list than a hint at another dimension (the Dream Time).SPOILER In the final scene, it wasn't clear to me what the director was trying to tell.  Is there a big wave?  So what?  How big?  A tsunami?  Yeah, okay.  That's devastating but not apocalyptic.  Is it the end of the world?  From a wave?  The last wave?  That'd have to be a pretty darn big wave.  Why?  Was the world that bad a place?  It didn't seem so awful in this movie.  Actually I didn't think the wave came off, since the shadow left Burton's face that had been cast by the wave.  Was it only Burton's apocalypse?  Heck, that happens every day to people who lose it.  It wasn't of any interest if it was only him.The most frightening scene, and the one that gives the best indication of Weir's potential, was in Charlie's apartment where Burton has gone to confront the old man for scaring Burton's wife.  Charlie keeps asking him Who are you? and it becomes truly disturbing after a while.  Unfortunately, the movie never followed suit. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" A Sydney lawyer (Richard Chamberlain) defends five Aborigines in a ritualized taboo murder and in the process learns disturbing things about himself.Besides being a great film with a legal angle and a murder mystery angle, this is a great look at different cultures (particularly aborigine culture), how they interact, and the concept of dream time which may not be known to white Australians and certainly is unknown in the United States.Peter Weir, more than any other director, has really brought Australia to the world and showed its best sides and why we should care. "},{"Title":"A mixed bag of great visuals and a blurry plot","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is one of those movies that makes you chuckle at the end because it did not answer any of the questions it sparked along the way. Yet, the more I think or talk about it the deeper it seems. The best supernatural thrillers are those that end with a sense of closure coupled with ambiguity. To me this is more real than a film that pretends to have all of the answers. No matter how enmeshed one becomes in the supernatural there will always remain a sense of mystery. Our natural minds just cannot completely encompass the purpose and mechanics of the supernatural world. More than once the Old Testament says of God His ways are not our ways. His thoughts are not our thinking. In the New Testament Paul wrote that at best we see through a glass darkly. I believe this sums up the inherent futility of man's attempt to impose his logic on a dimension that has it's own separate logic. It's a language we cannot speak, spoken on a frequency we can rarely and barely discern if ever at all.Weir succeeds in conveying a sense of consciousness in nature phenomenon. In fact the weather appears to be separate character with it's own distinct visage and voice. This is the films greatest achievement.The film sets everything up well but ultimately fails to engage us plot. At pivotal moments the key characters motivations are not clear at all. Why does Chamberlains character do that at the end? Why is this place or that thing so special? I really didn't understand the most fundamental plot device until I watched the interview included in the extras. A great film doesn't require Cliff's notes.I think Weir was trying to give us sense of the supernatural and our relation to it by implying it through sounds and images. That's good. It works. This is real. The problem is that the plot is also merely implied. While I was enticed to watch until the end and pleased with the mood of the film in the end there was no payoff. "},{"Title":"Unclear","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  There are some interesting and enjoyable parts but I think the writer tried too hard to make it dramatic.An earlier commentator criticized other commentators for trying to make sense of the movie. The problem is that it is difficult to understand how a lot of the movie relates to other parts. There is a trial and I guess the results of the trial are mentioned but the movie proceeds as if there were not a trial and everything in the portion of the movie following the trial is confusing to me about what affect on anybody or anything that anything has.  "},{"Title":"Intriguing but dull and unsatisfying.","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  In my opinion, those who give positive reviews to The Last Wave confuse the film's intentions with the actual results. Sure, the script is full of intriguing, occult and apocalyptic ideas, but it lacks coherence and never bothers to explain what's going on. That would be fine, if we could at least SEE clearly the images onscreen. But even that is often impossible, because this movie is SO visually murky. Dramatically, it's cold, uninvolving and badly paced; the tension never gets going and the central hero is hard to identify with. The film has a great last shot, but until then it's just plain DULL, as even Weir fans should admit. "}]