[{"Title":"Ray Harryhausen at his very best","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When I saw this in the theater as a 7 or 8 year old kid, I cried when it finished. It was by far the most captivating movie I had ever seen. I liked it better than Star Wars. The unbelievable stop-motion effects of Harryhausen still look great, even when compared to CGI. Things have not improved much. And Jane Seymore in the belly-dancer outfit! Good Lord! You must see this movie to believe it! The gold minotaur rowing the boat and the fight between the troglodyte and the saber-toothed tiger at the end stand out in my mind so strongly when I think of this movie.Get a copy of this movie, Jason and the Argonauts, and then Clash of the Titans and you have a fantastic Saturday afternoon of movie watching. "},{"Title":"Really cheesy but lots of fun","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is one of my guilty pleasures; everyone makes fun of me because I love this movie. Ray Harryhausen has been panned over this film, but I think he did a fantastic job. It's inventive and eye-catching, and the Minoton is a marvel.Patrick Wayne is strong-jawed and stalwart as Sinbad, but Jane Seymour, as the princess, obviously hadn't done much acting yet when she made this film. She's really bad in the role of Sinbad's love interest. She beat Bo Derek by 4 years in starting the cornrow hairstyle, and most of her hairdos in this movie are more interesting than her acting. The biggest hoot in the movie is Margaret Whiting as the evil Queen. She's got an accent that won't quit, but as the film goes on that accent begins to fascinate the viewer; she's a really good actress, which surprised me. Even when she turns herself into a seagull. It's the outlandish creatures, scenes, and settings that a Harryhausen movie always has that are its great charms, and this film is one of the most inventive of his career. Don't expect rocket science when you watch this, just expect to be royally entertained. The new Twilight Time Blu-ray release (December 2013) of the film is a wonder and highly recommended, but hurry and order it today...there are only 3,000 copies available. "},{"Title":"DVD release is a gem for Harryhausen fans","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Okay, so the film isn't a masterpiece for anyone involved, but the DVD is worth the price for Harryhausen fans. I won't reiterate a fairly lame plot but to say that a prince is morphed into a baboon and Sinbad must find a way to correct this untimely development in order to repay a friend and win the hand of the lovely Jane Seymour. All in all, the film turns out to be rather entertaining once Patrick Troughton makes it on-screen to flesh-out the dialogue. Overshadowing the movie's multiple shortcomings, however, is the always inspiring stop-motion work of Ray Harryhausen. The Trog and sabre-tooth are two fine creations and while we don't see anything on par with the 7 skeletons in Jason & the Argonauts or Medusa from Clash of the Titans there are some great moments with other creatures. While to be treasured as one of Harryhausen's last films the DVD also includes the added bonus of The Ray Harryhausen Chronicles, an in-depth documentary narrated by Leonard Nimoy featuring a bio and interviews with today's FX masters. This and other features combine to make an otherwise average fantasy/adventure film worth a look--if you're a Harryhausen fan and you've got a DVD player. For all the extra features, I'll give the DVD a 6/10. "},{"Title":"For children when wonder and Imagination were still in vogue!","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" (Minor Spoilers)Let's be honest and a tad realistic about this film, shall we?By TODAY'S standards, this is a cheesy kinda film compared to what technology we've got. And I think at the time of this release we had gotten Close Encounters of the Third Kind and Star Wars so our expectation levels were running higher for special effects and whimsy than this.But I still can get entertainment out of this film.How?By remembering how old I was when I saw it and WHOM I was with when I saw it. My family.I was a child. This film wasn't in my all time top ten, but it was...fun. It was one of those movies local channels threw on Sunday afternoon before or after a televised ball game..or when a ball game was rained out. Come on, admit it..you remember!And that's the point. This film's special effects were nice..not spectacular..not even up to Ray Harryhausen's standards, but the Harryhausen mark was there which made it entertaining (Admit it, you LOVED the walrus scene!! How 'bout that Cyclops?!?! As a child this was all good! You remember!!).For very young girls, this Sinbad was REALLY nice to look at back then. For the very young guys, so was Miss Jane Seymour and Miss Taryn Power. Then there was the story which was kinda fun, the adventure which was kinda whimsical and the happy ending where the bad guys got theirs'.This was done at a time of assuming children would love this kinda stuff. Back then, more would have. Now, most children don't even think Spy Kids can give them a buzz.This movie is about childhood and remembering what it was like to have an imagination and watch a story unfold for nothing but the sheer enjoyment of it...the fun of eating Good 'n' Plenty, Snowcaps, Malted Milk Balls and Popcorn without thinking about calorie content to make this even more fun to watch...and the eye candy of Wayne, Seymour and Power help a so-so story that's really better than a lot of stuff I've seen today that they charge ya $10 a ticket for! Parents may not have liked it as much as the children but that too is part of the fun!Have a heart when watching this. Watch this as a fun romp....as remembering when families watched shows together (..or in my case my dad mumbling under his breath about how the game was due on and he had to sit through this 'crap' first!), the pre-teen tingles of watching a handsome Wayne, young Seymour and/or Power (...ya know...before having breast implants and weighing 95 pounds was mandatory in Hollywood for women to do this kind of film work?!?) and telling your parents you were REALLY interested in the story...really.Maybe I've got a more nostalgic view about this film..its because I'm not looking for academy award winning material with this kind of film, but it does its job of...entertaining...and if you have children and want them to be children for a tad longer, this may be the film fare for them. Or just for you, if you want to curl up with some popcorn and remember the good old movie fluff days where special effects were done by hand and stop motion photography by the grand-daddy of the genre and a Sinbad movie where Sinbad actually looked like you might imagined him to look like back then and evil characters who were evil and got theirs....pretty much simplified.Open your mind and when you have a moment...enjoy. Don't take it seriously just sit back... watch...and HAVE FUN..with your children, as a family. "},{"Title":"Excellent third and final Sinbad movie from Ray Harryhausen","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger was the third and final Sinbad movie with Ray Harryhausen creatures.In this one, a prince is turned into a stop-motion baboon and Sinbad and crew go on an expedition to Ademaspai to restore him back to human form. They face plenty of dangers on the way including several giant creatures, some of them prehistoric (more on those later). He is being followed by an evil witch with magic powers, Zenobia, along with her son and a stop-motion metal creature, Minoton. On one occasion, she turns herself into a seagull to spy on Sinbad and on return to her ship as she transforms back, she is left with a webbed foot as she has ran out of potion. She is defeated at the end in the form of a Sabre-toothed Tiger and the prince is restored back to human form.Now to those creatures we start with a trio of ghouls and other creatures include a giant wasp, a giant walrus, a Troglodite and the above mentioned Sabre-toothed tiger. The other two stop-motion creatures, Minoton and the baboon appear throughout the movie. All of them look impressive, thanks to Ray Harryhausen.Sinbad is played well by the Duke's son Patrick Wayne (The People That Time Forgot) and the rest of the cast includes Dr Who actor Patrick Troughton, Bond girl Jane Seymour (Live and Let Die), Taryn Power, Margaret Whiting as Zenobi and Nadim Sawalha.Though not as good as the first Sinbad movie, The Seventh Voyage of Sinbad, I still enjoyed watching this one. Excellent.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"A weak Sinbad, but still a first-rate tale.","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A film with animation by Ray Harryhausen.  It's a pity he couldn't have animated Patrick Wayne, who's bland performance means he comes across as the least interesting Sinbad.  It is Patrick Troughton's excellently enigmatic Melanthius and Margaret Whiting's icy Zenobia who are the real stars of this show.Sinbad travels to find a way to break the spell which has turned a prince into a baboon, but Zenobia, who has plans to ensure her son is crowned king in the prince's place, calls upon the help of various mythical creatures.  The minotaur is by far the best of these and ought to have faced Sinbad and his crew rather than just being crushed in an ignoble exit.  Other memorable creatures include a giant walrus, insectoid-faced demons and a sabre-toothed cat.  Though the central character of the title is somewhat lacking, this is still first-rate entertainment and genuine escapism, two things somewhat lacking in more recent films. "},{"Title":"7/10 ~ 4/5 ~ Imperfectly Wonderful Ray Harryhausen Fantasy Fun.","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sinbad the Sailor voyages to the mythic northern realm of Hyperborea to restore a caliph from an evil witch's transformation.Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger, the follow-up to the classics The Seventh Voyage of Sinbad and The Golden Voyage of Sinbad, is an uneven conclusion to Ray Harryhausen's celebrated Sinbad Trilogy. The troubled production began with a draggy script, budgetary restrictions and an inexperienced director; the film as released suffers from choppy editing, over-length and routine music scoring. One animation highlight (the giant walrus) is obscured by an optical snowstorm. The attractive cast performs listlessly and the villain is campy rather than truly menacing, although former Doctor Who Patrick Troughton is delightful as a befuddled wizard.Yet, for all its flaws, Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger remains an entertaining escapade in the old-fashioned Saturday-Matinée tradition. Costuming and settings are colorful and the film looks handsome in widescreen. The quest for the mystical Shrine of the Four Elements has a particularly epic quality with the usual eclectic blend of mythical elements set against the backdrop of the Arabian Nights.Most importantly, Harryhausen's realistic stop-motion animation is as extraordinary as ever, with two of the animated-puppet creatures -- Kassim the Baboon and Trog the Troglodyte -- successfully functioning as actual communicative characters within the body of the story. Other wonders include insectoid demons, an over-sized mosquito, Minaton the Brass Minotaur and the saber-tooth tiger of the title.Genuine movie fantasy is a rare commodity, and Ray Harryhausen's vision and conviction shine through the circumstances of production to make this a satisfying final visit to the land beyond Beyond. "},{"Title":"Rounds out the trilogy nicely.","Date":"9 July 2010","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger is directed by Sam Wannamaker and is the third and final Sinbad film that Ray Harryhausen (and his stop-motion creations) made for Columbia after The 7th Voyage of Sinbad and The Golden Voyage of Sinbad. It stars Patrick Wayne (Sinbad), Jane Seymour (Princess Farah), Taryn Power (Dione), Patrick Troughton (Melanthius), Margaret Whiting (Zenobia) and Nadim Sawalha (Hassan). Studio work was done in England, with the exterior location work done in Spain, Malta and Jordan.Evil sorceress Zenobia has designs on the throne and transforms the heir, Prince Kassim, into a Baboon. Kassim's sister calls on Captain Sinbad for help, who learns that a fabled man by the name of Melanthius may be their only hope. They face a perilous journey to the end of the World (a place called Hyperborea) with Zenobia and her black magic tricks in hot pursuit.Depending on if you are a fantasy/adventure fan or not may determine how much, if at all, you get from Sinbad & The Eye Of The Tiger. For the film is chocked full of cheese and acting of the hammiest kind. The plot is your standard set up for the irrepressible Sinbad-he must travel to some remote destination to stave off evil and realign the World, and our faith, in the name of good. While it's safe to say that the film is about 15 minutes too long for a Sinbad adventure. On the other side of the coin, tho, fans of the genre and Harryhausen's work are in for a treat.The cast have as much charisma than you can shake a stick at, perhaps not surprising when you have the offspring of John & Tyrone starring, and the adventure is colourful and dealing nicely in the realm of the fantastique. It also finds Harryhausen on super form as we are treated to skeletal demons, a bronze minotan, a big bad wasp, a gigantic walrus, a trog and a snarling sabre tooth tiger. But best of all is his baboon because the creature is part of the cast from practically start to finish, thus it interacts with the human actors and has a personality all of its own. With one particularly emotive scene a real standout in the Harryhausen/Sinbad trilogy. For the girls is the sight of Wayne in fine physical and swash buckling shape, and for the boys is the twin niceties of Power and Seymour who steadily get skimpier in their attire during the course of the story. Troughton has a good time as the mad/eccentric/genius alchemist, while Whiting owns the film with her delightfully over the top trip into evil villainy.It's presumed that newcomers to the movie know what to expect going into this one, whilst old fans revisiting it should hopefully find that it's holding up rather well considering the genre it sits in. Good old family fun that may be weak on story but strong on popcorn entertainment value. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A hugely enjoyable and underrated fantasy adventure treat","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Evil witch Zenobia (a wonderfully robust and wicked portrayal by Margaret Whiting) casts a spell on Prince Kassim (handsome Damien Thomas) which transforms him into a baboon. Courageous legendary sailor Sinbad (a solid and likable performance by Patrick Wayne) embarks on a dangerous journey to the chilly Artic in order to reverse the spell before it's too late. Assisting Sinbad on his perilous pilgrimage are fiery Princess Farah (radiantly played by the beautiful Jane Seymour), flaky wise old wizard Melanthius (a delightfully dotty Patrick Troughton) and Melanthius' feisty daughter Dione (a winning turn by luscious blonde looker Taryn Power). Standing in Sinbad's way are Zenobia and her no-count son Rafi (a nicely venomous Kurt Christian). Director Sam Wanamaker ably maintains a brisk pace throughout, stages the frequent thrilling action scenes with considerable brio, and effectively creates a charming magical atmosphere. Ray Harryhausen's extraordinary stop-motion animation creatures include a chess-playing baboon (the sequence where the baboon reacts to its reflection in a mirror with startled grief is truly remarkable), a trio of skeletal sword-wielding humanoid insect demons, a powerful bronze colossus called the Minoton, a savage gigantic walrus, a helpful horned club-brandishing troglodyte, and a ferocious saber-toothed tiger. The scene where Power and Seymour go skinny-dipping is pretty bold for a G-rated film. Roy Budd's splendidly stirring'n'sweeping majestic orchestral score and Ted Moore's exquisitely rich, vivid and vibrant saturated color cinematography further add to the overall enjoyment of this engaging and satisfying fantasy adventure treat. "},{"Title":"Wonderful adventure  filmed in Spain  where Sinbad seeks to restore  a prince  from  monkey spell to which an evil witch has reduced him","Date":"22 May 2012","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Loose retelling of the ¨ 1001 Arabian nights¨ , based on ancient legends , deals with Sinbad The Sailor (Patrick Wayne) sails to deliver a cursed prince Kassin (Damien Thomas) to a dangerous island in the face of deadly opposition from a powerful witch (Margaret Whiting) . In the mysterious land Hyperboria Sinbad along with a sorcerer (Patrick Troughton) and his crew encounter magical and mystical creatures .This exciting picture contains swashbuckling , magic , fast-moving plot , thrills , impressive fights among monsters and lots of fun . It is an exciting fantasy-adventure full of special effects created by means of stop-motion technique by the magician Ray Harryhausen . The runtime is adequate with various incidents and sub-plots . Harryhausen works his animation magic around a passable-developed screenplay and engaging acting by the entire performers . The cast is enjoyable with sons of famous actors as Patrick Wayne and Taryn Power and a gorgeous and very young Jane Seymour . Agreeable film but hamhanded and confusing if you seek the hidden plot . Ray can once again claim credit for the unusual and marvelous mythical creatures springing to life , such as Smilodon , Troglodite , Mandril , an enormous mosquito , a giant Morse and many others . The picture belongs a trilogy , produced by Ray Harryhausen and Charles H. Schneer , along with ¨The seventh voyage of Simbad¨ (1958) by Nathan Juran with Kerwin Matthews and Kathryn Grant and ¨Golden voyage of Simbad¨ (1973) by Gordon Hessler with John Philip Law , Tom Baker and Caroline Munro . Great and rousing musical score by Roy Budd . Colorful cinematography by Ted Moore , filmed in Jordan (Petra) and Spain . Rating  Acceptable and passable . The motion picture was professionally directed by the usual actor Sam Wanamaker . Don't watch this one for the screenplay , which almost doesn't exist , otherwise , mildly fun .Other pictures about the great hero Simbad are the following  ¨Sinbad the sailor¨ (1947) with Douglas Fairbanks Jr , Maureen O'Hara and Anthony Quinn ; ¨Sinbad of the seven seas¨ by Enzo G Castellari with Lou Ferrigno and John Steiner and the cartoon movie ¨Simbad the legend of seven seas¨ (2003) produced by Dreamworks , a combo of computer generator and hand-drawn animation by Patrick Gilmore and Tim Johnson with voices from Brad Pitt and Catherine Zeta Jones. "}{"Title":"Brilliant magical adventure.","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger starts with Captain Sinbad (Patrick Wayne) arriving ashore after a long voyage to see his friend Prince Kassim (Damien Thomas) & his sister Princess Farah (Jane Seymour), however he discovers that Kassim has been transformed into a Baboon by his evil step mother Zenobia (Margaret Whiting) using black magic so her son Rafi (Kurt Christian) can become king. In order to prevent this Sinbad agrees to do all in his power to turn Kassim back into a human being & see him take his rightful place as king of his land. First he must find a wise man named Melanthius (Patrick Troughton), but that is just the beginning of the journey that spans continents & is full of danger & evil...This English production was directed by Sam Wanamaker & I personally liked it a lot, I like all the Sinbad fantasy films & this is no exception. The script by Beverly Cross & producer/special effects man Ray Harryhausen has a simple yet functional story, it has a villain, plenty of monsters & mythical creatures, exotic locations, action scenes, sword fights, black magic & a chess playing Baboon, what more do you want? The film moves along at a nice pace, is never boring or dull & provides terrific entertainment of the kind that will never be seen again. The character's are a bit on the thin side with only Zenobia the villianess standing out as being memorable & the dialogue isn't great either but that's not the reason you would want to see Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger is it? Persoanlly I think it's a magical, hugely entertaining fantasy adventure with plenty of monsters thrown in there for good measure. I really, really liked it, it's as simple & straight forward as that.Director the late Wanamaker seemed an odd choice, he's much more widely known as an actor & Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger was the only theatrically released film he ever directed, everything else he directed was made-for-TV. Anyway, he does an OK job & he integrates Harryhausen's effects & monsters into the action quite well although no one set piece really stands out as being brilliant, they're all very good but not as memorable as some of the other monsters & fights Harryhausen created for some of his earlier films. I loved the bronze Minatour & he was easily my favourite creature from the film. The special effects don't hold up that well in the light of today's multi million CGI effects but I'd rather watch the magical work of Harryhausen rather than a soulless computer graphic. Interestingly Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger came out the same year as Star Wars (1977) which probably put Harryhausen out of business & just about ended his career.Technically the film is good, with nice locations, decent effects, costumes, sets & production design. There seems to lots of varying locations as well including the open sea, rocky mountains & a snow covered pole. The acting isn't anything special apart from Whiting who seems to be enjoying herself as she plays it up as the villain.Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger is a terrific film, it has all the elements one wants in a fantasy film such as this. My only question is why is it called Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger? Sure there's a cool sabre-toothed tiger in it but it doesn't have much significance & it's eye is never even mentioned or has any relevance at all. This was the third & final Sinbad film following The 7th Voyage of Sinbad (1958) & The Golden Voyage of Sinbad (1973). "},{"Title":"Weak in some ways, but strength wins","Date":"1 March 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Harryhausen's crop of creations in this third and final entry in the Sinbad series are, perhaps the least effective of all of them (I think feathers and fur don't help), yet this film is maybe the strongest of them all in terms of story, character and emotion.And, while the creatures themselves may not be as effective as some, they are beautifully animated and, as usual, flawlessly integrated into the background plates. Plus both the baboon and Trog give performances of enormous emotional subtlety when you consider that they are essentially no more than rubber mouldings over a metal skeleton. There is no doubt that their creator is an artist of the highest order in a field where artists simply aren't recognised. "},{"Title":"good harryhausen fantasy movie","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a good, mild, entertaining family-oriented fantasy movie. SFX by Harryhausen are good era & genre-wise. However this movie is not quite a pure SFX extravaganza, but belongs better to a fairy tale, say Krull or else. You get many conventional subplots * good prince is turned into a baboon while his evil stepmother wants to see her own son becoming Calif. * belle princess in love with the brave sailor Sinbad. * a secret hermit from a mysterious island. * mummies out of hell, giant tigers, a robot minotaur. * only six moons to counter the spell. * a trip through the north pole. etc etc. A nice movie, very easily watchable. "},{"Title":"Great Sinbad Genre with Minotaur added","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If you ever wondered what movies you should be watching in high resolution technology this one should be on top pf the list. You want to see the details on the bronze minotaur (called Minaton here) the intricate patterns on the thousands of fabrics, and precious jewels, the different eye lash-layers on evil queen Zenobia and the expanse of ultra blue seas.The third of Ray Harryhausen's Sinbad films has apparently gotten a bad rap over the years, which I can not understand. It may be for Beverly Cross' script and some of the performances, notably Patrick Wayne as Sinbad, which I happen to think is totally fine and entertaining, but may not be perceived as such for those searching for dramatic acting. This rap should be disregarded as it is not only largely unfair, but inadequate in noting the entertaining values of this movie. No doubt it could have been better, but as an exciting adventure it is more than good, thanks to a strong cast and Ray Harryhausen's excellent animation.The story is about Kassim, the caliph of Baghdad, who mysteriously disappears at the very moment of his coronation. Sinbad, arriving in Baghdad both to sell his merchandise cargo, and also to see again his love interest, the caliph's sister played by a luscious, very young Jane Seymour. He is drawn into a trap, by Rafi, a dark handsome prince played by Kurt Christian set in a magnificent tent, which includes belly-dancing entertainment. His mother, the evil dowager queen Zenobia, played Margaret Whiting, who is more than familiar with the black arts is behind this plan and all others, as we know just by looking at him, that Rafi has no brains or sense of direction. Barely escaping an attack by three sword-wielding fire skeletal creatures, Sinbad finds Kassim's sister and a baboon, which is actually prince Kassim, as transformed by the magic of queen Zenobia so her own son could be caliph. At this very point we should wonder if this 'evil' woman is not actually just career oriented. In New York she would have been directing a real estate emporium or huge corporate conglomerate, maybe both, where Rafi could have just looked good in the publicity ads as she ruled ruthlessly; yet in time she would have done the charity balls, she would have even sponsored some cultural causes, eventually she would have been perceived as a pillar of society. It's all a matter of perception and historical placement, above all Location, location, location!In order to break Zenobia's spell on Kassim, Sinbad enlists an adequately wise and aged wizard, Master Malanthius and his sexy daughter, the hyper blond, hypnotized-looking Dione (Taryn Power), who also has some of the most vapid dialog in the movie. They meet in the ancient city of Petra, where the wizard lives, and the scene of arrival, and seeing the city through a rock is totally rewarding as a reason to see the whole film, it is so well done and awesome. All have to set sail for Hyperborea, a land at the North Pole magically immune to the polar region's snows. However, Zenobia and Rafi are following. Zenobia had actually had a confrontation scene by Sinbad's ship when she arrived in a feathered and veiled litter and argued with the silly vizier who was trying to look his best in a day-wear saffron and gold ensemble that was striking for the pheasant feathered adornment of his turban that looked like the whole bird was alive, and in heat. Zenobia has decided to enlist help too. She will be aided by a mechanical beast, a bull-headed robot created by Zenobia, and animated with a golden heart, baptized with the name Minaton, close enough to the ancient Minotaur of the labyrinth story. Although great looking as an accessory he is just an elaborate rowing machine in their metalized ship that looks more like an early submarine. The first thing they do is crush the spies that the vizier had set to watching their moves, against a rock as they start on the pursuit, an appropriately delightful moment of evil indulgence.The best part of the movie is Zenobia's transformation into a seagull so she can leave her ship and spy on Sinbad in his. She takes a potion and has a series of very erotic spasms in her elaborate bedchamber, and suddenly she is the bird. Her flight is not as lucky, once arrived, she transforms into a miniature version of herself and is unfortunately discovered by the baboon, who wrecks her plan, only after much difficulty she manages to change back to the seagull and escape, but there is not enough potion left when she turns into herself She is left with a huge foot of a seagull attached to her leg instead of her human foot, and will stomp her way through the rest of the film.This film features quite a bit of character animation by Harryhausen. The baboon Kassim looks totally real playing chess and most of all in his dramatic scene when he sees himself in a mirror, and despairs over his change. Trog, a prehistoric giant who is as frightened of us as we of him, as Malanthius sweetly remarks, is a direct ancestor of Shrek, and looks frightening yet endearing. Kassim and Dione manage to befriend Trog, and when Kassim is finally liberated of Zenobia's spell, we feel genuine regret as Trog is killed by Zenobia, again transformed, this time as Smilodon the tiger of the snows. This battle is unusually gruesome, and absurd, yet an exciting delight to watch as both her and Sinbad are endangered by falling ice spears.The happy ending in the coronation of Kassim as caliph allows us to admire in detail the Jewelled splendor of his court, the plasticized Formica of the rings, the unique, early zircons and other stones are all mystifying, specially when thrown together with pearls and feathers. "},{"Title":"Sinbad's final voyage","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Patrick Wayne ( son of John ) was a busy little guy in 1977. Not content with fighting dinosaurs and volcano worshippers in 'The People That Time Forgot', he also starred in Ray Harryhausen's third and final 'Sinbad' epic. Now, for those of us of a certain age, the name Ray Harryhausen conjures up powerful memories. Whenever one of his films opened in '70's Britain, it was as though manna had fallen from Heaven 'Clapperboard' ( an I.T.V. children's programme about movies ) devoted a two-part special to its making ( featuring interviews with everyone including the tea boy ), clips found their way onto 'Screen Test', 'Blue Peter', and, if you were lucky, 'The Krypton Factor', and bubble gum cards containing action scenes went on sale in sweet shops. There'd be a paperback book ( the one for this film was by John Ryder Hall ) and a poster magazine. Then you'd trot along to the local picture house to get in line to buy popcorn and see the thing ( praying the best seat in the house would not be taken ).The plots were identical - Sinbad and his crew ( with a pretty girl thrown in for good measure ) are on a dangerous quest to find some mythical artifact which gives its owner eternal life or magic powers or whatever. But an evil wizard would try to beat them to it, and conjure up all manner of grotesque monsters to slow them down. Of course good would triumph over evil at the end. So it is written.'Tiger' opens with a coronation going badly wrong. Just before young prince Kassan ( Damien Thomas ) is crowned Caliph of Bagdad, he is unexpectedly changed by magic into a baboon. Being an ape can seriously impair one's ability to be a Monarch ( though its never proved much of a hindrance in Britain ), so his comely sister, Farah ( Jane Seymour ) turns to Sinbad for help. He sets sail for the home of benign magician Melanthius ( Patrick Troughton ). There must be a good hairdresser amongst the crew, as everyone's crowning glories looks permanently fresh and clean. Along the way they pick up Dione ( Taryn Power, sister of Tyrone ). Zenobia ( Margaret Whiting ) the evil witch who changed the prince in the first place, gives chase in a barge rowed by a minotaur-like creature ( Peter Mayhew ) with a clockwork heart. What about the monsters? Well there's a giant walrus, a big wasp, a troglodyte, a sabre-toothed tiger, and some weird looking skeletal things who fight Sinbad near the start of the picture. And we've got Jane Seymour and Taryn Power skinny dipping for good measure. All you want from a movie.While not the best 'Sinbad' ( 1974's 'The Golden Voyage Of Sinbad' scoops that honour ) by a long chalk, this is still good fun, beautifully photographed by Ted Moore and nicely scored by Roy Budd. It drags in parts, most notably the scene where Zenobia changes into a seagull to eavesdrop on her enemies. As 'Zenobia', Whiting chews the scenery nicely. I wish her character's fate had been resolved though, and dear Pat Troughton's wizard anticipates his later role in 'The Box Of Delights' television series.'Tiger' opened to a mixed critical response, but us kids loved every absurd word of it. No more 'Sinbad' pictures were made surprisingly. Ray went on to make 'Clash Of The Titans' ( recently remade for no apparently discernible reason ) in 1981 before retiring. While his stop motion animations ( or 'Dynarama' as they were grandly called ) may seem dated to modern eyes, to those of us who were there at the time they remain as thrilling as ever. His monsters look as though they were the creation of a genius. Which they were.Directed by Sam Wanamaker ( Zoe's dad ). "},{"Title":"Still holds up pretty well after 26 years","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" After having re-visited Harryhausen's Sinbad trilogy recently, I have decided that this one, overall, compares very favourably with the other two. It is the most epic of the trilogy and has the most ambitious storyline (POSSIBLE SPOILER) involving a voyage into a lost world hidden behind the ice sheets at the North Pole (no doubt an idea partly influenced by Disney's 1974 'The Island at the Top of the World').The creatures in this one are the least spectacular of the trilogy (THE SEVENTH VOYAGE & THE GOLDEN VOYAGE have better and more spectacular ones) but Harryhausen's artistry is as great as ever and he really should have been given a special accolade for imbuing Kassim the Baboon and the Troglodyte with so much character. It really is remarkable watching them 'act'. Demanding kids may find the creatures disappointing but now that I am older I can appreciate the fine work that went into realising them. Harryhausen's puppet work possesses a tangibility that CGI is only just now coming close to emulating.I also find that I care about the characters in this film and what happens to them. The woodenness of the acting and the dialogue of the previous 2 films in some way stopped me from caring very much. This picture does not suffer in the same way, as both acting and dialogue, while nothing special, are better here. Jane Seymour is also very easy on the eye and is the best looking Sinbad girl of them all.Overall, highly recommended for young (but not very young) children and for adults who were kids when it first came out and want to recapture some nostalgic vibes. I feel that this one is best for a sense of epic adventure and empathetic characters, THE SEVENTH VOYAGE OF SINBAD is best for the monsters and THE GOLDEN VOYAGE OF SINBAD is quite possibly the best of the trilogy overall. "},{"Title":"A fun 70's flick!","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie probably about over 10 times when I was little, but now I can't find it and I really want to watch it again!This movie is plain entertaining, about one of many adventures that Simbad had, including a witch that practices black magic, a terrible curse, an old wise man with lots of answers for lots of questions and even a golden bull, Zenobia's slave. cool huh?Anyways the plot is fun, you know how's going to end but that doesn't ruin the fun. The Actors are good, not Oscar winners but they do their job and do it well. Script? it's OK, it has some fun lines, most of all from Zenobia.Bottom line if I find this movie, I'll buy it in a heart-beat! "},{"Title":"Far-Out Tale Involving Sinbad","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Okay, the story for this film, already stated to some length, is obviously weak.  A prince turned into a chess-playing baboon is taken to the Artic to go to some mystical land, Hyperbalia or something like that, so that he can resume his former shape.  The legend basis of this film is almost non-existent as we see a pyramid at the the northern-most part of the world that is guarded by an ice-covered sabre-tooth tiger.  Hmmm...okay, Ill buy.  In the process of this world, we see images of Egyptian, Indian, and even Greek deities abounding throughout.  Boy, what travelers all these folks were!  Story notwithstanding.  This film is fun if not ridiculous.  Patrick Wayne easily makes the weakest and least-interesting Sinbad.  An in-grown toe nail oozes more passion.  The female leads are fleshed out with Jane Seymour and Taryn Power(daughter of Tyronne Power).  Seymour has moments that show her ability to act;  Power has no such moments.  The real plusses come from supporting players Patrick Troughton( a former Dr. Who) and Margaret Whiting as the evil Zenobia, foil to Sinbad and his baboon-changing-back-to-prince plans.  Troughton plays Melanthius, the wisest man on earth, yet makes one inept, incredibly stupid mistake after another when the ship is visited by Zenobia ala gull.  Watch and see if his actions make any sense to you.  Troughton CAN act though and brings some much needed life to the human cast of the film.  The real joy of the cast is Whiting playing this thickly-accented evil persona chewing up as much scenery as she can.  Watching her hobble about and use her eyes was a real hoot!  But like any other Harryhausen film, the real cast takes a backseat to the animated ones.  The film definitely has a weaker array of creatures for a Harryhausen film, and no one stand-out creature, but there are some good ones like the gold Miniton(minitour), the sabre-toothed tiger, and  the Trogolyte, a creature that exudes a great deal of emotion for a figure such as this.  The giant walrus was a bit lame as were the creatures created out of flames by Zenobia in the beginning of the film.  Harryhausen and Producer Charles Schneer still deliver some good action and effects amidst the very, very weak script(co-written by Harryhausen), the mediocre direction of Sam Wanamaker, and the listless performance of Patrick Wayne. "},{"Title":"Harryhausen creations carry the day.","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Tip your hat to Ray Harryhausen. His stop motion animation monsters constantly distract viewers from the worst plots and the most awful acting performances within his films. In his third and final Sinbad outing, we again find bad acting personified in the form of Patrick Wayne in the title role. He's stiff as the perverbial board. But unlike John Philip Law in 'Golden voyage of Sinbad' he at least tries hard. And if nothing else, he looks the part.The rest of the cast is somewhat better. A drop dead gorgeous princess. A aged greek scientist. His attractive daughter. An evil sorceress Queen and her just as evil son.Possible Spoilers!!!The plot....such as it is.....consists of the following; The aforementioned evil queen makes a monkey out of a soon to be crowded prince.....literally!!! In fact the poor guys been transformed into a baboon to prevent him from taking the throne as king. Hence the evil queen will be the big cheese in the kingdom.The prince's ultra hot sister seeks a way to save him. To this end she enlists the aid of her soon to be hubby, the square jawed sea captain......Sinbad.Sinbad informs his intended that the only one capable of helping her is the aformentioned aged greek scientist. The catch is he lives on a far off island and the prince must take the throne by a certain time or the evil queen's son.......who like any good son does everything mama tells him.......will become the new king.Sinbad and crew set sail to the aged greeks isle. The evil queen pursues. Along the way both party's meet up with a number of impressively constructed Harryhausen visual whammys. Including Bug-eyed sword wielding ghouls. A metal minator. A giant wasp. A giant stone aged primative. A monstrously large walrus. And a deadly sabertoothed tiger.It is these non-living charactors that steal the show. But with Harryhausen pulling the strings we the audience would expect nothing less. "},{"Title":"I liked this Sinbad movie!","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I haven't seen many Sinbad movies, but this one I liked very much. I remember seeing the preview when I was younger. And I said to myself, This movie looks like fun! The animation in the movie gave it plenty of character. And Sinbad(Patrick Wayne) was a fine man as well. The witch(Margaret Whiting) was a very fiendish woman. She makes all other witches look like amateurs, especially when she used her sorcery. Her only flaw is when her re-transformation from a bird didn't complete itself. It's when her right foot is still a bird's. The growth formula was something when one of the bees drank it. and was later killed by Sinbad. Jane Seymour does a great job playing Princess Farah. She really knows how to control, and tame things that Sinbad couldn't do. The giant walrus, the golden minotaur, and a the vicious saber-tooth tiger gives the movie something to see. I think this movie is very watchable, and very entertaining. I wished it had gotten better reviews than it did. 3 out of 5 stars! "}{"Title":"Enjoyed this film in 1977","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Enjoyed seeing this film after first viewing this film in 1977 and was spellbound and enjoyed the great acting of Patrick Wayne,(Sinbad) who manages to accomplish his task against the forces of Evil vs. Good. Taryn Power, (Diane) was very beautiful in her supporting role along with Margaret Whiting, (Zednobia). Sinbad has to face the evil powers of a wicked witch who uses all her powers to prevent Sinbad from carrying out his mission. It was nice to see Jan Seymour, (Princess Farah) who was very young and just starting out on a great career on the Silver Screen. In 1974 I really enjoyed that Sinbad film and this was even better when I first viewed this in 1977, it brought back fond memories, however, I love the films today and all the great graphics. This was just a look back at movies we thought were outstanding. They STILL ARE! "},{"Title":"...not a strong Harryhausen-movie, but better than many people say...","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I must say first that I´m a great fan of Ray Harryhausen, and that may have a great influence to my opinion, but that movie isn´t really bad. It has good actors and the best-looking-Sinbad ever (if I should say that because I´m a man...). The effects are, as always in a Harryhausen-movie, excellent, but many people say that it was not for the best that Harryhausen took some creatures from earlier films that might be partially true, the creatures from the beginning sequence are looking like the selenites from FIRST MEN IN THE MOON, but it is not the right of the master to copy himself? He did also in JASON AND THE ARGONAUTS with the fighting skeletons, where he copied Kerwin Mathews´ fight in 7TH VOYAGE OF SINBAD against the skeleton that Torin Thatcher took to life. Margaret Whiting (surely a good actress) as the opponent of Sinbad is not very strong. No comparison with Torin Thatcher in 7TH VOYAGE OF SINBAD or Tom Baker in GOLDEN VOYAGE OF SINBAD. "},{"Title":"In need of a script editor.","Date":"13 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The script here is very weak for a work of epic fantasy. Scenes run on too long and character interactions are not particularly strong or convincing. You get the feeling that the script was being re-written on the fly while the production went forward and that there was a hope that it would all come together in the edit. It didn't. For instance there was a whole scene early in the movie in which the princess (Jane Seymour) confronts the evil witch which should have been cut out. The whole dramatic upshot of this scene was to show that the witch was evil and the princess hated her. Well, even the youngest members of the audience had this figured out long before, so let's get on with the action. Problems like this irritate and cut into the enjoyment of the picture. The production design looks good, but then this is to be expected for any Harryhausen movie - Harryhausen made meticulously detailed production sketches for every set, model and creature in the film. Indeed, the sketches had a more finished look than many of the sets themselves did, due to limitations of budget. Veteran character actor Sam Wanamaker is the nominal director, but the effects unit was run as always by Harryhausen, and for its time the stop motion animation was very good and the actors did their best to interact with models which weren't there. Nevertheless, as an entertainment whole the movie leaves one wishing for a better result. The shoot itself clearly had some entertaining moments. For example, Jane Seymour recounted later how the Arctic scenes in the movie were actually shot on Malta during a summer heat wave. Fake snow blew all around, while the cast sweltered in heavy parkas! "},{"Title":"Sinbad Third time's a harm. The first real blunder of Dynamation!","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The third film is the weakest of the Sinbad trilogy. The trailers should've said Starring John Wayne's son and Tyrone Powers' daughter!, I wasn't impressed by that casting. Personally, I thought Jane Seymour was one of the casting highlights in this flawed fantasy film. Eye of the Tiger not a bad film, but it is also not the great film that some people want to remember it as from their childhood.I saw these Sinbad films as a child and re-watched them this week. Let's face it; this was the weakest of the 3 Sinbad films and of the 5 films in that Harryhausen boxset. The IMDb voters even seem to agree with me on this. Luckily for us, Ray Harryhausen, special effects genius and one-man workforce, followed this film up with Clash of the Titans before retiring thereby leaving the film world on a high note instead of this uncharacteristic stumble. This might have had 7 times the budget of the first Sinbad film (7th Voyage), but it was a big letdown to me after watching much better, more entertaining Sinbad films. If I seem harsh in this review, it is because I have recently re-watched several of Ray Harryhausen's films and some interviews and documentaries in said box set about his work. I know the magic his genius is capable of and I am grading this film against his other films. Some people on IMDb are whining because it came out around the same time as Close Encounters and Star Wars. The real problem isn't that movie visual effects had moved forward, so much as that the work here isn't as impressive as it is in previous Harryhausen films.The plot was basically a weak mirror of the 7th Voyage plot (gotta help restore a friend to normal, go to some crazy island to obtain magical help and faceoff against a purveyor of the dark arts). Actually all 3 Sinbad films can be vaguely described that way. The script makes some weak/lame turns to get to its destination. While a friend didn't like Sinbad 'having an afro', I didn't mind Patrick Wayne's look as much as his uninspired acting. He never sold us on the Dynamation effects like Kerwin Matthews or John Philip Law (of Danger Diabolik fame). THE CREATURES. I am 'grading on a curve' against Harryhause's capabilities from other films. His work here is good (and above what anyone else save possibly Willis O'Brien could do with similar tools), but definitely has been better in his previous efforts. -Golden Minotaur was very cool, but never properly utilized in this film. -bug-eyed demons were unimpressive creations. -sabretooth was fun, but looked more like a stuffed toy than past Harryhausen creations. -Trogolodyte was good. There were also a baboon, a giant walrus and an overgrown bee. There isn't anything here to compare to his greatest creations the Cyclops vs. Dragon, the Roc, 6-armed swordfighting Kali, 7 skeletons (in Argonauts), Griffon vs. Centaur, Pegasus, Medusa, etc. He doesn't top himself in this film, which was a letdown for me after seeing his better films.I also felt that some of the travelling matte work had footage that to my eye didn't quite match up and distracted from the usual wonder of 'Dynamation' I've come to expect. Viewing this in my childhood I probably overlooked this, as an adult I cannot.The film suffers from an abundance of what I call 'IDIOT PLOT MOMENTS', the likes of which one would expect from a slasher film. This happens too often in entertainment (especially in genre films and TV) when the writers need to get the plot from point A to point B and are either too lazy or lack creativity to get there properly or they are attempting something extremely unlikely for the characters and don't care about undermining the credibility or reality of the world they are creating. There were far too many moments where I wanted to scream at the screen while watching.**SPOILER WARNING** SUMMATION OF 'IDIOT PLOT POINTS'The Minotaur is a great mythology creature and could've been a great opponent for an exciting battle with Sinbad's crew, but was totally wasted here. What does he really do? He rows a boat, spears a drowning man and then proves his lack of sentience by pulling a large brick onto himself thereby crushing himself to death. Lame.Melanthius the supposedly wise sage acts cluelessly so the plot can proceed where the writers want. He captures the witch (already established as highly dangerous and has turned Sinbad's friend into a baboon) and promptly evacuates the room of all other people (who could possibly stop him from his forthcoming blundering). He then reveals the map and key to the enemy and (inadvertently?) tells her where they are headed. Then, after taunting her with a dangerous bee, he gives the bee some of her potentially 'enlarging' potion so that it can become a danger to the crew and the witch can be afforded an escape and further plague the party.After not running the treacherous witch through with a spear, the party inexplicably forgets to keep a close eye on Zenobia after the death of her worthless son while all watching starry-eyed as the Prince transforms back. Lo and behold Zenobia uses this oversight to possess the frozen sabretooth and attempt her vengeance. This begins the sabretooth vs. Trog battle. I am still annoyed by Sinbad's crew not taking the opportunity to slash the monsters legs thereby crippling its fighting abilities even if it wouldn't seem sporting in a G rated film (not that it stopped Koura from stabbing the Griffon's hindquarters to cripple it in Golden Voyage). "},{"Title":"Great Harryhausen effects make up for poor screenplay","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" **Some light spoilers** If you compare the three Sinbad movies produced by Charles H. Schneer and Ray Harryhausen, this one is easily the weakest. Firstly, Patrick Wayne is dull as heck in the role of Sinbad. Secondly, the film is much too long. Thirdly, the dialog and story are poor even for this kind of movie. But not to despair there are several great reasons to watch it. The great Harryhausen monsters and the very sexy Jane Seymour are the main reasons. The great locations in Malta, Jordan and Spain are also very well chosen and add to the atmosphere. They seem like mysterious lands where monsters could be lurking at every turn(and usually are). The Harryhausen monsters are great especially the Troglodyte and the chess playing baboon. The Minoton is also cool (only in the animated sequences but certainly not when it is a man in a rubber suit). What can I say about Jane Seymour but WOW!! What she lacks in acting ability she makes up for in screen presence and beauty. Upon re-viewing the film I realized that the Sinbad character does almost nothing useful until the very end when he fights the Tiger. He is mainly there to go along with the other characters and look good. Wayne plays him with almost no personality whatsoever. Taryn Power (Tyronne's daughter) is OK in a secondary role but I suspect she was cast more for her looks than anything else. Margaret Whiting is completely over-the-top as the villainous Zenobia but at least she seems to be having fun with all the corny dialog(her transformation into a seagull is laughable and the only bad special effect in the film). One thing that struck me as odd is with the amount of great location footage shot in this film almost all the closeups were shot in a studio with a blue screen. This is very weird as it is obvious that the main cast are in the long and medium shots, shot on location. Did the producers run out of time or money before shooting the close-ups or what? Overall a good film to see on a rainy day or with a child. If you let your imagination take over it works even better. "},{"Title":"Great!!!!!!!","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The great creature and monster designs high-light this thrilling Fantasy/science fiction epic featuring great stop-motion and good acting. It was also well-paced, well written, and had great fight scenes as well. **** stars out of *****!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A weaker Sinbad movie, but with one of the best collection of monsters.","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My Take Good special effects make up for a somewhat lackluster storyline. I love watching Ray Harryhausen monster movies, they are really fun to watch. I consider it a gem whenever I find one in a video outlet, an addition to my collection. Harryhausen's effects may be dated to other viewers, but never for me. I mean, for I can see, he started it all. Currently, I have 4 Harryhausen monster flicks. The Beast from 20,000 Fathoms, Clash of the Titans, and two Sinbad films, The 7th Voyage of Sinbad and Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger.Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger is a weaker entry in the many movies having Harryhausen's stop-motion monsters, but it contains one of the most elaborate collection of fantasy monsters. Well, we get to see a group of bug-eyed ghouls, a near-human baboon (which is actually a cursed prince), a bronze Minaton (also known as Minatour in mythology), a large bee, a gigantic Walrus (one of my favorite of the batch), a club-wielding Troglodyte and a saber-toothed tiger. All pretty well done.But lets go to the bad things about this movie. Well, the story's fine, but the script is lacking and the acting is fair. Patrick Wayne lacks the makings of a great Sinbad. I think that the only good performer is Patrick Troughton as the wise Melanthius.The film is weaker, compared to the fantasy films of this kind, but it is still a wondrous Arabian Nights adventure. Oh yeah, for those who wonder what the Eye of the Tiger is, your guess is as good as mine.Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Flawed but very enjoyable childhood favourite","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger was something I loved as a child. From a 18 year old perspective, it doesn't enthrall me as much, but it still entertains me, even with its flaws. The screenplay is pretty weak and cheesy, the pacing rather uneven not helped by the fact the film is a tad overlong and Patrick Wayne a dashing if bland Sinbad, but there is still a lot to enjoy. For one thing, the special effects are absolutely incredible especially the chess-playing baboon and the ferocious sabre-tooth tiger and the scenery is breathtaking. Add a nice story, decent direction and a rousing score and you have an entertaining enough adventure. A few acting mentions wouldn't go amiss though. Jane Seymour is fabulously sexy as the Princess Farrah, the late Patrick Troughton is a deliciously enigmatic Melanthious and Margaret Whiting is very icy and chilling as cruel villainess Zenobia. Overall, entertaining and enjoyable, with flaws yes but I recommend it. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Supporting characters rule the ship","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Whenever I think of Sinbad, I always think of creatures, more creatures and then Sinbad and his sword. This movie has some interesting creatures but the whole story revolves around people. A prince is changed into a baboon just before he is crowned as the new ruler. Magic from a witch by the name of Zenobia is the culprit. Sinbad loves the sister of the prince and vows to seek out Melanthius a wise man played wonderfully by Patrick Troughton. Melanthius does not process any special powers except that of knowledge. Is knowledge enough to overcome the evil potions of Zenobia? The baboon, oops, I mean the prince falls in love with Melanthius's daughter Farah, played by Jane Seymour. So the beauty of Farah is used to the advantage of the travelers as a large Trog also falls for Farah. A fair outing for a Sinbad feature, but the real gems of the film are Troughton and Seymour, and of course some creatures to fight. "},{"Title":"Fun Sinbad Adventure with Patrick Wayne, Jane Seymour & Taryn Power","Date":"12 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I don't get why so many people pan this 1977 Sinbad adventure film, the third in a trilogy featuring Ray Harryhausen's special effects creations. The previous installments are 1958's The 7th Voyage of Sinbad and 1973's The Golden Voyage of Sinbad.THE PLOT Princess Farah's (Jane Seymour) brother, who's about to be crowned Caliph of the kingdom, is turned into a baboon by the envious sorceress Zenobia (Margaret Whiting) who wants her son to be Caliph instead (Kurt Christian). Sinbad (Patrick Wayne) escorts Farah and her baboon brother on a grand adventure to restore his humanity before Zenobia's son is crowned. The long quest includes meeting the wizard Melanthius (Patrick Troughton) and his beautiful daughter Dione (Taryn Power). They travel to arctic regions and along the way are exposed to all kinds of fantastical creatures and supernatural experiences.Sinbad adventures play like a Middle Eastern version of Conan the Barbarian, albeit with a slightly funner edge and a less dour protagonist. So, if you love Conan you'll likely appreciate all three Sinbad films. And even though I describe it as having a fun edge, don't think Eye of the Tiger is goofy. It's not. This is a serious Sinbad adventure, but the protagonists exude the joy and vitality of living.The items I demand in a Sinbad adventure are obvious A good casting choice for Sinbad, a great adventure story & locations, a colorful assortment of likable characters & love-to-hate villains, beautiful women, and quality F/X work. Eye of the Tiger delivers in all these areas Patrick Wayne is superb as the titular hero and IMO the best of the three actors who played the character in the trilogy (the others being Kerwin Mathews and John Phillip Law). I don't see why so many criticize him as wooden or somehow sub-par. He's perfect for the role and I'm bewildered as to why he didn't have a more stellar career. I know this is blasphemy to some, but I prefer him to his famous father. He's in the same masculine league as Charleton Heston and Burt Reynolds.The story is everything you'd want in a Sinbad yarn -- grand adventure on the high seas with intermittent supernatural elements. The locations are fabulous -- Jordan, Petra (Melanthius's lair), Malta and Spain. There's even an arctic sequence with snowy locations and fairly convincing studio sets.The characters are indeed colorful and well-cast. Whiting puts her heart & soul into her role as the witch with a capital B and Troughton is charismatic as the likable old magician.As for women, this is one of the highlights of the film as the young brunette Jane Seymour and blond Taryn Power (Tyrone's daughter) are breathtaking to behold in every scene they appear. The film's worth watching just for Jane & Taryn. As for Harryhausen's effects, they're pretty much the same as his work in his other films, e.g. Clash of the Titans, Jason and the Argonauts and Mysterious Island. It just comes down to whether or not you like the creature(s) in question. Nothing here is as good as his Medusa and skeleton gang in other films IMHO, but it's a matter of preference. I personally don't find the saber-tooth tiger very impressive, but who can deny the greatness of the troglodyte as a sympathetic animated character? Anyway, the F/X sequences are just icing on the cake as far as I'm concerned. They don't make or break the film. The story, characters and locations are what really matter.FINAL ANALYSIS Don't listen to the critics! This is a very entertaining Sinbad adventure on all counts. It's main flaw is that it's too long for it's own good. Regardless, I have a good time whenever I see it and prefer it to the previous two films. Patrick Wayne is a great Sinbad, the story captures your attention, the locations are fabulous, and Jane Seymour & Taryn Power are delectable. It's at least on par with The Golden Voyage, although I give Eye the edge.The film runs 113 minutes.GRADE B "}{"Title":"Another nostalgic adventure from Ray Harryhausen!","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I recently review The Golden Voyage of Sinbad, now having grown up with both films I wanted to review this one as well. I mostly wanted to discuss this one, because honestly, I like it a bit better. At the time, it was the same summer that Star Wars was released. Although this film does not stand on the same level as A New Hope, it is an enjoyable film in its own right. This time around Sinbad has journey to the kingdom of Charak to ask his good friend Kassim for his sister Farah's hand in marriage. The captain, however, finds that Kassim has been placed under a terrible curse. Now Sinbad must journey to find an ancient Alchemist and an ancient land to find a cure. Three performances stand out in this film. The first is Taryn Power as Dione. Her deep voice and demeanor brings an air of tomboyish toughness to the role, while also giving the impression of a very sensitive and intelligent person. She offsets the overwhelming stereotypical damsel- in-distress Jane Seymour as Farah perfectly. The second is (similar to The Golden Voyage of Sinbad), another Doctor Who alum, Patrick Troughton. He plays the Alchemist Melanthius. In similar style to Tom Baker's performance in Golden Voyage, Troughton brings an over-the-top style to Melanthius, which makes him undeniably fun to watch. His commanding voice and presence make for the perfect scene stealing character. However, he must complete for the scene occasionally with the villain of the piece. Margaret Whiting portrays the films antagonist Zenobia. Who in all honestly gives a performance as enjoyably over-the-top as her characters name. Her accent is deliciously villainous. Her costumes put give her an air of class, although Whiting always has a way of showing you the monster underneath. Her performance is shockingly emotional for a film like this. Her character seems to genuinely care for her son, and her raw emotion towards him at the end of the film is very convincing. The production and set design for this film is very pleasing to the eye, even more so than the previous film. Much more of this film takes place outdoors, rather than in caves and on the ship. This gives the film a much more adventurous feel. The dialogue in the film doesn't feel as tacked on this time around, although there are still quite a few cheesy moments to be found. Although some might say this makes it more enjoyable. The romantic subplot between Sinbad and Farah is forgotten about as quick as it is introduced. Only to be reintroduced at the tail end, not to complain too much about that. However it seems like it was unnecessary aside from getting Sinbad involved in the adventure. As with the other films in the series, the highlight of the experience is the animation and creature designs from Ray Harrhausen. These animations make for several enjoyable action sequences. Harryhausen was also able to animate a constant companion for Zenobia, the golden hulk, Minaton. Minaton is almost perfectly integrated with Zenobia and her son Raffi on their ship. Unless you knew beforehand, one would not be able to see that Minaton was most likely only the size of an average action figure. The baboon was so perfectly animated with the cast that one would almost believe it was real. Overall the special effects in this film we're amazing for the time and still hold up even today. Overall this film is a highly enjoyable classic from Ray Harryhausen. There are several fun performances to be seen. The production value is gorgeous to look at. The special effects are incredible even today. I give this film eight out of ten for the following reasons. First, Several of the performances are fun enough to carry the film alone. Second, The production design and sets are even larger than the last film. Third, The special effects from Ray Harryhausen are as fun as ever and even more creative with each film. The film loses points only for the same kind of episodic writing as the last film. As well as the occasional silly dialogue. "},{"Title":"Classic family entertainment","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Like Clash of the Titans and The Golden Voyage of Sinbad, it's Ray Harryhausen's special effects that steal the show. Yes, they look a little dated now when you compare them to some of Hollywood's current big budget offerings, but, if you can look past the obvious blue-screen then you'll find yourself getting lost in a fantasy world that just doesn't seem to be about any more.'Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger' is the sequel to 'The Golden Voyage of Sinbad' and this time out, the fearless sailor must help restore a prince to his rightful throne. Only the price has been turned into a baboon and the witch who made him that way is hot on Sinbad's crew's heels.If you've seen 'The Golden Voyage' you'll know what to expect. Personally, I preferred the first one, as this one has a longer running time and, as a result, tends to drag around the middle. However, the beginning and the end more than make up for any slowness in the middle. So, if you're a fan of classic fantasy movies then give this one a go. It will retain its special charm for years to come. "},{"Title":"Second place seventies Sinbad is still sin-good","Date":"10 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sinbad (Wayne) sets off to locate the antidote that will transform Prince Kassim from his baboon state back into the human he was before the evil Zenobia (Whiting) cast her spell, a task made all the more urgent as his altered state becomes increasingly irreversible. With the aid of an ageing wizard (Troughton), a princess (Seymour) and the blonde, blue-eyed Taryn Power (daughter of Tyrone Power) he sails the seven seas, contesting with mutated creatures (the minotaur, played by Dave Prowse pre-'Darth Vader') and other creatures, richly brought to life via Ray Harryhausen's stop-motion animation.Harryhausen fans will marvel at his technical capabilities; the scene In which Whiting is miniaturised, scampering about the ship's cabin while the crew try in vain to capture her before she can morph back into a seagull and escape is classic. For others, the cinematographic illusions will be dated or even amateurish. I guess that will depend on your vintage and preferences. Interestingly, this film was directed by Sam Wanamaker, the former blacklisted actor/director following a near decade long hiatus.Golden Voyage (1974) was, in my opinion superior among the brace of Sinbad films that emerged in the mid seventies, but this is still an enjoyable romp, suitable for the family and one of the last of its ilk, indeed also for that of Harryhausen's imaginative creature effects. "},{"Title":"Diverting Adventure.","Date":"16 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sinbad the sailor from Basrah (Patrick Wayne, son of the Duke) wants permission from the good Caliph to marry the Caliph's sister (Jane Seymour, not related to THE Jane Seymour) but the Caliph has been turned into a baboon by his and Seymour's wicked stepmother, Zenobia (Margaret Whiting).Well, a baboon who can't speak and whom no one recognizes as the transformed would-be Caliph can't very well give permission for Wayne and Seymour to marry, so they must travel to distant lands where magic and its practitioners prevail. Pursued by Whiting and a bronze beast with the head of a bull, they make their way to the island where the magician Melanthius lives with his fetching daughter Dione (Taryn Power, daughter of Himself).Then they're on to Hyperboria and another perilous journey. All these journeys are perilous and, in fact, they don't make a heck of a lot of sense except that they provide an excuse for fantasy, adventure, romance, the exercise of avarice, and Ray Harryhausen's agreeable special effects.All the performances are overdone but that's in no way objectionable because it suits this kind of phantasmagorical story. Do we really want realism when Sinbad is fighting off four bug-eyed scimitar-wielding ghouls? No. No, we don't. Not if we're the kind of people I think we are.In any case it's hard to tell whether Patrick Wayne's acting is good or not because he isn't really an actor but an icon in Charles Sanders Peirce's sense of the term. He corresponds to an actor.Jane Seymour I had mixed feelings about. When she was a Medicine Woman on television, I always prayed that the bandits or Indians would get her and do things to her. Here, she's so young and tender, and so decked out in low-cut pantaloons and bustiers that I was happy she survived long enough to bring medicine and compassion to the Wild West.The best performance -- envelope, please -- goes to Margaret Whiting as the evil witch. My God, she looks fiendish. Make up did a splendid job. And she overdoes her depravity to within an inch of her life. Totally ruthless. She barks out orders and expects instant obedience, and she can be rough on those who don't act as automatons. Totally ruthless, rather like my ex spouse.It's the kind of movie in which you settle back in your easy chair with a bag of tortilla chips and a bowl of pineapple salsa and while away the time, savoring the nicely executed location shooting in Andalucia, Malta, and the old tombs in Jordan. The kids will probably get a big kick out of it. "},{"Title":"Is this the only film in which the hero gets to fight a gigantic killer walrus?","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Prince Kassim, the young heir to the throne of Baghdad, is magically transformed into a baboon by his evil stepmother, the witch Zenobia, who wants the throne for her own son, Kassim's half-brother Rafi. Sinbad, accompanied by Kassim's beautiful sister Princess Farah, as well as the Prince himself in his monkey form, sets sail in search of a cure. This being a Ray Harryhausen film, much of the plot involves the heroes struggling against various monsters, all animated by the stop-motion process which Harryhausen pioneered. This must be the only film in which the hero gets to fight a gigantic killer walrus. The title Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger may refer to the fact that, having seen off the walrus, Sinbad then has to battle a sabre-toothed tiger, although I am not sure how the eye part fits in.This was the third and last of Harryhausen's films about the legendary hero Sinbad the Sailor, the others being The Golden Voyage of Sinbad and The Seventh Voyage of Sinbad. It was not, however, Harryhausen's final film; that was to be Clash of the Titans from four years later. In the fifties and early sixties his techniques of film-making (which he named Dynamation or Dynarama), combining stop-motion animation with live action, seemed something new and exciting, opening up new possibilities for fantasy films. By the late seventies they were starting to look old-fashioned; there is little in Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger (which came out in the same year as Star Wars) to distinguish it from The Seventh Voyage which had come out nearly twenty years earlier.Today, of course, films made using the Dynamation process have a very retro feel to them, but I have long had a soft spot for Harryhausen's work ever since I was taken, as a child, to see a double bill of The Seventh Voyage and Jason and the Argonauts as part of a friend's birthday treat. I would not rate Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger quite as highly as either of those films. The acting is variable; neither Patrick Wayne as the hero nor Taryn Power has the talent or the charisma of their famous fathers, but Margaret Whiting as Zenobia makes a splendidly over-the-top villainess, former Doctor Who Patrick Troughton is good as the wise old philosopher Melanthius and Jane Seymour as Farah looks as lovely as ever. With its fairy-tale Arabian Nights atmosphere, this film can perhaps best be described as the cinematic equivalent of a pantomime, and like most pantomimes serves as very enjoyable family entertainment. 6/10 "},{"Title":"entertaining but slow, not too memorable","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 'Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger' is an old-fashioned action film about the sailor hero. This time, he tries to defeat a witch who has transformed the rightful king into a monkey so her son can be king. Throughout the journey to defeat her and restore the throne to its rightful owner, Sinbad and the others fight mythological creatures and provide several entertaining action sequences throughout the film. Although it is packed with action, the acting seems a little fake, and the direction seems somewhat lost throughout the film without a strong, defining characters and conflicts as one action sequence blends into another. Overall, it is not too bad for an older action film, but do not expect much in the way of a plot. It could have probably been a better story as the ideas were interesting. "},{"Title":"Harryhausen field day","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  SINBAD AND THE EYE OF THE TIGER (1977) ** Patrick Wayne, Taryn Power, Jane Seymour, Margaret Whitton.  So-so Sinbad flick with the adventurous sailor aiding a beautiful princess whose brother is under a sorceress' spell. Kudos to Ray Harryhausen's stop-motion animated effects. "},{"Title":"I Sinbad","Date":"3 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sinbad And The Eye Of The Tiger has some interesting historic significance of a sort. Patrick Wayne as Sinbad proved himself fare more capable of swordplay than his father the legendary Duke. In fact two offspring of screen legends co-star in this film. Taryn Power, daughter of Tyrone Power, who was certainly more than capable in these kinds of films is the leading lady. Taryn is the princess of Bagdad whose got eyes for her sailor man.But before these two can live happily ever after, Sinbad's got a big mission. Taryn's brother Damien Thomas the prince of Bagdad and would be Caliph has been turned into a baboon by their stepmother Margaret Whiting. Whiting would much prefer her son Kurt Christian to be the new Caliph.What to do but sail in search of the wisest man on earth who happens to be Patrick Troughton, one of the Doctors Who. and who lives on a deserted island with his fetching daughter Jane Seymour. His advice is head north and seek the Aurora Borealis which is said to have some magical properties for reversing spells. Off goes the whole cast to the North Pole and they pass no sleigh driven by reindeer on the voyage.Margaret Whiting's performance is an interesting one. Her character and in fact her machinations come straight out of I Claudius. I'm not sure who influenced who's performance, Whiting's characterization is like Sian Phillips's Lydia the evil empress wife of Augustus.The film isn't too much different than those Arabian Nights movies that Maria Montez did back in the day. It does have the added attraction of some nice work by that master of special effects, Ray Harryhausen. That makes watching it all worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Sin-BAD!","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Easily the least of the loose Sinbad trilogy, (and possibly of all Harryhausen's color films) this fantasy film remains a lot more fun than most modern CGI-laden big-budget equivalents but still one can't help but feel disappointed that they couldn't do better with what they had.Something feels very off and uncertain about this film, as though it was thrown into production too quickly without really thinking things through. The casting feels largely quite awkward with Patrick Wayne as a bland lead (I even thought so as a child) and Jane Seymour as a nearly as bland love interest only redeemed somewhat by her beauty and unrelentingly revealing clothing. Margaret Whiting makes for a colorful yet very campy villain and the always reliable Patrick Troughton is undermined largely by having to play a very inconsistent character. Everyone else in the cast is instantly forgettable.One of the single weakest and most awkward key scenes in the film is where Sinbad and his crew try to convince Troughton (as a Greek Philosopher Melanthius) to come with them. Instead of any of them really saying or doing anything to change his mind, he seems to convince himself by tinkering with an old invention that never plays into anything later in the film at all. This really isn't a Sinbad movie; it's a Melanthius movie. Sinbad just plays his chauffeur and bodyguard. Another major script failing is the inconsistent level of knowledge given to Melanthius - he seems at first to guide the group based only on vague legends and intuition, but the further along they go, the more he seems to just know everything about everything.But who comes to Harryhausen movies expecting the best in storytelling and great performances? They come for the stop-motion creatures and fights, which here is done quite well and plentifully. One of the more impressive (though narratively pointless) sequences is a battle with a giant walrus containing some excellent blending of practical and visual effects (how did they get those real snowballs to connect with the stop- motion creature?). A fascinating vaguely antagonistic robotic minotaur rows its way through the movie, but is criminally underused before he gets to do anything cool. The other creatures such as a giant bee, a baboon, and a troglodyte, though well done and realistic, are just not nearly as interesting and feel like a waste of time that could have gone into animating cooler things. Oh yeah, there's also a very satisfying (though poorly set up) battle with a saber-tooth cat near the end.Unfortunately the visual effects department got so carried away and relied so much on budget-friendly models and compositing in lieu of actual sets and locations that it's difficult to really buy into anything. Much of the blue-screening is quite distracting and terrible even by the standards of the time it was made. Just look at the whole scene at Petra and it's quite obvious that most of the actual cast didn't make it there opting instead to just shoot their close-ups in a studio. It fuels the film's quite bizarre tone which helps in some scenes and hurts others. The inconsistency and weirdness isn't helped by the TV-like direction of established actor Sam Wanamaker. His slow and campy style contrasts so sharply with the serious and exciting monster scenes that it starts to feel like there's two different movies here. However there's so much apparent apathy and laziness on display across all departments involved that I can't put all the blame on him. SINBAD EYE OF THE TIGER in many ways though holds up as a fun fantasy movie which children and nostalgic adults will love, but unlike most of its peers from the day just doesn't hold up. "},{"Title":"A Misfire, But Still Enjoyable","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger is not as good as the other two Ray Harryhausen Sinbad movies. There are too many instances where events could play out really cool, yet they invariably fizzle. Given that this is the third installment of Sinbad by the same creative team, I expected more. The plot seems to wear out halfway through the movie, and important scenes are poorly executed. But can any movie featuring Ray Harryhausen's creatures and sexy Jane Seymour ever be truly bad? Of course not! I'm just frustrated that this movie missed being great, because it easily could have been. The storyline of the movie is acceptable, and some of it is directly lifted from an 1001 Nights story, which is a plus. A prince is cursed into baboon shape by a witch so a challenger for the throne (the witch's son) can take over the kingdom. The shapeshift will become permanent after a while. The sister of the prince hires Sinbad to sail to a foreign land to find a wizard to break the curse. The witch and her son pursue Sinbad to prevent the reversal of the shapeshift. At the end of the movie, the competitors end up at the north pole in the temple of a lost civilization, the last hope to cure the prince.Much of the plot follows standard elements found in the three Harryhausen Sinbad movies such as a race to a lost land and a shapeshifted/disfigured royal person. But that is okay. What does not work is that there are too many characters just tagging along with little to do. Sinbad is one of the characters left hanging, which is not a good sign for a movie with Sinbad in the title. Once Sinbad states (early in the film) that he cannot remove the curse but he knows someone who can, Sinbad exits center stage and the wizard becomes the driver of the plot. Jane Seymore visually dominates any scene she is in with her sexy princess outfit, but does little else. The witch's son and the wizards daughter must have some dramatic story potential, I'll figure out what it is some day, maybe.Basically, the heart and soul of the movie comes down to a duel between the wizard and the witch, as both ships race for the north pole. The witch (Margaret Whiting) is outrageous and bizarre, and has plenty of stop-motion creature sorcery at her disposal. The wizard (Patrick Troughton) has obscure knowledge and is wonderfully nutty. But this duel is hardly a battle of wits. Their antics actually make the movie kind of funny, not necessarily on purpose, but since they are the main focus for drama the whole tone of movie feels uncertain. The writers do not seem to grasp the central importance of these two characters, and the plot devolves into random encounters and padded scenes. It would have been great to have an ongoing duel of sorcery (and dynamation creatures) throughout the race to the pole, but this opportunity was missed. As always, the dynamation monsters are entertaining, but perhaps not as effectively presented in the dramatic parts of the story as they could have been. The minotaur is totally cool, but almost pointless; the walrus is totally pointless; the skeletons are okay but without any sense of why the witch could summon them (and then only once); the troglodyte looks great but is almost pointless; and the saber-toothed tiger and troglodyte fight (two dynamation creatures fighting at the climax is another staple feature in these Sinbad movies) is an awkward disappointment. The baboon is by far the best creature in the film. Harryhausen always manages to evoke personality from his creations, and the baboon-prince is one of his very best in terms of expression, emotion and presence. However, too much screen time is spent with this creature and the baboon ultimately adds drag to the film.In spite of my frustrations with the film, I've watched it several times and will undoubtedly watch it several more. There is something charming about a Ray Harryhausen movie, even one that misses the mark. "}{"Title":"Not As Good As I Remembered But Seymour Is Still Gorgeous","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Featuring a gorgeous young Jane Seymour Eye Of The Tiger was my favourite Sinbad movie growing up, so when I saw it was on TV I sat down to watch it with my 9 year old son. Plot In A Paragraph At the request of the beautiful Princes Farah (a gorgeous Jane Seymour) Sinbad (Patrick Wayne) and his gang set sail to try and help lift a curse put on her brother, the soon to be King, Prince Kassim. Whilst I revelled in the nostalgia from my youth, my son would say that looks so fake whilst I would tell him about how old the movie was, and the effects were great back in 1970's and the wonder of Ray Harryhausen, he would say 'Star Wars' and 'Superman The Movie' were out in the 70's too, and being the tech savvy 9 year old he is, he pointed out this was made in the same year as Star WarsWhilst the story is on par (if not better and Jane Seymour is as attractive as Caroline Munro (although she does not show as much cleavage) Patrick Wayne is not as effective as John Philip Law in the Golden voyage of Sinbad and seemed to spend most of the first part of the movie like a love sick puppy making doe eyes at Seymour!! (Not that I blame him) Not as good or as enjoyable as I remember, I now rate The Golden Voyage Of Sinbad above this one. "},{"Title":"Third Sinbad Adventure.","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sam Wanamaker directed this third Sinbad adventure with Ray Harryhausen's F/X on display, and this time they aren't enough. Patrick Wayne takes over the role from John Philip Law, and isn't as good(why JPL didn't return I don't know) Jane Seymour and Taryn Power are the female leads(no mention of Caroline Munro either!) Plot involves the quest to restore a young prince to his rightful throne(despite being turned into a chimp) with an evil witch and her son plotting to usurp it themselves. Past Doctor Who actor Patrick Troughton costars as a wise old man, but his performance does rise above the poorly written character. Whole film feels both tired and redundant, lost in the wake of Star Wars... "},{"Title":"Not exactly 'high art', but good old fashioned fun.","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It would be easy to rip apart this film. After all, compared to the special effects of today this all looks very quaint and primitive. However, even with the obviously fake creatures made by Ray Harryhausen and the many fake looking props, there is a certain escapist charm about this film. So, if you can turn off that pesky brain and just relax and enjoy, you'll like Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger.the film has an interesting cast. Two children of very famous actors are in some of the leading roles--Patrick Wayne (son of John) plays Sinbad and Taryn Power (daughter of Tyrone) plays a lesser character, Dione. In addition, the queen of mini-series (Jane Seymour as the Princess) and an ex-Dr. Who (Patrick Troughton--as the smarty-pants scientist) round out the cast of good guys. On the side of evil is the snarly scene-chewing Margaret Whiting as Zenobia. She has apparently turned the Crown Prince into a baboon so that her own son can take the throne. However, there is a minuscule chance that Sinbad can somehow find a way to turn him back--but first he needs to find the legendary smarty-pants, the alchemist Melanthius (Troghton). Once Sinbad and his group of friends find the smarty dude (more on that later), they make there way towards the Arctic regions to find the power of the ancients and transform the baboon into his gold old self--especially since his sister refuses to marry Sinbad unless her brother is restored.The film is full of lots of action, grand vistas and silly Harryhausen stop-motion thingies. In many ways it's a throwback to older films (as most of his best work was from the 50s and 60s) and the style of film is much like an old Universal or RKO adventure film. Fun and silly---even if the handsome Wayne has all the charisma in this film as a piece of toast.why all the white folks? left Melanthius alone with dangerous witch "},{"Title":"Impressive effects, weak characters","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film actually surprised me with its level and quality of special effects.  The acting was mediocre at best, but I wouldn't expect much more considering the weak plot and horrible character development.  The motivations and conflicts were banal if they were present at all.  Overall, it's worth viewing for a fantasy or special effects buff, but don't expect a lot. "},{"Title":"Oddly sluggish Sinbad film, entertaining in parts","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is rightfully regarded as the weakest of the three Sinbad films, but it's still quite fun. What is a shame is that this had the potential to the the best. The story, involving a voyage to the North Pole, is larger in scale, the budget is a lot larger, allowing for much improved sets, and the cast is probably the best. However ,somehow, it was slightly botched. Not totally, of course, for there are some fine examples of Harryhausen's stop motion and some good action. A battle in the snow with a giant walrus is well handled, and while some of the other creatures and setpieces seem to repeat earlier films a little too much, there is one of his best creations, a baboon, who in the story was once a man and provides a surprising amount of pathos.As a whole though the film is lacking. The pace is far too slow for this kind of film and never really gets going, even towards the end. Although Patrick Troughton gives a fine performance, his character could have been removed from the story with little damage and certainly would have sped things up. The director, Sam Wanamaker seems to show little interest in the film. At least Roy Budd provides a strong score, hardly on a par with Herrmann's and Rozsa's efforts for the previous Sinbad films but more than adequate.Generally a disappointment, but at least Schneer and Harryhausen redeemed themselves with the terrific Clash Of The Titins four years later. "},{"Title":"Not Much Better Than The '50s Sci-Fi Stinkers","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This has the typical good and bad of those 1950s mythical stories with Jason & The Argonauts and Sinbad and The Golden Fleece, etc. The good being Ray Harryhuasen's special effects and the bad being the stupid dialog and sub-par acting. Boy, this one really has both in spades.Since this film was done 20 years after those other films, I expected Harryhausen's special effects to be far better, to be honest. For a 1977 film, it didn't look far removed from the cheesy efforts of the 1950s. Maybe part of that was the horrible dialog. The latter was so bad this film was embarrassing to watch at times. I'd like to see some of these re-made today. I am sure they would be far superior to this Class B junk. "},{"Title":"The third time was not the charm.","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 1958's Harryhausen classic 7th Voyage of Sinbad had it all lush Technicolor, a thunderous score by the brilliant Bernard Herrmann, a decent story with convincing performances (especially Kerwin Mathews as Sinbad), and the greatest of all Harryhausen's stop-motion effects. It wowed audiences and became one of 1958's top grossing movies.Years later, Harryhausen would again attempt two other Sinbad adventures, competing against the increasingly technologically suave special effects of the day. The Golden Voyage of Sinbad appeared in 1973, campy enough to get the attention of post-stoners who grew up watching the classic Harryhausen films on TV. Golden Voyage isn't great, but it's watchable. John Philip Law was a serviceable Sinbad (with the exception of the line Trust in Allah, but tie up your camel), the rest of the cast is forgotten now and the only thing that remains are Harryhausen's effects. By 1973, stop-motion was becoming a thing of the past. Although Golden contains one of Harryhausen's very best efforts, the fight with the multi-armed Kali, Golden was marred by the terrible film quality of the time and a weak, unmemorable score which did nothing to propel the film. Since all Ray's creature films contain a battle between two mystical beasts, the climatic fight is between a griffin and a centaur. Both creatures look, well, ratty and slightly drunk. The feathers and fur consistently warp, looking like shag carpeting draped over figures borrowed from Gumby. All the fluidity shown in the Cyclops sequences for 7th Voyage are missing. For someone who had looked forward to a new Sinbad adventure since 1958, this second movie failed to deliver.Poor Harryhausen. His amazing work was nearly killed in 1977 when he released S. and the Eye of the Tiger. From the first moments the film unspools, the low quality of the production is evident. The ghouls that appear behind the lousy 70s titles are bad versions of his insect-men from First Men in the Moon. All the actors involved just wander around looking for a paycheck. Famous actors with more famous parents perform in what seems to be drug-fueled stupors. Both Patrick Wayne (son of John Wayne) and Taryn Power (daughter of Tyrone Power) just sort of stand around and watch all the weirdness unfold. Only Margaret Whiting, as Zenobia, the seagull-footed witch gives any energy. Her performance is all scenery chewing, but after Wayne and Power, anything looked better. As to the creatures, only the witch's robotic golden bull-man, the Minotaun, has the charm we want from Harryhausen. Unfortunately, this wonderful creature is destroyed without given anything great to do by dropping a large rock on itself. The expected battle between the titular tiger and a troglodyte is weak, jerky, and without any tension.The saber-tooth tiger actually looks like a stuffed toy jumping around. Sadly, Harryhausen would only release one more feature film, Clash of the Titans some years later. Titans' has one worthwhile sequence, the battle with Medusa. That's it. The great auteur and craftsman behind so many memorable moments in a darkened theater was finally eclipsed by technology and the lack of great direction and musical support. Eye of the Tiger, is a sad coda to a great career, which ended in Titans. Harryhausen should never have given in to his lust for Greek mythology when his vision for the unknown and exotic were his true talents.Unless you are a Harryhausen completest, it's safe to bypass both Tiger and Golden. With only a few notable sequences,they're not worth wasting your time on. "},{"Title":"Sinbadass Rescues Prince Baboon From Zenobia's Wicked Spell","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Filmed in Dynarama (whatever the heck that gimmick was), Sinbad (from 1977) was one of those easily forgettable, fantasy, adventure tales that, when it tried to be funny, it wasn't, and when it tried to be dead-serious, it was a laughable joke.This $3.5 million production was neither wondrous nor spectacular. Many of its scenes were, unfortunately, shot from in front of back-projection screens. And the Ray Harryhausen, pre-CG monster effects were mediocre and disappointing at best.This was the sort of predictable movie-nonsense that would best be appreciated by a much younger, naive and less critical audience than myself. I'd say that at least 20 minutes could've easily been edited from this film's 112-minute running time and I'm sure no one would've been in the least bit upset.About the only really noteworthy thing to say about Sinbad was that its title character was played by the dashing, 38-year-old Patrick Wayne, son of the famed, veteran actor, John Wayne. "},{"Title":"Harryhausen's ISHTAR","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Ray Harryhausen fans beware. If you love the man who gave such great creatures for movies like JASON AND THE ARGONAUTS and THE GOLDEN VOYAGE OF SINBAD and THE 7TH VOYAGE OF SINBAD, don't buy this movie. It's horrible. Instead of having cool skeletons, or six armed god statues, we get to see a giant Walrus and a killer bumble bee. Oh boy! (There is NOTHING better than once inanimate things coming to life... I prefer that to giant Cyclops' or otherwise already living creatures, as far as Ray's work goes.) Patrick Wayne's acting is possibly worse than the storyline, and there is no storyline. This movie is Harryhausen the special effects genius in SLEEP MODE. Avoid it like the Black Plague. "},{"Title":"The big trout makes it swim","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Be prepared to yawn through this film until Patrick Troughton (playing an elderly Greek magician/wise man) comes on screen. Most everyone else sleep-walks through their roles, particularly Patrick Wayne (Sinbad), who sounds like he's reading a telephone book. The story itself is pretty good, a fantasy-adventure yarn that is meant to be entertaining, not profound.  Unfortunately, the dialogue can be just plain awful at times. That, combined with lackluster acting and unimpressive special effects, almost make this movie unwatchable.  I say almost, because Troughton's performance is a joy to see.  Not even the Big Trout could turn this into a good movie, but he made portions of it enjoyable.  "}{"Title":"Weak outing for Sinbad","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Sinbad sets out to save a buddy of his, a prince, from a spell that has transformed him into a baboon.  Meanwhile he woos Jane Seymour who plays the prince's sister.  This Sinbad film suffers from a really dumb story and one of the campiest villains to appear on film.  This is not the strongest example of Ray Harryhausen's stop motion effects.  However, the duel with demons at the film's opening and the battle between the Trog and a sabertooth tiger make this worth a look.  Don't be fooled by the film's G rating.  With it's violence, scary monsters, and a scene featuring quite a bit of skin from Jane Seymour and Taryn Power, let's just say the MPAA was generous.  "},{"Title":"You know, I've never seen a black man turn white before!","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  And in fact we don't get to see it, we just get it said to Salami Coker (in typical subservient boson role) after he's faced a risible giant walrus. The whole cast looks uncomfortable with the line, which requires a response of head-held-back hearty laughter. This single moment is the most notable in the film; an instance of offensive racism being the only second that promotes something other than abject boredom.For a full-blown Technicolor rendition of fantasy and Arabic stereotypes may be many things, but dull is unlikely to be one of them. Yet Patrick Wayne leads the cast in a Sinbad tale that is curiously unengaging. Wayne's casting as the title role is a strange choice. Not because he's a Caucasian portraying an Eastern man, which was par for the course in the seventies, but because he has all the charisma and latent acting ability of a turd.His requisite love interest, Jane Seymour, is equally as wooden, and has quite a nasty character. Odd that the heroine should wish to draw blood from the villainess, with a Let me have the spoils of her face! So she can scar another woman because that woman is bad? Rather a mixed message to be sending out to the audience.Things only begin to pick up with the arrival of Patrick Troughton, an actor who has more screen presence in a single frame than Wayne does in the entire film. However, direction is too flat and the narrative too obscure for even the mighty Trout to rescue it. Despite the title, the film's plot doesn't involve Sinbad in a boxing match with Mr.T., but rather a quest to turn a baboon back into a Prince. On very slow boats.The special effects, good for the time, are undeniably ropy now &#150; has anything aged quite as badly as stop motion? The effects also dictate the laborious pace of the piece. In order for the excessive animation to sit right, the actors give delicate, careful gestures when the creatures will be unconvincingly superimposed around them. So that these moments of contrivedly slow acting don't seem out of place, the rest of the film is downplayed to make one uniformly tedious whole. To this end, the special effects ARE the film, the actors taking a back seat to ever sillier plasticine monsters.Too old fashioned for today's youth, and lacking any sort of appeal for adults, this dated fantasy really is best consigned to the archives... and forgotten. "}]